ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Contents Leading the world in 2 3 Presentation of the Camfil Group Highlights of 2013 clean air solutions 4 CEO’s Comments The Camfil Group is a world leader in the development and 6 Business Concept and Core Values production of air filters and clean air solutions. 8 Camfil's First 50 Years Camfil is also one of the most global air filtration specialists 10 Business Unit Filters – for every filtration and in the world with 23 production units and R&D centres in six containment need countries in the Americas, Europe, South East Asia and the 14 Business Unit Asia-Pacific region. Power Systems – protecting gas turbines The Group, headquartered in Stockholm, has approximately 18 Business Unit APC – dust collectors for a cleaner 3,500 employees and sales close to SEK 5.0 billion. Internaand safer environment tional markets account for more than 95 percent of sales. 22 Business Unit AMC – business-critical solutions for The company’s business is to provide customers with the microelectronics industry sustainable best-in-class air filtration products and services 32 HR Management in a Performance-driven through four main business units: Filters, Power Systems, Air Enterprise Pollution Control (APC) and Airborne Molecular Contamination 33 Researching for a Cleaner and Greener Future (AMC). 26 Sustainability Report 2013 With 50 years of experience in air filtration products and 34 Camfil Around the World solutions, Camfil delivers value to customers all over the 36 Financial Analysis 2013 world while contributing to something essential to everyone 38 Board of Directors’ Report and Consolidated Financial Statements – clean air for health, well-being and performance. 87 Auditors’ Report 88 Group Management 89 Board of Directors 90 Five-Year Summary Highlights of 2013 Record results: Camfil enjoyed another successful year of unbroken profit performance, with operating results reaching all-time highs in 2013. Net sales amounted to SEK 4,906 M (4,865), an increase of SEK 41 M, representing 3.6 percent organic growth in fixed currencies. Underlying operating profit, excluding restructuring costs and items affecting comparability, was SEK 521 M (492), up SEK 29 M, corresponding to an operating margin of 10.6 percent (10.1) and an 8.7 percent organic increase in operating profit, excluding currency effects. 50 years young: Camfil passed an important milestone in 2013 – 50 years of operations in the air filtration industry. Celebrations at Camfil units around the globe provided a golden opportunity to bring employees, customers and suppliers closer together. In the next half century, Camfil looks forward to continuing its mission to provide world-class clean air solutions for present and future generations. New CEO: After 30 successful years with Camfil, including 12 years as President and CEO, Alan O'Connell stepped down and handed over the helm to Magnus Yngen, who was appointed new President and CEO on September 1, 2013. Magnus Yngen comes from Camfil’s board and is well acquainted with the Group’s business and operations. Prior to joining Camfil, he had a long international career with the Electrolux Group, including management responsibility for European operations, and had also served as CEO of the Husqvarna Group. New company in Turkey: The sales subsidiary Camfil Hava Filtresi Sanayi Ticaret Ltd Sirketi was established in September 2013 in Istanbul. Historically, the Turkish market has been part of Camfil International’s business and the establishment of a local company will further strengthen Camfil’s leading position in the region. Investing for the future: Camfil is continuing to maintain a high level of investment. A new factory for APC products was opened in mid-2013 in the U.K. and major investments are being made to ­develop new filtration products across the Group’s portfolio, streamline production facilities and ­enhance IT infrastructure to improve global sales, distribution and customer service, including ­project management expertise. As an example, the company’s original production site in Trosa (Sweden) is being expanded and modernized to create a state-of-the-art manufacturing and ­distribution hub for the Nordic market. Acquisition of Handte expands APC footprint: After year-end, Camfil signed an agreement on January 31, 2014 to acquire 100 percent of Handte Umwelttechnik GmbH in Germany and Handte’s operations in Switzerland, the Czech Republic and China. The acquisition is expected to be closed in the first quarter. Handte is the leading German manufacturer and provider of environmental engineering products, filter technology processes and air pollution control applications. With more than 100 years of experience, the company is a recognized specialist in exhaust air purification for a wide range of manufacturing industries. The company will be part of Camfil’s Air Pollution Control (APC) business unit and strengthen Camfil’s platform for growing APC business in Europe. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 3 CEO'S COMMENTS A milestone year ends with record results The year 2013 was memorable for Camfil in two main ways – we celebrated our 50th anniversary and we posted our highest annual sales and earnings to date. When you top off your 50th year of operation with record results, you have every reason to be proud of your company’s performance and five consecutive decades of profitability. Let me express my appreciation and thanks to all Camfil team members, who worked hard to make 2103 extra special. The year was also notable because we had a change of command in 2013. Serving on Camfil’s board since 2012, I took over as CEO on September 1 to succeed Alan O’Connell, who decided to step down after a long and successful 30-year career with Camfil – of which 12 years as CEO during a period of unparalleled expansion for the Group. We are grateful to Alan and thank him for his past contributions and skilled stewardship of Camfil. It is an honour for me to take over the helm and lead the Group into the future. Weak start, strong finish You will find the events and developments of the past financial year described in the Financial Review and Board of Directors’ Report, which are integral sections of this Annual Report. Here, I just want to generally comment demand for a number of our clean air ­ project management skills, cost controls that the beginning and end of 2013 were solutions – such as for APC, biosafety, and overall operational efficiency. as contrasting as black and white, with microelectronics and gas turbine filtration business slower than usual in the first half projects in North America and China – couStrategy review launched but rebounding strongly in the third quarpled with general market improvements in With our first 50 years behind us, strong ter. The market sustained its momentum Europe, where we are seeing the first signs results and a solid foundation for the future, toward the end of the year and accelerated, of recovery after the recession. we are gathering forces for the next halfmaking the fourth quarter the best in the These trends leveraged our sales and century of operations. Group’s history. margins in 2013. Other decisive factors As the saying goes, “the only thing Contributing factors were stronger were our internal initiatives to improve constant is change” and moving forward C A M F I L 2013 / 4 is in our blood, along with the flexibility to Developing our total offering reduced environmental impact and healthy adapt to a changing business environment Today, Camfil is much more than a product indoor air quality. and leveraging the dynamics of an increascompany. Along with the market’s best Being a sustainable company has other ingly globalized economy. filtration solutions, we provide a range of advantages. It helps strengthen our reputaIt is fair to state that companies are value-added services for customers that tion as a trusted partner and makes us an now experiencing a faster pace of change constitute an important pillar of what we attractive employer. In the section on HR because the world is shrinking and becomcall our total offering. management (page 32), we outline how we ing more transparent. To compete effecBy total offering, I mean our entire portcare for our employees, our most valuable tively and survive, it is important for compafolio of products and services. I am referasset. By nurturing in-house knowledge and nies to stay efficient, focused and flexible. ring to the way we develop, manufacture, skills, we can continue to serve our customThe present situation has therefore sell, distribute and implement products ers in the most professional manner. provided us with an excellent opportunity and solutions, backing them with the right to review how we can further refine our expertise, support, analysis, tools, leadA bright future strategy, business plan and international times, deliveries and service, all with qualWe are now well into a new financial year operations for continuing success. ity and guaranteed performance. and the future remains as exciting as ever. The primary objective is to take Camfil This total offering has been part of We are expecting demand for our clean air to the next level. We know we can, because our mind-set since the start and we intend solutions to increase and there is enough change is in our DNA. Processes like to develop it in every way possible to the space for Camfil to grow profitably and strategy planning and target setting are benefit of our customers. effectively in virtually any business environwell embedded in the organization and We will become more customer-centric ment. a familiar feature of Camfil’s culture and and expand our total solutions offering – As we look forward to the next 50 management. not just our product programme. This will years, we aim to safeguard and maintain Now that our past business plan has empower us to meet the requirements of a our position as the global leader in air effectively served its purpose and accomgrowing customer base that will need both filtration and the champion of clean air plished significant growth and margin conventional and state-of-the-art approaches solutions. ­targets, we are developing the next on the to air filtration in the future. backbone of a comprehensive strategy review process. The intense phase of data Caring for the environment gathering – as well as the initial rounds of and people synthesizing and prioritizing initiatives – Camfil’s Sustainability Report is now part of were carried out in the first quarter. The Magnus Yngen the Annual Report and it describes a wide next step is to finalize and launch the new President and CEO range of our internal and external initiatives plan during the second quarter. to green operations and products while It will be a palette of carefully selected assuming responsibility as good corporate initiatives. We aim to grow Camfil’s busicitizens. ness in an efficient and profitable manner This spirit is embodied in the annual by tackling challenges, taking advantage Group-wide “Camfilcairing Week” event of opportunities, sharpening our focus (page 31), which is basically a broad interon investments, resources and priorities, nal approach to caring for the local envibecoming even more innovative, and develronment and community, as well as our oping our leading technology further to employees. Through this event, we put achieve growth in selected areas and marwhat we learn about sustainability into kets. Efficiency will be the fuel to drive the action, making it a living product and conprocess. cern throughout the global organization. This in-depth review has covered all Our greenness and CSR focus expresses dimensions and geographical areas of our the niceness about Camfil because we are business. It will build the platform for taking doing things fundamentally right by protectCamfil a step further in a very important ing the environment, processes and peoarea: to increase value for customers in ple. Our clean air solutions have many kinds every conceivable way. Let me comment of payback in terms of energy s­avings, on this briefly. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 5 Camfil’s clean air business concept Camfil’s business concept is to provide customers with Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) and clean ­emissions in line with customer needs. This is being achieved with sustainable b ­ est-in-class air filtration products and services, as well as through local presence. Camfil’s core values Committed and innovative people in an entrepreneurial environment are Camfil’s keys to ­success. Our core values express the soul of our company and serve as a guiding star for the entire Camfil Group. Constant efforts are made to ensure that all our employees understand and work in line with the following core values: Reliability We are reliable because we know the market, we are honest and truthful. Our people, products and ­processes must always meet, or supersede, agreed results. Commitment We are committed to always striving for the best possible solutions and we are in the forefront of ­technological and environmental developments in our fields of expertise. Customer satisfaction We put our customers first. We focus on identifying customer needs and creating long-lasting customer value. Teamwork Working together makes us stronger and increases employee satisfaction both locally and ­globally. Local presence Local understanding and presence on local markets builds customer relations and ­satisfaction. C A M F I L 2013 / 6 Celebrating 50 years of success Camfil was founded in Sweden in 1963 and the Group commemorated its 50th Europe, India, the Asia-Pacific region and North and South America. year of operation in 2013 to honour five consecutive decades of success and A company is never better than the people who work for it and Camfil’s half a century of providing clean air to the world. skilled and dedicated professionals will continue to lead us toward new To celebrate this milestone event, employees attended festivities (photos) at ­horizons. The future is promising for clean air solutions and we look forward a number of Camfil companies all around the globe – in the Nordic countries, to making the next half century as successful and rewarding as the first. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 7 HISTORICAL REVIEW Camfil – one of Sweden’s most successful private companies – celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2013 Camfil proudly celebrated 50 years of aries in Europe, built up its filtration expertise operations in 2013. Entrepreneurship, and adopted a strategy early on to develop strong core values, skilled managesolid relations with customers by using the ment, leading-edge technology and a sales argument that is still valid for Camfil multicultural heritage have been key products today: that it pays to invest in qualfactors behind Camfil’s progress and ity filters that have a low pressure drop, last they will continue to be significant for longer, clean better, save more energy and do the Group’s growth in the years to come. not have to be changed as often. In 1983, the Larson family, along with the Camfil is ranked among the largest and Markman family, acquired CFC’s remaining most successful family-owned businesses interest in Camfil and the company became a in Sweden’s entrepreneurial history. Gösta 100-percent owned family business. Larson (1922-2001), father of current The remainder of the 1980s was characExecutive Chairman Jan Eric Larson, also terized by stability and by stability and the confather-in-law of Johan Markman, currently Vice solidation of operations. In 1989, Gösta Larson Chairman, founded Camfil in 1963 in the small stepped down as CEO and his son Jan Eric took town of Trosa, 70 km south of Stockholm. over the helm. Jan Eric’s brother-in-law, Johan new class of filtration. Gösta Larson turned Markman was Vice President and CFO. to the American company Cambridge Filter Corporation (CFC) for the special type of high Growth through acquisitions efficiency filters that were needed for the Camfil then focused on expansion, acquiring center’s ventilation and containment systems. Solfiltra (France) in 1989, Automet Filtration After demonstrating the filters for Studsvik, (U.K.) in 1997 and Industrifilter (Sweden) in he was awarded the contract. 1998. The latter acquisition added a new This early collaboration with CFC eventugrowth business: filtration systems for the ally led to the founding of Camfil AB in 1963 as gas turbine market (Camfil Power Systems a joint venture between Luftkonditionering and today). CFC. A few years later, the growing Camfil venWhile building up strategic resources at ture built its first production facility in Trosa the head office, Camfil continued to strongly and set up headquarters. The first wholly position itself in the European market through owned manufacturing facilities were started organic growth and additional acquisitions. in Germany and Switzerland. Key decisions were made to standardize Through Camfil, CFC could expand the product range, automate production and geographically in the European market, ­ improve distribution channels and business while Luftkonditionering sold products under systems. Nuclear start license through agents in the rest of Europe. Gösta Larson was a seasoned professional When Luftkonditionering was split up in 1972, Global strategy takes shape in the Swedish heating, ventilation and Gösta Larson sold his stake, took the shares By 2000, Camfil was ready to become more air conditioning (HVAC) industry when the in Camfil as payment and became CFC’s sole global and acquired the venerable and repuopportunity emerged to bid on filters for partner in Camfil. Camfil was ready to develop table filter manufacturer Farr in the U.S., Sweden’s first nuclear power research center the European market as an independent sales becoming a substantial player in the North in Studsvik, a community near Trosa. At the and production company representing CFC American market. Ratos, a Swedish private time, he was managing an HVAC firm called products. equity company, co-financed the deal and Luftkonditionering AB in Trosa. became minority stakeholder in the newly Independence in 1983 The Studsvik project required a differformed Camfil Farr Group. ent approach to ventilation safety and a Camfil expanded quickly, set up sales subsidiJan Eric Larson and Johan Markman C A M F I L 2013 / 8 took on new roles as Executive Chairman and acquired from Farr and additional investments In conjunction with the 50th anniversary, the Vice Chairman, appointing Alan O’Connell as to expand in areas like Power Systems and Air company returned to its roots and changed CEO and Johan Ryrberg as Executive Vice Pollution Control. the official name back to Camfil in early 2013. President and CFO in 2001. New management Alan O’Connell retired in August 2013 and functions were established at headquarters. Camfil today board member Magnus Yngen was appointed A well-structured strategy was also devised At year-end 2011, the Larson and Markman new CEO. for global expansion and acquisitions. Camfil families bought out Ratos, which had planned Once a small business in a small town, entered new territories up to 2011, including to exit Camfil, and Camfil became a 100-perCamfil is a multinational enterprise today China, Australia, India and Brazil. cent-owned family-owned business again. in some 50 countries with 23 manufacturNew ultra-efficient production units were Since then, a new generation of family meming plants, several international R&D centers, started in Europe and Asia and a competitor bers has joined the company to rejuvenate 3,500 employees and more than 65 local was bought in Sweden. Products were refined management and pave the way for the future. sales offices in the Americas, Europe, South and improved and new proprietary production Camfil is headquartered in Stockholm East Asia and the Asia-Pacific Region. techniques were developed for economies today, while the original site in Trosa serves as In the 2013 financial year, the company of scale. the production, sales and distribution base for recorded its 50th consecutive year of profitStrategic decisions were also made to the Swedish subsidiary and the Nordic marability. The success story continues. focus on Camfil’s core business, resulting ket. The Group’s largest and most advanced in the divestment of the Railroad business R&D facility is also situated in Trosa. 1963 Camfil establishes joint venture with Cambridge USA 1966 Camfil Germany, founded 1969 Camfil Switzerland, founded 1972 Camfil Denmark, founded 1973 Camfil Netherlands, founded 1974 Camfil Belgium, founded 1975 Camfil Italy, founded 1976 Camfil France, founded 1979 Camfil Finland, founded 1982 Camfil England, founded 1983 Camfil becomes independent 1985 Purchase of Allied Filters & Pumps, Ireland 1989 Purchase of Sofiltra, France, and Filtra, USA 1995 Camfil Component Sweden, founded / Camfil Spain, founded 1997 Purchase of Automet Filtration Ltd, England / Camfil Malaysia, founded 1998 Purchase of Industrifilter AB, Sweden 1999 Purchase of Delcon Filtration Group Inc., Canada 2000 Camfil Australia, founded / Camfil Poland, founded / Representative Office established in ­S hanghai, China 2000 Ratos purchases 30% of Camfil Farr in connection with the acquisition of Farr Co., USA 2001 Camfil New Zealand, founded / Nordfilter AB purchased / Camfil China, founded 2002 Plant opened in China 2003 Two plants in Malaysia combined 2004 Camfil Thailand, founded / Representative Office established in Moscow, Russia 2005 Camfil Brazil, founded / Plant opened in Mexico 2006 Purchase of Australian Air Filters / Purchase of Kaefer Raco, Germany / Purchase of IF Luftfilter AB, Sweden 2007 Camfil Slovakia, founded / New plant in China opened / Camfil Japan, founded / Camfil Taiwan, founded / Purchase of Kaare Rustad AS, Norway 2008 JV with Anand Group, India / Acquisition of Air Care Technology Ltd and Total Air, New Zealand 2009 Acquisition of Mecke Klima GmbH, Austria 2010 Camfil opens a new state-of-the-art Technology Centre in Trosa, Sweden 2011 Exit of minority shareholder (Ratos) / Camfil Middle East, founded Camfil India becomes wholly owned and new production hub for Power Systems in Trichy 2012 Camfil opens its first Airborne Molecular Contamination (AMC) Service Center, situated in Taiwan / Railroad unit divested 2013 New factory opened in Heywood UK to manufacture Air Pollution Control products. Office established in Istanbul, Turkey C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 9 Busi ness Uni t Filters – for every filtration and containment need Camfil is the world’s largest and leading manufacturer of air filters, with filter sales constituting the product platform for all of Camfil’s operations and the Group’s biggest core business. Filters also generate the largest percentage of Camfil’s sales. Our air filters can be as small as a matchbox and as large as a shipping container. Their end product is clean air free of harmful or damaging pollutants, dust, dirt, allergens, contaminants, molecular gases and, in some cases, even life-threatening radiation, depending on the application. Camfil filters improve people’s health and well-being. They protect critical manufacturing processes, boost productivity and safeguard the environment. The largest application area is comfort ventilation, in which Camfil offers the most energy-efficient filters for public and commercial buildings. These products provide clean air for high indoor air quality (IAQ) and help building owners reduce their energy consumption and carbon footprint. In the production world, Camfil’s filters and clean air solutions are crucial for ­protecting advanced or sensitive manufacturing processes, or for combatting microbiological contamination. In the healthcare sector, hospitals use Camfil’s ­filtration systems to eliminate infectious airborne contaminants. In the nuclear power industry, Camfil is the leader in particulate filtration, gas-phase filtration and containment, with experience from all over the world. Camfil has also leveraged this experience from containment to develop advanced bio-­containment systems and filter housings for high-risk research facilities and biosafety labs. The Filters Business Unit also includes the CamCleaner® line of mobile, stationary and standalone air purifiers that are used to supplement existing ventilation ­systems in industry, offices and homes. C A M F I L 2013 / 10 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 1 1 Protecting people, processes and the environment Comfort air filters for IAQ environments, where very small and undesirable particles can be A wide range of Camfil air filters are used in the air handling units (AHUs) ­devastating and lead to biocontamination, product spoilage and high of ventilation systems in schools, offices, homes, hospitals and airports costs. Using effective air filtration to combat microbiological conto provide the basis for a clean, healthy and productive indoor environtamination of foodstuffs, for example, is highly regulated to ensure food ment with high Indoor Air Quality (IAQ). safety and protect human health. The comfort air market consists mainly of replacement filters and Camfil has also pioneered a range of supply and exhaust housings the business is relatively insensitive to economic cycles. Customers specifically for the biopharmaceutical industry, including high-temperinclude facility management companies, local government agencies ature filters and bag-in, bag-out systems for containing contaminants. and buildings, as well as companies providing ventilation and air Other critical filtration applications include paint spraying facilities ­conditioning service. for the automotive industry, which demand a constant supply of fresh In Europe, bag filters are dominant, with the Hi-Flo ® and energyfiltered air for performance, hygiene and safety reasons; and hospital saving Hi-Flo XL® filters being widely used products. In North America, operating theatres, which need Camfil’s ceiling systems to create cleancompact filters with pleated filter media are more common, although room conditions to eliminate airborne infectious contaminants that may bag filters are also starting to gain ground. Camfil’s filters in this market affect the success of operations and the patient recovery rate. include the energy-saving 30/30 ®, Hi-Flo ES ® and Durafil ES ® filters. Nuclear power industry and containment ­applications In urban environments, Camfil’s ozone-rated City filters remove harmful gases and particles from air pollution. Camfil started out as a supplier to the nuclear power industry 50 years The business also includes the CamCleaner® series of mobile and ago and has unparalleled experience in the field. More than 90 nuclear stationary air purifiers to complement existing ventilation systems, plants in the world are using Camfil’s particle and gas filters, filter housCamCleaners come in seven models for all kinds of premises, from ings and dampers to prevent the release of airborne particles that might small offices and rooms, to commercial and public buildings, and be toxic, hazardous or radioactive from operations such as chemical demanding production environments. Smaller standalone CamCleaners separation, extraction or fixation, and mechanical operations that are solve IAQ problems in offices and homes lacking central ventilation and normally carried out in rooms with filtered exhaust systems. The latter filtration. are for containment in the event of an accident. All Camfil products meet applicable government and industry Filtration for clean processes and hospitals codes and qualifications for the nuclear power industry around the Clean air is critical for many production processes. Pharmaceuticals, world. food products and beverages have to be produced in strictly controlled Biocontainment systems The market consists of state-of-the-art biocontainment systems – a Camfil specialty – that range from systems for sterile and particle-free air in mini-environments, to special high-security housings for high-risk laboratories, buildings and environments, biosafety cabinets for hazardous materials, high-temperature filters for sterilization processes, bag in-bag out systems for handling contaminants, and specially designed terminal and exhaust housings. Biopharma facilities, high-security research labs, nuclear power plants and chemical factories use these systems, among other customers. C A M F I L 2013 / 12 T H E R E F E R E N C E I N S TA L L AT I O N S O N T H E S E PA G E S R ­ E P R E S E N T T Y P I C A L R E C E N T D E L I V E R I E S A N D S O L U T I O N S F R O M T H E C A M F I L G R O U P. Air care for safety at sea The Finnish Border Guard has taken safety at sea to a new level by installing Camfil’s air filters on board the “Turva”, a specially designed coast guard vessel that patrols the Baltic. The main mission of the filters is to ensure safe, clean air for crew in chemical accidents and during oil recovery missions. Four-stage filtration is employed with filters rated for explosive atmospheres: Hi-Flo™ bag filters remove particles, dust, fumes and mists. The second and third stages employ deep cell-type molecular filters using mainly broad-spectrum activated carbon. Final filtration takes place in HEPA filters with a very large and effective filter media area. Sophisticated equipment monitors and analyzes ambient air quality. The filtration solution can be activated quickly, depending on the type of molecular contamination outside the vessel. Filtration for frozen food Camfil installed the 30/30 Merv 8 to combat the breading residue and moisture in the preOne of North America’s premier packaged food filter section, and the energy-saving Camfil producers was experiencing filtration problems Hi-Flo ES pocket filter in the final stage. Both in critical process areas at one of the largest are proven performers in the food and beverfrozen food manufacturing facilities in the U.S. age industry. High-moisture return air contained breadThe Camfil filters reduced energy consumping residue and fouled a competitor’s prefilters tion significantly, with longer service life, and quickly. The synthetically charged media in ­f inal cut labor and disposal fees. The customer filters were losing their charge and efficiency, is saving USD 33,000 annually and a rebate resulting in poor dirt loading and shorter check for cutting overall energy usage was ­s ervice life. ­a nother bonus. To deliver consistent airflow, extend filter life and improve efficiency in the final filter, Energy-saving filters for Dublin Airport Expert air handling plant assessments and most beneficial. trial installations demonstrate the benefits In the test, Camfil’s Hi-Flo XLT filters of switching to Camfil filters. proved superior to other brands in terms of To find the best solution to lower energy overall energy savings and high indoor air costs at Dublin Airport’s Terminal 2 buildquality. ing – while maintaining a high level of indoor As a result, some 500 Hi-Flo filters, comair quality – the Dublin Airport Authority plete with a set of Farr 30/30 panel filters, ­a pproached three vendors, proposing a oneare installed in the AHUs at Terminal 2 today. High score for university filters year trial of filters, with each company offerImperial College London’s focus on excellence ing the filtration solution they felt would be also applies to its in-house program to optimize the efficiency of campus buildings and save energy, cut costs and reduce waste. Lowering the energy consumption of ventilation systems is one major area and the university commissioned ABS Consulting and Camfil to conduct an air filter trial on the AHUs in two buildings. Existing air filters were replaced with ­C amfil’s energy-efficient Hi-Flo™ M7 12 pocket bag with a higher surface area and the filter positioning arrangement was changed. The trials were successful, realizing a 7 percent savings in energy consumption while improving indoor air quality. Filter service life was also extended, reducing filter waste disposal. The filter replacement process is being rolled out across campus and the university expects to save about GBP 50,000 (approx. EUR 60,000/USD 80,000) a year, or around 250 metric tons of carbon dioxide, helping Imperial College to shrink its carbon footprint by 20 percent. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 1 3 C A M F I L 2013 / 14 Busi ness Uni t Power Systems – protecting gas turbines The Power Systems Business Unit, operating in the market under the Camfil Power Systems name, is a leading supplier of heavy-duty filtration and noise-control equipment for gas turbines used by major power-generating and offshore operators worldwide. Solutions include air inlet filtration systems, acoustic enclosures, de-icing and cooling systems and exhaust stacks. Other specialties include diverter ­dampers, ducting, silencers, and service and refurbishment. C AM FI L 2 0 1 2 / 1 5 Power System Solutions Protecting gas turbines, compressors and diesel engines is one of Turbine power output is also sensitive to inlet air resistance, requiring Camfil’s fields of expertise. Air filtration solutions and noise control large filter surfaces to maintain a low average pressure drop. equipment have been supplied to thousands of installations all over the A correctly designed and cost-effective system minimizes engine globe, assuring reliable and efficient operation of power generation degradation, leading to lower operating costs, optimum efficiency and equipment and other energy production processes. less environmental impact. To meet stricter demands, new products As demand for power increases, gas turbines are increasingly are continuously developed in an industry-unique test rig. An example being used as a local power source in combined heat and power (CHP) is the new CamGT™, which has the highest dust-holding capacity and and combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) plants in growing cities. In filtration efficiency of any inlet filter for gas turbines, diesel engines addition, urban environments expose gas turbines to a new and difand compressors. ferent operating environment, where air pollutants, such as airborne The Power Systems Business Unit is a global partner that can particulate matter, are more challenging to prevent fouling of sensitive ­ support customers with complete equipment packages for all gas turbine components. Air filtration for air intakes, enclosures, silencers turbine applications from engineering hubs in Europe, India and China. and cooling systems for gas turbines are one of the cornerstones of Today, products from Power Systems are being used in every Camfil Power Systems’ expanding international business. conceivable operating environment around the world to protect gas Since high-performance gas turbines typically operate in some of turbines from erosion and fouling for higher efficiency and production the most severe environments, their filtration systems are involving economy, and longer running times with lower emissions. Land-based, increasingly higher grades of efficiency in pre-filtration and the final offshore, and marine systems are supplied, as well as retrofits and filtration stage to keep guide vanes and turbine blades in perfect shape. upgrades. C A M F I L 2013 / 16 T H E R E F E R E N C E I N S TA L L AT I O N S O N T H E S E PA G E S R ­ E P R E S E N T T Y P I C A L R E C E N T D E L I V E R I E S A N D S O L U T I O N S F R O M T H E C A M F I L G R O U P. First order ever for wind turbine Camfil Power Systems mainly supplies filtration systems for gas turbines, compressors and diesel engines used by the world’s energy producers. This turbo machinery market includes producers of renewable energy like wind power, as a wind turbine is also a rotating machine with an air-cooling system that needs to be protected from the surrounding environment. Camfil broke into the wind turbine market in 2013, receiving its first order from Eleon, an innovative Estonian company manufacturing wind turbines for the domestic market. The project involved the development of an inlet air system for their largest wind turbine to date, a 3 MW windmill 120 meters high and 116 meters in diameter. Camfil supplied a one-stage filter solution: a filter bank fitted with 16 full-size filters and eight half-size filters protected by a CamVane weather louver that is directly mounted on the Offshore GT solution for LNG project in Australia turbine enclosure. The Ichthys LNG (liquid natural gas) project includes one of the world’s largest LNG facilities and is based on substantial gas and condensate reserves from the Browse Basin offshore Western Australia. Gas from the Ichthys Field, approximately 200 km off the coast, will undergo preliminary ­p rocessing offshore, after which the gas will be exported to onshore processing facilities in Darwin via an 889-km subsea pipeline. Camfil Power Systems was awarded the contract for complete offshore inlet systems for ten PGT25+G4 turbines. To maximize engine uptime, the air inlet systems were equipped with final-stage CamGT 3V-600 filters, the optimum choice for LNG facilities offshore. New filter system and damper retrofit in India Trombay Power Station is a 1,580 MW thermal plant near Mumbai that supplies the city with approximately 50 percent of its power needs. Camfil Power Systems received two orders for the plant: the retrofit contract for the air intake system from Siemens India, and the order for the diverter damper from Tata Power. The plant, operated by Tata, replaced the pulse-cleaning type inlet system for a Siemens gas turbine model V.94.2 with a three-stage barrier inlet system. The diverter damper was also upgraded, replacing HPU with PLC, hydraulic actuators, expansion joints and insulation. The planned shutdown was limited to 37 days for dismantling and installation. Engineering, procurement and project management was executed in Camfil teams across Europe and India. Major fabrication was done at the Camfil Power Systems workshop in Trichy, India. Siemens commissioned the solution, on time, under Camfil supervision. For diverter damper Engineering and Project management was majorly done in Camfil Germany. Camfil commissioned the supplied scope within specified time schedules. Supplier to one of the largest thermal power plants Shoaiba is an oil-fired CCGT complex for power and desalination in Saudi Arabia on the coast of the Red Sea, about 120 km south of Jeddah. It is one of the largest fossil fuel power plants, and the world’s third largest integrated water and power plant with a capacity of 5.6 GW. Desalination plants were needed by the power station because of the shortage of cooling ­w ater in Saudi Arabia. Camfil Power Systems delivered ten self-cleaning pulse-type air inlet systems to ­S hoaiba II to protect the fleet of Siemens SGT6-2000E gas turbines against the dust-loaded, ­s alt-laden Red Sea winds. Siemens commissioned the inlet systems with technical field assistance from Camfil Power Systems’ branch office in Bremen, Germany. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 1 7 C A M F I L 2013 / 18 Busi ness Uni t Air Pollution Control – dust collectors for a cleaner and safer environment The Air Pollution Control Business Unit operates in North America and the international market under the Camfil Air Pollution Control (APC) name. Camfil APC’s main mission is to design, manufacture and supply a full range of dust ­collectors to clean dust and fumes from factories, making them safer, more productive and more sustainable. Camfil APC’s dust collection equipment is typically used in food processing, metalworking, pharmaceutical, mining, laser and plasma ­cutting, wood­working and other industries. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 1 9 Dust and fume control solutions with the most advanced collectors on the market Camfil APC offers the most technologically advanced dust collectors ­collectors, GS Camtain ® and GS High Vacuum dust collectors, and GSP available – the Farr Gold Series® – and backs them with dependable packaged dust collectors. The business unit has also developed the service, support and decades of proven experience. Dust collectors HemiPleat ® line of low-energy, long-life dust collector filters. HemiPleat help customers prevent dust and smoke-related respiratory problems. filters make pleated dust collector filters last longer and run with lower The equipment helps them comply with governmental air quality energy consumption for both the Farr Gold Series and as a replacement requirements both inside and outside factories. filter for the dust collectors of competitors. Camfil APC also helps customers prevent dust collector exploAs one of the top dust collector manufacturers in the world, Camfil sions and fires caused by combustible dusts, electrical sparks and APC focuses on making the best equipment in the business from an other causes. More benefits of the Farr Gold Series include minimizend-user and maintenance viewpoint. The business unit maintains and ing slips, falls and visibility problems created by “nuisance” dusts in services dust collectors and also has a full-scale dust testing rig and the workplace. Dust collectors also reduce worker discomfort from laboratory resources to help design and select equipment for customallergens found in process dusts and protect valuable equipment from ers. In North America, Europe and Asia, Camfil APC is recognized for its dust contamination. customer friendliness and ability to ship dust collectors fast that meet Key products include the Farr Gold Series of industrial dust the customer’s specific needs. C A M F I L 2013 / 20 T H E R E F E R E N C E I N S TA L L AT I O N S O N T H E S E PA G E S R ­ E P R E S E N T T Y P I C A L R E C E N T D E L I V E R I E S A N D S O L U T I O N S F R O M T H E C A M F I L G R O U P. Vishay goes for Farr Gold Series Vishay is one of the largest manufacturers of semiconductors and passive components in the world, with plants in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Its subsidiary in India, Vishay Components, was ­e xperiencing problems when it manufactured components near Mumbai with a setup that included a competitor’s dust collectors for two metal spray booths (zinc and aluminum) and a local dust collector for the epoxy coating application. The collectors were ineffective and dust spread in the booths, affecting production quality. Higher emissions were another issue. To eliminate the problems, Camfil India and Camfil APC Malaysia teamed up to supply two Farr Gold Series GS32s for the spray booths and one GS6 for the coating machines, including explosion vents, isolator dampers and new Camfil-designed ductwork. The more energy-efficient GS collectors have also created a healthier and more attractive work environment. How to linish with a dust-free finish Aluminum linishing, a surface finishing process, produces highly explosive dust. When a company in Scotland experienced problems with its wet-type dust extractors, it turned to Russell Consulting Scotland Ltd and Camfil APC Europe to find a solution. The wet-type dust extractors were noisy, inefficient, maintenance-intensive and did not comply with emission regulations. Camfil APC proposed a custom-designed dust extraction system based on a Farr Gold Series GS16 dust collector with carbon-impregnated HemiPleat ® Gold Cone ® filter cartridges. The GS16 solution has created a better Leaner production with less energy work environment, cut maintenance costs In 2013, Camfil APC partnered with CenterPoint Energy’s Commercial & Industrial Solutions program and enabled the customer to meet Scottish to become a leader in energy efficiency at its plant in Jonesboro, Arkansas, in the U.S. emission regulations. Unwanted downtime is Through a retrofit focused on combustion air pre-heating, the facility has significantly reduced its also avoided: production no longer has to be energy consumption by redirecting waste heat from the oven exhaust stack to heat pre-combustion shut down each week to clean the dust collecair, and by using variable frequency drives to reduce the flow of air from oven exhaust fans. tor – the case with the former extractors. The The energy savings is equivalent to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of system is also compliant with the EU directive 16,700 gallons (63,200 liters) of gasoline. (ATEX) for equipment in explosive atmospheres. No more foundry fumes and dust In the U.S., Watts ® Technologies manufactures water-handling components with low-lead materials and recently opened a new modern foundry in New Hampshire. The site’s original foundry had been equipped with Camfil APC’s Farr Gold Series GS96 dust collector to remove sand from metal castings, a difficult application, and a GS12 was installed on powder paint lines. Ventilation Control Products, Inc. and Camfil APC engineered these successful installations and also developed the air pollution control solution for the new facility, where three dust collectors (GS108, GS96 and GS72) maintain a clean work environment, facilitate employee safety, and allow for efficient customer fulfillment. The GS108 has a mining inlet to handle the large volume of green sand coming into the collector. HEPA filters allow air to be brought into the foundry to save on heating costs during the winter. The workday is also more comfortable and enjoyable for Watts’s employees because respirator equipment is no longer required in the sand handling area. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 2 1 C A M F I L 2013 / 22 Busi ness Uni t Airborne Molecular Contamination (AMC) – business-critical solutions for the microelectronics industry Controlling both AMC and particle contamination represents a significant technology barrier as feature sizes continue to shrink in integrated circuit (IC) manufacturing. Critical AMCs include sulphur dioxide, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), diverse acids and ammonia. In outdoor air and cleanroom environments, all these gases are present in concentrations that are too high for many electronic manufacturing processes. For example, it is no longer possible to manufacture microprocessors, memories or displays for smartphones and tablets without advanced AMC filtration in the cleanroom and on the process equipment. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 2 3 Airborne Molecular Contamination (AMC) Airborne molecular contamination (AMC) is a major issue for all concepts throughout the entire manufacturing process chain. Camfil advanced microelectronic fabrication plants or “fabs”. Today, no provides the entire range of air filters from air intake to process tool advanced facility is running without a proper AMC control concept. A level for an electronic manufacturing facility. Camfil software also helps wide range of AMC effects adversely impact production yield and costs. forecast life cycle costs, energy savings, and carbon footprint saving These include acidic corrosion of hard disks or wafers, condensable options. New unique AMC software also predicts AMC concentrations organic deposition on sensitive surfaces and optics, or exposure to low in the cleanroom after installing different filter solutions. levels of damaging ammonia. In 2013, Camfil developed a new range of equipment filters fully Camfil High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters, Ultra Low certified against organic outgassing to follow the roadmap set by the Penetration Air (ULPA) and advanced AMC filters are business-critical most stringent industries. After being the first company to test 100 components in the cleanrooms of these facilities. Camfil produces percent of its ULPA filters, Camfil is now offering a unique outgassing these filters in controlled environments in ISO 9000-certified plants certificate for all filters assembled inside AMC controlled environments. around the world to meet the supply needs of the international microCamfil is also a member of an international group of semiconducelectronics industry. Virtually every wafer, microchip and semiconductor industry experts that is developing “The International Technology tor producer uses Camfil filtration solutions today. Roadmap for Semiconductors” – a set of documents to chart needs and The introduction of nano process technology in the microelec­ challenges over the next 15 years. tronics industry has forced the creation of new contamination control C A M F I L 2013 / 24 T H E R E F E R E N C E I N S TA L L AT I O N S O N T H E S E PA G E S R ­ E P R E S E N T T Y P I C A L R E C E N T D E L I V E R I E S A N D S O L U T I O N S F R O M T H E C A M F I L G R O U P. Dazed by haze in Singapore For several days in 2013, smoke haze from fires in Indonesia was so bad in Singapore that it prompted action to deal with severe gaseous and particulate pollution. Particulate pollution reached disturbing levels for health, while a sharp increase in concentrations of volatile organic compounds (VOC), ammonia (NH 3) and sulphur dioxide (SO 2) caused serious problems for the most advanced manufacturing companies, especially those in the semiconductor industry. SO 2 is corrosive and creates yield issues in integrated circuit manufacturing. NH 3 impacts lithography processes. VOC affect a variety of manufacturing steps, such as diffusion and ­m etrology modules. During the haze craze last year, Gigapleat™ AMC filters were delivered on short notice from Camfil Malaysia to successfully protect the most sensitive cleanroom applications and ­e nsure continuity of operation. To solve smell and particle pollution problems in commercial and public buildings, Camfil also worked in tandem with the local environmental agency to supply CamCleaner City air purifiers for on-site filtration and CityPleat™ filters for ventilation systems. Applying cleanroom experience business losses, if not serious damage to the highly corrosive airborne contaminants and the provider’s reputation. use of air filters incapable of eliminating large to data centres amounts of atmospheric particles. Camfil’s unique ability to supply the entire conArsenal of AMC solutions Camfil proposed a redesign of the air hantamination control system for data centres is Effective high efficiency particle (HEPA) filtradling units (AHUs), upgraded the particle filters, based on the company’s substantial experition, molecular filtration and on-site solutions introduced final stage filtration with HEPA filence from supplying advanced solutions for with mobile air purifiers are all part of Camfil’s ters, and installed molecular filters to remove cleanroom applications in the semiconductor arsenal to protect valuable equipment and highly corrosive gaseous pollutants. industry. premises from contamination. To deal with local problems in critical Data centres and switch rooms are other A recent example comes from the Indian ­ a reas, Camfil also installed CamCleaner City operations that tend to be very sensitive to atsubcontinent, where a leader in information mobile air purifiers with advanced particle and mospheric contamination, which can potentially technology was experiencing repetitive failures ­ m olecular filtration. Today, the IT provider’s disrupt operations and services, impacting of its electronic systems over a three-year business is AMC-free for the highest availability millions of people and resulting in substantial period. The culprits were concentrations of and smoother operations C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 2 5 Sustainability Report Our business concept – providing clean air – is closely linked to sustainability Our sustainability program is a transparent and tangible way of showing that we care about people and the environment. Camfil’s business concept and mission – to provide clean air – is closely interlinked to sustainability because our air filtration solutions contribute daily to healthier indoor air quality, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and save energy. The future depends on sustainability. This is why we want to help safeguard the planet for coming generations by constantly greening our technology and products for customers and end-users. Our sustainability efforts also require us to pay closer attention to the social, economic and environmental impact of our global operations. Camfil was the first air filter manufacturer to launch a sustainability programme and this section of our annual report presents some key activities and figures from our sustainability work in 2013. Camfil’s CEO, Magnus Yngen: “We have come far in our vision of becoming the most eco-friendly air filtration manufacturer on the market. Sustainability is a key strength for us that allows us to innovate, improve and advance on the product, process and service front, lower costs and improve business performance – as well as reduce the eco-footprint of our operations. Being a recognized, sustainable supplier also strengthens our reputation as valued and trusted partner.” In 2013, we inventoried the chemicals at the Trosa factory and eliminated 80 that have been replaced with four environ ­ mentally friendly alternatives.” Jeanette Thorsell, Camfil Sweden C A M F I L 2013 / 26 Sustainability Report Winning green awards Camfil in the Global Compact International Yearbook In 2013, Camfil had the privilege of being recognized as a champion of The Camfil Group was one of the companies featured in the 2013 sustainable solutions through several “green” awards. Camfil U.K. won ­edition of the Global Compact International Yearbook, a publication the “most innovative product or service” award from Norland Managed showcasing examples of businesses that are applying the 10 principles Services for its energy audit and installation of low-energy air filters at of the UN Global Compact and advancing corporate sustainability. Norland’s end-user site. The project involved Camfil’s award-winning low-energy air filter (the Hi-Flo™ M7 F7 bag filter), which improved air quality, reduced waste and lowered energy consumption and CO2 emissions to deliver savings of more than GBP 35,000 (about EUR 42,500, USD 58,500) on the existing filter installation at a Norland site. Camfil was also a Top Regional Award Winner at the prestigious BEI Asia Awards for 2013, which recognize, reward and honour the achievements of leading enterprises across Singapore’s Built Industry Environment (BEI). The awards also acknowledge local and regional companies that have demonstrated excellence in establishing successful businesses while engaging in corporate social responsibility through sustainable efforts. Sustainability at the heart of our business model In the yearly Energy Efficiency Strategy Report, published in the U.K., Camfil was portrayed in a case study regarding ISO 5001 Energy Management System Implementation. In the study, Camfil was described as a company that “… has put energy management at the heart of its business model. It has initiated an energy reduction programme, the Camfil Energy Awareness Saves Environment (CEASE), and its key objective is to educate property and building managers about the financial and energy-saving opportunities that can be made by replacing existing air filters with low-energy air filters. As a result of the energy management steps that Camfil has taken, significant reductions in energy usage and improvements in energy efficiency have been achieved. These improvements resulted in Camfil saving over GBP 200,000 (about EUR 243,000, USD 334,000) on energy bills through minimal cost, self-funding opportunities.” C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 2 7 Sustainability Report Quality air filters are more sustainable Reducing the power consumption of HVAC systems with energy efficient filters like Camfil’s – that also improve IAQ – is a practical way to mitigate climate change and combat the health threats of indoor air pollution. The savings are true and tangible if customers make the right decisions and are willing to pay for the best available air cleaning solutions. The threshold may be slightly higher in terms of filter prices, but the benefits are far greater because quality filters last longer, clean better, save more energy and do not have to be changed as often. This adds up to a lower total cost of ownership (TCO). The economic benefits, measured in terms of energy savings and cost reductions, surpass the initial purchasing cost for higher quality products. We have our own unique R&D resources, such as our state-of-theart Technology Centre in Sweden, plus tech centres in other world regions. One primary focus of our research is the overall life cycle performance of our products: how we deliver air quality of maximum Energy-efficient product range – making a difference benefit while minimizing our environmental impact. In 2013, Camfil most energy-efficient filter solutions for ventilation We accomplish this by selecting the right materials, using the right accounted for 67 percent of global sales in the Comfort Air products production methods, minimizing transportation and ensuring approprisegment. ate end-of-life treatment. Since 2007, 21 percent of our Comfort Air product sales volumes We also focus on energy aspects since the cleaning of “dirty” have been converted into energy-efficient filters that also improve IAQ. air requires power, making the energy efficiency of our filters just as important. Energy Tower demonstrates the energy efficiency of The potential savings are demonstrated every year in many cusour filters tomer cases, with measurements proving that Camfil filters reduce Some filters today are energy-classified like household appliances. This the power appetite of heating and ventilation systems in commercial, classification helps customers understand an air filter’s annual energy industrial and public buildings. This is because Camfil filters have the consumption, initial efficiency and minimal efficiency. least airflow resistance and cut energy usage in air handling units. To apply the classification, we have modified the labels and names Here is an example to illustrate the energy-saving features of of our products. In addition to these initiatives, the R&D laboratory at Camfil filters: For every percent we improve the energy performance of Camfil France has developed an “Energy Tower” to measure the energy our product portfolio, our customers save more than 100 million kWh consumption of various filters in demonstrations for customers. of electricity per year… with the added major benefit of better indoor This comparison tool is being used more and more because air quality (IAQ). the Energy Tower clearly documents for our customers how important it is to have a filter that performs well in terms of IAQ and energy consumption. At our plant in Washington, North Carolina, we are replacing our 400 W halogen lights with energy-saving fluorescent big E–bulbs. This will yield annual energy savings on lighting by up to 50 percent.” Sean Harrison, Camfil USA C A M F I L 2013 / 28 Sustainability Report A helping hand across the globe During one week every year for five years, the whole Camfil Group has 20,000 mangrove seedlings planted in Thailand celebrated and manifested its will to contribute to a more sustainable In August 2013, Camfil Thailand carried out a record-breaking corpoworld. We call this internal event “CamfilCairing Week”. rate social responsibility activity in partnership with different volunteer For five days, we carry out various sustainability and corporate groups at Bo Kaew Village in Samutsongkram province. social responsibility activities at Camfil facilities around the globe. On a special day, several groups planted as many as 20,000 manThese activities, which vary from company to company, range from grove seedlings. To raise money for the project, Camfil Thailand staff donating blood to planting trees and collecting clothes and food for the sold 1,000 “camcAIRe” T-shirts. During the event, support was also needy etc. Here are some examples: given to local fishermen by transforming scrapped Durafil ES ® filter casings into “camcaire crab banks”, which later were distributed to a Sponsoring a village upliftment program in India nearby coastal area. In February 2013, Camfil India started sponsoring a Village Upliftment Program (VUP) with support from the Hand In Hand (HIH) organization. This support to the two villages of Devarayaneri and Asur is planned for a period of two years and Camfil’s assistance is focused on the following five pillar activities: • Self-Help Group Promotion and Job Creation • Child Labour Elimination Programme • Health • Establishment of Citizen Centres • Environment Protection Supporting the needy in Sweden and the U.S. In Sweden, Camfil’s Stockholm office gave money to Saint Klara Church to buy bags of Christmas food for homeless women with children. Staff at the plant in Trosa participated in a clothing drive to collect warm clothes and shoes for the homeless and other people in need. These efforts included a drive to collect clothes and toys for children. Another clothing drive was conducted during CamfilCairing Week at facilities in Österbymo and Örnsköldsvik, after which an Österbymo employee travelled to an orphanage in Kenya to donate the collected More than 200 blood donors globally clothes. In the United States, Camfil in Washington, North Carolina arranged During the 2013 CamfilCairing Week, 217 Camfil collections for the aid charity “Eagles Wings”. Employees contributed employees donated blood around the globe. This non-perishable items, such as paper towels, toilet paper and washing valuable CSR activity has been initiated from the powder, and food items like pasta, beans, soups and cereals. employees and it offers a great advantage since everyone can do it no matter where you work for Camfil in the world. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 2 9 Sustainability Report Greening our Waste destination 2007 2013 operations 19% 22% 34% 51% Camfil APC has embarked on a Lean journey 30% 44% Early in 2013, Camfil APC in Jonesboro, Arkansas (United States) began the journey down the road of “Lean Manufacturing” to improve flow, LANDFILL INCINERATION RECYCLING reduce inventory, lower costs, improve efficiency, and make operations Waste sustainable well into the future. Waste The project began by teaching everyone in the company the TOTAL WASTE TONNES EEI* I NDEX kSEK/TONNE principles of Lean in a number of one-day “Lean 101” classes, where kSEK/TONNE TOTAL WASTE TONNES everyone had an opportunity to participate in a series of simulated 7000 600 manufacturing processes. 6000 500 Now that everyone has fundamental training, the techniques 5000 learned are being applied into real-life opportunities. To date, six lean 400 4000 events have been held, resulting in inventory reductions, decreased 300 3000 unplanned downtime, faster changeovers, increased time standard 200 2000 accuracy and overall better workplace organization. 1000 100 Camfil Malaysia saves PU and hardener 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In 2013, Camfil Malaysia’s Maintenance and Facilities Department initiated a project to save costs and cut scheduled PU (polyurethane) and Energy use hardener waste. As a result, the company is saving around RM 180,832 Energy use per year in mixed PU and hardener (USD 54,857, EUR 39,971). EN ERGY CO NSU M PTION OF FA C TORIES GWH The project has also reduced Camfil Malaysia’s environmental EEI* = COGS/EN ERGY USE SEK M /GWH impact by cutting scheduled waste by almost 10,500 kg/year, saving 80 an additional RM 25,700 per year (USD 7,823, EUR 5,700). 60 First ISO 50001 certified company in Slovakia Camfil’s Levice plant is the first Slovak company to be certified to 40 ISO 50001, currently the highest standard for energy management. The Levice facility has also committed to reduce energy consumption by 20 15 percent per unit of production over the next ten years. Camfil factories were the first to pass energy management system 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 certification in Malaysia, Slovakia and the United Kingdom. Early adoption of best practices for energy-efficient operations allowed the Camfil Water use Group to reduce its energy bill by 20 percent. Water use 3 3 TOTAL WATER USE M EEI* kSEK/T WATER M 3 EEI TOTAL WATER USE M 60 100000 50 80000 40 60000 30 Camfil Norway moved into 40000 20 a new building in 2013 that 20000 consumes about 90 percent 10 less energy than before it was 0 0 rehabilitated.” 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lars Rustad, Camfil Norway These charts display the waste efficiency factor, energy efficiency factor and water *Energy Efficiency Index efficiency factor as value created per unit of resource used. C A M F I L 2013 / 30 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the workplace Number of sick leave days per 100 work days 6.0 0 % 5.0 0 % 4.0 0 % 3.0 0 % 2.0 0 % 1.0 0 % 0.0 0 % 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lost work days due to work-related injuries per 100 work days 0.3 5 % 0.3 0 % 0.2 5 % 0.2 0 % 0.1 5 % 0.1 0 % 0.0 5 % 0.0 0 % 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Sick leave days continue to be reduced over the years. Promoting clean air as a human right across Europe Work lost days due to work related injury increases significantly. Our IAQ Road Show continued its tour around Europe in 2013. This However safety is improving. Less accidents were reported in 2013, but unique 13-metre-long travelling exhibition is equipped with lab stagravity was high and resulted in long recovery times per injury. tions that show you what you are actually breathing at your place of residence or work. It also tells you how you can keep polluted city air from penetrating indoor spaces. And it teaches you about the filters you need to accomplish this and how effective air filtration improves human health and has important economic and environmental benefits. Balance between health and energy savings We cannot save energy at the cost of compromising people’s health. At the same time it is important to use as little energy as possible. So the aim of our sustainability work is always to find a working balance We had zero lost work days in between indoor health and energy savings. 2013 due to work-related injuries. To find out more about the sustainability work of the Camfil This was achieved by keeping group, please visit our website www.camfil.com or connect with us on Health & Safety at the forefront ­facebook.com/IAQRoadShow. of all employees’ minds.” Brian Haslam, Camfil UK C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 3 1 HR management in a performance-driven enterprise Human capital is as important as other assets in today’s competitive A high Empowerment Index helps drive profitability because empowbusiness climate. Camfil places great value on its employees and ered employees take on more responsibility, take initiative and create steadily focuses on recruiting, developing and retaining its personnel better value for customers. at companies and plants in more than 20 countries. Camfil has consistently scored a high index and uses the results The Human Resources (HR) function has been increasingly strengthto identify strengths and areas where improvements are needed. The ened the past few years. Important goals are to constantly improve ­latter may include management training courses, team-building exerskills, competencies and performance, ensuring that the employees cises, information events etc. contribute to the business in a rewarding way. To ensure that talented individuals perform, Camfil has introduced With committed employees and effective HR initiatives, the coma Performance Management Strategy to professionally create competipany can achieve business goals and increase long-term customer tive advantage through realizing talent and succession planning. This value by integrating economic, environmental and social opportunities program includes annual performance appraisals for all employees, in strategies. competence mapping for sales staff and talent reviews for senior Recruitment techniques, employee surveys and competence management. development programs have been introduced over the past few years Sales, millions of SEK, and number of employees to this aim. Recruiting new talent An effective recruitment process is essential. Today it also requires Sales online tools. In addition to traditional channels, people interested in Employees working at Camfil can submit their CVs on the corporate website, helping Camfil to quickly match the right people with the right job. The CVs of attractive candidates are also stored in a database as another recruitment resource for Group managers and HR. The company’s green mission – to provide clean air – also enables Camfil to attract and compete for the best future talent. The growing number of spontaneous applications is a sign that Camfil’s brand as a Developing in-house competence sustainable employer is attractive. The HR function offers employees possibilities to enhance knowledge Camfil understands the benefits of employing a diverse range of and professional skills internally and externally: talented individuals. As an equal opportunity employer, Camfil takes a Camfil Academy is an internal educational organisation. The positive approach to diversity and uses a global recruitment process Academy offers everything from orientation programs for new staff called STAIRS (Search Talent Ambition Inspiration Result Succession) to to specialized training for sales personnel, key account managers select candidates with transparency, fairness and respect. and product managers. The program helps ensure overall alignment between business strategy, goals and employee competencies. Retaining employees Courses are offered in various locations and via webinars to limit Employee development, empowerment, well-being, health and safety travel and reduce Camfil’s carbon footprint. Each event is evaluated and are all part of being a good employer. Camfil therefore focuses on followed up to ensure improvement and quality assurance of concepts, creating a work environment that retains and builds commitment, since teaching methods, course materials and trainers. employee engagement is an enabler of customer satisfaction and busiA Global Development Program (GDP) tailor-made for Camfil has ness growth. been offered in association with the KTH Executive School, based at the The company’s biannual global employee survey – CAMPAIR (Camfil Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in Stockholm. It covered 22 days Personnel Attitude Involvement Research) – is a tool for measuring and consisted of six face-to-face modules over 18 months. employee commitment. It identifies Camfil’s strengths and weaknesses Each GDP participant was part of a global team that investigated, and gathers information to improve operations. The survey generates analyzed and reported a challenging development project directly data that are processed to create added value for employees and for related to an issue that is strategic to Camfil. customers. Participants also met with management members and other course The survey, conducted by an external supplier, also measures colleagues to discuss all areas of business, helping them to understand the company’s Empowerment Index, a tool consisting of five factors: how other Camfil countries manage their customers and operations, motivation, getting support from your manager, having authority, taking and to share and learn from one another’s experiences and successes. responsibility and possessing professional competence. C A M F I L 2013 / 32 Researching for a cleaner and greener future Camfil has a huge interest and stake in technology. Investments are continuously made in research and development because it maximizes value for customers and is very important for growth and the advancement of the air filtration industry. This R&D focus has driven the Group forward for more than 50 years and helped position Camfil as the leader in clean air solutions. Today, around 60 employees are actively engaged in R&D led by highly qualified and experienced filtration experts. Camfil has a unique position because of the breadth and scope of its a number of Camfil subsidiaries serve as technical support centers. R&D activities. The company is the only manufacturer that can develop All members of the global R&D network can be consulted to solve clean air solutions for virtually every filtration need. any filtration problem for any customer in any market. Solutions are assembled from standard or custom-designed products. Strong R&D culture At Camfil, we realize value for our customers by developing new clean Extending R&D to the field air solutions with the highest efficiency, the lowest energy consumpCamfil’s R&D arm extends far into the field to conduct research with tion, the longest life and the least environmental impact. mobile labs that are taken to customer sites to evaluate filter perWe create new knowledge about filtration technology to benefit formance in real operating conditions, or to analyze filters in various customers, their operations and end-users. We improve indoor air qualenvironmental conditions. Camfil has also developed its own tools for ity for building occupants and protect human health. sampling local air quality and performing other measurements. We even design our own production processes to ensure that our The mobile labs carry analysis equipment to evaluate existing filters are manufactured with the same high quality at every Camfil plant products and develop new air filter solutions. By remote access, the in the world. system can be controlled and data retrieved from the test site in real time. This builds a database of information that all Group R&D units and In-house resources companies can use to the benefit of customers. Camfil’s belief in R&D is reflected in our research facilities: the largIn addition, Camfil teams up with universities, technical schools and est is the Tech Centre in Trosa, Sweden and its labs and equipment other research institutions in the medical, environmental or scientific for developing comfort, HEPA and molecular filters, AMC filtration fields to carry out collaborative projects. solutions, gas turbine filters and APC equipment, including filter classifications and performance testing. These resources feature the most Developing for the future advanced lab equipment, including a scanning electron microscope for Long-term research includes developing more environmentally friendly identifying and studying airborne particles and gases. The centre also and energy-efficient filters. The focus is on leveraging the advantages has the world’s only test rig to study gas turbine filter operation in any of new and emerging fiber technology and materials to develop innovaclimatic condition. tive filter media and improve product performance. The Tech Centre is the hub of Camfil’s research network, which Finally, as the industry’s pioneer in life cycling costing of filters, includes R&D centers in Riverdale, New Jersey for North America, Camfil is now going one step further to research the environmental and Ipoh, Malaysia for the Asia-Pacific region. In addition, the Power footprint of its product range with life cycle assessments. This is an Systems business unit develops gas turbine applications in Borås, extension of ongoing research to integrate eco-efficiency in product Sweden, and the APC business unit has facilities in the U.S. for designdesign and performance. ing dust collection systems in Jonesboro, Arkansas. Around the world, C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 3 3 Camfil around the world The Camfil Group operates through FILTERS CONTINENTAL EUROPE four main business units – Filters, The Group has 904 employees in Continental Power Systems, Air Pollution Control Europe Europe. (APC) and Airborne Molecular ConBesides production plants in France, tamination (AMC). THE NORDIC REGION G ermany, Switzerland and Slovakia, Camfil ­ The manufacturing hub in Trosa, Sweden, also operates in Belgium, Italy, Spain, NetherCamfil is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweincludes a major state-of-the-art production lands, Austria and Poland. Sales are conductden, where the Parent Company, Camfil AB, facility and a large warehouse and distribued through agents in other countries, such as has functions for Group Finance, IT, ­Corporate tion centre. An additional metal workshop is the Czech Republic and Hungary. Sourcing and Corporate ­Marketing. located in Österbymo, Sweden. Central resources for research, laboraNordic sales are conducted through tory testing, product and process develop­several local sales offices and subsidiaries ment are based at Camfil’s world-class Tech in Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Norway. Centre in Trosa, about 70 km (42 miles) south Camfil has 364 employees in the Nordic of Stockholm. This centre is the main hub of ­region. NUM B E R O F SALES IN a global research network that includes R&D EMPLOYEES: 1,498 S E K M I L L I O NS : 2 , 1 4 5 units in France, the United States, Malaysia and China. BRITISH ISLES The Parent Company has 102 employees. Camfil Group has one production and sales company in the United Kingdom and one in Ireland. A total of 231 employees work in the region. C A M F I L 2013 / 34 ­Systems customers in the region. Camfil reHEAD OFFICE cently established a sales company in Turkey. P R O D U C T I O N U N I T, I N C L . S A L E S The Group also has a production and sales SALES OFFICE company in Brazil to serve the South AmeriAGENT can market.Camfil International AB covers other regions for Filters business. NUM B E R O F SALES IN EMPLOYEES: 52 S E K M I L L I O NS : 1 13 POWER SYSTEMS Power Systems, with 275 employees, has operations in Sweden, Germany, Canada, China and India to provide air filtration solutions for the global power generation industry. The business unit also has production facilities in Sweden and India. NUM B E R O F SALES IN EMPLOYEES: 275 S E K M I L L I O NS : 8 52 AIR POLLUTION CONTROL (APC) APC specializes in industrial dust collection. The U.S. has traditionally been Camfil’s primary market for APC systems but now the range is being gradually introduced and ­marketed in Europe and the rest of the world. Since 2013, Camfil has a new facility in the United Kingdom to provide quality dust colAmericas Asia-Pacific lection equipment to customers through­o ut With six production units and 11 branches Camfil has three Asian production units in Britain and Europe. in the U.S., and one production unit and six India, Malaysia and China. The latter two spebranches in Canada, Camfil is well equipped cialize in high efficiency filters, both HEPA and positioned to provide excellent coverage and ULPA grade, as well as filters for ventilaof the entire North American market through tion systems, which are manufactured at all NUM B E R O F SALES IN sales offices, distributors and agents across three sites. Camfil also has subsidiaries in EMPLOYEES: 305 S E K M I L L I O NS : 4 01 the continent. With its broad product range, Thailand, Singapore, India, New Zealand and Camfil is an attractive partner for the best Australia. Agents cover all other major marAIRBORNE MOLECULAR distributors in the Americas. kets in the region. ­CONTAMINATION (AMC) Highly focused on the microelectronics industry, AMC specializes in molecular contamination control in manufacturing processes for products like microchips and memory comN UMBER O F S A L E S IN N U MB E R O F SALES IN EMP LO Y EES: 596 S E K MIL L ION S : 877 E MPL OYE E S : 5 9 0 S E K M I L L I O NS : 4 7 0 ponents. AMC has its main market in Taiwan and other parts of Asia. Other regions Since 2012, Camfil has had a sales company in Dubai to supply customers with filtration solutions. This company focuses on Filters NUM B E R O F SALES IN business and aftermarket sales to Power EMPLOYEES: 59 S E K M I L L I O NS : 4 9 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 3 5 Financial Analysis 2013 Consolidated sales AMC In Asia, external sales increased in fixed curIn fixed currencies, external sales for the full Consolidated sales increased by SEK 41 M, or rencies by SEK 84 M to SEK 470 M for the full year amounted to SEK 49 M, compared to 1 percent, from SEK 4,865 M to SEK 4,906 M year. The increase was mainly the net effect of SEK 77 M last year, a decrease of SEK 28 M. for the full year. The divestment of the Railroad higher sales in China, primarily for biosafety labs business unit decreased sales by SEK 11 M, or and nuclear power projects, and a decrease in Gross margin less than half a percent, compared to last year, Thailand, where sales in 2012 were boosted as the business unit was still consolidated durThe gross margin rose to 40.4 percent (39.1), by one-off projects related to the flood disasing January 2012. Unfavorable currency effects mainly due to increasing gross margins in ter in 2011. reduced consolidated sales by 3 percent, while Power Systems, where improvements in In Other Areas, external sales for the full underlying business activity grew by 4 percent, project execution have continued to benefit year rose by SEK 18 M to SEK 113 M in fixed resulting in an all-time-high for Group sales in the business unit. Continuous productivity currencies. 2013. improvements in the Filters business segment were able to mitigate continued price presDECEMBER 31, 2013 Y TD DECEMBER 31, 2013 Y TD sure on the market and keep the gross margin Business unit sales in SEK M Filter business, sales in SEK M stable, relative to last year. Centralized sourcing of raw materials had a continuing positive impact on the Group’s gross margin level by leveraging larger volumes. Operating income Restructuring costs for the period, related to the North American Filters business, and one-off expenses for part of the Group’s 50th EUROPE 60% FILTER BUSINESS 74% anniversary celebration in 2013, totaled SEK AMERICAS 24% POWER SYSTEMS 17% ASIA AND OCEANIA 13% 5 M and were eliminated from underlying operAPC 8% AMC 1% OTHER AREAS 3% ating profit. The combined effect of a capital gain on the divestment of the Railroad business unit and the restructuring of the Filters Sales by business unit Power Systems business in North America, a total of SEK 68 Filters External sales in fixed currencies amounted M, has been eliminated for the corresponding External sales amounted to SEK 3,605 M for to SEK 852 M for the full year, compared to period last year. the full year. In fixed currencies, the increase, SEK 871 M for the same period last year. The Underlying operating income for the full SEK 163 M, was generated within all geodecrease in external sales was attributable to year amounted to SEK 521 M, an increase of graphic regions. a lower level of project completion in Germany SEK 28 M, compared to the same period last In Europe, sales increased by SEK 19 M and Sweden, compared to 2012. The decline year. The positive volume effect of SEK 68 M, in fixed currencies, which was the result of was somewhat compensated by a higher level attributable primarily to the Filters business a mix of favourable and unfavourable market of deliveries from Power Systems units in and to APC, was somewhat offset by a negadevelopments in different regions. External Canada, China and India, relative to last year. tive volume development in AMC. The positive sales increased by 1 percent in the Nordics effect from higher gross margins totaled APC and declined half a percent in Continental SEK 71 M. Selling costs increased in the In fixed currencies, external sales year-to-date Europe, compared to the previous year. The Filters business unit, along with expenses amounted to SEK 401 M, as against SEK 334 increase for Europe was therefore almost for adding further resources in APC, with M last year. Sales growth was primarily generentirely attributable to the 7 percent growth the consolidated impact being SEK 63 M for ated in North America but was also aided by generated on the British Isles. the Group in fixed currencies. Administrative rising business activity in Europe. In the Americas, external sales amounted to SEK 877 M for the full year, an increase of SEK 41 M in fixed currencies. C A M F I L 2013 / 36 expenses increased in all business units and A/R days outstanding has decreased to 56 Employees were SEK 39 M higher than last year. Currency days compared to 63 days at year-end 2012. Employed Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs) at the effects and changes in Group adjustments The decrease was primarily attributable to end of the period increased to 3,476 at had a negative impact of SEK 14 M, compared a high level of project completion in Power December 31, compared to 3,380 at the same to 2012. Systems in the final quarter, which had a date last year. The increase was primarily The consolidated operating margin was positive impact on A/R days, as it is not attributable to production overhead and sales 10.6 percent for the full year, compared to directly linked to the amount of outstanding personnel, while the number of production 10.1 percent last year. receivables. workers remained constant. Approximately The Filters business continued to be Inventory turnover days for finished 2 percent of total FTEs were employed on a the most profitable during 2013 with stable, goods decreased to 22 days at December 31, temporary basis at the end of the fourth quaror improved, margins in all areas. Power compared to 24 days at the same date last ter, compared to 2 percent at year-end 2012. Systems improved its operating margin sigyear, which was below average for the year. nificantly, while APC’s margin declined someInventory turnover days for raw material what, due to increased costs for expanding decreased to 54 days, compared to 59 days EMPLOYEES the business unit’s manufacturing footprint at the end of 2012. in Europe. Capital investments Result from financial items Capital expenditures amounted to SEK 175 M The result from financial items for the Group (195) for 2013. Investments are primarily was SEK -74 M in 2013 (-92). The decrease continuous investments for maintaining and was due to lower average interest rates, comimproving existing production, as well as pared to 2012, and a decline in average net expenditures to add capacity or enhance prodebt, relative to the previous year. duction capabilities. Net capital expenditures PRODUCTION WORKERS 36% exceeded depreciation by 25 percent in 2013, PRODUCTION OVERHEAD 24% SALES PERSONNEL 27% Cash flow and balance sheet compared to 41 percent in 2012. ADMINISTRATION AND R&D 13% Cash flow from operating activities amounted Tax level to SEK 442 M in 2013, compared to SEK 364 M for the same period last year. Changes in The Group’s average tax level decreased working capital had a negative impact of to 24.9 percent, compared to 27.3 percent SEK 23 M, compared to a negative effect of last year, due to non-recurring items related SEK 76 M last year. to Camfil’s operations in the U.S. Underlying Liquid assets, as a percentage of sales changes in tax rates and countries of origin at the end of the quarter, amounted to 12 for taxable profits reduced the effective tax percent, or 4 percentage points higher than rate by a net of 0.3 percentage points. last year. Net debt amounted to SEK 1,093 M at the end of the period, compared to SEK 1,293 M at year-end 2012, a net decrease of SEK 200 M, mainly due to amortization of interestbearing debt. The change, compared to last year, was affected by a change in accounting policy, with the updated IAS 19 standard being applied as of January 2013, increasing net debt by SEK 34 M. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 3 7 CAM FIL AB Swedish Corporate ID No. 556230-1266 Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR JANUARY 1, 2013 – DECEMBER 31, 2013 B o a r d o f D i r e c t o r s ’ Re p o r t cesses to create a clean and safe work environment within a broad spectrum of process and engineering industries. Camfil is one of the leading groups in the air filtration market. In 2013, sales of the APC business unit totaled SEK 401 M Camfil offers air filtration solutions to protect people, produc(349) with an operating profit of SEK 25 M (27). tion processes, the environment and gas turbines. The Group’s business activities are conducted through four main business Airborne Molecular Contamination (AMC) business unit units: Filters, Power Systems, Air Pollution Control and Airborne The Airborne Molecular Contamination (AMC) business segment Molecular Contamination. In 2013, sales of the Camfil Group specializes in solving filtration problems in the microelectronics totaled SEK 4,906 M (4,865) with 3,507 (3,428) employees. industry, which has production processes with stringent requirements for clean air. Camfil offers advanced filtration systems that Filters business unit remove undesired molecular gases and contaminants. The Filters business unit, the Group’s largest area of operation, In 2013, sales of the AMC business unit amounted to SEK 49 offers a broad range of products to clean and improve the quality M (80) with an operating profit of SEK 2 M (16). of indoor air within many different application areas. Camfil provides air filtration solutions for air handling Significant events during the financial year systems in housing, office buildings and hotels, among other facilities. Municipal, county and government agencies are other Change of CEO important customer segments for which Camfil offers air filters for schools and hospitals, among other public buildings. On September 1, Magnus Yngen succeeded Alan O’Connell as A substantial part of the market consists of replacement Chief Executive Officer of the Camfil Group and President of filters since filters in ventilation systems have to be changed at Camfil AB. Prior to his appointment, Magnus Yngen had been a regular intervals. Business in this segment is therefore relatively member of Camfil’s Board of Directors since 2012. Alan O’Connell stable. will continue to work for the Group. Advanced production equipment and sensitive products require a clean indoor air environment to protect machinery, 50th anniversary celebration enhance product quality and boost the efficiency of product In 2013, Camfil celebrated 50 years of operation since the foundprocesses. This is a typical requirement in the electronics, pharing of the company by Gösta Larson in 1963. Special events were maceutical and food processing industries, among others. This arranged at all Camfil companies during the year to commemobusiness is more cyclical than others and is affected to a larger rate the anniversary. extent by economic fluctuations. In 2013, sales of the Filters business unit totaled SEK 3,605 M Turkey (3,534) with an operating profit of SEK 503 M (497). During the year, Camfil Hava Filtresi Sanayi Ticaret Ltd Sirketi was started in Turkey. The company’s main mission is to develop Power Systems business unit Camfil’s business in the country. The Turkish market was previThe Power Systems business unit offers air inlet systems, exhaust ously covered within the operations of the agency sales company systems, acoustic enclosures, ventilation systems and heavy-duty Camfil International AB. air filters for gas turbines to ensure high operating efficiency and reduce turbine wear-and-tear. The business area also offers a Significant events occurring after the balance range of services, including upgrades and retrofits of existing syssheet date tems and filter replacements. Power Systems business is dependent on investments in the oil and gas sector and is consequently On January 31, 2014, an agreement was signed to acquire 100 affected more distinctly by economic cycles. percent of the German group Handte Umwelttechnik GmbH and In 2013, sales of the Power Systems business unit totaled Handte Holding GmbH and their operations in Germany, the Czech SEK 852 M (891) with an operating profit of SEK 80 M (50). Republic, China and Switzerland. The acquisition, which is pending approval from the European competition authority, is expected to Air Pollution Control (APC) business unit be closed in the first quarter of 2014. The Handte Group will be The Air Pollution Control (APC) business segment develops, manupart of the APC business unit. factures and sells equipment and filters for dust collection. Camfil APC’s dust collectors remove fumes and dust from industrial proC A M F I L 2013 / 38 Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements Business and market developments Operating income Underlying sales growth was 3.6% in fixed currencies, excluding Operating income of the Camfil Group totaled SEK 516 M (561). the effect of the Railroad business unit divestment. Sales of the Net income of SEK 68 M from the divestment of the Railroad Camfil Group increased by 0.8% in 2013. Sales were stable in business unit and the closure of a production unit in Canada was spite of the ongoing recession, due primarily to the spread of included in last year’s operating income. Structural costs amountCamfil’s activities over large geographic and market segments, in ing to SEK 5 M, which were attributable to the Group’s business which different parts of the Group operate in various stages of the plan, were charged against operating income in 2013. Eliminating economic cycle. structural costs and the capital gain, operating income was SEK The Filters business unit continued to develop with stable 28 M higher than last year. Adjusted for items affecting comparagrowth during the year. Concerns about the financial situation bility, the operating margin was 10.6% (10.1). were more noticeable in some markets than others. The European market has been in a wait-and-see mode for new investment proDepreciation jects. However, growth in other regions, mainly in North America, Depreciation for the year totaled SEK 140 M (138). the Middle East and China, compensated for this. Power Systems was affected more than other business units Net financials by the decline of the global economy. The downturn was clear for Net financials decreased by SEK 18 M to SEK -74 M (-92). The gas turbines in the Power Generation market, mainly in Europe, improvement was due to lower average interest rates during where activity was drastically lower than previous year. Business the year and lower average net debt as result of repayments of developed in a more satisfactory way in the Oil & Gas sector interest-bearing liabilities. in North America and Asia, which largely compensated for the decline in the Power Generation sector in Europe. Profit after tax The Air Pollution Control business unit performed in a satisProfit after tax decreased by 3% to SEK 332 M (341), correspondfactory manner during 2013 by accomplishing substantial growth, ing to 6.8% (7.0) of net sales. The tax rate, 24.9% (27.3), was mainly in the North American market. Sales in Europe were also lower than last year due to non-recurring items related to operapositively impacted by Camfil’s investment in a European productions in the U.S. tion facility to sharpen the business unit’s competitive edge. The electronics industry is an important customer category Working capital for the Airborne Molecular Contamination business unit, especially in Asia. This customer group is sensitive to the global economic Working capital of the Camfil Group, excluding cash and cash situation and business depends on Camfil steadily developing its equivalents, totaled SEK 662 M (668). Working capital, excludproducts. The business unit’s market declined in 2013 as a result ing cash and cash equivalents, corresponded to 13% (14) of the of cancelled or deferred investments in new production facilities. Group’s annual sales. Net debt and borrowings Operating results and position The Group’s interest-bearing net debt decreased by SEK 200 M Net sales from SEK 1,293 M to SEK 1,093 M, which included an increase in net debt totaling SEK 34 M as a result of changes to accountNet sales of the Camfil Group totaled SEK 4,906 M (4,865) an ing policies for pension obligations. The Group’s interest-bearing increase of SEK 41 M (0.8%), compared with the previous year. liabilities, including pension provisions, amounted to SEK 1,777 M The underlying volume of sales rose by 3.6% in comparable cur(1,731), of which SEK 1,616 M (1,577) consisted of liabilities to rencies in 2013, which was partly counteracted by exchange rate credit institutions and a convertible debenture loan. The average changes that reduced net sales by 2.6%, and by the divestment of interest rate on the Group’s interest-bearing loans was 3.8% (4.2) the Railroad business unit, which decreased sales by 0.2%. at year-end. Change in net sales: 2013 2012 Financial risk management Currency changes, % -2.6 -0.2 Camfil’s operations are located primarily in countries outside Price/mix and volume changes, % 3.6 3.5 Sweden and the Group is consequently exposed to several difDivestment of business unit -0.2 -3.0 ferent types of financial risk. As a consequence, income, cash Total 0.8 0.3 flow and equity may vary from year to year, due to fluctuations in C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 3 9 Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements exchange rates and interest rates. The risks are related to finanEquity ratio and net debt-equity ratio (gearing ratio) cial instruments, such as cash and cash equivalents, trade receivThe equity ratio was 31% (27). The net debt-equity ratio (gearing ables, trade payables, loans and derivative financial instruments. ratio) decreased to 78% (112). Risks related to these instruments are primarily: Incentive programs – Interest rate risks related to cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, Camfil has implemented several long-term incentive programs for – Financing risks related to the Group’s capital requirements, key persons in the company since 2000. The purpose is to offer – Currency risks related to income and net investments in programs linked to the value of the company in order to attract, ­foreign subsidiaries, retain and motivate key persons. During the year, the Group had – Risks related to prices of raw materials and components that a convertible debenture loan program that was issued on May impact products manufactured for the Group, and 31, 2011, which matures in five years. The program was issued – Credit risks attributable to financial and commercial to 129 key persons and the loan has a face value of SEK 186 M ­activities. (Note 42). The financial risk management function is centralized in the Work of the Board of Directors Finance Department of the Parent Company and its main task is to support operations and to identify and limit the Group’s financial risks in the most effective way possible, following a finance policy The overall task of Camfil’s Board of Directors is to administer that is approved by the board of directors and updated each year. the Group’s business on behalf of the owners in such a way that Risks are managed by means of derivatives and other financial the owners’ interest in receiving a sound long-term return on instruments in accordance with limits set in the finance policy. their capital is met in the best possible way. The board’s work is For detailed information on the management of financial regulated by the Swedish Companies Act, the company’s Articles items, see the following sections of this annual report: Accounting of Association and the formal work plan that the board has estabpolicies (Notes 2 and 3), Financial risk management (Note 4), lished for its work. Financial assets (Note 27), Derivative financial instruments The board decides on issues concerning the Group’s basic (Note 31) and Borrowings (Note 42). goals, its strategic orientation and significant policies, as well as important questions concerning financing, investments, acquisiCash flow tions and divestments. The board supervises and deals with monitoring and controlling the Group’s operations, the information Cash flow in 2013 was SEK 252 M, as against SEK -72 M last year. issued by the Group and organizational matters. Cash flow from operating activities increased by SEK 78 M, compared with 2012. Formal work plan As in the previous year, investment activities made on a normal basis were on a high level and totaled SEK 175 M (195). The board develops a formal plan for its work each year. Cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 651 M (406) on the Guidelines for the board’s work, as well as instructions for delbalance sheet date. egating work tasks between the board and the President, and Cash flow from financing activities improved during the year procedures for reporting to the board, are described in this formal by SEK 337 M, from SEK -353 M in 2012 to SEK -16 M in 2013. work plan. This plan covers, among other things, the basic tasks, This was the net effect of repayments of interest-bearing liabilities functions and responsibilities of the board, board work, board totaling SEK 225 M in 2013 and the refinancing of expired loans. meetings, and information and reporting requirements. Investments Board members and meetings Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed At the beginning of 2013, the board of the Parent Company assets totaled SEK 175 M (195), a decrease of SEK 20 M. The consisted of six members and two deputy members elected by largest investments were made in existing facilities to improve shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, as well as one deputy production capacity. Investments in property, plant and equipment appointed by the largest trade union. One member of company and intangible fixed assets amounted to 3.6% (4.0) of net sales. management serves on the board. The board held five meetings in 2013. C A M F I L 2013 / 40 Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements Remuneration Committee Environmental impact of operations Under the management of the Executive Chairman, the company’s Camfil is also working on reducing its own direct environmental board had a Remuneration Committee during 2013 to prepare and impact by decreasing the Group’s consumption of resources and make proposals concerning the principles for compensation paid energy. By carrying out LCA studies, Camfil has identified the largto the President and Executive Vice President. These proposals est environmental impact of a filter – the energy it consumes over contain the goals for variable remuneration, the basis for calculatits life cycle. Compared with other industries, air filter production ing variable salary, basic salary, long-term incentives, and pension does not require large quantities of energy or water. However, the terms and conditions. transport of relatively bulky filters consumes energy. Audit Committee Group The board also has an Audit Committee chaired by the Vice The Camfil Group has 23 production facilities, of which three in Chairman of the board. The committee’s main task is to assist the Sweden. The majority of the Group’s production units are required board in monitoring processes, internal control of financial reports to report the quantity of consumed casting compounds and/ and the auditing of financial statements. The Audit Committee or casting compound waste to regulatory agencies. Many of the consists of two board members. The Group’s Chief Financial production units in the United States also have permits covering Officer (CFO) and Financial Controller are co-opted members of process wastewater effluent and flue gas emissions. the Audit Committee. In 2013, the committee held three meetings, These operations impact the environment in the form of of which all meetings were with the Group’s auditors. evaporative emissions and effluent. Camfil applies and complies The Audit Committee examines the audited year-end financial with local laws and regulations in all countries where the Group statements, reviews the audit of the company’s administration conducts operations. Several production units are certified to and gives advanced approval of proposed auditing services and ISO 14001. the costs for such services. To meet the board’s requirements A program to benchmark energy savings has been implefor information, the company’s auditors participate in one board mented at all Group production units with a view to reducing their meeting per year to give their comments and observations from consumption of power, gas and heat. During the year, production their audit and their opinion of the company’s internal control units in the U.K., France, Slovakia and Malaysia were certified to procedures. the ISO 50001 standard. In a global perspective, overall resource consumption at Environmental impact of operations production units was reduced during the period 2008 to 2013 as a result of ongoing programs to make manufacturing operations Camfil operates in a field where more efficient products, longer more eco-efficient. product life, lower energy consumption and a better indoor cliCamfil’s activities to reduce the environmental effects of mate are all important components for sustainable development. its own production – and the impact of the operations of customers – won a number of awards during the year. The Group Energy consumption company in the U.K. received a special prize commending its initiatives to promote sustainable production and reduce carbon Globally, Camfil’s products and services can play an important dioxide emissions. Camfil was also the recipient of an award from role in the environmental sustainability of buildings by providing Environmental Protection Magazine for the latest version of the the optimum filter solution for every air handling unit and ventilaHi-Flo ® low-energy filter. tion application. Ventilation accounts for up to 30 percent of the total energy costs associated with modern office buildings. Camfil Sweden has been working with product Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) and Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) programs for filtration systems for a In Sweden, manufacturing is conducted at three facilities: producnumber of years. The energy consumption of a ventilation system tion of air filters and sheet-metal parts for filters in Trosa; producis directly affected by a filter’s performance and pressure drop tion of metal filters in Österbymo and production of air intake, development. The Group develops products and services to help acoustic and enclosure systems for gas turbines in Borås. customers reduce their energy consumption and environmental The operations of the Trosa plant require a permit in accordimpact. ance with Sweden’s environmental protection act, while the Borås and Österbymo facilities are required to file an environmental report. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 4 1 Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements Production in Trosa has permits regulating effluent consisting Camfil’s operations are also well distributed geographically, which of process wastewater, maximum permissible noise limits, the means there is less of a risk that the Group’s performance will be handling of environmentally hazardous liquids, and the production affected if the economy of a particular country should decline. of air filters using thermosetting plastics, such as isocyanate. The Since the aftermarket accounts for a large part of sales, Camfil reporting requirement only concerns different types of casting is affected to a lesser extent by fluctuations in the more cyclical compounds, which can affect the environment by either evaporatmarket for air handling units and cleanroom facilities. ing into the atmosphere or being discharged in wastewater. Rinse Demand is expected to rise within a number of market secwater is cleaned in a dedicated filtration system. An environmental tors, primarily in the nuclear power, pharmaceutical and laborareport is filed with the County Administrative Board each year. tory segments, which should benefit primarily growth markets The production units in Trosa and Österbymo are certified to like Asia but also other growth markets. In Europe, demand is ISO 14000. ISO 9001 certification has been upgraded to version anticipated to be relatively stable as a result of a slightly improv9001-2008. A separate environmental report has been published ing economic climate. for operations in Sweden. Replacement filter sales are expected to show continuing Operations requiring environmental permits account for about stable growth. 5% (5) of Group sales, while activities requiring both permits and In Power Systems, market growth is anticipated to remain reporting represent approximately 13% (13) of Group sales. stable within the Oil & Gas sector, while the Power Generation market is starting to recover. The aftermarket for replacement Sustainability Report filters for gas turbines is expected to grow further. Up to 2012, Camfil published a complete sustainability report. The market for dust collection equipment is expected to Camfil strives to follow the ten principles of the UN’s Global increase in pace with general economic growth, which provides a Compact program and Global Reporting Initiative, which constitute stable foundation for APC’s growth through higher market shares. the regulations and guidelines for the Group’s sustainability reportIn summary, Camfil estimates that the Group will continue to ing framework. The printed version of the Annual Report contains grow in 2014 and that the operating margin will remain stable in additional information about Camfil’s sustainability activities. the coming year. Future growth Ownership structure Changes in the economy and global business environment affect On December 31, 2013 the company was owned by Camfil’s operations in different ways in different countries, A-shares B-shares depending on a nation’s general economic development and the Jan Eric Larson 500,000 2,465,000 business segments that dominate the local market. Anna Larson 345,000 The market for Camfil’s products is developing favorably at Björn Larson 345,000 present because of several factors: Dan Larson 345,000 • The health and environmental benefits of good air quality are Johan Markman 500,000 1,960,000 attracting more and more attention and contributing to underAnn-Margret Markman 505,000 lying market growth. Erik Markman 345,000 • Industry, especially pharmaceutical, electronics and food Frida Markman 345,000 producers, are increasingly requiring higher and higher air Johanna Simmons 345,000 quality in their processes, which is creating new needs for air filtration solutions. Total number of shares 1,000,000 7,000,000 • Demand for energy is constantly increasing and benefitting the operations of the Power Systems business unit, which Class A common shares carry 10 votes each and Class B common serves the gas turbine market, and Camfil’s business in the shares 1 vote each. nuclear power segment; it is also stimulating demand for energy-efficient filters. C A M F I L 2013 / 42 Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements Proposed disposition of earnings A total of SEK 875,284,444 in profits is available for distribution by the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Directors and the President propose that the above sum be distributed as follows: To the owners of A and B shares, a dividend of SEK 7.50 per share 60,000,000 balance to be carried forward 815,284,444 Total 875,284,444 The dividend will be paid on April 2, 2014. Board’s statement on the proposed ­disposition of earnings The proposed dividend to shareholders reduces the Parent Company’s equity ratio to 37% and the Group’s equity ratio to 30%. The equity ratio is acceptable against the background that the operations of the Parent Company and the Group can be continued with satisfactory profitability. The board estimates that liquidity in the Parent Company and the Group can be maintained on a similar adequate level. The Group recognizes the value of financial derivatives at fair value. The Group’s equity on December 31, 2013 totaled SEK 1,393.9 M and SEK -27.6 M of this amount was attributable to such recognition. The Group has no other financial assets or liabilities recognized at fair value in accordance with Chapter 4, Paragraph 14a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554). The Parent Company’s equity on December 31, 2013 totaled SEK 1,380.6 M and SEK -28.8 M of this amount was attributable to such recognition. The Parent Company has no other financial assets or liabilities recognized at fair value in accordance with Chapter 4, Paragraph 14a of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. In the opinion of the board, the proposed dividend does not prevent the Parent Company, and the other companies in the Group, from fulfilling their obligations in the short and long term, or from carrying out necessary investments. The proposed dividend can thus be defended with regard to the Swedish Companies Act, Chapter 17, Section 3, Paragraphs 2-3 (the prudence rule). C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 4 3 Consolidated Income Statement SEK M Note 2013 2012 Net sales 6 4,905.9 4,865.3 Cost of goods sold 7, 18 -2,902.5 -2,966.6 Gross profit 2,003.4 1,898.7 Selling costs 7 -978.2 -924.6 Administrative expenses 7, 8 -509.1 -489.5 Other operating income – 76.1 Operating profit 7, 9, 10, 11, 12 516.1 560.7 Financial income 13, 18 100.3 57.0 Financial expenses 14, 18 -173.8 -148.7 Profit before income tax 442.6 469.0 Income tax 17 -110.2 -128.1 Profit for the year 332.4 340.9 Attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company 332.4 340.9 332.4 340.9 Earnings per share attributable to owners of the Parent Company during the year: (expressed in SEK per share) – basic earnings per share 19 41.55 42.62 – diluted earnings per share 19 39.73 40.87 C A M F I L 2013 / 44 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income SEK M Note 2013 2012 Profit for the year 332.4 340.9 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 43 -3.0 -25.8 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Cash flow hedges 39 23.0 -6.2 Currency translation differences 39 -34.0 -59.0 Tax attributable to other comprehensive income 39 -4.6 -0.9 Other comprehensive income for the year -18.6 -91.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 313.8 249.0 Attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company 313.8 249.0 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 4 5 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position SEK M ASSETS Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 24 Land and buildings 21 365.9 357.1 Machinery and production equipment 22 332.4 312.6 Equipment 23 87.8 93.2 786.1 762.9 Intangible assets Goodwill 25 857.9 879.8 Other intangible assets 26 59.1 53.2 917.0 933.0 Financial assets Deferred tax assets 33 86.4 78.3 Derivative financial instruments 31 9.4 19.6 Non-current receivables 27, 34 6.5 7.4 102.3 105.3 Total non-current assets 1,805.4 1,801.2 Current assets Inventories, etc. 35 Raw materials and consumables 211.2 221.0 Finished products and goods for sale 216.9 230.4 Work on contract 558.0 509.0 986.1 960.4 Current receivables Trade receivables 30, 32 891.6 902.5 Bills receivable 30, 32 21.4 7.6 Derivative financial instruments 31 17.6 5.1 Income tax assets 34.8 30.4 Other receivables 73.4 79.7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 36 41.9 39.2 1,080.7 1,064.5 Cash and cash equivalents 37, 41 651.0 405.9 Total current assets 2,717.8 2,430.8 TOTAL ASSETS 4,523.2 4,232.0 C A M F I L 2013 / 46 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position SEK M EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Equity Equity and reserves attributable to owners of the Parent Company Share capital 38 113.8 113.8 Other contributed equity 406.7 406.7 Other reserves 39 -149.0 -133.4 Retained earnings 1,022.4 743.0 Total equity 1,393.9 1,130.1 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 41 Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 24, 42 1,332.7 1,328.3 Convertible debenture loan, interest-bearing 42 155.6 142.9 Other non-current liabilities 46 20.0 22.7 Derivative financial instruments 31, 42 43.2 77.3 Deferred income tax liabilities 33 49.8 46.7 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 42, 43 92.2 96.0 Other provisions 42, 44 30.6 30.8 Total non-current assets 1,724.1 1,744.7 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 24, 42 127.7 105.5 Trade payables 287.6 297.2 Current income tax liabilities 41.8 26.6 Other liabilities 46 594.1 583.0 Accrued expenses and deferred income 45 327.4 321.0 Derivative financial instruments 31, 42 14.7 5.2 Other provisions 42, 44 11.9 18.7 Total current liabilities 1,405.2 1,357.2 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,523.2 4,232.0 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 4 7 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Note 38, 39 and 43) SEK M Attributable to owners of the Parent Company Share Other Other Retained Total capital contributed reserves earnings equity equity Balance at January 1, 2012 113.8 406.7 -67.3 467.9 921.1 Effect of change in accounting policy for ­reporting defined benefit pension plans -25.8 -25.8 Balance at January 1, 2012 (restated) 113.8 406.7 -67.3 442.1 895.3 Profit for the year – – – 340.9 340.9 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges, net of tax – – -7.1 – -7.1 Currency translation differences – – -59.0 – -59.0 Total other comprehensive income – – -66.1 – -66.1 Total comprehensive income – – -66.1 340.9 274.8 Transactions with owners Dividend – – – -40.0 -40.0 Total transactions with owners – – – -40.0 -40.0 Balance at December 31, 2012 113.8 406.7 -133.4 743.0 1,130.1 Profit for the year – – – 332.4 332.4 Other comprehensive income Defined benefit pension plans, net of tax -3.0 -3.0 Cash flow hedges, net of tax – – 18.4 – 18.4 Currency translation differences – – -34.0 – -34.0 Total other comprehensive income – – -15.6 -3.0 -18.6 Total comprehensive income -15.6 329.4 313.8 Transactions with owners Dividend – – – -50.0 -50.0 Total transactions with owners – – – -50.0 -50.0 Balance at December 31, 2013 113.8 406.7 -149.0 1,022.4 1,393.9 C A M F I L 2013 / 48 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows SEK M Note 2013 2012 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Income before financial items 516.1 560.7 Depreciation 10, 48 140.0 137.5 Other items not affecting liquidity 48 -10.8 -70.4 645.3 627.8 Interest paid -71.2 -76.1 Income tax paid -109.0 -113.5 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in operating capital 465.1 438.2 Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in inventories -17.0 -258.8 Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in trade receivables -7.8 -144.1 Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in other current receivables -6.8 -7.0 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in trade payables -8.9 36.2 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in other current operating liabilities 17.6 298.2 Net cash generated from operating activities 442.2 362.7 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 21, 22, 23, 26 -175.3 -195.2 Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.3 0.4 Divestment of business unit – 113.2 Divestments of other financial assets 0.7 0.1 Net cash used in investing activities -174.3 -81.5 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from borrowings 258.9 65.1 Repayments of borrowings -224.8 -377.9 Dividends paid 20 -50.0 -40.0 Net cash used in financing activities -15.9 -352.8 Cash flow for the year 252.0 -71.6 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 405.9 487.4 Currency translation difference in cash and cash equivalents -6.9 -9.9 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 37 651.0 405.9 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 4 9 Parent Company Income Statement SEK M Note 2013 2012 Net sales 768.6 745.6 Cost of goods sold 7 -543.0 -545.2 Gross profit 225.6 200.4 Administrative expenses 8 -220.4 -197.8 Other operating income 18 6.5 12.3 Other operating expenses 18 -9.4 -16.3 Operating profit 7, 9, 10, 11, 12 2.3 -1.4 Result from financial investments Result from participations in Group companies 15 170.0 431.1 Interest income and similar items 13, 18 116.5 87.1 Interest expenses and similar items 14, 18 -133.4 -123.1 Total result from financial investments 153.1 395.1 Profit after financial items 155.4 393.7 Appropriations 16 -3.4 -1.7 Tax on profit for the year 17 -11.4 -8.3 Profit for the year 140.6 383.7 C A M F I L 2013 / 50 Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income SEK M 2013 2012 Profit for the year 140.6 383.7 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges -21.3 -4.3 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges 4.7 -1.4 Other comprehensive income for the year -16.6 -5.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 124.0 378.0 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 5 1 Parent Company Balance Sheet SEK M ASSETS Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Non-current assets Intangible assets 26 18.1 6.8 Property, plant and equipment Building improvements 21 10.3 10.8 Machinery and production equipment 22 19.0 15.2 Equipment 23 15.1 18.8 44.4 44.8 Financial assets Shares in Group companies 27, 28 1,688.3 1,757.2 Receivables from Group companies 27 1,000.0 988.2 Derivative financial instruments 31 9.4 19.6 2,697.7 2,765.0 Total non-current assets 2,760.2 2,816.6 Current assets Inventories, etc. 35 Raw materials and consumables 2.4 – Work on contract 25.3 15.3 27.7 15.3 Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 288.4 309.1 Derivative financial instruments 31 25.2 7.0 Income tax assets – 1.7 Other receivables 12.6 2.3 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 36 4.2 3.3 330.4 323.4 Cash and cash equivalents 37, 41 495.6 254.8 Total current assets 853.7 593.5 TOTAL ASSETS 3,613.9 3,410.1 C A M F I L 2013 / 52 Parent Company Balance Sheet SEK M EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Equity Restricted equity Share capital 38 113.8 113.8 Statutory reserve 391.5 391.5 505.3 505.3 Unrestricted equity Retained earnings 734.7 384.4 Profit for the year 140.6 383.7 875.3 768.1 Total equity 1,380.6 1,273.4 Untaxed reserves 40 71.6 68.1 Non-current liabilities 42 Derivative financial instruments 31 43.2 77.3 Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 1,320.5 1,315.8 Convertible debenture loan, interest-bearing 175.8 172.1 Total non-current liabilities 1,539.5 1,565.2 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 42 120.0 100.0 Trade payables 42.8 34.5 Liabilities to subsidiaries 378.9 323.1 Derivative financial instruments 31, 42 24.7 7.5 Income tax liabilities 9.6 – Other liabilities 4.0 2.8 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 45 42.2 35.5 Total current liabilities 622.2 503.4 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,613.9 3,410.1 Pledged assets 46 None None Contingent liabilities 47 197.5 200.7 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 5 3 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity SEK M Parent Company changes in equity Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Share Statutory Retained Total capital reserve earnings equity Balance at January 1, 2012 113.8 391.5 430.1 935.4 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – 383.7 383.7 Other comprehensive income Hedging reserve – – -4.3 -4.3 Tax attributable to hedging reserve – – -1.4 -1.4 Total other comprehensive income – – -5.7 -5.7 Total comprehensive income – – 378.0 378.0 Transactions with owners Dividend – – -40.0 -40.0 Total transactions with owners – – -40.0 -40.0 Balance at December 31, 2012 113.8 391.5 768.1 1,273.4 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – 140.6 140.6 Other comprehensive income Hedging reserve – – 21.3 21.3 Tax attributable to hedging reserve – – -4.7 -4.7 Total other comprehensive income – – 16.6 16.6 Total comprehensive income – – 157.2 157.2 Transactions with owners Dividend – – -50.0 -50.0 Total transactions with owners – – -50.0 -50.0 Balance at December 31, 2013 113.8 391.5 875.3 1,380.6 C A M F I L 2013 / 54 Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows SEK M Note 2013 2012 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Income before financial items 2.3 -1.4 Depreciation 10, 48 12.0 9.8 Other items not affecting liquidity 48 22.0 -4.8 36.3 3.6 Interest received 55.1 54.7 Dividends received 178.0 384.2 Interest paid -76.8 -91.0 Income tax paid -4.7 4.6 Cash flow from operating activities before 187.9 356.1 changes in operating capital Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in inventories -12.4 -3.3 Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in current receivables 9.3 103.7 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in trade payables 8.2 -3.8 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in other current operating liabilities 56.8 -78.3 Net cash generated from operating activities 249.8 374.4 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in intangible assets 26 -15.8 -1.7 Investments in property, plant and equipment 21, 22, 23 -7.7 -13.4 Investments in other financial assets 27 -18.4 -2.9 Divestments/Repayments of other financial assets 6.2 -83.8 Net cash used in investing activities -35.7 -101.8 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Group contributions received 52.0 52.0 Proceeds from borrowings 264.7 72.1 Repayments of borrowings -234.7 -401.4 Dividends paid 20 -50.0 -40.0 Net cash used in financing activities 32.0 -317.3 Cash flows for the year 246.1 -44.7 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 254.8 307.7 Currency translation difference in cash and cash equivalents -5.3 -8.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 37 495.6 254.8 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 5 5 Notes to the Financial Statements Note 1. General information 57 Note 30. Credit quality of financial assets 75 Note 2. Accounting policies of the Parent Company 57 Note 31. Derivative financial instruments 75 Note 3. Accounting policies of the Group 58 Note 32. Trade and other receivables 76 Note 4. Financial risk management 63 Note 33. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 76 Note 5. Critical judgments in applying the entity’s Note 34. Non-current receivables 77 accounting policies 66 Note 35. Inventories and work on contract 78 Note 6. Financial summary by segment 67 Note 36. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 78 Note 7. Expenses by nature 68 Note 37. Cash and cash equivalents 78 Note 8. Compensation paid to auditors 68 Note 38. Share capital 78 Note 9. Employee remuneration 68 Note 39. Other reserves 78 Note 10. Impairment of property, plant and equipment 69 Note 40. Untaxed reserves 78 Note 11. Research and development costs 69 Note 41. Bank overdraft facilities 78 Note 12. Operating leases 69 Note 42. Borrowings 78 Note 13. Financial income/Interest income and similar items 70 Note 43. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 80 Note 14. Financial costs/Interest expenses and Note 44. Other provisions 83 similar items 70 Note 45. Accrued expenses and deferred income 84 Note 15. Result from participations in Group companies 70 Note 46. Pledged assets 84 Note 16. Appropriations 70 Note 47. Contingent liabilities 84 Note 17. Income tax/Tax on profit for the year 70 Note 48. Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 84 Note 18. Net foreign exchange gains/losses 71 Note 49. Related party transactions 84 Note 19. Earnings per share 71 Note 50. Exchange rates 86 Note 20. Dividend per share 71 Note 51. Definitions of key ratios 86 Note 21. Land and buildings 71 Note 22. Machinery and production equipment 71 Note 23. Equipment 72 Note 24. Finance leases 72 Note 25. Goodwill 72 Note 26. Other intangible assets 72 Note 27. Financial assets 73 Note 28. Shares in subsidiaries 73 Note 29. Financial instruments by category 74 All amounts in SEK millions unless specified otherwise. Figures in parentheses refer to the preceding year. The notes on pages 57 to 86 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. C A M F I L 2013 / 56 Notes to the Financial Statements Note 1. General information the hedged item is recognized in the balance sheet, the derivative is recognized in the balance sheet at fair value. Camfil manufactures and sells air filters through 38 companies and approximately 50 agents in some 50 countries. The Group has a total of 51 comShares and par t icipat ions in subsidiaries panies. Camfil also has a well-established sales network with approximately 100 distributors in mainly the United States and Canada. Shares and participations in subsidiaries are recognized at acquisition The Group has production facilities all over the world and sells mainly cost after deduction for any impairment. The acquisition cost includes products in Europe, North America and Asia. acquisition-related costs and any additional consideration that is transferred. The Parent Company is a limited liability company incorporated and Dividends received are recognized as financial income. If dividends exceed with registered office in Trosa, Sweden. The address of the head office is a subsidiary’s comprehensive income for the period, or result in the book Sveavägen 56 E, SE-111 34 Stockholm, Sweden. value of the holding’s net assets being less than the book value of the parThe Board of Directors approved the publication of this Annual Report ticipations in the consolidated financial statements, there is an indication for on March 25, 2014. a need for impairment. When there is an indication that shares and participations in subsidiaries Note 2. Accounting policies of the Parent Company have declined in value, the recoverable amount is assessed. If it is lower than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. The impairBelow is a description of the most significant accounting policies for the ment loss is recognized in the item “Result from participations in Group Parent Company that were applied in the preparation of this Annual Report. companies”. These principles have been consistently applied for all presented years, unless specified otherwise. Proper t y, plant and equipment The financial statements of the Parent Company have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and standFixed assets owned by the company ard “RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities” issued by the Swedish Financial In the Parent Company, property, plant and equipment is recognized at Reporting Board. In RFR 2, the Parent Company, in its financial statements acquisition cost after deduction for accumulated depreciation and any for the legal entity, shall apply all International Financial Reporting Standards impairment losses in the same way as for the Group but with the addition of (IFRS) and interpretations adopted by the EU to the greatest extent possible any revaluations. within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish law on safeguarding pension obligations (“Tryggandelagen”), taking into Fixed assets leased by the company account the relationship between accounting and taxation. The recommendaIn the Parent Company, all leasing contracts are recognized in accordance tion states the exceptions and supplementary accounting principles that are with the regulations for operating leases. to be applied from IFRS. The differences between the accounting policies of the Group and Parent Company are described below. Borrowing costs In the Parent Company, borrowing costs are charged against income for the Revenue recognit ion period they refer to. Sales of goods and provision of service assignments Employee benefits The Parent Company recognizes revenues from service assignments, when an assignment is completed, in accordance with Chapter 2, Paragraph 4 Defined benefit plans of the Swedish Annual Accounts. Until the assignment is completed, it is In the Parent Company, the calculation of defined benefit plans is based on reported as work on contract at the lower of acquisition cost and net sales other principles than those stated in IAS 19. The Parent Company follows cost on the balance sheet date. the regulations of the Swedish law on safeguarding pension obligations (“Tryggandelagen”) and the instructions of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Dividends Authority (“Finansinspektionen”) since such plans are a prerequisite for being entitled to tax deductions. The main differences, compared with the rules in Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is con­ IAS 19, is the way the discount rate is set; the calculation of the defined bensidered certain. efit obligation is based on the present salary level without assumptions for future salary raises, and that all actuarial gains and losses are recognized in Financial inst ruments the income statement as they arise. The Parent Company recognizes defined benefit pension plans in accordThe Parent Company does not apply the recognition regulations in IAS 39. ance with “FAR Red R4, Recommendation No. 4, Accounting of pension However, what is otherwise written about financial instruments also applies provisions and pension costs” issued by FAR, the institute for the accounting to the Parent Company. In the Parent Company, financial assets are recogprofession in Sweden. The Parent Company has undertaken defined benefit nized at cost less any impairment losses and financial current assets are obligations for salaried workers that are secured through insurance with recognized at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Collectum and are recognized as a defined contribution plan. Pension costs are charged against operating income. Derivat ives and hedge account ing Taxes Derivatives that are not used for hedging purposes are recognized in the Parent Company at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The recogniIn the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are recognized, including deferred tion of derivatives that are used for hedging depends on the hedged item, income tax liabilities. However, in the consolidated accounts, untaxed in which case the derivative is treated as an off-balance item as long as the reserves are divided into deferred income tax liabilities and equity. hedged item is not recognized in the balance sheet at acquisition cost. When C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 5 7 Notes to the Financial Statements Group cont ribut ions rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group contributions that the Parent Company has received from subsidiaries Group controls another entity. The Group also assesses existence of conare recognized as financial income. Tax on Group contributions is recognized trol where it does not have more than 50 percent of the voting power but in the income statement in accordance with IAS 12. Group contributions is able to govern the financial and operating policies by virtue of de-facto paid by the Parent Company to subsidiaries are recognized as a cost in the control. De-facto control may arise in circumstances where the size of the income statement. Tax on Group contributions is recognized in accordance Group’s voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other with IAS 12 in the income statement. shareholders give the Group the power to govern the financial and operating policies, etc. Financial risk management Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. A common financial risk management framework is used for all units in the The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business Group. The description in Note 4 is therefore also applicable in all essentials combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidito the Parent Company. ary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability Note 3. Accounting policies of the Group resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets Below is a description of the most significant accounting policies for the acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business Group that were applied in the preparation of this Annual Report. These policombination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. cies have been consistently applied for all presented years, unless specified The Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an otherwise. acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree’s 3.1 Basis of preparat ion identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date The consolidated financial statements of the Camfil AB Group have been fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is generally prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss. “RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Regulations for Groups”, International Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by ognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the the EU. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared by applyfair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or ing the cost method except for revaluations of financial assets and liabilities liability is recognized in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or (including derivative financial instruments) valued at fair value through profit as a change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that or loss. is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires accounted for within equity. the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the conto exercise its judgment in the process of applying the company’s accountsideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the ing policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consoliis lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the dated financial statements, are disclosed in Note 5. difference is recognized in profit or loss. Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on transac(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group tions between Group companies are eliminated. Profits and losses resulting Ska det vara ett extra No IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that became effective for the first time from inter-company transactions that are recognized in assets are also elimilitet s här? MJ for the financial year beginning on or after January 1, 2013 had a material nated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necesimpact on the Group with the exception of the amendment to IAS 19, which sary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. affected equity by SEK -28.8 M after tax. (b) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control (b) New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of confor the financial year beginning January 1, 2013 and not early adopted by trol are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as transactions with the Group. the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretaany consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value OBS tions are effective for annual periods beginning after January 1, 2013, and of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. ­d isposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. is eller are? None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. (c) Disposals of subsidiaries There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effecWhen the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity tive that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. The fair value is the 3.2 Consolidat ion initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addi(a) Subsidiaries tion, any amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. C A M F I L 2013 / 58 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.3 Segment repor t ing future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and mainOperating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal tenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operatwhich they are incurred. ing decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessDepreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the ing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as Group straight-line method over their estimated utilization period. The following Management, which makes strategic decisions. depreciation periods are applied: 3.4 Foreign currency t ranslat ion Buildings 25 years Land improvements As per local tax regulations (a) Functional and presentation currency Machinery and production equipment 8 years Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are Equipment 8 years både parentes measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which Computers 3 years och citat-tecken? the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial Fork-lift trucks and vehicles 4 years statements are presented in SEK, which is the Parent Company’s functional and presentation currency. Land is not depreciated. The residual value of assets and utilization period are tested for impair(b) Transactions and balances ment on each balance sheet date and adjusted if needed. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverusing the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or able amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated valuation where items are remeasured. Foreign exchange gains and losses recoverable amount. resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the translation Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated with the carrying amount, which are included in the income statement. in foreign currencies, are recognized in the income statement. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the translation of trade receivables Financial leases and trade payables are recognized in cost of goods sold, while the translaLeases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially tion effects of other financial assets and liabilities are recognized in financial all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. income and expenses, except when the transactions are deferred in equity Finance leases are capitalized at the lease’s inception at the lower of the as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges, in fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease which case the gains/losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges (c) Group companies so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding. The The results and financial position of all the Group’s entities (none of which corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy as its functional currency) “Other non-current liabilities”. The interest element of the finance cost is that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a translated into the presentation currency as follows: constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability • assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at for each period. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the • income and expenses for each income statement are translated at averlease term. age exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction 3.6 Intangible assets dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and Goodwill • all resulting exchange differences are recognized in other comprehensive Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair income. value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary/associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment net investment in foreign entities are taken to other comprehensive income. and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differon goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity ences that were recorded in equity are recognized in the income statement include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. as part of the gain or loss on sale. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairGoodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a ment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and groups of cash-generating units, in accordance with the Group’s operating translated at the closing rate. segments, which are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. 3.5 Proper t y, plant and equipment Acquired computer software Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and offices. Property, plant Standard computer software is normally expensed. Costs for software develand equipment are stated at acquisition cost less depreciation. The acquisioped by the company, or software that has been modified considerably for tion cost includes costs that can be directly attributable to the acquisition of the Group’s use, as well as standard software of major value, are capitalized the asset. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or and amortized over three years using the straight-line method. In the income recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that statement, depreciation of software is included in the item “Cost of goods C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 5 9 Notes to the Financial Statements sold”, or in “Selling costs” or “Administrative expenses”, depending on the nized in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognized when the application. Costs associated with maintaining software are recognized as rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been an expense as incurred. transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subseResearch and development work quently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables are carried at amortized Research expenditure is recognized as an expense as incurred. Costs cost using the effective interest method. incurred in development projects (relating to the design and testing of Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the “financial new or improved products) are recognized as intangible assets when it is assets at fair value through profit or loss” category are included in financial probable that the project will be a success considering its commercial and assets in the income statement in the period in which they arise. technological feasibility, and costs can be measured reliably. Other developThe Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objecment expenditures are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development tive evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. costs that have been recognized earlier as a cost are not recognized in the Impairment testing of trade receivables is described in section 3.11. following period. Development costs with a finite useful life that have been capitalized are amortized from the commencement of the commercial proImpairment of financial assets duction of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected Assets carried at amortized cost: benefit, not exceeding five years. The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is 3.7 Impairment of non-financial assets impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairNon-financial assets are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are ment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recsubject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or ognition of the asset (a “loss event”) and that loss event (or events) has an changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the financial assets that can be reliably estimated. asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in evidence of an impairment loss include: use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the • Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor; lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash• A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or generating units). principal payments; • The Group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s 3.8 Financial assets financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider; The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair • It becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other value through profit or loss, loans and trade receivables, and derivative financial reorganization; financial instruments used for hedging purposes. The classification depends • The disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management of financial difficulties; or determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and • Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the reviews its decision on each reporting occasion. estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss identified with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, including: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held (i) Adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the portfolio; for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired princiand pally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also cat(ii) National or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the egorized as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in assets in the portfolio. this category are classified as current assets and are included in derivative instruments (see Note 31). The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists. The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the Loans and receivables asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The asset’s carrying receivables are included in current assets, except maturities greater than amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognized in 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are classified as non-current the consolidated income statement. If a loan or held-to-maturity investment assets. The Group’s loans and receivables are classified as trade receivahas a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment bles (Note 32), non-current receivables (Note 27 and Note 34), and as cash loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract. As and cash equivalents in the balance sheet (Note 37). a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment on the basis of an instrument’s fair value using an observable market price. Recognition and measurement If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the trade date – and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial impairment was recognized (such as an improvement in the debtor’s credit instruments are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs for all rating), the reversal of the previously recognized impairment loss is recogfinancial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. nized in the consolidated income statement. Financial assets recognized at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognized at fair value, while related transaction costs are recogC A M F I L 2013 / 60 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.9 Derivat ive financial inst ruments and hedging When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer ­a ct ivit ies meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when the forecast Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the transaction is ultimately recognized in the income statement. When a foredate a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured cast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at their fair value. The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statedepends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, ment within “Cost of goods sold” (forward foreign exchange contracts) or and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain within “Financial items” (interest rate swaps). derivatives as either: Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting (a) hedges of the fair value of recognized liabilities (fair value hedge) or Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes (b) hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognized liability or a in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge). accounting are recognized immediately in the income statement within “Cost of goods sold” (forward foreign exchange contracts) or within “Financial The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship items” (interest rate swaps). between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The 3.10 Inventories Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transacInventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is tions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The cost of finished hedged items. goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labor, other The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging direct costs and related production overheads (based on normal operating purposes are disclosed in Note 31. Movements on the hedging reserve in capacity). It excludes borrowing costs. Net realizable value is the estimated shareholders’ equity are shown in Note 39. The full fair value of a hedging selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable sellderivative is classified as a current asset or long-term liability when the ing expenses. Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months; it is classigains/losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases of raw fied as a current asset or current liability when the remaining maturity of the materials. hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability. 3.11 Trade receivables Fair value hedge Trade receivables are classified as current assets if payment is anticipated Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as within one year or earlier, and as non-current assets when payment is anticifair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any pated after one year. changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable Trade receivables are recognized at fair value, less provision for to the hedged risk. impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item, for which the effective all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. Significant interest method is used, is amortized to profit or loss over the period to financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankmaturity. The Group only applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging ruptcy or financial reorganization, and default or delinquency in payments fixed interest risk on borrowings. The gain or loss relating to the effective (more than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivportion of interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognized in able is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the the income statement within “Financial expenses”. Changes in the fair value asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash of the hedge fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are recflows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount ognized in the income statement within “Financial expenses”. of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognized in the income statement within “Selling Cash flow hedge costs”. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are desallowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts ignated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognized in other comprehenpreviously written off are credited against “Selling costs” in the income sive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized statement. immediately in the income statement within “Cost of goods sold” (forward foreign exchange contracts) or within “Financial items” (interest rate swaps). 3.12 Cash and cash equivalents Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example, when Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The gain or loss relating to the banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is of three months or less from the date of the acquisition. recognized in the income statement within “Financial expenses”. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized in the income statement 3.13 Borrowings within “Financial expenses”. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized cost; any differtransferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost ence between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption of the asset or liability. value is recognized in the income statement over the period of the borrowC AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 6 1 Notes to the Financial Statements ings using the effective interest method. 3.15 Employee benefits Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognized as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all Pension obligations of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the Group companies operate various pension schemes. The schemes are gendraw-down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that erally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-adminsome or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalized as a preistered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The Group has payment for liquidity services and amortized over the period of the facility both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined contribution to which it relates. plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a Compound financial instruments issued by the Group comprise convertible separate legal entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to notes that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, and the pay further contributions if the legal entity does not hold sufficient assets number of shares to be issued does not vary with changes in their fair value. to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the curThe fair value of the liability portion of a convertible bond is determined rent and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond. This based on defined contributions. A defined benefit plan typically defines amount is recorded as a liability on an amortized cost basis until extinan amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, guished on conversion or maturity of the bonds. The remainder of the pro­usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and ceeds is allocated to the conversion option. This is recognized and included compensation. in shareholders’ equity, net of income tax effects. Subsequent to initial The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit recognition, the liability component of a compound financial instrument is pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. The equity ­balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit component of a compound financial instrument is not re-measured subseobligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projectquent to initial recognition except on conversion or expiry. ed unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in after the balance sheet date. which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. 3.14 Current and deferred income t ax Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to Past service costs are recognized immediately in income, unless the items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in case, the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or equity, service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the respectively. past service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws period. enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly where the company’s subsidiaries and associates operate and generate or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contaxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax tractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subonce the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognized ject to interpretation and establishes provisions, where appropriate, on the as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on all future payments is available to the Group. temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Other post-employment benefits However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial Some Group companies (mainly in Italy) provide a type of severance pay recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business when an employee leaves or retires from the company. The right to these combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting benefits is usually based on the employee receiving a certain percentage of nor taxable profit nor loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax his or her annual salary for work at the company, when the employee leaves rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the the company. The compensation is based on the employee’s salary on the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred date employment is terminated. The anticipated cost of these benefits is income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. allocated over the employment period using an accounting method that is Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probsimilar to the method used for defined benefit pension plans. These obligaable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary tions are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries. differences can be utilized. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Termination benefits investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognizes terminaDeferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a tion benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan withliabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate out possibility of withdrawal; or providing termination benefits as a result of to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their balances on a net basis. present value. C A M F I L 2013 / 62 Notes to the Financial Statements Bonus plans 3.19 Ser vice assignments/cont ract ing projects The Group recognizes a liability and an expense for bonuses, based on a formula that takes into consideration the bonus-generating parameters estabFor completed service assignments and contracting projects, the income lished for the bonus. The Group recognizes a provision where contractually and expenses related to the assignment/project are recognized as revenue obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive and costs, respectively, in relation to the degree of completion on the balobligation. ance sheet date (gradual revenue recognition). The degree of completion is determined by comparing incurred costs on the balance sheet date with the 3.16 Trade payables estimated total expense of the assignment/project. When the outcome of a service assignment or contracting project cannot be estimated in a reliable Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measway, the revenue is recognized only to the extent that it is corresponded ured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. to by incurred costs that will most likely be paid for by the customer. Any Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due anticipated losses on an assignment/project are immediately recognized within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. as costs. 3.17 Provisions 3.20 Operat ing leases Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. Restructuring straight-line basis over the period of the lease. provisions comprise mainly employee termination payments. Provisions for future warranty demands are based on historical information about the 3.21 Dividend dis t ribut ion guarantee demand and current trends that may indicate that future demands may deviate from the historical. Provisions are not recognized for future Dividend distribution to the Parent Company’s shareholders is recognized operating losses. as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures dividends are approved by the Parent Company’s shareholders. expected to be required to settle the obligation. 3.22 Share capital 3.18 Revenue recognit ion Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and Note 4. Financial risk management discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. The Group recognizes revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the 4.1 Financial risk factors entity and specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. The amount of revenue is not considered to be reliably The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk measurable until all contingencies relating to the sale have been resolved. (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow risk and price The Group bases its estimates on historical results, taking into considerarisk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management tion the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to arrangement. minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward foreign Sales of goods exchange contracts and interest rate swaps, to hedge some financial risk The Group manufactures and sells a range of air filtration solutions. Sales exposure. of goods are recognized when a Group entity has delivered products to the Risk management is carried out by a central finance department, the customer. Delivery does not occur until the products have been shipped to Treasury Center, under policies approved by the board of directors, in order the specified location, the risks of obsolescence and loss have been transto take advantage of economies of scale and synergy effects, and to miniferred to the customer, and either the customer has accepted the products mize management risks. The Treasury Center is responsible for the Group’s in accordance with the sales contract, the acceptance provisions have loan financing, foreign exchange and interest risk management, and funclapsed, or the Group has objective evidence that all criteria for acceptance tions as an internal bank for the financial transactions of Group companies. have been satisfied. The Treasury Center identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in The principle for revenue recognition for work in progress is found under close co-operation with the Group’s operating units. The board prepares the heading “Service assignments/contracting projects”. written policies for overall risk management and for specific areas, such Other revenue is recognized as follows: as foreign exchange risks, interest rate risks, credit risks, use of derivative • Rental income is recognized during the period the rental refers to. instruments and investment of excess liquidity. The Group’s financial risks • Royalties and similar income are recognized in accordance with the are analyzed on a continuous basis and followed up to ensure than the ­economic significance of the current agreement. finance policy is being followed. The policy is subject to continuous review, • Dividend income: when the right to receive payment is established as at least once per year. certain. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 6 3 Notes to the Financial Statements Market risk borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates. Generally, the Group raises Foreign exchange risk long-term borrowings at floating rates and swaps them into fixed rates that The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks are lower than those available if the Group borrowed at fixed rates directly. in purchases and sales, and in financial transactions in foreign currency. The Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to currency exposure is primarily against the euro and the U.S. dollar. Foreign exchange, at specified intervals (mainly quarterly), the difference between exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by referassets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. ence to the agreed notional principal amounts. Management has set up a policy to require Group companies to manGiven the same loan liability, cash and cash equivalents, interest rate age their foreign exchange risk against their functional currency. The Group derivative and the same fixed interest periods and terms at year-end, a companies are required to hedge their entire foreign exchange risk exposure change in the market interest rate by 100 points (1 percentage unit), instead with the Treasury Center. To manage their foreign exchange risk arising of using contracted interest rates, would change post-tax profit by SEK 0.6 M from future commercial transactions and recognized assets and liabilities, (4.7) over the average fixed interest period, and interest income/expenses entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with the Treasury by SEK 0.8 M (6.4). This would have been an effect mainly of higher/lower Center. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or interest expenses for borrowing at a variable rate. recognized assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the Equity would have been SEK 2.8 M (6.1) lower/higher as an effect of a entity’s functional currency. reduction/increase in the fair value of interest rate swaps used as cash flow The Treasury Center is responsible for hedging net positions in each hedges. currency by using loans in foreign currency and external forward exchange contracts. The Group hedges between 65 percent and 95 percent of the Credit risk anticipated net flow in each major currency for the next six-month period Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial and between 45 percent and 75 percent for the subsequent seven to 12 instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as months. External foreign exchange contracts are designated at Group level credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and comas hedges of foreign exchange risk on specific assets, liabilities or future mitted transactions. The Group has no significant concentrations of credit transactions on a gross basis. risks. The Group has policies in place to ensure that sales of products and The Parent Company has a number of holdings in foreign subsidiaries services are made to customers with appropriate credit history and has the with net assets that are exposed to currency translation risks. Currency necessary provisions for uncertain receivables. Historically, the Group has exposure in the net assets of subsidiaries is not hedged. had very low bad credit losses (Note 30). At December 31, 2013, if the Swedish krona (SEK) had weakened/ Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to highstrengthened by 10 percent against the U.S. dollar (USD) with all other varicredit-quality financial institutions. The greater part of the Group’s financial ables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been SEK 0.8 M assets and cash and cash equivalents are placed with the following banks: (2.8) higher/lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains/losses on SEB, Danske Bank, DnB and HSBC. The credit ratings for these banks, translation of trade receivables (both external and internal) and internal loans according to Standard & Poor’s, are A+ for SEB, DnB and Danske Bank, and in USD, in which USD is not the functional currency of the subsidiary, and Afor HSBC. external loans and derivatives in USD. Equity would have been SEK 0.6 M (3.1) lower/higher, arising mainly from changes in value attributable to cash Liquidity risk flow hedges. Liquidity risks are basically managed with caution by maintaining sufficient At December 31, 2013, if the Swedish krona had weakened/strengthliquid funds and marketable securities, keeping available financing through ened by 10 percent against the euro (EUR) with all other variables held conadequate contracted credit facilities and having the possibility to close marstant, post-tax profit for the year would have been SEK 0.4 M (3.4) higher/ ket positions. Due to the dynamic nature of its underlying businesses, the lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains/losses on translation of Group aims to have liquid funds and available credits that can amount to at trade receivables and trade payables (both external and internal) in which least 10 percent of budgeted/forecast sales. The Treasury Center monitors EUR is not the functional currency for the subsidiary, and external loans and rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufderivatives in EUR. Equity would have been SEK 0.2 M (3.3) lower/higher, ficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom arising mainly from changes in value attributable to cash flow hedges. on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities (Note 42) at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants (where applicable) Interest rate risk on any of its borrowing facilities. The return on cash and cash equivalents is affected by changes in market The table below analyzes the Group’s financial liabilities and net-settled interest rates. Since the Group basically has no significant interest-bearing derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the assets, the Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially inderemaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The pendent of changes in market interest rates. amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. based on the balance sheet date for each individual loan, excluding interest Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest payments. In the balance sheet, these are classified as non-current liabilities rate risk, which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates. Borrowings with the exception of SEK 127.7 M. Of this amount, SEK 120 M refers to issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. The liabilities that the Parent Company is to amortize during 2014 in accordance Group’s principle is to have a fixed interest rate term of between 0 and 3.5 with the credit facility agreement. Other loans will be extended on their years. During the year the average fixed interest rate term was 21 months maturity dates in accordance with the facility agreement. The Group has (23). The calculation of the average fixed interest rate term includes the long-term credit facilities that are utilized for borrowings. These borrowings effects of interest derivative instruments used to manage the interest rate are usually short-term (three months). Interest rate swaps are used to conrisk in the loan portfolio. vert short-term fixed interest rates on borrowings (floating interest rates) to The Group manages its cash flow interest-rate risk by using interest-rate fixed rates with longer terms. swaps. Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting C A M F I L 2013 / 64 Notes to the Financial Statements Less Between Between Over 5 Price risk than 3 months 1 and 5 years Price risk refers to the risk that costs for direct and indirect materials rise At December 31, 2013 3 months and 1 year years when underlying raw material prices increase in the world market. The Group is affected by changes in raw material and energy prices in connection with Liabilities to credit institutions 1,208.2 23.7 66.3 162.2 delivery agreements the Group has entered into, in which prices are linked Convertible debenture loan – – 185.8 – to raw material prices in the global market. Raw material price risks are manDerivative financial instruments 6.3 8.4 39.2 4.0 aged mainly through agreements with suppliers. Trade payables/bills payable 282.3 4.3 1.0 0.0 4.2 Capital risk management Total 1,496.8 36.4 292.3 166.2 The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s Less Between Between Over 5 ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for sharethan 3 months 1 and 5 years holders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal At December 31, 2012 3 months and 1 year years capital structure. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust Liabilities to credit institutions 1,269.9 38.9 125.0 – the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, Convertible debenture loan – – 185.8 – issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Derivative financial instruments 1.8 3.4 70.9 6.4 Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the Trade payables/bills payable 295.6 1.3 0.3 – basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (Note 42) less cash and Total 1,567.3 43.6 382.0 6.4 cash equivalents and other interest-bearing assets. The gearing ratios at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows: The table below analyzes the Group’s derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on 2013 2012 the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. Interest-bearing liabilities 1,777.1 1,768.0 The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash Less: cash and cash equivalents -651.0 -405.9 flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their gross carrying balances as Less: other interest-bearing assets -33.5 -32.1 the impact of discounting is not significant. Net debt 1,092.6 1,330.0 Less than Between Between Total capital 1,393.9 1,130.1 3 months 3 months 1 and Gearing ratio 0.78 1.18 At December 31, 2013 and 1 year 5 years Forward foreign exchange During the year the Group had a stable cash flow. Net debt was reduced by ­contracts – cash flow hedges SEK 237.4 M, compared with the preceding year, primarily due to a SEK 245 M – outflow -102.3 -292.6 – increase in cash and cash equivalents, which reduced the Group’s gearing ratio, compared with 2012. – inflow 35.2 51.9 – The requirements from the Group’s principal banks regarding the Forward foreign exchange ­interest-coverage ratio and gearing ratio were fulfilled at December 31, ­contracts – held for trading 2013. – outflow – -51.3 – – inflow – 150.0 – 4.3 Fair value est imat ion Total -67.1 -142.0 – The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. Less than Between Between The different levels have been defined as follows: 3 months 3 months 1 and • Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or At December 31, 2012 and 1 year 5 years liabilities (level 1). • Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are Forward foreign exchange ­observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or ­contracts – cash flow hedges indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2). – outflow -138.5 -193.6 – • Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market – inflow 101.3 66.2 0.1 data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). Forward foreign exchange ­contracts – held for trading The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value at December 31, 2013. – outflow -85.9 – – – inflow – – – Total -123.1 -127.4 0.1 One interest rate swap in the nominal amount of SEK 50 M is due in March 2019. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 6 5 Notes to the Financial Statements Note that all of the resulting fair value estimates are included in level 2. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as Assets publicly traded derivatives) is based on quoted market prices at the balance Financial assets at fair value sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the through profit or loss: Group is the current bid price. Trading derivatives – 6.0 – 6.0 The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward foreign exchange Derivatives used for hedging – 21.0 – 21.0 contracts is determined using quoted foreign exchange rates at the balance Total assets – 27.0 – 27.0 sheet date. The recognized value for trade receivables and trade payables, after any impairment losses, is anticipated to correspond to their fair values since Liabilities these items are current by nature. The fair value of financial liabilities for Financial liabilities at fair value disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash through profit or loss flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for Trading derivatives – – – – similar financial instruments. Derivatives used for hedging – 57.9 – 57.9 4.4 O f fset t ing financial assets and financial liabilit ies Total liabilities – 57.9 – 57.9 The Group has no enforceable master netting arrangements for offsetting The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that were financial assets and liabilities with lenders. measured at fair value at December 31, 2012. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Note 5. Critical judgments in applying the entity’s accounting Assets policies Financial assets at fair value The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The through profit or loss: resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related Trading derivatives – 0.4 – 0.4 actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of Derivatives used for hedging – 24.3 – 24.3 causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabiliTotal assets – 24.7 – 24.7 ties within the next financial year are summarized and specified below. Estimated impairment of goodwill Liabilities The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in Financial liabilities at fair value accordance with the accounting policy stated in Note 3.6. The recoverable through profit or loss amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-inuse calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates (Note 25). Trading derivatives – 0.0 – 0.0 A sensitivity analysis indicates that there would be no need for reducDerivatives used for hedging – 82.5 – 82.5 ing the carrying amount of goodwill if the estimated pre-tax discount rate Total liabilities – 82.5 – 82.5 applied to the discounted cash flows had been 10.0 percent higher than management’s estimates, or if the gross margin had been 2 percentage points The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on lower than management’s estimates. quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. A market is regarded as If the actual gross margin had been higher or the pre-tax discounted active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, rate lower than management’s estimates, the Group would not be able to dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and reverse any impairment losses that arose on goodwill. those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s length basis. Income taxes The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximize the use of taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Where on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable mardeferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. ket data, the instrument is included in level 3. Specific valuation techniques There were no current tax audit issues in the Group on December 31, 2013. used to value financial instruments include: • Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments. Pension benefits • The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves. that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. • The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting include the discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the value discounted back to present value. carrying amount of pension obligations. • Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. C A M F I L 2013 / 66 Notes to the Financial Statements The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. operating segments conducted within the Group which cannot be classified This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value as Filters or Power Systems. A number of legal units conduct activities that of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the are reported to Group Management within different segments. pension obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group The amounts provided to Group Management with respect to total considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denomiassets are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statenated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms ments. These assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment. to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on intangible assets, inventories and receivables. Investment in shares (clas­current market conditions. Additional information is disclosed in Note 43. sified as available-for-sale financial assets or financial assets at fair value If the discount rate would increase/decrease 0.5 percentage points from through profit or loss) held by the Group are not considered to be segment management’s estimates, the carrying amount of pension obligations would assets but are managed instead by the Treasury function, as well as derivabe an estimated SEK 16 M lower or SEK 18 M higher. tive financial instruments and cash and cash equivalents that are not allocated in any particular way. In internal reporting, financial liabilities and operating liabilities are not Note 6. Financial summary by segment allocated to any particular operating segment. Group Management has determined the operating segments based on the Investments comprise additions to property, plant and equipment and reports reviewed by Group Management that are used to make strategic intangible assets, including additions resulting from acquisitions through decisions. Operations are followed up mainly on the basis of operating segbusiness combinations. ments. The Group’s operations are conducted primarily in three operating Transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and segments: Filters, Power Systems and Other areas. Other areas include conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties. Financial Year 2013 Filters Power Other Holding Elimination Group Systems areas company Revenues External sales 3,604.5 851.6 449.8 0.0 – 4,905.9 Internal sales 29.7 11.2 21.0 649.1 -711.0 – Total revenues 3,634.2 862.8 470.8 649.1 -711.0 4,905.9 Operating profit per segment 502.3 80.5 27.0 -75.3 – 534.5 Other information Operating assets 1,603.4 906.0 199.0 90.5 – 2,798.9 Investments in property, plant, -87.1 -9.0 -40.2 -34.6 -6.7 -177.6 equipment and intangible assets Depreciation -98.3 -11.2 -12.7 -12.0 -5.8 -140.0 Financial Year 2012 Filters Power Other Holding Elimination Group Systems areas company Revenues External sales 3,533.8 890.8 440.7 0.0 – 4,865.3 Internal sales 34.9 6.7 61.0 636.9 -739.5 – Total revenues 3,568.7 897.5 501.7 636.9 -739.5 4,865.3 Operating profit per segment 496.7 50.3 41.2 -82.8 – 505.4 Other information Operating assets 1,586.2 901.3 196.8 67.0 – 2,751.3 Investments in property, plant, -89.0 -29.4 -40.0 -30.1 -8.1 -196.6 equipment and intangible assets Depreciation -102.0 -10.2 -7.9 -9.8 -7.6 -137.5 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 6 7 Notes to the Financial Statements A reconciliation of operating profit to profit before tax is provided as follows: Note 7. Expenses by nature 2013 2012 Group Parent Company Operating profit for reportable segments 534.5 505.4 2013 2012 2013 2012 Unallocated: Depreciation and amortization 140.0 137.6 8.7 5.8 Adjusted for IFRS 10.5 2.4 charges (Note 10) Intra-Group profit, inventories 2.2 -4.8 Employee benefit expense 1,522.3 1,482.5 114.5 102.1 (Note 9) Capital gain on sale of business unit – 76.1 Raw materials and consumables 1,451.4 1,493.7 – – Restructuring costs -14.7 -21.0 used Financial items, net -73.5 -91.7 Raw materials and machinery for – – 543.0 545.2 Other -16.4 2.6 sale to subsidiaries Profit before tax 442.6 469.0 Other expenses 1,276.1 1,266.9 100.1 93.9 Total costs of goods sold, 4,389.8 4,380.7 766.3 747.0 distribution costs and The operating assets of reportable segments are reconciled to total assets administrative expenses as follows: 2013 2012 Note 8. Compensation paid to auditors Operating assets for reportable segments 2,798.9 2,751.3 Unallocated: Fees and compensation for costs Group Parent Company Goodwill 857.9 879.8 2013 2012 2013 2012 Surplus value of buildings 31.9 32.3 PwC Intra-Group profit, inventories -38.5 -40.7 Auditing assignments 5.1 4.8 0.7 0.7 Adjusted for IFRS 14.0 22.1 Other auditing work 0.1 0.6 – – Income tax assets 34.8 30.4 Tax consultancy 2.5 2.2 – – Unallocated cash and cash equivalents 609.2 357.7 Other services 1.0 1.1 0.3 0.3 Other unallocated current receivables 112.7 93.8 Grant Thornton Financial assets 102.3 105.3 Auditing assignments 1.4 1.4 – – Total assets per the balance sheet 4,523.2 4,232.0 Other auditing work 0.0 – – – Tax consultancy 0.0 – – – Other services 0.2 – – – Based on where customers are located, net sales are distributed by Other auditors ­geographical segments as follows: Auditing assignments 0.1 0.2 – – Group 2013 2012 Tax consultancy 0.2 – – – Europe 2,278.0 2,754.6 Other services 0.1 0.2 – – North America 1,370.9 1,356.5 Total 10.7 10.5 1.0 1.0 Asia 615.1 478.3 Other markets 641.9 275.9 Note 9. Employee remuneration Total net sales 4,905.9 4,865.3 Wages, salaries and other remuneration, and social security contributions: The company is domiciled in Sweden. The result of its revenues from external customers in Sweden was SEK 376.7 M (389.0) and the total revenue 2013 2012 from external customers from other countries was SEK 4,529.1 M (4,476.3). Parent Company: The breakdown of revenue per country is disclosed in the table above. The Wages and salaries 76.3 68.6 Group does not have sales to any individual customer exceeding 10 percent Social security contributions 25.8 23.3 of Group sales. Pension costs – defined contribution plans 12.4 10.2 The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets (there are no employment benefit assets and rights arisTotal in Parent Company 114.5 102.1 ing under insurance contracts) located in Sweden was SEK 396.7 M (371.3) and the total of these non-current assets located in other countries was Group: SEK 1,306.5 M (1,324.6). Wages and salaries 1,184.1 1,157.2 Social security contributions 259.2 242.1 Pension costs – defined contribution plans 65.8 65.3 Pension costs – defined benefit plans 13.2 17.9 (Note 43) Total in Group 1,522.3 1,482.5 C A M F I L 2013 / 68 Notes to the Financial Statements 2013 2012 Wages, salaries Social security Pension Wages, salaries Social security Pension and other contributions costs and other contributions costs remuneration (excl. pensions) remuneration (excl. pensions) Parent Company: Board members, managing directors and 29.1 9.8 6.6 21.3 7.3 4.0 other key management members Other employees 47.2 16.0 5.8 47.3 16.0 6.2 Total in Parent Company 76.3 25.8 12.4 68.6 23.3 10.2 Group: Board members, managing directors and 134.5 21.5 15.4 123.9 18.6 12.4 other key management members Other employees 1,049.6 237.7 63.6 1,033.3 223.5 70.8 Total in Group 1,184.1 259.2 79.0 1,157.2 242.1 83.2 The average number of employees in the Parent Company and Group: Note 10. Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2013 2012 In the Group, impairment charges totaling SEK 84.1 M (84.3) are included Average Of Average Of in cost of goods sold and SEK 55.9 M (53.3) in administrative expenses. number of which number of which In the Parent Company, impairment charges amounting to SEK 3.3 M (3.9) employees men employees men are included in costs of goods sold and SEK 8.7 M (5.9) in administrative France 4 50% 4 50% expenses. Malaysia 11 64% 8 63% United Kingdom 2 100% 2 100% Note 11. Research and development costs United States 0 0% 1 100% Research and development costs for the year totaled SEK 61.6 M (55.4) Ireland 1 100% 0 0% in the Group and SEK 38.3 M (34.3) in the Parent Company. In the income Belgium 1 100% 0 0% statements, research and development costs are included in the item “Administrative expenses”. Germany 1 100% 1 0% Sweden 76 71% 71 69% Note 12. Operating leases Total in Parent 96 71% 87 68% Company Leasing fees paid in 2013 for operating leases totaled SEK 61.7 M (54.1) in the Group and SEK 4.7 M (4.2) in the Parent Company. Other subsidiaries 3,411 65% 3,341 64% The Group’s operating leases consist mostly of leases for premises, vehicles and office equipment. The nominal value of the Group’s contracted Total in Group 3,507 65% 3,428 64% future leasing fees, related to agreements with a remaining term exceeding one year, was as follows: Gender distribution in the Group for board members and other key manageGroup Parent Company ment members: 2013 2012 2013 2012 Group Due for payment within one year 52.3 48.1 4.7 4.5 2013 2012 Due for payment later than one Number at Of which Number at Of which year but within five years 119.6 123.4 24.5 22.7 balance men balance men Due for payment later than sheet date sheet date five years 13.5 12.1 – – Board members 1) 150 93% 162 90% Total 185.4 183.6 29.2 27.2 Managing directors 59 92% 58 93% and other key management members Total 209 92% 220 91% 1) One person can serve on the boards of several companies and may be included several times in the number of board members. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 6 9 Notes to the Financial Statements Note 13. Financial income/Interest income and similar items Deferred tax (Note 33) Origination and reversal of Group Parent Company temporary differences 4.4 1.9 – – 2013 2012 2013 2012 Tax on hedging reserve Interest income on cash and charged to equity 4.6 0.9 4.7 1.4 cash equivalents 4.0 4.3 3.2 3.1 Tax on defined benefit pension Interest income from Group plan charged to equity 0.9 0.0 – – subsidiaries – – 49.9 53.7 Impact of change in tax rates -0.1 0.5 – – Exchange rate differences 85.6 44.2 63.4 30.3 Return on pension assets (Note 43) 6.8 6.9 – – Total 9.8 3.3 4.7 1.4 Other financial income 3.9 1.6 – – Total reported tax charge -110.2 -128.1 -11.4 -8.3 Total 100.3 57.0 116.5 87.1 Difference between the Parent Company’s tax charge and the tax charge based on nominal tax rates: Note 14. Financial costs/Interest expenses and similar items G roup Parent Company Parent Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Profit before tax 152.0 392.0 Interest expenses – borrowings 76.3 90.6 73.0 87.7 Interested expenses – defined Tax based on the current rate for the Parent Company -33.4 -103.1 benefit pension liability (Note 43) 10.1 10.3 – – 22.0% 26.3% Interest expenses Tax effects of: – Group companies – – 1.2 3.6 – Income not subject to tax 39.2 101.0 Exchange differences 85.8 47.1 59.2 31.8 – Expenses not deductible for tax purposes -21.0 -0.6 Other financial costs 1.6 0.7 – – – Tax on hedging reserved charged to equity 4.7 -1.1 – Remeasurement of deferred tax – change in tax rates – 2.5 Total 173.8 148.7 133.4 123.1 – Withholding tax on dividends -1.3 -6.8 – Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 -0.2 Note 15. Result from participations in Group companies Tax charge for Parent Company -11.4 -8.3 Parent Company 7.5% 2.1% 2013 2012 The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount Write-downs of shares in Group companies -87.4 – that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to profits of Group contributions 79.4 46.9 the consolidated entities as follows: Dividends from subsidiaries 178.0 384.2 Group 2013 2012 Profit before tax 442.6 469.0 Total 170.0 431.1 Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries -120.6 -127.7 Note 16. Appropriations 27.2% 27.2% Tax effects of: Parent Company – Income not subject to tax 0.8 6.3 2013 2012 – Expenses not deductible for tax purposes -16.7 -10.7 Straight-line depreciation in excess of cost 6.0 -0.9 – Utilization of previously unrecognized tax losses Tax allocation reserve -2.0 2.5 and tax losses for which no deferred income tax Inventory reserve -0.6 0.1 asset was recognized and unrecognized tax Total 3.4 1.7 revenues and costs 14.9 9.6 – Remeasurement of deferred tax – change in tax rates 0.4 1.8 – Withholding tax on dividends 8.9 -9.2 Note 17. Income tax/Tax on profit for the year – Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.1 1.8 G roup Parent Company Tax charge -110.2 -128.1 2013 2012 2013 2012 24.9% 27.3% Current tax Current tax on profit for the year -119.6 -133.2 -16.5 -9.7 The weighted average applicable tax rate was 24.9% (27.3) in the Group and Adjustments in respect of 7.5% (2.1) in the Parent Company. During the year, the U.S. tax authority prior years -0.4 1.8 0.4 – repaid the Group SEK 10.2 M in previously paid withholding tax on dividends Total -120.0 -131.4 -16.1 -9.7 from the subsidiary in the United States. Adjusted for the withholding tax, the weighted average applicable tax rate was 27.2%. This repayment of withholding tax, together with changes in the taxation and profitability of the Group’s subsidiaries in different countries, as well as a reduction of the Swedish corporation tax rate from 26.3% to 22.0%, the Group’s tax rate, after eliminating the received payment of withholding tax, was 0.3% lower than in the previous year, despite the capital gain on the divestment of the Railroad business unit last year being taxed at a rate lower than the normal corporation tax rate. C A M F I L 2013 / 70 Notes to the Financial Statements The Parent Company received large tax-free dividends in 2013 that contribNote 21. Land and buildings uted to the reduction in the tax rate. The Group’s tax expenses were also G roup Parent Company charged with withholding tax of SEK -1.3 M (-9.2) on dividends received from 2013 2012 2013 2012 China. Withholding tax in the Parent Company totaled SEK 1.3 M (-6.7). Acquisition value at January 1 669.2 672.4 11.3 10.3 Tax on Group contributions is recognized in accordance with IAS 12 in Reclassifications 0.3 7.2 – – the income statement, where the net of received and paid Group contribuInvestments for the year 21.6 14.0 0.2 1.0 tions is included in the result from participations in Group companies. Group Sales and disposals for the year -1.9 -4.6 – – contributions are thus included in the company’s profit before income tax. Translation difference 3.2 -19.8 – – The income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income, which is charged to equity, is as follows: Acquisition value at G roup Parent Company December 31 692.4 669.2 11.5 11.3 2013 2012 2013 2012 Fair value reserves in Straight-line depreciation shareholders' equity at January 1 -314.8 -301.3 -0.5 0.0 – Hedging reserve -4.6 -0.9 -4.7 -1.4 Reclassifications – -4.1 -0.1 – Sales and disposals for the year 1.9 4.3 – – Total -4.6 -0.9 -4.7 -1.4 Straight-line depreciation for the year (Note 10) -22.5 -23.1 -0.6 -0.5 Note 18. Net foreign exchange gains/losses Translation difference -4.3 9.4 – – Straight-line depreciation The exchange rate differences charged to the income statement were as at December 31 -339.7 -314.8 -1.2 -0.5 follows: Construction in progress Group Parent Company at January 1 2.7 6.5 – – 2013 2012 2013 2012 Construction in progress 10.6 -3.7 – – Cost of goods sold -4.7 -4.0 – – Translation difference -0.1 -0.1 – – Other operating income – – 6.5 12.4 Construction in progress Other operating expenses – – -9.4 -16.3 at December 31 13.2 2.7 – – Financial income 85.6 44.2 63.4 30.3 Financial expenses -85.8 -47.1 -59.2 -31.8 Planned residual value at December 31 365.9 357.1 10.3 10.8 Total -4.9 -6.9 1.3 -5.4 Of which book value of: Note 19. Earnings per share Owned buildings and land 356.2 351.8 – – Building improvements to Group leased property 9.7 5.3 10.3 10.8 2013 2012 Book value of buildings Profit attributable to owners of and land 365.9 357.1 10.3 10.8 the Parent Company 332.4 340.9 earnings per share 332.4 340.9 No bank loans were secured by buildings and land (Note 41). Interest expense on convertible debentures 4.8 6.6 Tax attributable to the above items -1.1 -1.7 Note 22. Machinery and production equipment Profit used to determine diluted Group Parent Company earnings per share 336.1 345.8 2013 2012 2013 2012 Acquisition value at January 1 659.5 662.5 28.4 26.2 Average number of shares before dilution 8,000,000 8,000,000 Reclassifications 2.1 -7.9 1.9 – Assumed conversion of convertible debentures 460,000 460,000 Investments for the year 82.9 87.7 5.2 2.2 Average number of shares after dilution 8,460,000 8,460,000 Sales and disposals for the year -31.4 -64.4 – – Translation difference 0.6 -18.4 – – Basic earnings per share (SEK) 41.55 42.62 Acquisition value at Diluted earnings per share (SEK) 39.73 40.87 December 31 713.7 659.5 35.5 28.4 The convertible debenture loan program carries rights to convert a total of Straight-line depreciation at 460,000 shares on April 30, 2016. January 1 -392.9 -396.4 -13.2 -9.2 Reclassifications -0.3 4.5 – – Sales and disposals for the year 28.4 58.6 – – Note 20. Dividend per share Straight-line depreciation for the A dividend of SEK 7.50 per A share and B share, amounting to a total of year (Note 10) -68.9 -68.7 -3.3 -4.0 SEK 60 M, has been proposed for 2013. These financial statements do not Translation difference -1.6 9.1 – – reflect the dividend payable. Dividends paid in 2012 and 2011 amounted to Straight-line depreciation SEK 50.0 M and SEK 40.0 M, respectively, corresponding to a dividend of at December 31 -435.3 -392.9 -16.5 -13.2 SEK 6.25 for 2012 and SEK 5.00 for 2011. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 7 1 Notes to the Financial Statements Machinery construction in progress at January 1 46.0 22.2 – – The value of future payment obligations related to finance leases is reported Machinery construction in progress 8.5 25.3 – – partly as a non-current liability and partly as a current liability, as follows: Translation difference -0.5 -1.5 – – Machinery construction in Liability 2013 2012 progress at December 31 54.0 46.0 – – Short-term portion 4.0 3.6 Planned residual value at Long-term portion December 31 332.4 312.6 19.0 15.2 Due for payment later than one year but within five years 12.3 12.5 Total liability recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position 16.3 16.1 Note 23. Equipment G roup Parent Company There are no payment obligations due later than five years from the balance 2013 2012 2013 2012 sheet date. The majority of the finance leases are attributable to the financAcquisition value at January 1 256.9 259.5 37.1 27.5 ing of vehicles in the Group. No new significant finance leases were signed Reclassifications -5.3 -8.9 -1.9 – in 2013. Investments for the year 31.5 40.8 3.0 10.2 Sales and disposals for the year -20.9 -28.5 -5.5 -0.6 Note 25. Goodwill Translation difference -3.0 -6.0 – – Acquisition value at Group December 31 259.2 256.9 32.7 37.1 2013 2012 Residual value before impairment charge at January 1 991.6 1,022.2 Straight-line depreciation Translation difference -21.9 -30.6 at January 1 -163.6 -165.9 -18.3 -14.6 Residual value before impairment charge Reclassifications 3.0 8.8 – – at December 31 969.7 991.6 Sales and disposals for the year 18.9 23.9 4.9 0.6 Straight-line depreciation for Impairment charge at January 1/December 31 -111.8 -111.8 the year (Note 10) -34.1 -34.3 -4.2 -4.3 Planned residual value at December 31 857.9 879.8 Translation difference 4.5 3.9 – – Straight-line depreciation The lowest cash-generating unit (CGU) has been identified as a geographic at December 31 -171.3 -163.6 -17.6 -18.3 region with the exception of Power Systems, which is an integrated unit that Value of remeasurement often has projects involving several geographic regions. Power Systems has at January 1 -0.1 -0.1 – – units in Sweden, Germany, Canada, India and China. Impairment charge for the year – 0.0 – – Value of remeasurement Impairment tests for goodwill at December 31 -0.1 -0.1 – – Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s CGUs. Planned residual value at A summary of the goodwill allocation per country/business unit is presented December 31 87.8 93.2 15.1 18.8 below: Straight-line depreciation in 2013 2012 excess of cost at January 1 – – -8.6 -9.5 North America 555.3 571.7 Straight-line depreciation in Nordic countries 183.5 186.8 excess of cost for the year – – -6.0 0.9 Power Systems 57.7 57.1 Continental Europe 14.3 13.9 Straight-line depreciation in British Isles 7.9 7.8 excess of cost at December 31 – – -14.6 -8.6 Asia 39.2 42.5 Residual value in excess of Total 857.9 879.8 planned at December 31 87.8 93.2 0.5 10.2 The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined on the basis of value-in-use Note 24. Finance leases calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management and covering the next year. The Group’s property, plant and equipment include leased equipment that is held under finance leases as follows: Note 26. Other intangible assets Acquisition Accumulated G roup Parent Company value depreciation 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Acquisition value at January 1 103.9 63.7 11.9 11.0 Machinery and production Investments for the year 22.5 32.5 15.8 1.7 equipment 2.6 3.2 2.3 3.1 Sales for the year -5.9 -2.9 -0.7 -0.8 Equipment 25.3 24.1 11.2 10.8 Translation difference 4.2 10.6 – Total 27.9 27.3 13.5 13.9 Acquisition value at December 31 124.7 103.9 27.0 11.9 C A M F I L 2013 / 72 Notes to the Financial Statements Straight-line depreciation The carrying amounts and fair values of certain receivables were as follows: at January 1 -50.7 -28.7 -5.1 -4.1 2013 2012 Sales for the year 3.1 0.7 0.1 – Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Straight-line depreciation for amounts values amounts values the year (Note 10) -14.5 -11.3 -3.9 -1.0 Group Translation difference -3.5 -11.4 – – Other non-current receivables 6.5 6.5 7.4 7.4 Straight-line depreciation at Parent Company December 31 -65.6 -50.7 -8.9 -5.1 Loans to Group companies 1,000.0 951.4 988.2 933.6 Planned residual value at December 31 59.1 53.2 18.1 6.8 Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate based on the interest rate that is estimated to be available to a borrower at the balance sheet date. Intangible assets consist primarily of computer software, drawings, and methods for product development and the further development of existing business systems. Note 28. Shares in subsidiaries Depreciation costs totaling SEK 14.5 M (11.3) are included in the adminDirectly owned shareholdings istrative expenses of the Group. Depreciation costs amounting to SEK 3.9 M Registered office Holding Book (1.0) are included in the administrative expenses of the Parent Company. value Camfil Svenska AB Trosa, Sweden 100% 225.3 Note 27. Financial assets Reg. no. 55 60 88 1327 Camfil Innovation AB Trosa, Sweden 100% 5.0 Parent Company Reg. no. 55 64 76 6433 Participations in Group companies 2013 2012 Camfil Component AB Trosa, Sweden 100% 5.0 Acquisition value at January 1 1,984.9 1,982.0 Reg. no. 55 64 96 3964 Investments for the year 18.5 2.9 Camfil Power Systems AB Borås, Sweden 100% 10.0 Acquisition value at December 31 2,003.4 1,984.9 Reg. no. 55 65 56 9356 Revaluation at January 1/December 31 69.8 69.8 Camfil International AB Trosa, Sweden 100% 1.0 Reg. no. 55 65 11 8501 Impairment charge at January 1 -297.5 -297.5 Camfil Asia Holding AB Trosa, Sweden 100% 20.0 Impairment charge for the year -87.4 – Reg. no. 55 65 38 8344 Impairment charge at December 31 -384.9 -297.5 Comlog AB Trosa, Sweden 100% 574.3 Book value at December 31 1,688.3 1,757.2 Reg. no. 55 62 48 9970 Camfil SPA Cinisello Balsamo, Italy 100% 0.5 Parent Company Gemag S.R.L Cinisello Balsamo, Italy 100% 0.0 Receivables from Group companies 2013 2012 Camfil AG Unterägeri, Switzerland 100% 36.1 Acquisition value at January 1 988.2 896.9 Camfil A/S Kokkedal, Denmark 100% 12.0 Loans granted for the year 280.7 215.9 Farr Filtration Ltd Birmingham, England 100% 20.3 Repayments and amortization of loans for the year -272.4 -104.5 Camfil Ltd Manchester, England 100% 34.7 Exchange differences 3.5 -20.1 Camfil BV Ede, Netherlands 100% 73.3 Camfil GmbH Holding Reinfeld, Germany 100% 293.2 Acquisition value at December 31 1,000.0 988.2 Camfil OY Helsinki, Finland 100% 5.0 Camfil (Irl) Ltd Dublin, Ireland 100% 15.0 G roup Parent Company Camfil Australia Pty Ltd Sydney, Australia 100% 20.0 Non-current receivables 2013 2012 2013 2012 Camfil (Canada) Inc. Laval, Canada 100% 70.0 Acquisition value at January 1 7.4 6.7 – 0.1 Camfil Filtration (Kunshan) Co. Ltd Kunshan, China 100% 18.2 Change for the year -0.7 1.0 0.0 -0.1 Camfil Filtration (Shanghai) Co. Ltd Shanghai, China 100% 3.5 Translation difference -0.2 -0.3 – – Camfil Latinoamerica Ltda São Paulo, Brazil 100% 10.0 Acquisition value at Camfil s.r.o Levice, Slovakia 100% 134.6 December 31 6.5 7.4 – – Lifmac Asia Holding LLC Wilmington, United States 40% 18.2 Book value at December 31 6.5 7.4 – – Camfil Singapore Holding PTE Ltd Singapore 100% 21.9 Camfil Norge AS Oslo, Norway 100% 50.3 It is estimated that there is no concentration of credit risk in non-current Camfil Austria GmbH Vienna, Austria 100% 10.0 receivables. Camfil Hava Filtresi Sanayi The weighted average effective interest rate on receivables was as Ticaret Lltd Sirketi Istanbul, Turkey 100% 0.3 ­follows at the balance sheet date: Camfil Middle East FZCO Dubai, United Arab Emirates 60% 0.6 Parent Company Total 1,688.3 2013 2012 Receivables from Group companies 5.0% 4.9% C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 7 3 Notes to the Financial Statements Indirect holdings Country Holding Derivatives Other Financial Camfil SA Belgium 100% used for financial instruFarr Filter Services Ltd England 100% measured liabilities ments at Camfil APC Ltd England 100% hedging fair value through Camfil France Holding SAS France 100% profit or Camfil SAS France 100% December 31, 2013 loss Total SADI SAS France 100% Liabilities as per Camfil Malaysia SDN BHD Malaysia 100% ­balance sheet Camfil New Zealand Ltd New Zealand 100% Non-current liabilities to – 1,332.7 – 1,332.7 Camfil Polska Sp.z.o.o Poland 100% credit institutions Camfil Singapore Pty Ltd Singapore 100% Camfil España SA Spain 100% Current liabilities to credit – 127.7 – 127.7 VVS Amalia AB Sweden 100% institutions Camfil Taiwan Co Ltd Taiwan 100% Convertible debenture loan – 155.6 – 155.6 Why loan twice? CT, MJ Camfil (Thailand) Ltd Thailand 40% Convertible debenture loan – 287.6 – 287.6 Camfil Power Systems GmbH Germany 100% Non-current derivative 43.2 – – 43.2 Camfil KG Germany 100% financial instruments Camfil Management GmbH Germany 100% Current derivative financial 14.7 – – 14.7 Camfil USA Inc. United States 100% instruments Air Filter & Equipment Inc (Exfil) United States 100% Total 57.9 1,903.6 – 1,961.5 CF Oklahoma Inc. United States 100% Camfil Air Filtration India Private Ltd India 100% Financial Camfil Middle East FZCO Dubai, United Arab Emirates 40% instruments at The American company Lifmac Asia Holding LLC owns 40 percent of Camfil Derivatives fair value (Thailand) LTD. Camfil AB owns 40 percent of Lifmac Asia Holding LLC and Loans used for through and trade measured profit or Comlog AB owns 2 percent. Camfil (Thailand) LTD has been consolidated December 31, 2012 receivables hedging loss Total 100 percent because the Group has a controlling interest in the company. Assets as per balance sheet During the year, Camfil Hava Filtresi Sanayi Ticaret Ltd Sirketi was started in Turkey and has an acquisition value of SEK 0.3 M. In 2013, the Danish subNon-current derivative – 19.6 – 19.6 sidiary Camfil APC A/S was merged with Camfil A/S, its sister company in financial instruments Denmark. During the year, new shares were issued in Camfil Latinoamerica Current derivative financial – 4.7 0.4 5.1 Ltda in the amount of SEK 14.2 M, and in Camfil APC A/S in the amount of instruments SEK 4.0 M. Non-current receivables 7.4 – – 7.4 Shares were written down in Camfil Latinoamerica Ltda by SEK 20.0 M, Trade receivables 902.5 – – 902.5 in Camfil Australia PTY Ltd by SEK 8.3 M, in Camfil (Canada) Inc. by Bills receivable 7.6 – – 7.6 SEK 48.4, and in Camfil Austria GmbH by SEK 10.7 M. Cash and cash equivalents 405.9 – – 405.9 Total 1,323.4 24.3 0.4 1,348.1 Note 29. Financial instruments by category Financial The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied in the instruGroup to the line items below: ments at Derivatives fair value Financial instruused for Other through ments at measured financial profit or Derivatives fair value December 31, 2012 hedging liabilities loss Total Loans used for through Liabilities as per and trade measured profit or ­balance sheet receivables hedging loss Total Non-current liabilities to – 1,328.3 – 1,328.3 December 31, 2013 credit institutions Assets as per balance Current liabilities to credit – 105.5 – 105.5 sheet institutions Non-current derivative – 9.4 – 9.4 Convertible debenture loan – 142.9 – 142.9 financial instruments Current derivative financial 11.6 6.0 17.6 Trade payables – 297.2 – 297.2 instruments Bills payable – 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current receivables 6.5 – – 6.5 Non-current derivative 77.3 – – 77.3 Trade receivables 891.6 – – 891.6 financial instruments Bills receivable 21.4 – – 21.4 Current derivative financial 5.2 – – 5.2 Cash and cash equivalents 651.0 – – 651.0 instruments Total 1,570.5 21.0 6.0 1,597.5 Total 82.5 1,873.9 0.0 1,956.4 C A M F I L 2013 / 74 Notes to the Financial Statements Note 30. Credit quality of financial assets Forward foreign exchange 6.1 – 0.4 0.0 The credit quality of trade receivables has been historically high in the contracts – held for trading Group. However, the payment culture varies to some extent between geoTotal 34.6 67.9 26.6 84.8 graphic areas. None of the financial assets that are fully performing has been renegotiNon-current portion 9.4 43.2 19.6 77.3 ated in the last year. The percentage of trade receivables and bills receivable per geographic Current portion 25.2 24.7 7.0 7.5 area are shown in the table below: Total 34.6 67.9 26.6 84.8 2013 2012 Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or current liability. The % Bad Receiv% Bad Receivfull fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or Trade receivables/ debt ables debt ables liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months Bills receivable losses/ losses/ and, as a current asset or current liability, if the maturity of the hedged item sales sales is less than 12 months. Counterparties Nordic countries 0.54% 126.9 0.17% 215.0 There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from cash flow hedges in 2013 Asia 0.11% 194.0 0.02% 102.2 or 2012. The maximum exposure to credit risk on the balance sheet date is the North America 0.03% 245.5 0.02% 194.6 fair value of the derivative instruments recognized as assets in the balance Continental Europe 0.15% 253.3 0.17% 314.5 sheet. British Isles 0.20% 59.6 0.18% 50.1 Gains and losses recognized in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts at December 31 will be released to the income statement at various Other markets 0.40% 33.7 0.52% 33.7 dates between one month and 12 months from the balance sheet date. Total trade receivables 0.20% 913.0 0.12% 910.1 Gains and losses recognized in the hedging reserve in equity (Note 39) on interest rate swaps at December 31, 2013 will be continuously recogThe percentage of bad debt losses per geographic area is calculated as the nized in the income statement until the borrowing has been repaid (Note 42). average percentage between expensed bad debt losses over the past three years in relation to total sales over the past three years. Interest rate swaps The notional principal amounts of the Group’s outstanding interest-rate swap Note 31. Derivative financial instruments contracts at year-end were SEK 1,019 M (1,092). At December 31, 2013, the fixed interest rates were 2.3% in USD, 2.9% in GBP and 2.8% in EUR. Group 2013 2012 The fixed interest rates in SEK varied from 2.1% to 3.8%. The floating rates Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities were 3 months USD LIBOR, 6 months GBP LIBOR, 3 months EUR IBOR, and 3 months STIBOR. Interest rate swaps – fair value 9.4 46.5 19.7 77.3 hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts Forward foreign exchange 11.6 11.4 4.6 5.2 At December 31, 2013, the Group’s open forward foreign exchange concontracts – cash flow hedges tracts had terms of between one month and 12 months. Forward foreign exchange 6.0 – 0.4 0.0 The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign contracts – held for trading exchange contracts at December 31, 2013 were SEK -242 M (-251). The hedged highly probable forecast transactions denominated in Total 27.0 57.9 24.7 82.5 foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates during the next 12 months. Gains and losses recognized in the hedging reserve in equity (Note Non-current portion 9.4 43.2 19.6 77.3 39) on forward foreign exchange contracts as of December 31, 2013 are Current portion 17.6 14.7 5.1 5.2 recognized in the income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement, normally Total 27.0 57.9 24.7 82.5 within 12 months from the balance sheet date. Parent Company 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate swaps – fair value 9.4 46.5 19.7 77.3 hedges Forward foreign exchange 19.1 21.4 6.5 7.5 contracts – cash flow hedges C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 7 5 Notes to the Financial Statements Note 32. Trade and other receivables The recognized amounts, per currency, are as follows for the Group’s trade receivables and bills receivable: 2013 2012 Currency (corresponding value in SEK) 2013 2012 Trade receivables and bills receivable 952.4 938.3 SEK 34.4 67.5 Less: provisions for impairment of trade -39.4 -28.2 EUR 333.6 442.5 Total 913.0 910.1 USD 244.1 182.5 Other currencies 300.9 217.6 There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, Total trade receivables 913.0 910.1 as the Group has a large number of customers that are internationally ­d ispersed. Movements on the Group’s provision for trade receivables impairment were The Group recognized a loss of SEK 15.6 M (8.9) for the impairment of as follows: its trade receivables in 2013. The loss was included in “Selling costs” in the 2013 2012 income statement. The fair value of trade receivables corresponds to the At January 1 27.5 29.1 carrying amount. Provisions for receivables impairment 15.6 8.2 At December 31, 2013, trade receivables in the amount of SEK 321.3 Unused amounts reversed for uncollectible receivables -2.7 -4.6 M (205.2) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of indeReclassifications -1.3 -4.3 pendent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The age Translation difference 0.3 -0.9 analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: At December 31 39.4 27.5 Age analysis of past due trade receivables 2013 2012 Less than 3 months 276.5 177.0 The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been 3 to 6 months 31.2 19.6 included in “Selling costs” in the income statement. The other classes within Over 6 months 13.6 8.6 trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum Total past due trade receivables 321.3 205.2 exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as At year-end 2013, the Group had impaired and provided for uncertain trade security. receivables. The amount of these provisions was SEK 39.4 M (28.2) on December 31, 2013. Note 33. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities The age analysis of trade receivables that have been provided for is shown Deferred taxes are valued using the nominal tax rate. below: Deferred income tax assets are recognized for tax loss-carry-forwards Age analysis, provisions for receivables to the extent that the realization of the related tax benefit through the future impairment 2013 2012 taxable profits is probable. Trade receivables that are not past due 0.2 – Deferred income tax assets and liabilities have not been offset even if Less than 3 months 2.1 5.7 there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against cur3 to 6 months 19.1 1.1 rent tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same Over 6 months 18.0 21.4 taxation authority. Total provisions for receivables impairment 39.4 28.2 C A M F I L 2013 / 76 Notes to the Financial Statements The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities was as follows d ­ uring the year: Assets Liabilities Net 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Fixed assets 1.4 1.3 18.9 17.4 -17.5 -16.1 Inventories 14.0 15.0 21.8 18.5 -7.8 -3.5 Trade receivables 4.6 1.4 0.1 0.0 4.5 1.4 Pension provisions 31.9 32.4 0.8 1.9 31.1 30.5 Warranty risk reserve 5.9 1.5 – 0.0 5.9 1.5 Loss-carry-forwards 11.0 7.9 – – 11.0 7.9 Untaxed reserves – – 26.0 24.6 -26.0 -24.6 Other 42.6 42.8 7.2 8.3 35.4 34.5 Deferred tax assets/liabilities 111.4 102.3 74.8 70.7 36.6 31.6 Due within 1 year 46.6 39.5 23.1 19.3 23.5 20.2 Due later than 1 year 64.8 62.8 51.7 51.4 13.1 11.4 Deferred tax assets/liabilities 111.4 102.3 74.8 70.7 36.6 31.6 Of which offset -25.0 -24.0 -25.0 -24.0 – – Net after offsetting 86.4 78.3 49.8 46.7 36.6 31.6 Balance Recognized Exchange Tax charged Balance, January 1, through profit differences directly to December 31, 2013 or loss equity 2013 Provisions for assets -18.4 -2.8 0.3 – -20.9 Restructuring reserves 0.1 0.0 0.0 – 0.1 Pension provisions 30.6 0.7 -0.1 0.0 31.2 Warranty risk reserve 1.4 4.6 0.0 – 6.0 Loss-carry-forwards 7.9 2.8 0.3 – 11.0 Untaxed reserves -24.6 -1.4 0.1 – -25.9 Other 34.5 0.4 0.1 – 35.0 Total 31.6 4.3 0.7 0.0 36.6 Balance Recognized Exchange Tax charged Balance, January 1, through profit differences directly to December 31, 2012 or loss equity 2012 Provisions for assets -24.5 4.5 1.6 – -18.4 Restructuring reserves 0.7 -0.6 0.0 – 0.1 Pension provisions 19.8 0.2 -0.8 11.4 30.6 Warranty risk reserve 6.2 -4.8 0.0 – 1.4 Loss-carry-forwards 9.0 -0.8 -0.3 – 7.9 Untaxed reserves -24.5 -0.1 0.0 – -24.6 Other 31.8 4.0 -1.3 – 34.5 Total 18.5 2.4 -0.8 11.4 31.6 future taxable profits within the next few years. Tax losses for which deferred income tax assets are not recognized: The Parent Company has no unrecognized deferred tax assets. Group 2013 2012 Tax losses for utilization: Within 1 year – 1.1 Note 34. Non-current receivables Later than 1 year but within 5 years 3.3 3.7 Group Parent Company Later than 5 years 41.9 34.2 2013 2012 2013 2012 Total tax losses 45.2 39.0 Deposits 3.0 2.9 – – Other financial assets 3.5 4.5 – – Deferred tax losses have not been recognized for these items since it is Total 6.5 7.4 – – not certain that the Group will be able to utilize them for settlement against C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 7 7 Notes to the Financial Statements Note 35. Inventories and work on contract Note 39. Other reserves G roup Parent Company Hedging Translation Work on contract 2013 2012 2013 2012 reserve reserve Total Accrued expenses 463.7 432.5 25.3 15.3 Balance at January 1, 2012 -38.9 -28.4 -67.3 Gradual revenue recognition 94.3 76.5 – – Cash flow hedges Total 558.0 509.0 25.3 15.3 – transfers through profit or loss -6.2 – -6.2 – tax effect -0.9 – -0.9 G roup Parent Company Exchange rate differences in Group – -59.0 -59.0 Inventories 2013 2012 2013 2012 Balance at December 31, 2012 -46.0 -87.4 -133.4 Value of inventories before obsolescence 1,010.3 983.9 2.4 – Balance at January 1, 2013 -46.0 -87.4 -133.4 Less: provision for impairment Cash flow hedges of inventories -24.2 -23.5 – – – transfers through profit or loss 23.0 – 23.0 Total 986.1 960.4 2.4 – – tax effect -4.6 – -4.6 Exchange rate differences in Group – -34.0 -34.0 The cost of raw material inventories recognized as expense and included in Balance at December 31, 2013 -27.6 -121.4 -149.0 “Cost of goods sold” amounted to SEK 1,407.2 M (1,433.6). Note 40. Untaxed reserves Note 36. Prepaid expenses and accrued income Parent Company Group Parent Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Cumulative difference between book Prepaid rent 14.0 10.9 1.2 1.1 depreciation and straight-line depreciation 14.6 8.6 Prepaid insurance 4.8 2.7 – – Tax allocation reserves 57.0 59.0 Prepaid employee benefit expenses 5.9 8.2 0.4 0.4 Inventory reserve 0.0 0.5 Accrued royalties and bonus income – 0.2 – – Total 71.6 68.1 Accrued revenues from projects 2.6 0.0 – – Other prepaid expenses 14.6 17.2 2.6 1.8 Note 41. Bank overdraft facilities Total 41.9 39.2 4.2 3.3 The Camfil Group has internal cash pools in the following currencies: SEK, USD, GBP, DKK, NOK, CAD and EUR. The Group cash pool system has Note 37. Cash and cash equivalents reduced the external credits of subsidiaries. Each company’s share of G roup Parent Company the Group cash pools is reported as an internal balance with the Parent 2013 2012 2013 2012 Company, which is the company that has the external credit with a credit Cash at bank and in hand 651.0 405.9 495.6 254.8 institution. In addition to bank overdraft facilities in the Group’s internal cash Total 651.0 405.9 495.6 254.8 pools, there is a bank overdraft facility for a few foreign exchange accounts and a general multi-currency limit. The Parent Company has granted overdraft facilities totaling SEK 290.4 M (289.8). None of the bank overdraft Note 38. Share capital facilities had been utilized at the balance sheet date. Preference Total Note 42. Borrowings Number of shares A-shares B-shares shares number Number at 2011-12-31 1,000,000 7,000,000 – 8,000,000 Camfil AB signed a loan facility agreement with a syndicate of banks in Number at 2012-12-31 1,000,000 7,000,000 – 8,000,000 January 2011 to finance the company’s redemption of shares in 2011, Number at 2013-12-31 1,000,000 7,000,000 – 8,000,000 among other purposes. The syndicate consists of the Group’s three main banks in the Nordic region: SEB is providing 50 percent of the financing, The shares have a par (quota) value of SEK 14.23 each (14.23). All issued Danske Bank 35 percent and DNB 15 percent. de skriver DNB själva på shares are fully paid. A specification of the changes in equity is found in this The agreement covered two loan facilities. Facility A was a multi-cursin hemsida report in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. rency facility in the amount of SEK 1,337 M at the date the agreement was signed. At year-end 2013, the facility amounted to SEK 1,147 M. The term is five years and SEK 450 M of the loan will be amortized gradually over a five-year period. In 2013, SEK 100 M of the loan was repaid. This facility was utilized to finance the company’s redemption of shares in 2011. Facility B was a three-year revolving multi-currency facility for SEK 875 M that was signed in 2011. This facility was renegotiated during the year with a bank syndicate. The new facility agreement for SEK 750 M was signed on July 5, 2013 and has a term of five years. The facility is being used mainly to finance the Group’s ongoing operations. In addition to these loan facilities, the facility with the Nordic Investment Bank was renegotiated during the year. The Group’s bond in the amount of C A M F I L 2013 / 78 Notes to the Financial Statements SEK 125 M was repurchased prematurely and a new facility corresponding Parent Company to SEK 220 M was granted. The facility has been utilized and EUR 24.5 M Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 1,315.8 1,312.1 (216.3) was obtained as payment for a corporate bond. Amortization of the Convertible debenture loan 172.1 172.1 instrument on a continuous six-month basis will commence in 2017. Final Current liabilities to credit institutions 100.0 100.0 payment of the bond is scheduled for 2021. Total 1,587.9 1,584.2 The agreements with these creditors are subject to covenant clauses in which Camfil AB has to meet certain key performance indicators with regard Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate that to the interest coverage ratio, the net debt-equity ratio and return on net debt. is based on the interest rate estimated to be available to the Group at the There are also limits for future dividends to the company’s shareholders. balance sheet date. Regarding leasing liabilities, the carrying amount is conGroup Parent Company sidered to represent a reasonable approximation of the fair value. Interest-bearing liabilities 2013 2012 2013 2012 The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings have been denominated Non-current in the following currencies: Liabilities to credit institutions 1,332.7 1,328.3 1,320.5 1,315.8 2013 2012 Convertible debenture loan 155.6 142.9 175.8 172.1 EUR 437.1 214.8 Derivative financial instruments 43.2 77.3 43.2 77.3 USD 256.6 260.5 Other liabilities 0.0 0.4 – – SEK 827.7 1,048.8 Provisions for pensions and Other currencies 94.6 52.6 similar obligations 92.2 96.0 – – Total 1,616.0 1,576.7 Other provisions 11.0 12.4 – – Total 1,634.7 1,657.3 1,539.5 1,565.2 Interest On December 31, 2013, the Group’s bank borrowings carried an average Group Parent Company effective interest rate coupon of 3.30% (3.96). On the same date, the con2013 2012 2013 2012 vertible debenture loan carried an average effective interest rate coupon of Current 2.29% (3.77). The average interest rate coupon for bank borrowings and the Liabilities to credit institutions 127.7 105.5 120.0 100.0 convertible debenture loan was 3.74% (4.17). Derivative financial instruments 14.7 5.2 24.7 7.5 The Group had the following undrawn borrowing facilities on Total 142.4 110.7 144.7 107.5 December 31: 2013 2012 Total interest-bearing Floating rate liabilities 1,777.1 1,768.0 1,684.2 1,672.7 – expires beyond one year) 658.2 845.4 Ska parentesen vara här? Total 658.2 845.4 The Parent Company and the Group have issued a bond to the Nordic Investment Bank. The bond is in the amount of EUR 24.5 M and matures in Convertible debenture loan eight years. It will be amortized on a straight-line basis every six months as Since 2000, Camfil has established several long-term incentive programs of the fifth year. for key persons in the company. The purpose of these programs is to offer benefits in the form of long-term incentive programs tied to the company’s Fair values performance in order to attract, retain and motivate key persons. The proThe carrying amounts and fair values of certain liabilities are as follows: grams are designed so that incentives for key persons are aligned with the 2013 interests of the shareholders. Carrying Fair amounts values Convertible debenture loan 2011-2016 Group On May 31, 2011, the Parent Company issued a convertible debenture loan Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 1,332.7 1,332.7 to key persons. The nominal value of the loan is SEK 185.8 M. The loan Convertible debenture loan 155.6 155.6 matures five years from the issue date and can be converted into shares, at Current liabilities to credit institutions 127.7 127.7 the holder’s option, at the rate of SEK 404 per share. The interest rate for Total 1,616.0 1,616.0 the convertible debenture loan has been set at SEB’s 12-month lending rate plus 0.75%. Parent Company The fair value of the liability component and equity conversion compoNon-current liabilities to credit institutions 1,320.5 1,320.5 nent was determined at issuance of the debentures. Convertible debenture loan 175.8 175.8 The fair values of the liability component, included in non-current Current liabilities to credit institutions 120.0 120.0 liabilities, were calculated using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-­ Total 1,616.3 1,616.3 convertible debenture. The residual amount is included in shareholders’ equity. Convertible debentures recognized in the balance sheet were calculated 2012 as follows: Carrying Fair amounts values Group Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 1,328.3 1,332.0 Convertible debenture loan 142.9 142.9 Current liabilities to credit institutions 105.5 105.5 Total 1,576.7 1,580.4 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 7 9 Notes to the Financial Statements G roup Parent Company Defined benefit pension plans 2013 2012 2013 2012 The Group operates defined benefit pension plans in France, Germany, the Face value of convertible United Kingdom, Canada, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Belgium and debentures issued on Thailand under broadly similar regulatory frameworks. All of the plans are May 31, 2011 185.8 185.8 185.8 185.8 final salary pension plans, which provide benefits to members in the form of Equity component -10.0 -13.7 -10.0 -13.7 a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided Debentures held by depends on the members’ length of service and their salary in the final years Camfil Component AB but leading up to retirement. In the plans in Sweden, pensions in payment are not subscribed for -20.2 -29.2 – – generally updated in line with the retail price index, whereas in the plans in Liability component other countries, pensions generally do not receive inflationary increases at December 31 155.6 142.9 175.8 172.1 once in payment. With the exception of this inflationary risk in Sweden, the plans face broadly similar risks, as described below. Liability component at January 1 142.9 133.4 172.1 168.6 Pension insurance with Alecta and Collectum Remeasurement of The obligations for retirement pensions and family pensions under the convertible debentures 3.7 3.5 3.7 3.5 ITP 2 plan (supplementary pension plan for industry and trade) for salaried New issue 9.0 6.0 – – workers in Sweden are secured through pension insurance with Alecta. In accordance with a statement by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board (UFR Liability component 3), this is a multi-employer defined benefit plan. For the 2013 financial year, at December 31 155.6 142.9 175.8 172.1 the Group has not had access to information that would enable it to report its proportional share of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and costs. As a Note 43. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations consequence, it is not possible to report this plan as a defined benefit plan. The pension plan in accordance with ITP 2 is secured through insurance with The table below outlines where the Group’s post-employment amounts and Alecta and is therefore reported as a defined contribution plan. Premiums activity are included in the financial statements. for defined benefit retirement and family pension plans are individually calcu2013 2012 lated and are dependent on salary, previously earned pension and the estiBalance sheet obligations for: mated remaining years of service. Fees in the next reporting period for ITP 2 – Defined pension benefits 84.4 84.9 insurance signed with Alecta are estimated to amount to SEK 9.7 M (9.5). – Post-employment benefits 6.0 4.8 The collective funding ratio consists of the market value of Alecta’s – Capitalized defined contribution assets as a percentage of its insurance commitments, as calculated accordpension plan under own management 1.8 6.3 ing to Alecta’s actuarial calculation assumptions, which do not comply with Liability in the balance sheet 92.2 96.0 IAS 19. The collective funding ratio is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 155 percent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio is less than 125 Income statement charge included in Group operating profit for*): percent, or exceeds 155 percent, measures are to be taken to create the – Defined pension benefits 6.2 11.5 conditions for returning the funding ratio to the normal interval. If the fund– Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.5 ing ratio is low, a possible measure could be to raise the contracted price – Cost for special employer's contribution for subscribing new insurance and expanding current benefits. If the funding and tax on return 6.4 5.9 ratio is high, one possible measure can be to reduce the premium. At year13.2 17.9 end 2013, Alecta’s surplus in the form of its collective funding ratio was 148 Remeasurements for: percent (129). – Defined pension benefits 2.2 -3.3 – Post-employment benefits -0.1 2.0 Plan for severance benefits after termination of employment 2.1 -1.3 The Group operates plans for severance benefits after termination of employment in which the employees have the right to post-employment ben*) The income statement charge included within operating profit includes current service efits. These benefits are based on the employee’s final salary and years of costs, past service costs, net interest costs, and gains and losses on settlement and service. These plans exist primarily in Italy, India and Austria. The reporting curtailment. method, assumptions and number of measurement periods are not the same as those for defined benefit pension plans. The plan for severance benefits The amounts recognized in the balance after termination of employment in India is being reported for the first time sheet are determined as follows: 2013 2012 as a defined benefit plan in the consolidated balance sheet and income Present value of funded obligations 268.7 254.4 statement. The effect of the initial value of the obligations has been recogFair value of plan assets 179.6 164.7 nized in the amount of SEK 1.7 M in the consolidated income statement. Deficit of funded plans 89.1 89.7 Defined contribution plan under own management Impact of minimum funding requirement/asset ceiling 1.3 – In the United States, there is a defined contribution pension plan under the Pension plan under own management 1.8 6.3 company’s own management. There is also a defined contribution plan in Net liability in the balance sheet 92.2 96.0 Norway for a few senior executives. C A M F I L 2013 / 80 Notes to the Financial Statements The movement in the defined benefit obligation for pension plans was as follows over the year: Impact of minimum Present value Fair value of funding require­of obligation plan assets Net total ment/asset ceiling Total At January 1, 2012 (Restated) 230.7 138.7 92.0 – 92.0 Currrent service cost 4.1 – 4.1 – 4.1 Past service cost 3.3 – 3.3 – 3.3 Interest expense/income 10.4 6.3 4.1 – 4.1 17.8 6.3 11.5 – 11.5 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense/income – 18.5 –18.5 – –18.5 Effect from change in financial assumptions 6.7 – 6.7 – 6.7 Experience changes 8.5 – 8.5 – 8.5 15.2 18.5 -3.3 – -3.3 Exchange differences -4.4 -2.1 -2.3 – -2.3 Contributions: Employers – 13.1 -13.1 – -13.1 Plan participants 0.2 0.2 0.0 – 0.0 Payments from plans: 0.0 Benefit payments -9.9 -9.9 0.0 – 0.0 Administrative expenses – -0.1 0.1 – 0.1 At December 31, 2012 (Restated) 249.6 164.7 84.9 – 84.9 At January 1, 2013 249.6 164.7 84.9 – 84.9 Currrent service cost 3.7 – 3.7 – 3.7 Past service cost -0.7 – -0.7 – -0.7 Interest expense/income 10.0 6.8 3.2 – 3.2 13.0 6.8 6.2 – 6.2 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense/income – 6.5 -6.5 – -6.5 Effect from change in demographic assumptions 6.6 – 6.6 – 6.6 Effect from change in financial assumptions 2.4 – 2.4 – 2.4 Experience changes -1.7 – -1.7 – -1.7 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense – – – 1.4 1.4 7.3 6.5 0.8 1.4 2.2 Exchange differences -1.2 -2.7 1.5 -0.1 1.4 Contributions: Employers – 10.6 -10.6 – -10.6 Plan participants 0.2 0.2 0.0 – 0.0 Payments from plans: Benefit payments -9.0 -9.0 0.0 – 0.0 Tax and administrative expenses -0.3 -0.6 0.3 – 0.3 At December 31, 2013 259.6 176.5 83.1 1.3 84.4 C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 8 1 Notes to the Financial Statements The movement in the defined benefit obligation for post-employment benefits The defined benefit obligation and plan assets were composed by country was as follows over the year: as follows: Fair 2012 U.K. France Germany Norway Canada Other Total Present value of Present value value of plan Net of funded obligation assets total obligations 98.9 39.2 36.1 26.6 27.5 26.1 254.4 At January 1, 2012 (Restated) 5.1 – 5.1 Fair value Current service cost 0.3 – 0.3 of plan assets 78.4 9.8 3.3 27.8 24.1 21.3 164.7 Income expense/income 0.2 – 0.2 Total 20.5 29.4 32.8 -1.2 3.4 4.8 89.7 0.5 – 0.5 Remeasurements: 2013 U.K. France Germany Norway Canada Other Total Effect from change in financial assumptions 0.6 – 0.6 Present value Experience changes 1.4 – 1.4 of funded 2.0 0.0 2.0 obligations 105.7 41.4 36.8 29.0 23.4 32.4 268.7 Exchange differences -0.2 0.0 -0.2 Fair value Contributions: of plan assets 90.9 8.8 3.7 25.3 24.7 26.2 179.6 Employers – 2.6 -2.6 14.8 32.6 33.1 3.7 -1.3 6.2 89.1 Payments from plans: Impact of Benefit payments -2.6 -2.6 0.0 minimum At December 31, 2012 (Restated) 4.8 0.0 4.8 funding requirement/ At January 1, 2013 4.8 – 4.8 asset ceiling – – – – 1.3 – 1.3 Current service cost 0.5 – 0.5 Total 14.8 32.6 33.1 3.7 0.0 6.2 90.4 Income expense/income 0.1 – 0.1 0.6 – 0.6 The plan in Canada has a surplus that is not recognized on the basis that Remeasurements: future economic benefits are not available to the entity in the form of a Experience changes -0.1 – -0.1 reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. At the last valuation date, the present value of the defined benefit -0.1 – -0.1 obligation was comprised of approximately SEK 78 M (73) relating to active Exchange differences -0.1 -0.1 0.0 employees, SEK 62 M (56) relating to deferred members, and SEK 126 M Contributions: (126) relating to members in retirement. Employers – 1.3 -1.3 The significant actuarial assumptions (as weighted average) were as Payments from plans: follows: Benefit payments -1.3 -1.3 0.0 New plans 5.2 3.2 2.0 Significant actuarial At December 31, 2013 9.1 3.1 6.0 assumptions at the 2013 Eurozone balance sheet excluding Costs are distributed in the consolidated income statement date U.K. Austria*) Austria Norway Canada India as follows: 2013 2012 Total costs for defined benefit pension plans 6.8 12.0 Discount rate 4.50 3,75*) 3.50 4.00 4.75 9.3 Total costs for defined contribution pension plans 65.8 65.3 Future annual 10% first 2 72.6 77.3 salary growth years, after Costs for special employer's contribution rate 3.75 3.50 2.75 3.50 4.00 which 8% and tax on return 6.4 5.9 Inflation 3.40 2.50 2.50 0.10 2.50 Total pension cost 79.0 83.2 Significant Costs are distributed in the consolidated income statement actuarial assumptions as follows: Defined at the 2012 Eurozone benefit Postbalance sheet excluding pension employment date U.K. Austria*) Austria Norway Canada plans benefits Discount rate 4.60 3,.75*) 3.75 3.80 4.20 2013 2012 2013 2012 Estimated return Cost of goods sold 1.0 2.5 0.1 0.1 on plan assets 5.00 4.50 4.50 4.80 5.25 Selling costs 0.9 2.3 0.1 0.1 Administrative expenses 1.1 2.6 0.1 0.2 Future annual Financial items 3.2 4.1 0.2 0.1 salary growth rate 3.75 3.50 2.75 3.25 4.00 Total 6.2 11.5 0.6 0.5 Inflation 2.60 2.50 2.00 0.20 2.50 *) The exception is Italy, where the discount rate has been set at 3.25% (3.25). C A M F I L 2013 / 82 Notes to the Financial Statements Assumptions regarding future mortality are set on the basis of actuarial Life expectancy advice in accordance with published statistics and experience in each counThe majority of the obligations in the plans are to provide benefits for the try. These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase a pensioner retiring at age 65: in the liabilities in the plans. This is particularly significant in the plan in Sweden, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes Netherlands U.K. France Germany Norway Canada Austria in life expectancy. Retiring at the end of the reporting period: In case of the funded plans, the Group ensures that the investment Male 21 23 21 19 23 20 20 positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (ALM) framework Female 24 25 21 23 23 22 24 that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the pension schemes. Within this framework, Retiring 25 years after the end of the reporting period: the Group’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by Male 24 25 21 22 25 22 24 investing in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match Female 25 27 21 26 25 23 27 the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. The company actively monitors how the duration and the expected yield of the Were the discount rate used to increase/decrease by 0.5 percentage points investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the from management’s estimates, the carrying amount of pension obligations pension obligations. The Group has not changed the processes used to manwould be an estimated SEK 16 M (16) lower or SEK 18 M (18) higher. age its risks from previous periods. The Group does not use derivatives to Plan assets in defined benefit obligations consisted of the following: manage its risk. Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any 2013 2012 single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of Equity instruments 64.6 36% 75.5 46% assets. A large portion of assets in 2013 consisted of equities, although the Interest-bearing securities 30.1 17% 26.4 16% Group invests in interest-bearing securities, property, cash and insurance Property 3.7 2% solutions. The Group believes that equities offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk. Cash and other cash equivalents The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 14.2 than cash in hand 15.2 9% 62.81) 38% years. Insurance policy that is a Undiscounted pension and post-employment benefits are estimated to plan asset 63.6 36% amount to SEK 8.4 M in 2014 (8.1). Total 177.2 164.7 1) Plan assets in 2012 were not distributed by “Buildings”, “Cash and other cash equivalents Note 44. Other provisions than cash in hand”, and “Insurance policy that is a plan asset”. PostWarranty There are no plan assets for post-employment benefits. employment commitOther Through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment benbenefits ments items Total efits, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of At January 1, 2012 2.3 32.5 12.1 46.9 which are detailed below: Charged to the consolidated income Asset volatility statement The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to – Additional 1.2 18.5 25.5 45.2 corporate bond yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, this will cre­provisions ate a deficit. The plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing – Unused amounts -0.9 -13.3 -10.6 -24.8 volatility and risk in the short-term. reversed As the plans mature, the Group intends to reduce the level of investment Exchange differences -0.1 -1.5 -0.5 -2.1 risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities. Used during the year – -7.2 -8.5 -15.7 However, due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities, the Group believes that a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate eleAt December 31, 2012 2.5 29.0 18.0 49.5 ment of the Group’s long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently. See below for more details on the Group’s asset-liability matching strategy. Of which: Changes in bond yields Non-current portion 2.5 20.1 8.2 30.8 A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the bond holdings Current portion – 8.9 9.8 18.7 in the plans. At December 31, 2012 2.5 29.0 18.0 49.5 Inflation risk Some of the Group’s pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation). The majority of the plan’s assets are either unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities) inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 8 3 Notes to the Financial Statements PostWarranty Note 47. Contingent liabilities employment commitOther G roup Parent Company benefits ments items Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 At January 1, 2013 2.5 29.0 18.0 49.5 Warranty commitments 238.7 237.9 197.5 200.7 Charged to the Total 238.7 237.9 197.5 200.7 consolidated income Of which contingent liabilities statement on behalf of other – Additional provisions 1.0 29.7 5.8 36.5 Group companies – – 152.0 152.3 – Unused amounts -0.1 -13.5 -9.7 -23.3 reversed Warranty commitments are made primarily within the Power Systems ­business unit. Exchange differences -0.2 -14.1 -6.1 -20.4 Used during the year – – 0.2 0.2 Note 48. Adjustments for items not included in cash flow At December 31, 2013 3.2 31.1 8.2 42.5 G roup Parent Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Depreciation and amortization 140.0 137.6 12.0 9.8 Of which: Capital gain on divestment Non-current portion 3.2 21.5 2.3 27.0 of business unit – -76.1 – – Current portion – 9.6 5.9 15.5 Provisions -15.3 -0.5 – – Interest component in pension At December 31, 2013 3.2 31.1 8.2 42.5 expenses according to IAS 19 -10.1 -10.6 – – Return on pension plan assets 6.8 6.9 – – Derivative financial instruments Warranty commitments recognized as hedges 1.1 0.7 16.6 -5.7 In certain cases the Group provides guarantees for projects that involve Other 6.7 9.2 5.4 0.9 measures to replace or repair defect products. The provisions are based on the estimated probability of the warranty commitments. New provisions Total 129.2 67.2 34.0 5.0 for warranty commitments were made during the year as the project-based Power Systems business unit expanded its business. Note 49. Related party transactions Other items Intra-Group purchases and sales Other items include provisions for future legal disputes. In the Parent Company, 100 percent (100) of sales for the year consisted of sales to Group subsidiaries. No purchases were made by the Parent Company from Group companies. Note 45. Accrued expenses and deferred income Purchases and sales between Group companies are made on an arm’s G roup Parent Company length basis. The internal price is based on the actual production cost plus a 2013 2012 2013 2012 margin. When setting the margin, business risks and market prices are taken Accrued interest expenses 5.4 8.2 3.7 6.3 into account, among other factors. Accrued personnel expenses 230.6 207.7 31.0 25.8 Accrued commission expenses 15.3 11.2 – – Sales to related parties: Accrued consulting fees 10.1 9.2 1.6 1.8 Group (SEK 000s) 2013 2012 Accrued costs for completed Jungfrutomten AB 17 17 projects 12.4 31.6 – – Södra Djursjukhuset 18 51 Other accrued expenses and Swede Ship Marine 36 0 deferred income 53.6 53.1 5.9 1.6 Total 71 68 Total 327.4 321.0 42.2 35.5 Purchases of goods and services from related parties: Group (SEK M) 2013 2012 Note 46. Pledged assets Industriekonomi Eric Giertz AB 0.6 0.3 Group Parent Company KTH Executive School AB 0.8 0.8 2013 2012 2013 2012 Resolvator 0.0 0.0 For own liabilities and provisions Rustad Eiendom AS 2.1 4.6 For other liabilities Silvan Hills Holding 2.5 2.5 – Chattel mortgages 1.3 2.1 – – Solution Air 0.3 – Svensk Ventilation 0.4 0.5 Total 1.3 2.1 – – Trosa Stadshotell AB 2.7 1.8 Åda Golf & Krog 0.1 0.1 Total 9.5 10.6 C A M F I L 2013 / 84 Notes to the Financial Statements Purchases and sales were on market terms. Social Com­Camfil (Canada) Inc. rents a building used for its operations from Silvan security pensa contribu­tion from Hills Holding, which is owned by Michael Dobbs, sales manager in Canada for tions, other Comfort Air and Clean Processes. Basic excluding Group Camfil Norge AS rents premises in Oslo and Trondheim from Rustad Parent Company/ compension Pension comEiendom AS, which is owned by the former owners of Camfil Norge AS. One Group 2013 pensation costs costs panies Total of these owners is an employee of Camfil Norge AS. Jan Eric Larson, Executive Chairman 3.0 0.3 3.3 Operating liabilities attributable to related parties: Johan Markman, Group 2013 2012 Vice Chairman 2.0 0.7 2.7 Industriekonomi Eric Giertz AB 0.0 0.1 Carl Willhelm Ros, KTH Executive School AB – 0.0 Director 0.3 0.0 0.3 Trosa Stadshotell AB 0.1 0.0 Magnus Yngen, Total 0.1 0.1 Director 0.3 0.1 0.4 Key management compensation Erik Giertz, Director 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.5 Principles Mats Lönnqvist, Fees are paid to the Chairman of the board and board members in accordDirector 0.3 0.1 0.4 ance with the decision of the Annual General Meeting. No fees are paid to President 8.6 3.4 2.9 14.9 union representatives. Compensation paid to the President and other key management members consists of basic salary, variable salary, other benOther key manageefits, pension and financial instruments. Other key management members ment members (8) 14.3 5.1 3.7 23.1 in the Parent Company refers to the Group’s Executive Vice President and Total 29.1 9.8 6.6 0.1 45.6 Group Management members, who together comprise the executive management team of the Group along with the President. Social security Com­Basic salary contribupensation Basic salary is to constitute the basis for total compensation. Salary should tions, from other be related to the relevant market and reflect the extent of the responsibiliBasic excluding Group Parent Company/ com­ pension Pension com­ties associated with the position. Basic salary is to be reviewed annually to Group 2012 pensation costs costs panies Total ensure that it is market-based and competitive. Jan Eric Larson, 3.0 1.0 4.0 Variable salary, STIs (Short Term Incentives) Executive Chairman In addition to basic salary, key management members may qualify for variaJohan Markman, 2.0 0.6 2.6 ble salary for profits that exceed one or several predetermined performance Vice Chairman levels during a financial year. Variable salary is based on the company’s Carl Willhelm Ros, 0.4 0.0 0.4 financial results and individually set performance goals. Variable salary is Director maximized when the underlying goal result is exceeded by 25 percent. The Magnus Yngen, 0.3 0.1 0.4 portion of variable salary based on goals varies between two months of Director ­salary and 50 percent of basic salary. Erik Giertz, Director 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.6 Pension Mats Lönnqvist, 0.4 0.1 0.5 Pension agreements are to be defined contribution plans, if possible, and Director formulated in accordance with the level and practice applicable in the counChrister Zetterberg, 0.0 0.0 0.0 try in which the key management member is employed. Director The Group basically has only defined contribution pension plans for key management members. The pension expense refers to the cost that President 6.7 2.6 1.9 11.2 has impacted profit for the year. The retirement age for the President is 65 Other key manage8.1 2.8 2.1 13.0 years. The pension premium is to amount to 35 percent of pension-based ment members (2) salary. Pension-based salary consists of basic salary and the variable salary Total 21.3 7.3 4.0 0.1 32.7 paid in the most recent year. The retirement age for other key management members varies between 60 and 65 years. Basic remuneration for the 2013 financial year included expensed bonuses, which are paid in 2014. Key management members have a company car Period of notice and severance pay benefit amounting to SEK 0.5 M. The company does not have pension costs A six-month period of notice applies between the President and the company for board members. if the President resigns, and a 12-month period of notice if the company terminates his employment. When the company terminates the President’s Preparation and decision-making process for remuneration employment, the President will receive severance pay corresponding to 12 The formal work plan for the board states that remuneration paid to months of salary. Severance pay is not deducted from other income. If the the President and Executive Vice President is to be proposed by the President resigns, he receives no severance pay. Severance pay for other Remuneration Committee. This committee consists of the Executive key management members varies between six and 12 months of salary. Chairman, the Vice Chairman and two other board directors. Since the C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 8 5 Notes to the Financial Statements Annual General Meeting in 2013, these committee members have been Note 51. Definitions of key ratios Jan Eric Larson, Johan Markman, Mats Lönnqvist and Eric Giertz. EBIT margin (operating margin) Earnings before financial items, appropriations and taxes, as a percentage Audit Committee of sales. Board members serving on the Audit Committee included Johan Markman, Vice Chairman, and Mats Lönnqvist, Director. EBT margin (profit margin before tax) Earnings before tax, as a percentage of sales. Financial instruments Convertible debentures held by the President and other key management Equity ratio members are show below: Equity as a percentage of total assets. Number of convertible debentures Interest-bearing net debt President 8,000 Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and other interestOther key management members 66,400 bearing receivables, such as derivative financial instruments. Total 74,400 Debt-equity ratio (gearing ratio) The terms and conditions of the program are described in Note 42. Interest-bearing net liabilities as a percentage of equity. Note 50. Exchange rates Capital employed Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities including non-interest-bearing The following exchange rates were used when preparing the consolidated provisions. Average capital employed is calculated as capital employed at year-end accounts: January 1 plus capital employed at December 31 divided by two. Average Rate on Rate on rate closing Average closing Return on capital employed Currency date Currency rate date Profit after financial items plus financial expenses as a percentage of ­average capital employed. USD 6.5140 6.4142 GBP 10.1863 10.6061 EUR 8.6494 8.8358 CHF 7.0256 7.2069 Return on equity CAD 6.3259 6.0238 Profit after tax as a percentage of average equity. Average equity is calculated as equity at January 1 plus equity at December 31 divided by two. Investments Investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. The income statement and balance sheet were presented for adoption by the Annual General Meeting on March 25, 2014. Jan Eric Larson Johan Markman Magnus Yngen EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN VICE CHAIRMAN DIRECTOR AND PRESIDENT Eric Giertz Mats Lönnqvist Carl Wilhelm Ros Christer Stavström EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVE Our audit report was submitted on March 25, 2014. Carina Åkesson Mikael Winkvist AUTHORIZED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT AUTHORIZED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT C A M F I L 2013 / 86 Auditors' Report T O T HE AN N U AL ME E T I NG OF TH E S H A R E H OL D E R S OF C A M F IL A B Corporate identity number 556230-1266 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of of Camfil AB for the year 2013. The annual accounts and consoliDecember 31, 2013 and of their financial performance and cash dated accounts of the company are included in the printed version flows for the year then ended in accordance with International of this document on pages 38-86. Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President for the ­consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and annual accounts and consolidated accounts ­consolidated accounts. The Board of Directors and the President are responsible for We therefore recommend that the Annual Meeting of the preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts Shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for and consolidated accounts in accordance with International the Parent Company and the Group. Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board Report on other legal and regulatory requirements of Directors and the President determine is necessary to enable In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud the company’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board or error. of Directors and the President of Camfil AB for the year 2013. Responsibility of the auditors Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Directors and the President are responsible for administration on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. under the Companies Act. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance Responsibility of the auditors about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurfree from material misstatement. ance on the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit eviloss and on the administration based on our audit. We conducted dence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standand consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on ards in Sweden. the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ promaterial misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examaccounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk ined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions taken and company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the circumstances of the company in order to determine whether appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableany member of the Board of Directors or the President is liable ness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and to the company. We also examined whether any member of the the President, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Board of Directors or the President has, in any other way, acted in annual accounts and consolidated accounts. ­contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufthe Articles of Association. ficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is ­sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordOpinions ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all mateWe recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the rial respects, the financial position of the Parent Company as profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the of December 31, 2013 and of its financial performance and its statutory administration report and that the members of the cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Board of Directors and the President be discharged from liability Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared for the financial year. Stockholm, March 25, 2014 Carina Åkesson Mikael Winkvist AUTHORIZED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT AUTHORIZED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT C AM FI L 2 0 1 3 / 8 7 G r o u p M a n age m e n t Back row from left: Dan Larson Per Sporrong Johan Ryrberg Vice President Operations, Camfil. Vice President Group Sourcing. Executive Vice President and CFO, Employed by Camfil in 2008. Holds Employed by Camfil in 2002. Holds Camfil; Executive Vice President, 3,900 convertible debentures.* 1,900 convertible debentures.* Camfil AB. Employed by Camfil in 1995. Holds 25,000 convertible debentures.* Alain Bérard Jan-Erik Dantoft Senior Vice President Sales & Chief Technology Officer (CTO), Camfil. Magnus Yngen Marketing, Camfil. Employed by Camfil Employed by Camfil in 2012. Holds Chief Executive Officer, Camfil; in 1995. Holds 20,000 convertible 1,100 convertible debentures.* President, Camfil AB. Employed debentures.* by Camfil in 2013. Holds 8,000 convertible debentures.* Tomas Bräne Front row from left: Chief Information Officer (CIO), Camfil. Anders Sundvik Eva Bergenheim-Holmberg Employed by Camfil in 2011. Holds Vice President R&D, Camfil. Employed Vice President Human Resources 3,900 convertible debentures.* by Camfil in 2002. Holds 3,900 & Internal Communication, Camfil. convertible debentures.* Employed by Camfil in 2010. Holds Erik Markman 3,900 convertible debentures.* Vice President Project Management Office, Camfil. Employed by Camfil in 2009. Holds 3,900 convertible debentures.* Auditors: Carina Åkesson (b. 1959), Authorized Public Accountant, Öhrlings Pricewaterhouse Coopers AB. Elected Auditor for Camfil AB in 1995. Mikael Winkvist (b. 1962), Authorized Public Accountant, Öhrlings Pricewaterhouse Coopers AB. Elected Auditor for Camfil AB in 2012. *One convertible debenture is equal to one share upon conversion. 2013 / 88 C A M F I L 2012 Boa r d o f D i rec t o r s Jan Eric Larson, born 1947. Johan Markman, born 1949. Eric Giertz, born 1949. Executive Chairman. Elected to Camfil's Vice Chairman. Elected to Camfil's board Elected to Camfil's board in 1992. board in 1983. Chairman, Swede Ship in 1983. Chairman, Atteviks Bil, Trosa Professor in Industrial Economics and Marine. Board member, Trosa Stadshotell Stadshotell, Quickbutton and Recognus. Management at the Royal Institute of and various other Camfil companies. Holds Managing Director, Jungfrutomten. Board Technology (KTH) in Stockholm. Chairman, 2,965,000 shares. member, various Camfil subsidiaries KTH Executive School. Board member, and other ­companies. Holds 2,460,000 Einar Mattsson Byggnads AB. Member shares. of the Royal Academy of Engineering Sciences. Holds 2,300 convertible ­debentures.* Mats Lönnqvist, born 1954. Carl Wilhelm Ros, born 1941. Magnus Yngen, born 1958. Elected to Camfil´s board in 2000. Elected to Camfil's board in 1999. Chief Executive Officer, Camfil; President, Chairman, Evidensia Djursjukvård, Board member, INGKA (IKEA Holding) Camfil AB. Elected to Camfil’s board in Midstar Hotel Properties and Ovacon. AS. Member of the Royal Academy of 2012. Chairman, Sveba-Dahlen AB. Board Board member, Biolin Scientific, Bordsjö Engineering Sciences. Holds 2,300 member, Dometic Group AB, Duni AB Skogar, Payair Technologies, ­convertible debentures.* and Intrum Justitia. Holds 8,000 con­ Resolvator, Spendrups Bryggeri, vertible debentures.* Sveafastigheter Funds, Det Østasiatiske Kompagni and other companies. Holds 2,300 convertible bonds. Christer Stavström, born 1951. Employee representative on the board since 2012 (deputy member since 2001). Employee representative on the board of Camfil Svenska AB. Deputy Board Members: Dan Larson, born 1980. Holds 345,000 shares. Erik Markman, born 1978. Holds 345,000 shares. *One convertible debenture is equal to one share upon conversion. C AM FI L 2 0 1 2 / 8 9 F i v e Yea r S u m m a r y – C a m f i l G r o u p See Note 51 for definitions 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Income statement Net sales 4,906 4,865 4,851 4,575 4,503 Operating income 516 561 490 471 417 Profit after financial items 443 469 400 435 376 Tax -110 -128 -114 -124 -112 Profit for the year 332 341 286 311 264 Balance sheet Goodwill and other intangible assets 917 933 945 898 896 Property, plant and equipment 786 763 759 746 809 Financial assets 102 105 98 58 107 Inventories 986 960 760 558 583 Cash and cash equivalents 651 406 487 485 443 Other non-current assets 1,081 1,065 981 890 826 Assets 4,523 4,232 4,030 3,635 3,664 Equity 1,394 1,130 921 2,037 1,931 Interest-bearing liabilities 1,777 1,768 2,076 764 893 Interest-free liabilities 1,352 1,334 1,033 834 828 Equity and liabilities 4,523 4,232 4,030 3,635 3,664 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 442 363 319 385 617 Cash flow from investing activities -174 -82 -183 -136 -149 Cash flow from financing activities -16 -353 -133 -167 -244 Cash flow for the year 252 -72 3 82 225 Key ratios Operating margin, EBIT 10.5% 11.5% 10.1% 10.3% 9.3% Profit margin before tax, EBT 9.0% 9.6% 8.2% 9.5% 8.4% Equity ratio 31% 27% 23% 56% 53% Interest-bearing net liabilities 1,093 1,293 1,552 249 399 Net debt-equity ratio (gearing ratio) 78% 112% 168% 12% 21% Return on capital employed 20.3% 21.0% 21.7% 21.4% 17.4% Return on equity 26.1% 32.8% 19.3% 15.6% 13.9% Investments 175 195 163 134 163 Employees (average for the year) 3,507 3,428 3,484 3,346 3,249 C A M F I L 2013 / 90
