Operating with Integrity Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 A Summary In This Report Introduction 1 Chief Executive’s Message 2 Striking the right balance 2 Business Overview 4 Where we operate 4 Taking a long term view 6 Operating with integrity 8 Mapping our priorities 10 Focus on performance 13 Governance 16 Accountable to the core 16 Ethical business practices 18 People 22 People come first 22 Attracting and nurturing top talent 26 Environment 30 Minimising risks to the environment 30 Responsible exploration 32 Managing our footprint 36 Communities 40 Engaging for the long term 40 Supply Chain 44 Partners in excellence 44 Report Parameters 48 Skarfjell appraisal well, Norwegian North Sea, www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility Cairn has a 20% non-operated interest Introduction This report shows our commitment to managing and communicating about our Corporate Responsibility activities in an inclusive, responsive and transparent way In all our activities Cairn lives by the core values of: This report, ‘Operating with Integrity’, describes the central –– Building respect; role Corporate Responsibility (CR) plays in Cairn’s business. –– Nurturing relationships; and It covers our values, principles and policies towards our –– Acting responsibly. people, the environment, local communities and wider society, and shows how we manage the potential impacts of our activities on them. Cairn’s reporting process is in accordance with The AccountAbility Principles Standard (AA1000APS) which provides a framework for an organisation to identify, prioritise and respond to its sustainability challenges. The report is designed to give readers a clear insight into how we engage with internal and external stakeholders to identify and prioritise our most important CR issues, how we t Ac performed against these in 2013 and what objectives are c tin pe set for them in the next year. Case studies are included to esp illustrate how our approach affects people and the Buildin gr environment in the areas where we are active. The scope gr of this printed report focuses on Cairn’s operated assets onsibly es where we have control of CR policies and practices. We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake a limited assurance engagement over the selected CR performance data that has been marked in this Report with the symbol and the description of our adherence to the AA1000APS principles marked with the symbol . For more information, please see Nu page 48. rtu ips ring relationsh ‘Operating with Integrity’ together with further CR information found on our website at www.cairnenergy. com/responsibility is written to the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines and forms part of our commitment to act on, and report progress against, the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. During 2014, we plan to implement changes to meet GRI’s G4 reporting requirements and explore options for fully integrated reporting. Key audiences for this report include shareholders, governments and business partners, but all readers’ views are important to Cairn and we encourage comments and questions through the website at www.cairnenergy.com and by e-mail to CR.Mailbox@cairnenergy.com. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 01 Chief Executive’s Message Striking the right balance An entrepreneurial culture helps us secure opportunities and realise value; a culture of accountability ensures this is done safely and responsibly Our approach 2013 operational highlights Cairn’s goal is to contribute towards meeting the world’s For Cairn, 2013 was a year of completing transactions to energy needs. Through a balanced portfolio of exploration strengthen the portfolio and operational activity including and development, we want to create value while bringing seismic and site surveys, exploration and appraisal drilling. long-term social and economic benefits to the countries We contracted rigs for the 2013/14 exploration programme and communities we work with. in Morocco, Senegal and Republic of Ireland and embarked on a busy period of operated high-impact wells, commencing Our licence to do this hinges on being a safe and responsible with the Foum Draa exploration well in Morocco. Good operator and trusted partner. Our approach protects not progress was also made on the non-operated development of only people, communities and the environment but also the Kraken and Catcher Fields, on non-operated exploration our brand and reputation. It is consistent with our core and appraisal wells in the UK and Norway, and on new joint values of building respect, nurturing relationships and ventures in North West Africa. The Foum Draa exploration acting responsibly. well in Morocco has been plugged and abandoned, although we are encouraged that gas shows were encountered in the In our industry, health, safety, security and wellbeing of well and thereby confirmed an active petroleum system. people and the environment come first. That is why we The Juby Maritime well has been plugged and abandoned ensure we have robust processes and systems in place to without testing. protect people’s health, safety and security, prevent accidents and spills, and respond quickly and effectively With net cash at the end of 2013 of $1.3 billion, our strategy in the event of an incident. continues to focus on frontier and overlooked exploration opportunities which offer material growth potential on Our Corporate Responsibility approach is set out in our appropriate terms, with suitable equity levels reflective of Business Principles, CR Policies, Corporate Responsibility the company size, within a balanced sustainable portfolio. Management System (CRMS), and Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Culture Framework. As well as Business growth, joint ventures and drilling operations in conducting rigorous due diligence, Cairn works closely new geographies — including potentially sensitive frontier with partners, contractors and suppliers to promote environments — mean we have focused considerable and ensure our high standards are always upheld. attention on stringent risk management, due diligence and on-going social and environmental impact assessment, Enhancing CR in 2013 including on human rights. In the Cap Boujdour permit, for This year our Business Principles and CR policies were example, where we are partnering with Kosmos, Cairn refreshed, an updated CRMS was rolled out, and the believes that responsible resource development has the ‘materiality assessment’ was conducted at six month intervals potential to create significant social and economic benefits to identify and prioritise key CR issues. Our strong business for the region and its people. ethics and zero tolerance stance on bribery and corruption were reinforced through new procedures. In Senegal, we are collaborating with a specialist ethical business consultancy to put in place anti-bribery and As part of our commitment to raise awareness, a new HSE corruption procedures in local languages and to train staff. Culture Framework was rolled out to staff. High-level That ConocoPhillips has farmed into this venture is evidence engagement on HSE expectations was undertaken with that our approach is also valued by our business partners. We strategic contractors, reinforced by senior management are also in discussions with representatives of the local EITI tours. committee in Senegal on future transparency on payments. We continue to uphold and support the 10 principles of the Cairn’s reputation for responsible exploration is founded on United Nations Global Compact and in September 2013 our rigorous approach to well design, control, blow-out became a Participating Company on the Extractive Industry prevention and response capability, including membership Transparency Initiative (EITI). of Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL). I am very proud of our global track record in preparedness and I’m delighted to report that there were zero spills in 2013. 02 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Health, safety and environment During 2014, we will update our Code of Business Ethics, As three of our four most important material issues run anti-bribery and corruption refresher training and relate to protecting people’s health, safety and security further integrate our procedures to assess and manage and preventing major accidents and hydrocarbon spills, human rights in the project delivery process. embedding HSE has been a key priority throughout 2013. As we embark on this exciting new phase of exploration We were concerned that a number of contractor safety and appraisal, Cairn will continue to drive continuous incidents occurred during early stages of the Morocco improvement and help set the standard for CR in the drilling programme at the shore base and on the Transocean regions where we operate. By striking the right balance operated Cajun Express drilling unit. Together with the we aim to deliver value for all stakeholders both today contractor companies we undertook detailed investigations, and for the future. provided additional HSE resources, strengthened procedures and undertook specific training. Transocean also conducted a thorough review of the procedures in their planned maintenance system. As a member of the joint Transocean and Cairn senior management team that Simon Thomson visited the Cajun Express following these accidents, I was Chief Executive able to see for myself the steps being taken to improve procedures and took the opportunity to personally reinforce my commitment to safe operations. The lessons learned have been included in the preparations for our future shore base operations in Dakar and Republic of Ireland in 2014. We have worked hard to improve training and management systems used by local contractors who are less experienced in the rigour required when operating for our industry. Plans for 2014 Cairn plans nine wells in the 2014 exploration programme. Our operated exploration drilling will continue offshore Morocco and Senegal and appraisal drilling will take place offshore Republic of Ireland. Further non-operated exploration and appraisal drilling is planned offshore UK and Norway, while seismic activity and an exploration well are planned on the Cap Boujdour permit. On CR, our main focus this year will be to further strengthen HSE behaviours in line with our HSE Culture Framework among employees and contractors working for Cairn. Two key objectives are to implement our new HSE Contractor Management Procedures and Strategic Contractors Engagement Plan. Senior management will show continuing leadership to embed and boost the visibility of HSE, with particular emphasis on safety and security on operational drilling programmes. Following completion of our drilling programme, we will review the CRMS implementation to determine the lessons learned and how these can be applied in future operations. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 03 Business Overview Where we operate A targeted portfolio with multiple growth opportunities Our areas of focus Why we focus on these areas Cairn’s exploration strategy is focused on operated Cairn’s technical expertise combines experience exploration in frontier basins along the Atlantic Margin and in in emerging passive margin and rift basins with operational the Mediterranean. This frontier exploration is complemented capability in frontier areas, including arctic and deepwater by mature basin activity of mainly non-operated interests capability. The Atlantic margin, formed by the break-up in the UK and Norway. of a supercontinent millions of years ago, provides a range of underexplored but promising opportunities which suit Cairn’s operated exploration drilling programme over the the Company’s expertise. A number of other companies in next year targets various passive margin and rift basin play the industry including Chevron Corporation, Genel Energy types at a number of locations along the Atlantic Margin. PLC and Kosmos Energy are also pursuing exploration programmes in the region. Cairn is focused on high value, appropriate equity and acreage positions in areas which have follow-on potential and good commercial terms in the case of success, whether they be emerging plays in frontier basins or new play concepts in mature areas such as the North Sea. Frontier basins The Atlantic Margin Greenland Republic of Ireland Morocco Mauritania Activity in 2013 Activity in 2013 Activity in 2013 Activity in 2013 – Site survey – Preparation for – Exploration seismic – Farmed in as Non– Preparation for appraisal drilling – Site survey operator, assessing future drilling – Exploration drilling existing 3D seismic – Plugging and abandonment of wells 04 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary UK and Norwegian North Sea GREENLAND UK AND NORWAY REPUBLIC OF IRELAND Mediterranean The Atlantic Margin SPAIN MALTA MOROCCO MAURITANIA SENEGAL Atlantic Margin Mature basins Mediterranean UK and Norwegian North Sea Senegal Spain Malta UK and Norway Activity in 2013 Activity in 2013 Activity in 2013 Activity in 2013 – Site survey – Preparation for – Preparation for – Non-operated exploration and appraisal – Preparation for exploration 3D seismic exploration 2D seismic drilling and field development planning exploration drilling Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 05 Business Overview Taking a long term view Cairn complements technical skill with social and environmental consideration at every stage of the upstream oil and gas lifecycle Cairn helps to create, add and realise value for stakeholders, 4. Site survey but not at the expense of the safety of people and the Before commencing any drilling activity, site surveys are environment. As well as responsibly managing risks carried out to gain more detailed information on the area associated with our business, we take a long-term approach. where an exploration well may be drilled and to confirm that The diagram offers an overview of the stages of oil and gas the selected drilling location is safe and that any sensitive exploration and production. environments can be avoided. The process normally involves taking geological samples from the seabed and carrying out 1. Due diligence shallow seismic surveys. These activities have low social and Before making an acquisition or investment, applying for environmental impacts and, therefore, usually do not require an exploration licence or farming-in to an existing project, a separate environmental or social impact assessment. Cairn carries out an extensive risk screening process which includes assessing whether there are potential health and In 2013, we completed site surveys in advance of future safety, social, human rights, political, corruption, security or drilling campaigns offshore Morocco, Senegal and Greenland. environmental impacts. This is used in decision making on whether or not to proceed, and if investment goes ahead it 5. Exploration drilling informs approaches to risk management going forward. Exploration wells are drilled to determine whether oil or gas is present. This phase can be accompanied by a step-change We have undertaken a number of due diligence processes for in activity and visibility to local people as offshore exploration investment opportunities in 2013, including for interests can involve a drilling rig, supply vessels and helicopters for acquired offshore Morocco, Mauritania, Senegal and transporting personnel. Republic of Ireland. Exploration drilling is preceded by an assessment to 2. Prequalification understand potential health, safety, environmental, When we apply for an exploration licence, the necessary social, security and human rights impacts. This identifies documents are submitted to the relevant authorities. appropriate steps to reduce impacts and operate responsibly. Typically this includes information about our legal status, Limited community development programmes may also be financial capability, technical competence and plans to put into place at this time depending on the nature of the manage health, safety and environmental risks and programme. contributions to local economic development. In 2013, we undertook exploration drilling offshore Morocco, 3. Exploration seismic and expect to drill further exploration wells in Morocco and Once Cairn has been awarded the right to explore in a Senegal in 2014. As non-operator, we also participated in certain area, we may carry out seismic surveys to develop a exploration wells in the UK and Norwegian North Sea. picture of geological structures below the surface. This helps identify the likelihood of an area containing hydrocarbons. 6. Appraisal drilling Seismic surveys are usually preceded by an assessment of If promising amounts of oil and gas are confirmed during the environmental, social and human rights impacts which are exploration phase, field appraisal is used to establish the size managed through the Project Delivery Process (PDP). and characteristics of the discovery and to provide technical information to determine the optimum method for recovery During 2013, we completed a seismic survey offshore of the oil and gas. The potential impacts associated with Morocco, continued seeking approval for a survey offshore appraisal drilling are comparable to exploration drilling and Spain and began planning a seismic survey offshore Malta. similar assessments are carried out in advance. In 2013, appraisal drilling was undertaken on the Skarfjell discovery, for which Cairn is non-operator. In 2014, Cairn, as operator, and our joint venture (JV) partners intend to drill an appraisal well on the Spanish Point discovery. 06 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 7. Development 8. Production If appraisal wells show technically and commercially viable A variety of options are available for the production of oil and quantities of oil and gas, a development plan is prepared gas. During this phase, which can last many decades, regular and submitted to the relevant authorities for approval. This reviews are made of social and environmental performance includes a rigorous assessment of all the potential risks and a to ensure that impacts identified in the assessments are long-term assessment of environmental and social impacts mitigated. Changes in the risks associated with activities are covering a timeframe of between 10-30 years. The plan will assessed throughout the production period. also detail projected benefits to local communities, for example employment and supplier opportunities, as well as We currently have no operated production, but historically proposing how to manage potential impacts such as an influx had significant production through our involvement in Cairn of workers from outside the local community. India Limited (in which we held an ~10% interest at the end of 2013). Oil production from Cairn India brought social and We are participating, in a non-operator capacity, in two economic development to a number of regions in India, and is development projects, the Kraken and Catcher Fields in the described on Cairn India’s website at www.cairnindia.com. UK North Sea which when on stream will provide free cash flows to fund future activities. 8 n tio uc od Pr nt 7 me lo p ve De 6 al ais pr Aplling i dr 5 on ati p lo r Ex lling i dr 4 y rve e su Sit 3 on ati p lo r Ex smic i se Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 07 Business Overview Operating with integrity Cairn Energy’s approach to managing Corporate Responsibility links our core values to everyday practice Global context and the requirement to manage potential social and Our goal is to contribute towards meeting the world’s environmental impacts. energy needs as safely as we can, and to achieve this, we have comprehensive systems in place to manage At an estimated 9 billion by 2050, the world’s population activities responsibly. requires energy to improve quality of life and drive growth. By taking a safe and environmentally sensitive approach to As with all global corporations, the sustainable development oil and gas exploration, Cairn is helping to supply the energy opportunities and risks affecting our business include needed for development until technological innovation population growth, emerging economies, climate change can deliver a low-carbon economy. Responsibility PLC Board PLC Board PLC Board Management Management Team Team Core Values Business CR Policies HSE Management Principles Culture Systems and Framework Corporate Building Health, Procedures Respect Safety & Security Policy Corporate Responsibility Management System Nurturing Environmental Relationships Policy Business Risk Management System Acting Corporate Responsibly Social Responsibility Anti Bribery Policy & Corruption Management System Executive Team Executive Executive Team HSE Audit Committee Team Leadership Risk Management Team Committee Assurance provision 08 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary As pressure on natural resources increases globally, us to respond to global business and sustainable earning and maintaining our licence to operate is a priority development drivers. for Cairn. Throughout our work, we consider the views of key stakeholders and aim to deliver lasting socio-economic Cairn has an HSE Culture Framework, which stipulates benefits to the areas where we operate, while minimising the types of behaviours to be adopted by everyone to disturbance to the environment. Our management systems, ensure a healthy and safe working environment. It is a processes and deliverables help to ensure that Cairn reference point for all our activities. During 2013, it was operates with integrity, everywhere. strengthened and rolled out to staff in the Edinburgh, Stavanger and London offices. Managing Corporate Responsibility (CR) at Cairn Cairn’s Project Delivery Process (PDP) ensures that the In Cairn’s business, protecting health, safety, security and business model and Business Principles work on the ground. the wellbeing of people and the environment takes priority. It comprises a five stage gated approach, in which each stage The graphic below shows how our values, principles and of a project is assessed and criteria met before moving on management systems embed good business practices to to the next. In common with Cairn’s entire CR Management deliver safe operations. It also identifies responsibilities for System, the PDP is designed to reduce risks in line with the each element and for providing assurance that the processes ‘As Low As Reasonably Practicable’ (ALARP) principle, an have been applied effectively. This approach helps equip industry-wide approach to evaluating and minimising risk. Management Team Asset Management Asset Asset Management Management Functional Department Heads Project Project Training and Monitoring Delivery Why Deliverables Awareness & Reporting Process Procedures How Risk and impact assessments Ready Management plans Finished Emergency response Learn plans HSE Leadership Project Gatekeepers Functional Department Heads Management Functional Team Functional Department Heads Risk Management Committee Team Department Corporate Corporate Heads Team Team External report and assurance Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 09 Business Overview Mapping our priorities A robust process helps Cairn to identify the topics that matter most to the business and stakeholders Identifying Cairn’s most important topics In 2013, the prioritisation of our most important issues was Cairn’s strategy is to provide investors with exposure to carried out during a materiality workshop attended by senior material growth potential alongside mature basin management, facilitated by a third party and monitored by an development and pre-development assets, all against a external CR expert. The outcomes and their importance to backdrop of balance sheet strength. Our business activities Cairn and our stakeholders were mapped onto a materiality and associated impacts change, so it is essential that CR matrix shown opposite. issues are reassessed regularly to reflect this. We use a method called a materiality assessment to identify the issues Twelve key CR topics most important to our stakeholders and business. The Cairn’s key issues inform CR strategy, objectives, risk process is based on the AccountAbility AA1000APS management and how we communicate performance model, an internationally recognised framework developed by AccountAbility. The materiality workshop is used as part of an on-going reassessment of our key issues. The 12 priority CR areas The process involves establishing a range of relevant of high importance to our stakeholders and high importance existing and emerging topics, which are then assessed and to Cairn identified at the end of 2013 are similar to those prioritised according to their significance to the business and identified in 2012. Non-operated joint ventures, human to stakeholders. The wide range of CR issues is generated rights and exposure through the supply chain and from our understanding of the oil and gas sector and our contractors moved up in priority during 2013. Equality experience at the locations where we operate, as well as and diversity, local communities and political changes interactions with stakeholders and participation in industry at home were considered slightly less significant. bodies. Stakeholders include governments, local communities, joint venture partners, investors, contractors, The twelve issues below form the basis of this 2013 report suppliers, employees, non-governmental organisations and will be the focus of our CR management in 2014. How (NGOs) and the media. we measure and manage them, as well as the majority of topics identified as ‘significant’, is described in subsequent sections of this report. For more detail refer to the website at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. 1. Preventing a major accident event The prevention of any accident is Cairn’s key focus and the Company implements rigorous risk management during the planning and execution of activities. See pages 22-29, ‘People come first.’ 2. Protecting health, safety, environment and security In Cairn’s business, protecting health, safety, security and the wellbeing of people and the environment is emphasised in all day to day activities. See pages 22-29 ‘People come first’. Cajun Express 3. Preventing major spills In April 2013 Cairn contracted the ‘Cajun Express’ drilling unit from Transocean for Cairn’s planned multi-well frontier exploration Preventing spills is critically important and is a key feature programme in Morocco and Senegal. of Cairn’s risk mitigation programme. See pages 32-35 ‘Responsible exploration’. KPMG LLP has provided limited assurance over two selected sets of information in this Report: 1) The description of Cairn Energy’s adherence to the AA1000 4. Business ethics AccountAbility Principles Standard (‘AA1000APS’) (2008) principles Cairn’s ability to secure licences and deliver operations of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness marked with the symbol in effectively depends on robust business ethics and the Report. transparent relationships with governments, communities, 2) Key performance indicators marked with the symbol in the Report. See www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility for KPMG’s partners and suppliers globally. See pages 18-21 ‘Ethical Assurance Opinion. business practices’. 10 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 2013 Year End Materiality Matrix a High • Non-operated JV or investment overseas • Exposure through supply chain and contractors • Deep water  reventing major accident event •P • Protecting health, safety, environment • Staff recruitment/retention drilling and security • Succession planning • Preventing major spills • Political changes (host governments) • Business ethics Significant •N  et social • Industry cooperation • Biodiversity • Operating and economic • Operational effectiveness in Arctic Importance to Cairn benefits • Sustainable project funding • Governance • Strategy and agility and transparency • New technology • Fuel/energy efficiency • Effluents and • Corporate waste • Equality and diversity governance • Tax • Non-operated JV and partnerships Medium (Mature areas) • Trans-boundary • Local community, social •H  uman rights environmental and economic investment impact • Remuneration • Political changes (Home) • Managing local • Noise expectations Low • Climate change • Charitable giving • Resource use • Water use •F  uture field development impacts • Product stewardship Ins. Ins. Low Medium Significant High Importance to Cairn’s Stakeholders 5. Net social and economic benefit well control and blow-out prevention in drilling operations. Strong relationships based on mutual trust are central to Cairn applies the same uncompromising well design Cairn’s on-going business success, and the Company aims approach, with an emphasis on prevention, to all categories to deliver lasting value to all Cairn’s stakeholders. See pages of water, whether shallow or deep. See pages 32-35, 40-43 ‘Engaging for the long term’ and 44-47 ‘Partners ‘Responsible exploration’. in excellence’. 10. Operating in the Arctic 6. Governance and transparency Cairn is operating in Greenland at the invitation of its Cairn is committed to good governance and openness in all Government, which aims to develop its natural resources aspects of business. This includes decision-making processes, for the benefit of its people. See pages 32-35, reporting on performance and tax payments as well as how ‘Responsible exploration’. the Company manages human rights and anti-bribery and corruption. See pages 18-21, ‘Ethical business practices’. 11. Exposure through supply chain and contractors Many of Cairn’s operational activities are carried out 7. Corporate governance by contractors and suppliers. Their CR approach and Cairn’s commitment to rigorous corporate governance performance must meet the Company’s own standards. standards, and living by them, is critical. See pages 16-17, See pages 44-47, ‘Partners in excellence’. ‘Accountable to the core’. 12. Non-operated joint venture and investment 8. Human rights management overseas Meeting the responsibility to respect human rights is Due diligence is a key component of Cairn’s approach to essential to the development and maintenance of effective assessing investment opportunities. Cairn is a partner in a relationships with workers and the communities in which number of joint ventures and aims to work closely with joint Cairn operates. See pages 18-21, ‘Ethical business practices’. venture partners to assure ourselves that they apply CR approaches which are consistent with our own. Cairn also 9. Deep water drilling acts as a responsible minority shareholder in dealings with Cairn’s reputation for responsible exploration in shallow or Cairn India. See pages 18-21, ‘Ethical business practices’. deep water rests upon a rigorous approach to well design, Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 11 Business Overview Mapping our priorities Continued Stakeholder engagement When identifying Cairn’s most important issues, we pay For a new project or country entry we identify stakeholders close attention to the concerns of stakeholders, engaging by drawing on local, corporate and external knowledge, and with them regularly to learn directly about their priorities. prioritise them by assessing their potential to influence, and be impacted by, our activities. For an in-country example of Our stakeholder engagement model follows the how we engage with stakeholders, see the case study ‘An AccountAbility principles of materiality, inclusivity and invitation to participate in Senegal’ on page 31. responsiveness as defined in the AA1000APS. Stakeholders’ interests vary and Cairn uses a range of communications Further illustrations of Cairn responsiveness to stakeholder channels to satisfy them, as shown in the table below. Taking interests can be found in the article ‘Engaging for the long into account the material issues and concerns raised by term’ on pages 40-41, and detailed information is available stakeholders through the year we develop a road map, on our website at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. objectives and a strategy to address concerns. ‘Focus on performance’ on the opposite page provides more detail. Stakeholder Key interests Sample types of engagement Investors –– Strategy and performance –– Annual, half-year and CR reports –– Good corporate governance and –– Investor road shows risk/opportunity management –– Responding to investor and investment research enquiries –– Operational updates Governments and –– Legal compliance –– Annual and CR reports regulators –– Well integrity, risk management and –– Exploration permit applications contingency planning –– Compliance monitoring –– Employment and revenue generation –– Impact Benefit Agreement –– Applications to carry out operations –– Safety cases Business partners –– CR policies and approach to CR –– Annual and CR reports and peers performance –– New business opportunity due diligence –– Industry reputation –– Partner meetings –– Industry best-practice procedures –– Membership of and participation in OGP, OSRL and guidance and national industry bodies –– Joint Industry Projects –– Multi Operator Studies Contractors and –– Long-term relationships –– Commercial relationships suppliers –– Opportunities for growth –– Contractor close-out reviews –– Meeting CR standards and other –– Annual and CR reports business requirements –– Prequalification assessments and contractor audits –– Senior executive meetings –– Training and briefings –– Placement of HSE Advisers Communities –– Protection of environment and –– Consultation meetings, as part of Environmental livelihoods and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) –– Access to employment opportunities –– Skills development investment programmes –– Community development –– Community investment programmes NGOs1 –– Approach to CR issues –– Website content –– Working in frontier locations –– Meetings with local NGOs as part of ESIA consultations –– Operational risk management and –– Responses to written enquiries contingency planning Note 1: In 2011, certain Greenpeace organisations breached security and occupied Cairn’s offices. While Cairn fully respects the rights of individuals and organisations to express their views in a safe and peaceful manner we are concerned with any action that represents a breach of security and that may pose a risk to the safety of our people and/or equipment. In response to the Greenpeace occupation, Cairn obtained court enforceable undertakings that had the effect of preventing Greenpeace UK and Greenpeace Limited from carrying out similar actions in the future. In 2013 the court upheld the undertakings towards certain Greenpeace UK organisations; however, it decided not to uphold the interim order against Stitching Greenpeace Council (Greenpeace International). Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. 12 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Business Overview Focus on performance Being transparent about achievements and challenges helps drive continuous improvement Cairn’s continuous improvement ethos helps drive our the CR related Group KPIs reported on pages 24-29 of the Business Principles into action. We develop annual business Annual Report. performance objectives and targets, including those related to CR, and measure and report performance against these. Progress against 2013 CR objectives They are set by considering the issues most important to The table below summarises the CR objectives that we the business, progress we aspire to make through CR set in 2013 and the progress we have made against these road maps, feedback from stakeholders and improvements objectives. A more detailed breakdown is provided on the identified through the Annual Management Review process. Cairn website at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. Corporate CR objectives and KPIs support delivery of Key: 2013 CR objective Progress at 2013 year end Approach to 1. Complete development –– 7 CRMS roll-out workshops attended by 100% of members of Executive managing health, of the updated Group Team, Management Team and Corporate Team safety and CRMS and supporting –– ~50% of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) prepared and guidance on environment procedures, and provide biodiversity and climate change drafted KPI achieved by 2013 year end training in its use –– All actions from 2012 annual Management Review completed during 2013 2. Review and update the –– Cairn became a Participating Company of EITI on 6th September 2013 Group CR Policies and –– Updated CR Policies and Business Principles issued in mid September Business Principles Behaving responsibly 3. Complete anti-bribery –– Independent review of ABC due diligence approach completed on two in all our business and corruption (ABC) projects; findings presented to members of senior management relationships refresher training and –– ABC Business Partners and Supply Chain Due Diligence procedures updated monitor its implementation 4. Enhance HSE/CR –– 2013 Annual and CR Reports issued on 16th April 2013 communications to –– Gap analysis completed against G4 requirements and road map developed external stakeholders for its implementation in 2014 KPI partially achieved by 2013 5. Implement new –– Implemented new procedures to enhance consideration of HSE contractor management in tender process procedures –– Identified and engaged with contractors with significant influence on the management of HSE risk to Cairn’s operated activities year end Behaving responsibly 6. Provide training in –– Training session held with 50% of CR and HR practitioners towards society and updated human rights communities procedures Behaving responsibly 7. Implement –– Middle management training completed in January 2013 towards our people management and –– Enhanced succession planning process being implemented other staff training –– New induction process which incorporates an e-learning module for programmes HSES drafted – to be rolled out in Q1 2014 8. Roll out the HSE –– Conducted series of workshops to roll out HSE Culture Framework to KPI not met by 2013 year end Culture Framework 79% of staff and enhance CR –– Developed communication plan to raise HSE visibility, which will be communications to staff implemented in Q1 2014 Behaving responsibly 9. Update our approach –– Review undertaken of developments on climate change and amendments towards the to climate change included in updated Business Principles environment –– Climate change questions/deliverables prepared for each stage of PDP for new country entry and construction projects 10. Refresh our approach –– Biodiversity Framework and Guidelines prepared – to be rolled out in to biodiversity Q2 2014 Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 13 Business Overview Focus on performance Continued 2014 CR objectives and KPIs The CR objectives we are setting for 2014, to address the priority topics as assessed by our latest materiality process, are summarised below. The 2014 CR KPIs will be used to measure our progress in 2014 against our objectives. Proposed 2014 CR objectives Key priority topics addressed 2014 CR KPIs HSE integration into business activities: The Group CRMS aims to provide clear and effective processes and tools to manage CR risks. Each year we aim to raise its accessibility to all staff, and to adjust it to reflect industry developments, stakeholder feedback and the assessment of its effectiveness through the annual management review process. 1. Group CR Management System: –– Benchmark CRMS against OGP Operating Management –– Protecting health, safety, –– Raise awareness of CR System guidance once issued environment and security procedures to all Heads –– Finalise and roll out SOPs and updated guidance –– Preventing major accident event of Departments and –– Externally verify Environmental Management System –– Preventing major spills relevant staff –– Complete actions from 2013 Management Review –– Human rights –– Risk assessments and briefings for travellers to –– Develop checklist for scoping CR deliverables in the PDP –– Non-operated JV or ‘high risk’ countries investments overseas –– Risk registers to be –– Exposure through supply chain maintained through all and contractors stages of the PDP on 2014 projects 2. CR Policies and Business Principles: –– Review and update the Group CR Policies and Business –– Protecting health, safety, No 2014 KPI set Principles environment and security –– Corporate governance Behaving responsibly in all our business relationships: Behaving honestly, fairly and with integrity is at the core of our Business Principles and is central to our interactions with stakeholders. This is vital to protect and maintain our reputation for ethical business practices. These objectives aim to build on our respectful culture, promote transparency, advocate good standards and embed our zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. 3. Anti-bribery and corruption: –– Update the ABC MS and Code of Business Ethics and run ABC –– Business ethics No 2014 KPI set refresher training –– Corporate governance –– Develop and implement local ABC procedures in Senegal and –– Governance and transparency Morocco and monitor compliance 4. HSE/CR Communications: –– Deliver CR content for 2013 Annual and CR Reports –– Protecting health, safety, –– Reporting CR –– Implement data and information collection for 2014 CR Report environment and security performance and to meet new reporting requirements, including G4 and –– Corporate governance approach to Board integrated reporting –– HSE messages at –– Roll out new web-based HSE induction to reinforce key staff meetings HSE messages –– New web-based HSE induction provided to new staff and consultants/ contractors 5. Contractor management: –– Develop and implement Strategic Contractors Engagement –– Protecting health, safety, –– Implementation of and Performance Management process environment and security Performance –– Exposure through supply chain Management programme and contractors for strategic contractors 14 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Proposed 2014 CR Objectives Key priority topics addressed 2014 CR KPIs Behaving responsibly towards society and communities: Our operations can affect the social and economic environment of the communities where we operate. We aim to improve the consistency of our approach to stakeholder engagement and to the management of potential social impacts, to uphold respect for human rights and to maintain effective relationships with workers, contractors and the communities in which we operate. 6. Human rights: –– Apply procedure for assessing and managing human rights in –– Human rights –– Address human rights risks our business through the PDP –– Corporate governance and actions through the stages of PDP process on projects 7. Communities and social investments: –– Develop and implement SOPs and guidance for local –– Net social and economic benefit No 2014 KPI set community investment –– Governance and transparency 8. Stakeholder engagement: –– Address findings from 2013 stakeholder engagement –– Governance and transparency –– Steps taken to engage with internal audit –– Exposure through supply chain local staff/contractors in and contractors overseas offices and bases 9. Transparency of tax payments: –– Develop and implement procedure to enable open and –– Governance and transparency No 2014 KPI set transparent disclosure of tax payments or other government contributions Behaving responsibly towards our people: We use the skills and knowledge of our people to give us a competitive advantage and deliver performance. These objectives build on programmes to enhance the capabilities of our people and create an effective HSE culture. 10. Training/development: –– Roll out revised approach to performance management –– Succession planning No 2014 KPI set –– Implement actions from 2013 Staff Engagement Survey –– Staff recruitment/ retention –– Improve recruitment and selection processes and management development programmes 11. HSE culture and communications: –– Implement further initiatives to strengthen behaviours in line –– Protecting health, safety, –– Steps taken to further with the HSE Culture Framework environment and security embed the HSE Culture –– Further enhance internal CR communications –– Preventing a major accident event Framework in the –– Preventing major spills organisation Behaving responsibly towards the environment: We recognise that exploration, development and production activities may have an impact on the environment. The CRMS defines the approach to assessing, managing and monitoring our environmental risks and helps us to manage the issues identified as important to stakeholders. 12. Climate change: –– Monitor developments on climate change and amend strategy –– Protecting health, safety, –– Address climate change accordingly environment and security risks and actions through –– Corporate governance the stages of the PDP process on projects 13. Biodiversity: –– Roll-out and apply the new approach to biodiversity –– Protecting health, safety, –– Address biodiversity risks through the PDP environment and security and actions through the –– Corporate governance stages of the PDP process on projects Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 15 Governance Accountable to the core Strong governance generates trust and ensures consistent global performance standards Good governance means good business the areas of human rights, labour, environment and Cairn’s licence to operate depends on transparent anti-corruption. These Business Principles were updated relationships with governments, communities, partners, most recently in September 2013 to reflect the expectations shareholders and suppliers globally. Therefore commitment of our stakeholders and to strengthen the Company’s to high standards of corporate governance, and living by commitments to anti-bribery and corruption, biodiversity them, is critical. and climate change management. Cairn also became a Participatory Company to the Extractive Industries Risk management is a guiding theme for every decision we Transparency Initiative (EITI) in September 2013. Our make and is comprehensively applied across the business. Business Principles and CR policies are available on our The Board sets the Group Risk Appetite and monitors the website at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. effectiveness of our risk management process. They will be reviewed again in 2014, and issued before the end of September this year. CR at Board level Our Board takes ultimate responsibility for Cairn’s Group Corporate Responsibility Business Principles and CR policies, while our Management Management System (CRMS) Team ensures that all work programmes are executed Behaving honestly, fairly and with integrity is an important responsibly and that risk management is fully integrated. CR part of continually improving our business performance. performance is a standing agenda item at 100% of Board The CRMS helps to ensure that our operations, exploration meetings and CR considerations through the due diligence and development activities are undertaken safely and in line process, are integrated into 100% of investment proposals with our Business Principles and policies. Aligned with submitted for a Board decision. international standards such as ISO 26000 Guidelines for Social Responsibility and the International Association of In addition, key or emerging issues may merit particular Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) industry guidance, the consideration. In 2013, special presentations were made CRMS provides the framework effectively to manage CR to the Board regarding Cairn’s approach to well control, requirements and risks wherever we operate. In 2013, Cairn an update on ABC, the Cap & Secure Services, and the completed the roll-out of the updated CRMS via seven Cajun Express rig acceptance criteria. Findings from the workshops to all senior staff. During the year, we aimed to investigation into the November 2013 lost time injury on update all of our SOPs; 50% of these were prepared in 2013, the Cajun Express, the rig engaged for our operated well and guidance on biodiversity and climate change has also programme in Morocco, were shared. Senior management been drafted. from Transocean, the Cajun Express contractor, presented their approach to managing HSE on the rig. To fully understand how the CRMS is embedded, and how it is used to manage the health, safety and security of staff and The HSE Leadership Team is chaired by Jann Brown, the contractors as well as our social and environmental impacts, Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer. It provides please refer to the graphic on pages 08-09 of this report. oversight on our approach and performance on all health, safety, environmental, security and human rights matters. Outlook Its members include a number of senior managers from Following completion of the drilling programme in Morocco, across the business representing executive, corporate and Senegal and Republic of Ireland, Cairn will undertake a operational responsibilities. follow-up review of the application of the CRMS, its implementation and lessons learned. Our Environmental Business Principles and CR policies Management System (EMS) will be externally assured and we Cairn’s Business Principles, which are based on the core will also benchmark our CRMS against an approved version values of building respect, nurturing relationships and acting of the OGP Operating Management System when guidance responsibly (the 3Rs), define our approach to everything we is issued. Further objectives include completing any actions do. Our Business Principles spell out our commitment to the coming out of Cairn’s 2013 Management Review and UN Global Compact through which we align our operations developing a checklist for scoping CR deliverables in the PDP. and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. 16 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Robust risk management Non-operated joint ventures Governments invite Cairn to participate in exploration As part of our investment proposal due diligence we carry activity and set the standards for our operations. As well as out checks on all aspects of CR and commission third party applying our own requirements and meeting international and peer reviews where appropriate. Whether it is joint industry standards, such as those developed by OGP, we venture partners who are operating on Cairn’s behalf, commit to meeting or exceeding the host government’s or suppliers, Cairn reviews their CR approach and track regulatory stipulations where possible. Cairn’s Risk record to ensure they operate to acceptable standards. Our Management System, CRMS, performance standards approach to human rights and anti-bribery and corruption and gated PDP, in which each stage of a project is checked screening for reviewing investment opportunities is before proceeding to the next, are designed to reduce described in ‘Ethical business practices‘ on pages 18-21. risks in line with the ‘As Low As Reasonably Practicable’ (ALARP) principle. Remuneration Cairn’s Remuneration Committee is responsible for Ensuring operational integrity determining the remuneration policy for key senior staff. Robust risk management helps to prevent accidents and Remuneration is dealt with in depth in the Directors’ associated lost time. To protect the health, safety and Remuneration Report section of the 2013 Annual Report. security of our staff and contractors as well as safeguarding In recognition of the importance given to HSE performance, the environment, we audit suppliers’ vessels, rigs and the Remuneration Committee has assigned a 10% weighting equipment as part of the tender process. Before operations in the Group 2014 KPIs to delivery of the 10 HSE KPIs and a begin, we also review their monitoring, inspection and further 5% weighting to delivery of safety and environmental maintenance procedures. Any shortfalls are reported and targets. Performance against Group 2014 KPIs will be a remedial actions followed up before operations begin. criterion for assessing the annual discretionary bonus. Governance and transparency 100 % 100% 100% Cairn’s reputation for sound governance rests on making well informed and carefully considered decisions. When 80 % we enter a new country, our due diligence process starts with a thorough country risk assessment. We evaluate 60 % the commercial, legal, political, regulatory, health, safety, environmental, security and human rights issues and how 40 % best to manage these. In addition, technical and economic challenges and potential business partners involved in an 20 % investment opportunity are assessed. 0% Board meetings considering CR issues Investment Proposals that cover results Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. of CR due diligence The Board of Directors Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 17 Governance Ethical business practices Cairn requires everyone in the Company, our partners and suppliers to respect human rights and behave honestly, fairly and with integrity at all times Essential for business Prior to farming in to the Cap Boujdour permit we undertook For sound business reasons, Cairn has an established a detailed review of Kosmos’ Business Principles and the commitment to ethical business practices in all areas extensive analysis carried out by Kosmos and its advisers of operation. The topic forms part of every employee’s of the political, legal and human rights situation. Kosmos has induction process, and all staff sign our Code of Business signed a joint declaration of principles with Morocco’s Office Ethics. No infringements of the Code of Business Ethics National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines (ONHYM) stating were identified in 2013. that exploration and production will comply with the principles of the Moroccan constitution and international Human rights standards, including the United Nations Charter. This Respecting human rights is critical to the development and requires local populations to be involved and consulted and maintenance of effective relationships with the communities stipulates that they will benefit equitably from exploration where we operate. This is particularly important as we enter and production. Kosmos also stated its commitment to into a number of new geographical areas and emerging protecting the environment and complying with sustainable markets where legislation, or the implementation of development requirements. legislation, to protect rights such as labour rights, working conditions and health and safety are developing. Cairn’s five-step Human Rights procedure: Cairn supports the principles in the Universal Declaration Identify potential and actual human of Human Rights and the United Nations Global Compact. Our ‘rights aware approach’ is aligned with the Guiding 1 rights impacts Principles on Business and Human Rights. 2 Plan, integrate and act 3 Monitor, measure and track findings 4 Communicate and report Human rights due diligence We apply human rights screening as part of the due 5 Evaluate and review diligence process before entering a country as an operator, for example in Senegal and Morocco. When considering a non-operated joint venture, we identify and check any human rights issues that arise through the investment proposal due diligence and establish any risks requiring management by the Operator (be that Cairn or another) before proceeding. CR and HR practitioners trained on human rights policies and procedures 50% This figure is calculated using the number of CR and HR practitioners in place at the end of 2013. 69% of global CR and HR practitioners at the time of the workshop received training, however this percentage fell because of additional personnel recruited throughout the year. Cajun Express Onboard the ‘Cajun Express’ drilling unit. Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. 18 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Activities in 2013 Cairn’s Human Rights Guidelines and procedures were Since its implementation in 2011, Cairn has undertaken updated in 2012, taking into account industry guidance from internal and external reviews of the ABC management the global oil and gas industry association for environmental system to strengthen it. In Q2 2013, we implemented a and social issues (IPIECA) and draft EU sector guidance on review by external legal advisers of the ABC due diligence business and human rights. During 2012, 67% of employees process on two new business transactions to determine were trained in these updated Guidelines. In 2013, 50% of the lessons learned. These have been subsequently CR and HR practitioners were trained. incorporated into the Business Partners and Supply Chain ABC due diligence procedures. The findings from this review In 2013, the output from human rights screening were also presented to members of the Executive Team, the assessments provided input to the scoping of the Management Team and the Corporate Team. Our work with Environmental and Social Impact Assessments suppliers and business partners is described in further carried out for the Morocco and Senegal projects. detail on pages 44-47. During 2014, we will further focus on applying the procedure As shown in the graph overleaf, all staff were trained in our for assessing and managing human rights in the business updated anti-corruption policies and procedures when they through the stages of the Project Delivery Process including were rolled out 2012. In 2013 new staff were trained. provisions to address human rights in our relationships with suppliers and contractors. Additionally a session was held with members of the Supply Chain Department to identify how the process of ABC Anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) assessments of suppliers during the tender process can be Cairn operates with integrity and has a zero tolerance enhanced. The relevant procedure will be updated during approach to bribery and corruption. Country and Companyearly 2014. level ABC risk screening forms an important part of the decision making process when entering new countries or In Senegal, Cairn is taking the additional step of working negotiating with potential partners and major suppliers. with the business ethics specialist Good Corporation, whose This is both a legal requirement and critical to our reputation standard we used to inform an ABC risk assessment. We as a business. In 2013, one business opportunity was not are translating our ABC policies and procedures into local pursued as a result of ABC concerns that were identified languages and will be training Senegalese staff in Q1 2014. during the risk screening. In 2014, we will update our ABCMS and Code of Business Our Group Code of Business Ethics and ABC Management Ethics and will run ABC refresher training. In-country risk System (ABCMS) guide our own behaviour and clarify assessments in Morocco and Senegal will be completed to our expectations of partners and suppliers. Before entering assess compliance with our procedures. into a business relationship, we work through a process of information gathering and risk identification to flag up any potential bribery and corruption issues. If concerns arise, a third party check is undertaken. The purpose of this research and assessment is to establish whether potential ABC issues are manageable and if any resulting risks lie within our criteria for acceptable risk. Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 19 Governance Ethical business practices Continued Employees trained on Cairn’s human rights policies Transparency and procedures Cairn’s shareholders expect clear insights into the business (%) and we keep them informed via the Company website, regulatory reports and regular meetings with institutional investors. 100 Transparency about tax contributions and other payments 80 to governments are two specific areas of interest to 67% stakeholders. The Group operates in various different 60 territories with diverse tax obligations and requirements and it ensures that in every territory it is committed to complying 40 fully with local tax rules and regulations. Additionally the Group has adopted a policy to ensure that any tax planning 20 4% activity is always aligned with the commercial reality. 0 2012 2013 We have been explicit since 2005 in our support for the % employees trained principles of the EITI, a multi-stakeholder initiative aimed at bringing transparency to payments to governments Note: from mineral or oil and gas extraction. We disclose these In 2013 this included 50% of CR and HR practitioners. payments voluntarily and detail amounts paid in various geographies over five years in the graph opposite. Our commitment to transparency of payments was strengthened Employees trained on Cairn’s anti-corruption policies and and formalised in 2013, when we became a Participating procedures Company in the EITI. (%) 100 100% 80 79% 60 40 27% 20 0 2011 2012 2013 % employees trained Note: All Cairn employees have been trained in Cairn’s anti-corruption policies & procedures but these are the figures for employees who received training in the reporting year. Public consultation In 2013 Cairn toured the Baffin Bay area of North West Greenland in preparation for possible drilling, subject to approvals. Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. 20 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary In January 2014, Cairn received a request from the Indian Regulatory approval for Cairn’s activities is often granted Income Tax Department to provide information in relation to by host governments subject to specified conditions and, the year ended 31 March 2007. The correspondence in accordance with our CRMS, we maintain compliance indicates that the enquiry stems from amendments registers to monitor activities and ensure compliance introduced in the 2012 Indian Finance Act with retrospective with these conditions. effect which seek to tax prior year transactions. While the interactions with the Indian Income Tax Department At a corporate level, oversight was provided in 2013 by continue, Cairn has been restricted from selling its shares in the Group HSE, Risk and Compliance Department. Peer CIL (valued at US$1.0 billion as at 31 December 2013). This review, benchmarking against standards, government matter is addressed further in the Financial Review in the audits and appraisals from potential lenders also provided Annual Report. valuable external corroboration. Whistle-blowing Employees are encouraged to report any infringements they Total payments to host governments come across using the Whistle-blowing Procedure, which (US$’000) was updated in late 2012. Anyone with a concern would in 20,000 the first instance contact their regional director or head of 15,364 1 department, and if not satisfied can raise it with the legal 16,000 department. A confidential whistle-blower line is available and all cases are followed up. In 2013, there were no cases 12,000 7,544 reported of potential infringements of the Code of 11,730 6,103 Business Ethics. 8,000 3,098 139 5,439 Monitoring and checking 4,000 4,569 Safety comes first at all times. At an operational level, 869 regional directors are accountable for all activities within 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 a given region, while HSE personnel are responsible for Payments to central government Payments to state/local government assisting in compliance with regulations, obtaining permits and developing and implementing asset-specific plans. Profit oil and gas Corporation tax Other taxes Employees are encouraged to be vigilant about reporting any actual or potential risks at any time. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 21 People People come first In Cairn’s business, the health, safety, security and wellbeing of people are a priority Key HSE action points in 2014 1 Further enhance CR 2 Strengthen behaviour 3 Continue to improve internal Management System in line with HSE HSE /CR communications Culture Framework Focus on safety In recognition of the importance given to HSE performance, Three of the most important issues highlighted by the the Remuneration Committee continues to include HSE as a materiality process relate to protecting people’s health, criterion in the assessment of the annual discretionary bonus, safety and security and preventing major accidents. as described in ‘Accountable to the core’ on pages 16-17. Cairn is committed to operating safely and acting properly at Security all times, and the wellbeing of employees, contractors and Cairn recognises that with expansion into new countries, the local communities is a priority. We have in place a risks to the security of our people and assets have increased. comprehensive CRMS through which we assess risks, apply Following a tender process, the Company appointed Drum health and safety controls, set targets and monitor Cussac in March 2013 to provide external advice and performance. Cairn’s HSE Leadership Team is responsible for support to its activities. An independent security review was embedding the CR approach and procedures across the commissioned which confirmed the adequacy of our marine Group, and applying these in our everyday work is down to and aviation security procedures. Drum Cussac also provided every employee. Regional directors are responsible at an inputs to other security procedures, including ensuring operational level for ensuring that operations adhere to our consistency with the Voluntary Principles on Security and HSE standards, that risks are minimised to ALARP and that Human Rights (VPSHR). An updated travel health, safety and we have plans in place to manage incidents should they occur. security procedure was issued in May 2013, which requires travel risk assessments to be completed and travel HSE top of mind management plans issued for trips to locations deemed to As part of our commitment to raising HSE awareness, we have heightened health, safety or security risks. finalised and rolled out the HSE Culture Framework during 2013. 79% of staff attended training workshops, as described in the case study on page 25. Additionally, all senior management role profiles now include HSE responsibilities. Managers engage with major contractors at a senior level and discuss HSE matters explicitly. Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. 22 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Preventing major accidents preventative maintenance risk assessment processes and As well as keeping day-to-day activities safe, the CRMS and work procedures were required. As a result, Transocean are risk management processes play a vital role in assessing and conducting a thorough review around the management of managing potential major accident hazards, and these are the planned maintenance system to ensure that work described in more detail on pages 32-35 ‘Responsible instructions are thorough and comprehensive and risk exploration’. Rigorous procedures are applied to ensure that assessments can be fully aligned with each identified task. potential risks and impacts are identified, assessed and dealt Shortly after the incident, senior management, led by with in line with the ALARP principle. Before embarking on Cairn’s Chief Executive, Simon Thomson, visited the rig new projects, Cairn frequently uses hazard identification to re-emphasise the importance of learning from such assessments (known as HAZIDs) to highlight possible risks. incidents and minimising the chance of them occurring. In the unlikely event of a major accident we have contingency plans and trained staff ready. The plans reflect industry Regrettably, a number of low-level safety incidents and near standards and will target the protection of human life and misses, mainly involving lifting operations, occurred during the environment. early shore base operations for the Morocco drilling programme. Specific training was provided for local shore Health, safety and security performance base contractor employees in local languages and this Cairn’s performance over the last five years, for selected provision has been included in the preparations for our safety indicators, is shown overleaf. More detailed CR future shore base operations in Senegal and Republic of performance information is also presented on our website. Ireland in 2014. One incident at the Agadir shore base Over the five-year period, the main operated activity has resulted in a lost time injury when a contractor employee been the drilling programmes in Greenland in 2010 and 2011 trapped his finger between the tail and side gates of a truck. and in Morocco in 2013. Lessons learned from this investigation have included the importance of a ‘One Task One Talk’ culture that A key element of Cairn’s approach to safety is applying ensures that staff can concentrate on managing the risks lessons learned from previous operations. Following the for the task in hand rather than being overwhelmed drilling campaign in Greenland, where no lost time injuries by many instructions for a number of tasks. were recorded, we identified that for large rigs with a high proportion of new crew, an enhanced level of HSE and There have been no fatalities of Cairn staff or technical supervision is required. contractors during 2013 , and for over five years. Enhanced HSE supervision was put in place on the Cajun Express drilling rig in Morocco during autumn 2013. Unfortunately, despite our working closely with the rig operator, Transocean, ahead of the start of operations, there was a lost time injury during the early stages of the drilling operations offshore Morocco, in which a member of the rig crew was injured whilst carrying out planned maintenance to a lift. In this case a detailed investigation led to the conclusion that improvements to the contractor’s Cajun Express Onboard the ‘Cajun Express’ drilling unit. Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 23 People People come first Continued Future plans Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)  Cairn’s main focus in 2014 will be, above all, to (Total recordable injuries per million hours worked) ensure the safety and security of our operational drilling programmes in Morocco, Senegal and Republic 12 of Ireland in addition to non-operated drilled activity elsewhere. We will prioritise the preparation and roll9.6 out of our HSE and security Standard Operating Procedures and update related guidance. In addition 7.34 7.2 we will aim to strengthen behaviours in line with our HSE Culture Framework among employees and 5.04 4.8 contractors working for Cairn. We will also enhance communications to raise visibility of HSE across 2.4 0.64 1.75 1.81 1.68 1.76 1.74 the organisation. 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) Cairn total for employees and contractors (Lost time injuries per million hours worked) OGP Benchmark 4.0 3.67 3.2 Total security incidents (number) 2.52 2.4 10 1.6 8 0.8 0.64 0.60 7 0.45 0.42 0.43 0.48 0 6 6 0 5 0.64 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 4 Cairn total for employees and contractors OGP Benchmark 2 1 0 Notes: 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1. OGP is the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. We have included the overall OGP benchmark figures (average of onshore Total security incidents and offshore). OGP benchmark figures are not yet available for 2013. 2. Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the OGP benchmark after only one incident, or a small number of incidents, because our exploration activities often last for only a short time period so there are relatively few hours worked compared with ongoing production and other long term operations. Staff trained in HSE Culture Framework 79% Number of fatalities: Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. None in the last 5 years. 24 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary On board the ‘Cajun Express’ drilling unit offshore Morocco. Strengthening HSE culture HSE Culture Framework Workshops underline desired behaviours Goals The workshops aimed to provide clarity on the behaviours In June 2013, Cairn commenced the roll-out of our HSE expected in the area of HSE and how the HSE Culture Culture Framework to maintain and strengthen existing HSE Framework can be used in our everyday activities for all culture and performance and to engage our staff and personnel, team leaders and managers. They provided contractors more deeply in that process. The Framework encouragement for staff to speak up if they witnessed any was rolled out via workshops facilitated by the Keil Centre, unsafe practices in the workplace. At the end of the session, who are experts in the human and organisational factors each team was asked to develop a Team Improvement which impact on health and safety. In total, 15 workshops Plan to enhance HSE in their areas of work. were held in the Edinburgh, London and Stavanger offices to ensure that everyone had an opportunity to attend. To continue the process of embedding the HSE Culture Framework at Cairn, a number of further enhancements are planned for 2014. They include: –– Having an HSE objective in every senior manager’s performance review; –– Using the framework in the investigation of incidents; –– Implementing further initiatives to strengthen behaviours in line with the HSE Culture Framework; –– Strengthening the visibility of our key HSE messages and culture; and –– Preparing for a follow up survey in early 2015 to measure progress made in enhancing our HSE culture and to identify next steps. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 25 People Attracting and nurturing top talent In a fiercely competitive recruitment market, Corporate Responsibility is a factor in making Cairn an employer of choice Recruitment Total employees An increase in the world’s population and the rise in demand for energy resources mean that the demand for skilled 250 people in the oil and gas industry will continue for years to come. 200 207 195 176 180 Integral to this is the need to: 150 150 –– Recruit talented people with the required technical capability in the areas where they are needed most; 100 –– Provide the appropriate experience and training to allow staff to perform at their best; and 50 –– Create a vibrant working environment and culture which engages and retains our talent. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Well qualified employees create tangible business benefits: Number of employees they play a key role in ensuring operational integrity and provide the competence and appropriate skills needed to deliver value for stakeholders safely, effectively and Learning and development efficiently. To resource the organisation with the skills Cairn Having recruited good people, we also invest in them by needs, we must stand out as an employer of choice – and our ensuring that they have the appropriate training and CR approach is one way to do this. The case study on page 29 experience required to perform their jobs effectively in describes Cairn’s recruitment approach in 2013. the delivery of our strategy and business plan. Cairn continues to be very active in providing staff with development opportunities through a variety of means (internal and external courses, conferences, executive coaching, mentoring, on-the-job training, projects, etc.) to enhance their skills and capabilities. Our people Cairn has its headquarters in Edinburgh, Scotland supported by operational offices in London, Morocco, Senegal, Norway, Spain and Greenland. 26 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary In 2013, a total of 1,214 training days were undertaken by Impact on society staff. This represents, on average, 5.8 days per employee Providing employment opportunities and transferable skills compared to 5.5 days in 2012, and well above the UK to people wherever Cairn operates, particularly in emerging average of 3.6 days per employee per year (Chartered markets, is a lasting way to contribute to local economies. Institute of Personnel and Development). Therefore we seek to hire local contractors wherever we are active, provided they meet our health and safety standards, As an international company, Cairn can offer opportunities to a practice host governments value highly. work overseas in roles which will help develop individuals. One particular example is the Deputy Head of Legal who Diversity expressed an interest in working overseas and was provided Diversity is about valuing variety and individual differences with the opportunity to work in Morocco during our drilling and creating a culture, an environment and practices which campaign. respect these differences. As research indicates, a diverse workforce can improve creativity and problem solving In 2013, we were once again successfully accredited as an resulting in better decisions. In 2013: Investor in People (IIP), having achieved the standard for the first time in 2004. An area for improvement as identified by In 2013: the IIP audit process includes some enhancements to the performance appraisal process which now forms part of our objectives for 2014. 50% of Cairn staff are women Succession planning 10% of Cairn staff work part time To address risks associated with the potential loss of key personnel in a competitive labour marketplace, the results of 100% of parents return to work following maternity/adoption/paternity leave our work on succession planning were shared with the Board of Directors in 2013. The latest review of our talent pipeline 21 different nationalities are employed at Cairn demonstrates that 64% of ‘key’ roles have at least one successor ready in around 24 months. Plans are now being 3.4% of the workforce is disabled made to develop the selected talent to ensure that they are capable of fulfilling key roles when required, in addition to 42 average age at Cairn planning how best to address gaps where no potential successor has been identified. Culture and engagement Gender breakdown of Cairn’s Board of Directors Maintaining our unique culture is an important factor in (%) differentiating us from other exploration and production companies. Our values of Respect, Relationships and Responsibility (the 3Rs) are well understood by everyone and 100 92 as part of our strategy to further reinforce our strong culture, 83 80 we undertook a 360-degree appraisal on all members of 80 78 78 staff globally. In 2013, we started the process of reviewing our performance management practices. This review is 60 aimed at ensuring a clear line of sight between company, team and individual objectives in addition to recognising and 40 rewarding behaviours which are consistent with our 22 22 20 company values and culture. 20 17 8 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Male Female Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 27 People Attracting and nurturing top talent Continued In 2013, 28% of management roles at Cairn were held by women, and female representation on the Board was 20%, a lower figure than last year due to the recruitment of an additional male director. We are actively participating in a major piece of industry research aimed at encouraging more women onto boards. The 30% Club is a group of chairmen and organisations committed to promoting more women onto boards. Cairn is actively participating in their ‘Balancing the Pyramid’ project which is exploring the behavioural differences between men and women and what makes women successful leaders in the corporate environment. Our Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer, Jann Brown, is a committee member of the 30% Club. Outlook In 2014 we will Roll out our revised approach to performance management; Implement actions identified in our 2013 Engagement Survey; Improve our HR Oracle system which supports HR services; Improve recruitment to better represent our ‘Employee Value Proposition’ (see case study Our people opposite); and Staff in the Edinburgh headquarters office. Implement new ‘bite sized’ Management Development programmes. 28 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Cairn took a stand at the Careers in Earth Science event, Dynamic Earth, Edinburgh. CR in action Boosting staff numbers Our Employee Value Proposition is well raise the aspirations of 16-19 year-olds by boosting their communicated at Cairn to help current employability skills and providing them with real life experiences of the workplace. During the year we provided employees understand the employee deal work placements for six students from Career Academies, and attract new talent providing them with an insight into the oil and gas industry and the opportunity to be mentored by a staff member. One of the challenges facing our industry is the recruitment and retention of skilled talent. In 2013, due to higher levels of activity, we increased our staff headcount by 13.7% globally. Cairn cares about career A quarter of the new roles were in the areas of geoscience development and will deliver this through real on-the-job and engineering with the majority being filled by responsibility; individuals will be trusted to select their own professionals with many years of experience. Throughout challenges and will be supported by this process, the Employee Value Proposition (EVP) was the Company well communicated to candidates. Cairn people care The workforce is about the Company; entrepreneurial and In 2014 we aim to support the EVP with process they are loyal and is focused on EVP improvements to better reflect our culture and values. trust Cairn with sustainable success their long-term With the goal of distinguishing us from our competitors, careers we will emphasise our culture on the career website, in Employee Value Proposition interviews and during induction. We continue to ensure that we have a steady pipeline of Cairn’s leadership is The Cairn values are dynamic, stable and core to the company: young talent coming into the organisation by maintaining financially astute respect, relationships strong relationships with a number of schools and and responsibility universities in addition to an active programme of summer internships. In 2013, we partnered with Career Academies, an organisation which aims to increase social mobility and Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 29 Environment Minimising risks to the environment Cairn minimises potential environmental impacts by applying international standards, adhering to local requirements and rigorously managing risks Precautionary principle Minimising risk Cairn takes a precautionary approach and avoids, wherever Designed to identify and assess the environmental aspects possible, negative impacts to the environment and of our operations, Environmental Impact Assessments biodiversity. We will not operate in UNESCO World Heritage (EIAs) allow us to determine the significance of impacts sites and will only undertake operations within other and define actions to manage and monitor these risks. protected areas or recognised sites after due diligence on With this information to hand, we can review project potential biodiversity impacts. alternatives and make informed decisions when planning our activities. An example of the EIA process that we carried Management systems in practice out in Senegal in 2013 is featured on the opposite page. Governments award exploration and development EIA findings are subject to a thorough technical review by opportunities knowing that our licence to operate and expert stakeholders and on occasion, to wider consultations our track record depends on balancing value creation for at public hearings. Measures to manage any risks and all stakeholders with rigorous care for the environment. commitments defined in the EIA documentation form part Wherever possible, we avoid negative impacts on the of the asset or project-specific Environmental Management environment and will prevent or minimise emissions to air, Plans. Results are monitored to confirm the levels of impact land and water. Our CRMS stipulates that environmental predicted in the EIAs and the effectiveness of mitigation aspects must be managed at every stage of the exploration, measures. drilling or development programme. Possible environmental impacts and their management are evaluated at every Non-operated joint ventures decision point in the five stage PDP described below. Cairn counts both investments operated by ourselves and joint ventures managed by business partners (i.e. operated and non-operated investments) in our portfolio of assets. In Morocco, Senegal, Republic of Ireland and Greenland we operate the drilling programmes and apply our management systems and standards as described above. Cairn’s acquisition and farm-in activity in 2012/13 has given us access to joint ventures operated by other companies such as Statoil ASA, Premier Oil, Kosmos Energy, EnQuest and Chariot Oil & Gas. As explained in the Governance section, our due diligence process gives us confidence in the integrity and HSE track record of the operators we work with. Our gated project delivery process Why How Ready Finished Learn Identify Assess Define Execute Evaluate WHY are we HOW could we Are we READY Have we What do we doing this do this project? to sanction FINISHED all we LEARN project? the work? needed to do? and achieve? 30 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary In 2013 Cairn acquired acreage offshore Senegal. CR in action: Social and environmental activities An invitation to participate in Senegal Responding to stakeholders: Cairn’s bodies, industry associations, fishermen’s organisations, Environmental and Social Impact public research centres, supply chain representatives and the Assessment (ESIA) NGOs WWF and Oceania. The engagement helped us to understand the representative groups’ key concerns, As part of our application to carry out exploration drilling consider appropriate responses and gauge the level of offshore Senegal, we undertook an ESIA. The aim was to support for exploration drilling. identify the potential impacts exploration drilling could have on the local population, environment and potentially sensitive Responsiveness habitats. A consultation process with local stakeholders was The reaction of the majority of stakeholders towards arranged in accordance with local and our own requirements. exploration during the research and consultation period was Possible effects on plants and animals in marine, coastal and positive. A key issue which was brought up was the potential wetland areas were assessed so that we could respond impacts on fishing. The fishing sector in Senegal is vital both appropriately. socially and economically, providing a major food source, 63,000 jobs and over 12% of the country’s exports by value. Identifying stakeholders Responding to this stakeholder concern, we were able to To help identify stakeholders, we undertook in-country present mitigation measures for noise, vibration and vessel scouting trips, engaged with partners and consultants based movement and share study findings showing that exploration in Senegal, used indigenous and corporate media monitors drilling activities have a low impact on marine fauna. We also and internet sources and commissioned an external agency addressed concerns about a possible oil spill by explaining our to carry out a stakeholder mapping exercise. Amongst others, Oil Spill Prevention and Contingency Plan. we held meetings with national and regional government Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 31 Environment Responsible exploration Protecting the environment is a high priority and Cairn is vigilant about prevention and preparedness Preventing and responding Total spills (number) to a major accident event The prevention of any accident is a key focus of the oil and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 gas industry. At Cairn, rigorous procedures are followed to Oil 0 0 0 0 0 identify, assess and manage potential risks and impacts in line Fuel 1 1 1 0 0 with the ALARP principle. Risks are managed and accidents prevented through safe design, review and assessment Chemical 0 3 0 1 0 of equipment, defined operating procedures, training and Waste 1 0 0 0 0 performance monitoring. Contingency plans, equipment and Other 0 0 2 0 0 trained staff are ready to respond in the unlikely event of a major accident. Preventing major spills We actively support the International Association of Oil Total spills (barrels) and Gas Producers (OGP) initiatives in preventing major accidents and hydrocarbon spills. Most notably, we are 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 participating in the Joint Industry Projects (JIPs) for Oil 0 0 0 0 0 enhancing the industry’s approach to oil spill prevention Fuel 0.01 28.3 0.06 0 0 and response. Chemical 0 56.85 0 2.20 0 One of the key outcomes from the JIP is a new approach to Waste 0.06 0 0 0 0 oil spill risk assessment and response planning which includes Other 0 0 9.44 0 0 a structured and detailed analysis of oil spill risk, including development of potential spill scenarios, likelihood and consequence analysis, detailed modelling and development of credible response capability. Cairn has applied this new approach in developing its oil spill response plans for the Note: Morocco, Senegal and Republic of Ireland offshore drilling Spill categories: programmes. Oil: crude oil. Fuel: diesel, gasoline, kerosene, heating oil, aviation fuel. To complement this initiative we invested heavily in securing Chemical: any other raw material or ancillary. Waste: any material (solid, liquid, gas) that is introduced into the work access to the Capping Stack System, the Subsea Incident location as a product of the work but that fulfils no further useful purpose Response Toolkit and the Global Dispersant Stockpile, all of at that location. which are managed by Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) – Other: other material not included in categories above. see the ‘Oil spill prevention and contingency planning’ case N.B. If something fits into more than one category, we report against the category that provides the most information, e.g. chemical rather than study on page 35 for more information. waste when reporting waste chemicals. We take a leading role in well and oil spill expert groups of the Greenland Oil Industry Association (GOIA) and in 2013 we also joined the Irish Offshore Operators Association (IOOA). As shown in the tables adjacent, there were no spills to the environment in 2013. Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. 32 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Well engineering and construction internal and external assurance processes Internal External Cairn Project Delivery Major Hazard Process gate reviews Assessment Project risk Well examiner register Corporate risk Expert peer management review review Well engineering and construction Regulator and team competency assessment partner reviews Inspection, testing, acceptance and Independent expert review of induction of drilling rigs and vessels critical equipment and systems Daily operational reviews Deep-water drilling Secondary well control Cairn’s reputation for responsible exploration rests upon Secondary well control is provided by high specification a rigorous approach to well design, control and blow-out blow-out preventers (BOPs). The BOP consists of a series prevention in drilling operations. It is the characteristics of of mechanical sealing devices called ‘rams’ with associated geological formations that have the most influence on the back-up systems. If the primary drilling fluid barrier is lost, the complexity of drilling a well rather than the depth of water blow-out preventer rams and valves are operated to close in which it is drilled. We apply the same uncompromising the well, regain control and stop any fluid flow to the external well design approach, with an emphasis on prevention, to all environment. We recognise that in deep-water wells, the categories of water, whether shallow or deep. complexity of these secondary well control devices increases due to the need to rely upon dynamic positioning systems to Well design keep the drilling rig on location. Wells are designed to exceed the expected characteristics of the formations which are to be encountered and are Tertiary well control assessed by an independent external expert well examiner In the very rare event that both primary and secondary well who verifies that the design complies with the stated control barriers are breached, tertiary controls to regain standards. The requirements of the Cairn Well Engineering well control and collect or disperse spilled oil are deployed. and Construction (WEC) and CR Management Systems These are described in the case study ‘Oil spill prevention and are translated into specific well designs, project plans and contingency planning in Morocco’ on page 35. procedures. These are independently verified through a series of reviews from an expert, regulators and partners. An Resource development in the Arctic independent expert assesses critical equipment and systems Exploration in the wider Arctic region, beyond the High before drilling can commence. Arctic, is not new and began onshore in the 1920s and offshore in the 1970s, with a total of 10,000 wells drilled to Primary well control date. Choosing to realise the value of its potential resources, In any well design, the primary well control barrier is provided the Government of Greenland has awarded Cairn and by the ‘weight’ of drilling fluid acting on the hole, or wellbore, other companies, such as Shell, ConocoPhillips and Maersk, created by the drill in the rock formation. This barrier is licences to explore, drill and potentially develop hydrocarbon sustained by maintaining a wellbore fluid column with a resources in its territory for the benefit of its people. higher pressure inside the wellbore than the fluid pressure in the pore spaces of the rock formation itself. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 33 Environment Responsible exploration Continued Responsibility Members were briefed and trained and have taken part in We are conscious of our responsibility when operating table-top exercises during the year. In addition: in frontier areas such as the Arctic and are highly informed about the risks of drilling in all conditions. –– Three Emergency Response Procedures (ERPs) were Cairn’s commitment to avoiding risks and applying every developed and implemented for low level operations practicable means to minimise impacts on human life and the offshore Morocco, Senegal and Greenland; environment is longstanding. –– Oil Spill Contingency Plans and Emergency Response Procedures were developed for drilling activities in Cairn’s track record and experience demonstrate that we Morocco and Senegal; are well equipped for the task of exploring for oil and gas. –– Oil Spill Response certified training and practical training We have completed a range of operations in Greenland (DECC/IMO Level 2 and 3) for shore-based teams in since 2008/9, including drilling eight offshore wells, without emergency response and recovery vessel deployment any serious injuries or significant environmental incidents. was carried out; We contributed a total benefit of £186m to the Greenland –– Consultation with the Irish authorities took place for economy between 2010 and 2012. See Cairn’s CR Report the development of the ERP and Oil Spill Prevention 2012 available at www.cairnenergy.com. and Contingency Plans (OSPCPs) for the Spanish Point appraisal well; and We participated in the House of Commons Environmental –– ERP and OSPCP workshops were held with the Audit Committee (EAC) which reported in September 2012. Senegalese authorities ahead of submitting drilling In January 2013 the UK Government published its response applications. to the report of the EAC, which subsequently produced a further report in July 2013. Future outlook During 2014, we will continue to ensure that employees, Emergency response contractors and other key agencies focus on safety and While Cairn plans to avoid possible accidents, in the unlikely remain alert to potential incidents, develop plans to avoid event of one occurring we have robust plans in place to these and, should an incident occur, have in place robust manage potential incidents appropriately. In June 2013, procedures to manage it effectively. Specific ERPs and the Emergency Response Coordination Centre was reOSPCPs for operational activities will be developed for established to manage critical situations during exploration approval by the relevant regulator. drilling in all operational areas. Emergency Response Group Agadir Cajun Express Agadir, the location of Cairn’s shorebase during its operations Onboard the ‘Cajun Express’ drilling unit. offshore Morocco. 34 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Offshore Cairn HSE adviser on board the ‘Cajun Express’ drilling unit, offshore Morocco. CR in action Oil spill prevention and contingency planning in Morocco Meticulously designed and extensively –– A supply of equipment and aircraft for the aerial examined wells are supported by application of dispersant to the water surface; –– The Sub-sea Incident Response Toolkit (SIRT), which comprehensive contingency plans enables dispersant to be applied at a sub-sea level, subject to government approval. This reduces the amount of Oil spill prevention in Morocco, and all locations where Cairn oil reaching the surface or the shore, and increases its operates, starts with well designs that exceed requirements amenability to biodegradation; for the expected characteristics of the geological formations –– The Global Dispersant Stockpile, which provides a to be encountered. stockpile of dispersants with the widest worldwide approvals, large enough to provide for serious incidents; Tertiary well control and Primary and secondary well control is built into the design –– The Capping Stack System (CSS), which can be deployed and this is described on page 33. In the very unlikely event to shut-in the well and prevent oil from escaping to sea, at that both primary and secondary well control barriers are which point subsea dispersant is no longer needed. breached, tertiary controls are employed. A scenario defining the impact of the blow-out known as the ‘worst credible case In addition, we have carried out training and practical discharge’ is used in conjunction with information gathered exercises to ensure that priority actions are understood, via the Environmental Impact Assessment to ensure that an equipment handling is mastered and appropriate logistics are appropriate plan is developed. The plan is based on a three in place. tier response system. Tier 1 is the response to a localised spill close to the operation. Equipment and personnel to respond In Morocco this specifically included: to a localised spill are located on the rig and the platform –– Oil Spill Contingency Plan and Emergency Response support vessels. Should the incident prove beyond this local Procedure completed in August and October 2013 for capability or affect a larger area, resources for an enhanced the Foum Draa and Juby Maritime exploration wells; response (Tier 2) are provided from the shore base. Tier 3 –– Oil Spill Contingency Plan Logistics workshop in July 2013; response resources are located internationally with the –– Oil Spill Response certified training and practical training ability to be mobilised through Cairn’s membership of OSRL. in equipment deployment provided by OSRL in July and OSRL membership gives Cairn access to: October 2013; –– A substantial supply of mechanical equipment including –– A series of desk-top exercises and focused training booms, skimmers and collection equipment for offshore sessions in Q4 2013; and and near shore response; –– An Emergency Response real-time exercise carried out in –– Specialist fire-resistant booms for application of in-situ October 2013. burning techniques; Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 35 Environment Managing our footprint Managing and minimising our environmental impacts is an intrinsic part of operating with integrity Measuring our environmental footprint recognised sites (such as Ramsar sites and International During 2013, Cairn implemented further studies in Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) category I-IV Greenland to understand the impact of previous campaigns areas) after due diligence of potential biodiversity impacts. and to baseline environmental conditions in the Pitu block In addition, we are committed to: in advance of possible future operations. This is strictly –– Implementing procedures to avoid and, where this is controlled in Greenland and Cairn has continued to invest not feasible, to reduce or remedy biodiversity loss and and participate in baseline assessment work in Greenland seek opportunities to make positive contributions to through our licence agreements. Baseline work was also biodiversity conservation; conducted offshore Morocco to better understand seabed –– Taking a participatory approach to working with conditions and ensure no sensitive habitats would be stakeholders to ensure that their concerns are addressed impacted by the well. See also the case study ‘Monitoring within the planning of activities, and that their interests drilling impacts’ on page 39. and knowledge of biodiversity and use of ecosystem services are recognised and respected; and Biodiversity –– Monitoring our impacts and measuring positive Oil and gas exploration can have an impact on nature and contributions to biodiversity conservation. on the quality of life of the communities where we operate. The Biodiversity Framework is supported by new We therefore observe, assess and monitor biodiversity Biodiversity Guidance which gives additional advice for through assessment of the potential environmental and identifying, assessing, defining, executing and evaluating social impacts. During 2013, a Biodiversity Framework biodiversity risks and impacts and associated management document was developed, which informs the assessment strategies within our business. process. The framework outlines the primary requirements to ensure that potential and actual impacts on biodiversity We will roll out and apply our new approach to biodiversity and ecosystems are assessed and managed. This will enhance in 2014, integrate it with our CRMS and align it with the our environmental assessment work going forward. gated PDP. As stated in our Business Principles, we seek to use biological resources sustainably. We are committed to not operating in UNESCO designated World Heritage Sites, and will only undertake operations that affect other protected areas and Baffin Bay, Greenland Agadir, Morocco Cairn operates multiple blocks offshore the Western and Southern Agadir, located 100-200 nautical miles coasts of Greenland. from our blocks offshore Morocco. 36 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Climate change the incineration of waste on marine vessels / rigs (<0.01%). Oil and gas production supplies the energy needed to Our scope 2 emissions derive from the use of electricity catalyse economic development around the world and in our offices and shore bases. Scope 3 emissions are provides a solution until technological innovation can deliver emitted during business travel, including by air and rail. a low-carbon economy. Climate change may affect Cairn’s own business and the lives of people around the world. Emissions and level of activity We therefore monitor and manage the greenhouse gases The graph below of our GHG emissions over five years shows (GHGs) emitted during our activities. During 2013, new that they are heavily dependent on the level of operational guidance was developed on climate change which identifies activity in any given period. In 2010 and 2011 Cairn’s major considerations to be made at each stage of the PDP. drilling programme offshore Greenland involved drilling 8 wells and resulted in higher emissions than in 2012, when How we report there was a limited amount of survey activity. Emissions rose Cairn has reported GHG emissions in annual CR Reports in 2013 when we carried out surveys and commenced drilling since 2001 and to the Carbon Disclosure Project since offshore Morocco. 2006. We disclose our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting The varying levels of operational activity make it very difficult Standard (revised edition) and use emission factors that to identify a baseline and set targets for total GHG reduction are appropriate to Cairn for our scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG over time. emissions. Scope 1 emissions arise from fuel combustion during offshore rig, marine vessel and aircraft operations Our GHG emissions intensity is calculated per thousand and from the use of land-based vehicles (99.9%), and include hours worked, as this provides a direct relationship with our Total absolute and normalised GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3) 100 200,000 88 tonnes CO2e per 1,000 hours worked 80 160,000 166,266 151,181 tonnes CO2e 60 120,000 46 40 80,000 34 24,891 17 8 25,030 20 40,000 421 553 479 602 269 447 1,589 280 7201 420 1,381 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 tonnes CO2e per 1,000 hours worked (all scopes GHG) 1 2012 air travel figures have been re-stated due to miscalculations being identified in the database. Note: haul, long haul), seat class (economy, premium economy, business, first), For calculating Scope 1 Emissions, we use emission factors from the API distance, and an uplift factor. For some flights, where the seat class is not Compendium 2009 and also from EEMS 2008 (UK Environmental and known, or data is not available broken into flight sectors with the Emissions Monitoring System for the Department of Energy and Climate associated seat class, applicable average emission factors may be used. Change (DECC)). For rail travel emissions we use rail type (national rail, eurostar) and For calculating Scope 2 Emissions we use emission factors from the IEA distance. We use emission factors from ‘2012 Guidelines to Defra/ (International Energy Agency) report ‘CO2 Emissions from Fuel DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting’. Combustion Highlights’ (2013 Edition). For further details about our GHG emissions’ calculations, please see For calculating air travel emissions we use journey type (domestic, short our website. Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 37 Environment Managing our footprint Continued activity. Factors such as the nature of the work in hand (i.e. that waste streams are recorded accurately and managed drilling or survey), environmental conditions and distances appropriately, according to the plan. As we show in the tables between operations and logistic support bases have further on page 32, there were no waste spills in 2013. significant influences on the intensity of GHG emissions. Waste management during the drilling programme in Senegal We reviewed our climate change strategy in 2013 based in 2014 will involve specialist contractors who will address on a gap analysis against peer companies and updated our the potential shortfall of in-country capabilities, especially for Business Principles to reflect the findings. In 2014 we will potentially hazardous waste. continue to review external developments and update our approach to climate change appropriately. Chemicals Cairn manages chemicals in accordance with the Oslo Noise and Paris Convention for the Protection of the Marine An element of noise is generated at every stage of oil and Environment (OSPAR) of the North-East Atlantic, the gas exploration and drilling activities, notably from seismic internationally recognised mechanism developed by 15 surveys, drilling activities, support vessels and aircraft used in governments of the western coasts and catchments of crew changes. Minimising impacts caused by noise includes Europe, together with the European Union. Offshore using a ‘soft start’ in seismic surveys to encourage marine chemicals are subject to pre-screening, substitution and mammals to move away before the full seismic activity ranking using a colour code system. commences and ensuring that, wherever practical, aircraft routes avoid sensitive seabird colonies and marine mammals. Wherever possible, we select those with least impact (green classification), so-called PLONOR chemicals (Pose Little or Waste No Risk) as a first choice, then yellow and finally red, when Before operational activity commences, we establish specific no other option exists or if it is necessary to ensure the waste management plans for each operation which cover safety of operations. In 2013, we used only green and yellow anticipated and potential hazardous and non-hazardous chemicals, and it is anticipated that this will also be the case waste. In Morocco and Senegal, we undertook reviews of inin 2014. country waste management capabilities as part of the planning process. In Morocco we worked together with another oil and No chemical spills to sea were recorded in 2013. gas operator, Kosmos, to review waste management facilities and provide recommendations to contractors. Our HSE advisers in-country provide day-to-day supervision to ensure Morocco Supply base, Agadir Supporting Cairn’s drilling operations offshore Morocco. Cairn’s supply base during its operations offshore Morocco. 38 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Cairn’s operations offshore Greenland. CR in action Monitoring drilling impacts By analysing preand post-drill core and environmental traps to capture sediment from the drill sediment samples around our rigs, Cairn is ‘cuttings’ that spread out in the water and settle. During drilling, video footage and photographic cameras log validating its environmental assessments real-time activity. After drilling, cores are taken from the same locations as the pre-drilling samples and sediments Carrying out an Environmental Baseline Survey (EBL) of an collected in the traps are analysed. Novel coring and area prior to drilling is a useful tool for assessing seafloor and sediment collection equipment and protocols were applied to environmental sensitivities of a location. In marine areas, improve collection and assist in improving the quantification the aim is to identify the key features of the seabed and to of specific chemicals. understand pre-existing biodiversity characteristics and habitats. The EBL can also provide information against Fine-tuning modelling which to compare a post-drill assessment and findings. The detailed EBL is valuable in enabling us to test the accuracy of our predictive modelling and better understand Detailed sampling and analysis the distribution of drill cuttings and settlement over time. In Greenland, Cairn has applied detailed sampling and Our findings will help fine-tune our modelling in the future, analytical protocols, in some cases using innovative and to date, show that drilling impacts on the marine techniques, to carry out an additional, more detailed environment are not significant, particularly when EBL in the vicinity of the rig itself. These techniques support compared with some other types of marine activity, on-going research providing an in-depth understanding for instance trawling. of drilling impacts on the marine environment. The detailed EBL included taking core sediment samples in the areas where drilling is anticipated and setting up Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 39 Communities Engaging for the long term Regular stakeholder engagement to understand and manage any potential environmental and social factors is vital Managing expectations 1 Strong relationships based on mutual trust First step: Consultation and respect, are crucial to our on-going How Cairn engages with communities The PCDP process allows us to assess if business success. We respect the people, Before each new programme of activities, further engagement may be desirable, communities and governments we work we prepare a Public Consultation and matched to the materiality of issues and with. To understand their aspirations and Disclosure Plan (PCDP) that identifies the risks to the business. Engagement plans expectations from our initiatives, we actively stakeholders involved and sets out are therefore tailored for each project. engage with them throughout an upstream appropriate engagement plans for a Where challenging matters including land oil and gas project lifecycle. particular project or asset. acquisition, resettlement, water use, Our stakeholder engagement plans security and potential or perceived Local participation in oil and gas activities is always, as a minimum, comply with local impacts on livelihoods are involved, we important to communities, and the graph country requirements. consult extensively with key stakeholders. opposite shows that the percentage of managers we hired from the local population in 2013 varied with the expertise available in the country of operation. Our employees are 2 99% nationals and 1% expatriates. We Second step: Impact Assessment are also aware that the development of skills and enterprise associated with the industry We use a range of environmental, social livelihoods, economy, local business must be sustainable – whether or not and human rights assessments and participation, education and training, exploration is successful. baseline surveys to assess the potential community health, infrastructure, effects of operations, tailoring them to culture and heritage. meet government requirements. ESIAs Cairn’s CSR Policy, CRMS and Stakeholder and social baseline studies are designed Management Guidelines set out how we as participatory processes in which the identify and engage with diverse groups. research and discussion may include An internal audit of stakeholder environmental issues, employment and engagement processes was carried out in 2013, which confirmed that effective stakeholder management is in place. The internal audit highlighted a number of 3 refinements to our processes including formalising the recording of stakeholder Third step: Social Management Plans engagement at the asset level and managing Social management programmes tailored How Cairn responds to stakeholders the disclosure of information by partners and to managing the potential impacts and Senegal and Morocco host governments. Management will address opportunities to the host country and As a result of our ESIA in Senegal (see these enhancements during 2014. local community needs are developed as case study ‘An invitation to participate’ on the result of the impact assessment page 31), and the EIA in Morocco, we are Key interests of stakeholders are outlined in process. Sometimes these programmes working to address stakeholder interests. the table in ‘Mapping our priorities’ on page may be referred to as community In both countries we have helped build 12 of this report, and these feed into regular investment or formalised as Impact capacity by implementing an awareness reviews of our Business Principles and Benefit Agreements. course for the authorities involved in updates to the materiality matrix. offshore drilling and emergency response. We are also providing notification to fishermen around our activities in order to avoid impacting their own. In addition, we are offering opportunities to local businesses to support the drilling campaign. Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. 40 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 21 projects for education and community development Over 30 stakeholders engaged in participatory approach in Greenland to ESIA Senegal 21 30 Total national and expatriate employees  (%) How Cairn responds to stakeholders 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Spain In 2012, a PCDP was completed in days, the overlap between the National 97 97 99 99 99 anticipation of future activities seismic area and the fishing grounds Expatriate 3 3 1 1 1 offshore Valencia. Responding to was reduced and the distance from concerns from local fishermen about fish nurseries was increased. the impact on fish during seismic surveys, the area to be surveyed was reduced by almost half, the seismic campaign was cut from 116 to 75 How Cairn responds to stakeholders Greenland Recognising that communities in the campaigns. In 2013, we also avoided Baffin Bay area of Greenland wanted repeated consultations with small Managers hired from the local population more time to consider information communities by collaborating with (%) about proposed drilling activities, other oil and gas operators in the consultation for developing our EIA Baffin Bay area to develop a joint 100% 100% 100% 100 and SIA with local people began Social Baseline study. 97% earlier than in the previous 80 60 50% 40 20 Republic of Ireland and Senegal computer training and spoken 0% We are participating in local oil spill English were offered. According 0 Greenland Morocco Norway Spain UK Cairn Total and pollution prevention to Cairn India’s 2012/2013 organisations in response to Sustainability Report, a total of Percentage managerial employees hired stakeholder concerns about impacts 8,200 people have been trained for from the local population in 2013 on the environment. vocational skills at the CEC, 85% of whom have been placed. Cairn A legacy in India Energy completed the sale of a In 2004, Cairn discovered the majority shareholding in Cairn India Mangala oil field in Rajasthan, India. in 2011 and today holds a ~10% In partnership with the International shareholding. Finance Corporation and the Government of Rajasthan, an In 2014, we will develop a Standard Enterprise Centre was set up in Operating Procedure to promote a Barmer in July 2007, which later consistent approach to community became a not-for-profit organisation, investment at asset level. the Cairn Enterprise Centre (CEC). In 2011/12, courses in advanced welding, pumps and valves, basic Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 41 Communities Engaging for the long term Continued 42 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary In 2011 Cairn established a community development fund in Greenland to support local projects including the building of this activity park in Ilulissat. CR in action Giving People Time In preparation for possible drilling, subject –– Finally an underlying anxiety was identified about to approvals, Cairn invested in two rounds skills development in the area, as it is recognised that opportunities for young people are limited, which is also of stakeholder engagement in the Baffin true of the small towns nearby. Bay area of Greenland Greenlandic regulations require oil companies to carry Applying outcomes out a Social Impact Assessment before undertaking The outcomes of this consultation will be included in exploration drilling. Cairn’s future SIA submission which will provide the basis for developing an Impact Benefit Agreement with the The Social Impact Assessment must be a participatory Government of Greenland if drilling is approved. In 2010 process and in 2013 Cairn followed up its 2012 SIA scoping and 2011, Impact Benefit Agreements between Cairn consultation with a further tour in the Baffin Bay area of and the Government of Greenland provided support to Northwest Greenland. We engaged with local people about education and community development initiatives; training plans for potential exploration drilling in the Pitu block. opportunities within operations; local business opportunities; and institutional capacity building. The full outcomes are Three key findings emerged: described on the website at www.cairnenergy.com/ –– A high proportion of the residents in this North Western responsibility. part of Greenland are hunters and fishermen and their central concern was the effect drilling could have on marine mammals; –– The second major discussion topic was the potential impact of an oil spill on the local environment, upon which they rely for their livelihoods; and Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 43 Supply Chain Partners in excellence High skill levels and demanding standards come first when choosing whom to work with Upholding CR standards Our Invitations to Tender set out our expectations and With the majority of the man-hours worked in connection include copies of the Business Principles, Corporate Social with Cairn’s business activity contracted out at times of Responsibility, Health, Safety, Security and Environmental significant operational activity, our relationships with policies, along with the Code of Business Ethics, to which all suppliers are crucial. As shown in the graph below, the potential contractors must confirm their capability to comply. number of hours worked by contractors rises and falls in line with our level of activity. For example, in 2013, contractor Focus on HSE man-hours rose to 426,908 from 39,023 last year. However, In an offshore drilling campaign, typically the activities of the number of man-hours worked by employees remains the rig, marine vessels, helicopters and the supply base relatively steady over time. contractors are the most significant to HSE performance. The assessment of the contractors’ HSE management is Our focus is on selecting the right partners, communicating based on industry information and considerations such as expectations, ensuring effective policies and management the potential implication of accidents and the number of processes, monitoring performance and sharing lessons people involved. Recognising that leadership plays a crucial learned. Verifying that Cairn’s suppliers and business role in embedding appropriate HSE behaviours, during 2013 partners share our focus on carrying out operations safely we put in place a Strategic Contractors Engagement Plan. and efficiently and upholding our CR standards is essential We engaged proactively at the senior management level to maintaining our licence to operate. with 91% of the key contractors identified in the Contractors Engagement Plan, and delivered a programme Choosing partners carefully of briefings on HSE topics. This was supported by a senior Experience, competence and responsibility are some of the management visit, including the Cairn Chief Executive, to the key considerations when it comes to choosing the right Cajun Express drilling rig offshore Morocco, described in the people to supply the provisions, equipment and services case study on page 47. needed to help run our business. We apply a rigorous selection process in choosing contractors, including plotting HSE performance in contractor management by Cairn staff potential partners on an HSE contractor risk evaluation will be reflected in two Key Performance Indicators in 2014. matrix. This is embedded in our Contractor Management Their progress will be assessed, and discretionary bonuses Procedures, updated in 2013. calculated accordingly. Monitoring and checking Cairn’s Contractor Performance Management process Total hours worked includes 10 contractor HSE KPIs. All contractors are (hours) required to complete and deliver a regular scorecard detailing their HSE performance. We assess whether this meets 3,500,000 expectations, requires improvement or is unsatisfactory – in which event immediate action is required. 2,946,065 2,800,000 Where we are a minority joint venture partner and do not 2,100,000 have operational control, we conduct due diligence and engage constructively with partners to ensure familiarity 1,616,750 1,400,000 with the operator’s standards before an agreement to 1,257,921 365,354 426,908 proceed with operations is made. 308,656 290,392 306,178 366,232 39,023 700,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Employees Contractors Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. 44 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Total contractors 2013 (number) Completion of contractor engagement plan 539 91% Minding our ABCs Cairn has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and conducts a risk-based due diligence procedure for anti-bribery and corruption during the selection of service providers, which was updated in 2013. Where necessary, we also engage a specialist external consultant to carry out background verification checks on contractors. In 2014, Cairn’s HSE presentation to contractors will include an anti-bribery and corruption element. Local content In order to deliver Cairn’s strategy we are regularly operating in countries with no or relatively little oil and gas activity. To ensure that we create social and economic benefit for host communities, our procurement policy encourages the use of local suppliers wherever the right expertise is available, or can be developed without compromising the high standards required in the industry. We include local companies with the required competence in bid lists and request international contractors to consider the use of local sub-contractors where possible. The graph below shows that 15% of contractors used by Cairn in 2013 were national. For more detail please refer to www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. Contractors that are national (%) 20 18% 15 15% Local content 10 11% In Morocco in 2013 we worked with a number of local suppliers including the port authority and helicopter operations handling services. 5 3% 0 Greenland Morocco Senegal Cairn Total Percentage of contractors that were national in 2013 Note: Only 1 out of 11 planned senior management briefings did not take place. This was because the Ireland programme was delayed so the meeting was Within KPMG’s limited assurance scope. rescheduled to 2014. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 45 Supply Chain Partners in excellence Continued We are committed to supporting skills development in local Outlook communities and using local labour. By organising seminars, Key objectives for 2014 are to implement our new HSE sharing information with local enterprises and encouraging Contractor Management Procedures, the Strategic alliances between local contractors and international Contractors Engagement Plan and the contractor companies, we seek to drive continuous improvement of management process which re-emphasise the importance local workforce skills, including skills that are transferable of delivering safe operations. To Cairn, this is an important to industries other than the oil and gas sector. part of building strong relationships with business partners, and is crucial to our on-going success. In Morocco in 2013 we worked with a number of local suppliers including the onshore base logistics agent, the port authority, the airport authority, helicopter operations handling services, waste management contractors, security services, accommodation, office services and an ESIA consultancy. Specific skills training has been provided to some contractors, for instance HSE Supervision and oil spill contingency planning. This will continue in 2014 in Morocco and Senegal, along with specialist training in Republic of Ireland. Local content In Morocco in 2013 we worked with a number of local suppliers including the port authority and the airport authority. 46 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Simon Thomson, CEO, and senior management visit the ‘Cajun Express’ drilling unit, offshore Morocco, November 2013. CR in action Management visit to Cajun Express, offshore Morocco A senior management tour re-emphasised Simon was accompanied by a number of those responsible the importance of high HSE standards at Cairn for delivering a safe drilling campaign including the Director of Exploration and Head of New Ventures, the Drilling Manager, the Morocco Asset Manager and the Following a lost time injury (LTI) on board the Cajun Express Morocco Country Manager. We also took this opportunity during drilling of the first well offshore Morocco in November to invite our partner the Moroccan National Oil Company, 2013, senior management, led by our Chief Executive Simon ONHYM (Office National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines), Thomson, visited the rig to re-emphasise the importance of to participate in the visit. learning from such incidents and promote practices to help minimise the chance of them occurring. During the visit, safety was paramount. Two thorough safety briefings were conducted during the day: one The visit reflected management’s commitment to ensuring before transferring by helicopter to the rig, conducted by that Cairn’s high standards of HSE management and Heliconia, the helicopter contractor, and one on arrival on performance are met and consistently maintained by the rig, from Transocean personnel responsible for the contractors, one of the Group’s 2013 CR objectives. day-to-day management on board the Cajun Express. This During the visit, Simon reiterated the importance, above included encouraging the visitors to employ the “Time Out” all else, of safety throughout our operations, engaging with mechanism if they saw anything of concern at any time. “Time management and personnel involved in rig floor activities. out” is designed to transcend language and seniority barriers . on board the rig so that at any time anyone can halt and question an activity by using the phrase “Time Out”. Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary 47 Report Parameters About this report This report contains the most important highlights of Cairn’s Corporate Responsibility activities during 2013 Scope and boundaries Data This report provides a succinct overview of Cairn’s CR performance is measured across the Cairn Group using a approach to CR. It includes those operated assets in which number of Key Performance Indicators. We use definitions the Company has control of CR policies and practices. set by the GRI and the International Association of Oil and It covers our priority CR issues and related performance Gas Producers (OGP) to provide comparable and credible highlights from across our global operations during 2013, data that can be benchmarked against our peers in the oil and outlines key objectives for 2014. For readers seeking and gas sector. more comprehensive information and performance data, this is available at Cairn’s website www.cairnenergy.com/ Content responsibility. This report covers a selection of the CR topics of most significance to Cairn’s stakeholders and greatest material Our report covers Cairn’s global operations from 1 January importance to our business. These were assessed by internal to 31 December 2013, covering Cairn’s activities and offices specialists and approved by Cairn’s Management, Corporate in the UK, Norway, Spain, Greenland, Morocco and Senegal. and Executive Teams. Detailed content and descriptions of It excludes the performance of non-operated joint venture the methodologies and definitions used in data collection and activities and the performance of Cairn India Limited (Cairn presentation are available in Cairn’s full CR report at Energy PLC ~10% shareholding). www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility. Audiences Reporting Target audiences for this report include governments, Cairn has reported on its CR performance annually since business partners including contractors, shareholders and 2001. The last CR report was issued in April 2013 to the Non-Governmental Organisations but it is also suitable for requirements of the GRI Application level B+, which was self the wider stakeholder community. declared and GRI checked. Cairn is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and we prepare an annual Reporting standards Communication on Progress on our performance against the Cairn reports its 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 10 principles as part of that commitment. This report is in (CRR) in accordance with AccountAbility’s AA1000 accordance with ISO 26000 and the AA 1000 APS Assurance Standard founding principles of inclusivity, (Principles Standard). materiality and responsiveness. This ensures that we engage with internal and external stakeholders, identify and assess Assurance process our most important CR issues, and address and respond to We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake a limited assurance them in a structured way. engagement, reporting to Cairn Energy PLC (‘Cairn Energy’) only, using the International Standard on Assurance We use the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Engagements (‘ISAE’) 3410: ‘Assurance Engagements on Reporting Guidelines G3.1. We follow its content principles Greenhouse Gas Statements’ and ISAE 3000: ‘Assurance of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical context and completeness; and its quality principles Financial Information’ over the selected Corporate of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity Responsibility performance data that have been marked in and reliability. this report with the symbol and the description of Cairn Energy’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility. 48 Cairn Energy PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – A Summary Principles Standard (‘AA1000APS’) (2008) principles of Non-financial performance information, greenhouse gas inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness marked with the quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent symbol +. The principles set out in AA1000APS (which is limitations than financial information. It is important to available at AA1000APS http://www.accountability.org) read the selected Corporate Responsibility performance are intended to drive reporters to take action to: establish a information contained within this Corporate Responsibility strategy based on a comprehensive and balanced Report in the context of KPMG LLP’s full limited assurance understanding of and response to material issues and opinion; Cairn Energy’s reporting guidelines for the selected stakeholder issues and concerns; establish goals and Corporate Responsibility performance data available on our standards against which the strategy and associated website at www.cairnenergy.com/corporate-responsibility/ performance can be managed and judged; and disclose reporting; and the GRI reporting principles for defining credible information about strategy, goals, standards and report quality for the description of adherence to performance to those who base their actions and decisions AA1000APS which is available at on this information. www.globalreporting.org/reporting. KPMG LLP have provided an unqualified opinion in relation to the selected Corporate Responsibility performance data and the description of Cairn Energy’s adherence to the AA1000APS principles and their full assurance opinion is available in the Corporate Responsibility section of our website at www.cairnenergy.com/corporateresponsibility/assurance. The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance engagement. In order to reach their opinion, KPMG LLP performed a range of procedures which included interviews with management, examination of reporting systems and documentation, as well as selected data testing at a site and Head Office level. A summary of the work they performed is included within their assurance opinion. Printed on FSC-recognised paper, produced from sustainably managed forests. This report was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 accreditation. www.cairnenergy.com/cr2013 Head Office London Norway Spain 50 Lothian Road 6th Floor Veritasveien 25 Paseo de la Castellana 42 Edinburgh 20 Berkeley Square Stavanger 6th Floor EH3 9BY London Norway 28046 T: +44 131 475 3000 W1J 6EQ Madrid F: +44 131 475 3030 Senegal Spain E: pr@cairnenergy.com Morocco Immeuble EPI www.cairnenergy.com “Prestigia”Apart.10 Blvd du Sud x Rue des Ecrivains Building 2 3eme etage Greenland Cordoba 1 Point E Floor 5 Hay Riad 10104 Rabat Dakar Imaneq 33 Morocco Senegal 3900 Nuuk BP. 25087 Dakar Fann Greenland
