Think Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 2014 TRUST Think TRUST Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,LTD Sustainability Report 02 CEO’s Message 04 2012 2014 Highlights 06 Company Profile 08 Sustainable Business Strategy 10 Corporate Governance Structure 12 Stakeholders Engagement 14 Materiality Evaluation 16 Sustainability Management Core Issue Think TRUST 16 – Think TRUST 01. NPP Safety Technology 28 – Think TRUST 02. Future Growth Respect 34 – Think TRUST 03. Innovative Management Ultimate Safety Social Responsibility 40 – Think TRUST 04. Ethical Management Timeless Integrity 48 – Think TRUST 05. Environmental Management 58 – Think TRUST 06. Social Contribution 66 – Think TRUST 07. Accompanied Growth 73 Appendix 74 Other Sustainable Management Achievements 80 Third-Party Assurance Statements 82 SR10 Certificate 83 GRI Index 88 Membership and Participating Principles CEO’s Message KHNP is up and at it again, ready to take on the future. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 3 As the country’s largest power generation company, supplying about 30% of the nation’s power through nuclear, water and pumped-storage hydroelectric sources, KHNP (Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd.) is working relentlessly to create sustainable growth with a corporate vision of living up to its name as ‘ KHNP, a trusted global energy leader’. We went through a very difficult couple of years. The management has been working alongside employees to correct the mistakes that were made and change the outlook of the company. By promoting ‘three major innovations’ in personnel, organization and company culture, we set out to enhance nuclear power plant safety. As a result of these efforts, the first half of 2014 has been filled with rays of hope. The reliable operation of nuclear power plants stimulated growth in power generation, while a tightening of management across the entire enterprise improved financial outcomes. Increased nuclear power plant utilization and a reduction in the number of power plant failures are indicative of improved levels of operating performance. Further reflective of our efforts, we also achieved second place with 87.9 points in the WANO (World Association of Nuclear Operators) comprehensive safety performance index, a global index measuring nuclear power plant safety and performance. We will operate nuclear power plants with safety in mind, recover trust through communication and a win-win spirit, and will continue to create new growth. We strive ceaselessly to better ourselves, in order to become a world-class nuclear power company appreciated by the people and respected by the international community. First, we will achieve the highest standards of nuclear safety, which is our top priority. We are increasing investments in technology development for the purpose of improving nuclear safety, and continue to promote enhanced safety measures. By strengthening our own quality assurance and safety management with a fundamental reform of nuclear safety and quality controls, as well as by actively engaging in the safety audits of regulatory agencies, safety inspections of the government and special inspections of international agencies, we are striving to ensure safety from multiple angles. We will continue to maintain the highest levels of safety by making it a priority of the utmost value at our company. Second, we will regain the trust of our stakeholders through communication and a win-win sprit. The sustainable growth of our company calls for the support and commitment of stakeholders, including national and local communities. First, we are trying to achieve an open organizational culture by promoting internal communication based on respect and trust among the staff. By providing external communication channels, such as through a nuclear power plant operation council, integrity ombudsman, and conferences concerning mutual growth, we are hoping to increase the confidence of stakeholders. Also, to improve the overall competitiveness of the nuclear industry ecosystem, we are striving to accompany growth with more partnerships. We want to connect with actively employed, outstanding individuals in the nuclear power plant industry, who have made a number of social contributions and are committed to the community. Third, we will create new growth to secure the future of nuclear technology. Nuclear power is a realistic alternative in response to high oil prices and climate change. Many countries are realizing the advantages of using nuclear power, and in light of this trend, we are looking for ways to make the world our stage, with regards to both our company, as well as our country. Since 2009, we have been constructing nuclear power plants in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) with our technology, and we hope to contribute in upgrading the nation’s image through continued involvement in the nuclear operational support business and international export trade. Turning crisis into opportunity, and further, into sustainable management goals, we are committed to improving company constitution through bold innovation and by practicing social responsibility. With determined resolution, and an expectation to restore the confidence of the people, we issue this sustainability report. We hope this report will be a valuable handbook that facilitates communication with the public and with stakeholders, informing them of company efforts toward sustainable management. We look forward to the continued interest and respect in our company as we seek a new beginning and pursue innovative change. Thank you. Cho Seok President & CEO, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 4 2012-2014 Highlights Recognized as the world’s top tier Yecheon pumped-storage power plant nuclear power plant with regards to completed construction of Korea’s first safe operation capability solar power plant utilizing the incline of In November 2013, members of WANO (World Association a dam of Nuclear Operators) conducted a thorough inspection KHNP completed construction of Korea’s first 2MW solar of four nuclear power sites and the headquarters of five power plant utilizing a dam incline. It is equivalent in effect to areas (leadership and management, superintendence and a greenhouse gas reduction of 1,800 tons per year and was observation, HQ support, human resource management and registered at the UN’s CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) communication) and recognized that we are maintaining the to additionally obtain greenhouse gas emission rights. world’s top level of stability and operational capability. Achieved nuclear power plant standard design approval for 1.5 million kW APR+ We received nuclear power plant standard design approval from the Localization of nuclear power plant core Nuclear Safety and Security Commission for APR+ (a 1.5 million kW hightechnology, safety analysis code capacity nuclear power plant), which has been developed with genuine, Following the nuclear power companies in the advanced native technology. It is the first 100% native technology has been applied countries of US and France, KHNP was the third in the world to design. The export of two of these nuclear power plants is expected to to localize the source technology, ‘nuclear safety analysis achieve a profit of USD 10 billion. code (SPACE)’. The safety analysis code, a computer program that verifies nuclear power plant safety, is an essential core technology when it comes to designing nuclear power plants. By localizing the code along with the nuclear reactor cooling pump and nuclear power measurement control system, we have secured the perfection of core nuclear technologies. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 5 Received grand prize in renewable energy In October 2012, we received the grand prize from Wolsong #3 achieved five consecutive cycles the Ministry of Knowledge Economy in recognition of of safe operation without failure our efforts for a mandatory renewable energy supply system. The system calls for power producers to Wolsong #3 (pressurized heavy water reactor, 700,000 kW) supply a fixed rate of renewable energy in accordance operated safely with no failures from May 24, 2007 to June 15, with the government’s policy of green growth and 2015 a span of 2,107 days. It is the first among pressurized heavy expansion of renewable energy supply, and the results water reactor nuclear power plants to have achieved safe operation reflect our leading role in the policy. without a single failure for five consecutive cycles, demonstrating the overall safety and operational ability of our nuclear power plants. Full-scale operation of BPM (Business Certification for safety & health Process Management) system management system integration We completed construction of the BPM in April 2013 and began its In September 2014, KHNP acquired certification full-scale operation. BPM analyzes and eliminates problems from for the renewal of an integrated safety & health each job process, standardizing work processes so that they can be management system based on the domestic standards done through a computer system, allowing for real-time monitoring of KOSHA 18001 (Korea Occupational Safety & Health on the whole system and making it possible to enhance management Agency) and international standards of OHSAS 18001 effectiveness and transparency. (Korea Knowledge Standard Registrars), to become an undisputed global safety & health management system certified workplace. Hanbit Nuclear Power Site received the Minister of Security and Public Administration’s Award at the 2013 Korean Volunteer Awards As a result of their continuous volunteer activity and donations suited to various regional characteristics, Hanbit Nuclear Power Site received the Minister of Security and Public Administration’s Award at the 2013 Korean Volunteer Awards in the area of corporate social contribution. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 6 Company Company overview KHNP is a public energy corporation that was established in April 2001 in compliance with the ‘Electricity Profile Industry Restructuring Program’ of the government. Divided from the power sector of the Korea Electric Power Corporation, KHNP supplies reliable and affordable electric power through green energy (nuclear, hydro and renewable energy). (As of June 30, 2014) Company name Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Location of headquarters 125 Hwarang-ro, Gyeonju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea Development of electric power resources / power generation and related businesses / Main function R&D and affiliated businesses / overseas businesses Established April 2, 2001 Capital KRW 1.2122 trillion (January 3, 2011) No. of employees 9,563 7 divisions, 25 departments and offices / HQ, 4 nuclear power site (Kori, Yeonggwang, Wolsong, Organization Uljin), 1 hydro power site, 7 pumped-storage power plants and 7 other offices Vision and Core values VisionㅣTo produce the most affordable and reliable electricity in order to improve the quality of life and become a strong pillar in the economic development of the state, KHNP established a vision of becoming KHNP, a trusted global energy leader and constantly strives toward realizing this. Core ValuesㅣKHNP pursues five core values that are highly differentiated to carry out the original purpose of its establishment as a public company and at the same time to fulfill its responsibility as a member of society. 2030 mid to long-term strategy overview Mission Enrich Life through Environment Friendly Energy Core values Technology / Respect / Ultimate safety / Social responsibility / Timeless integrity Vision KHNP, a trusted global energy leader KHNP Way Technology Business goal T 37 domestic With a foundation in the personal development of nuclear power 'the world’s best expertise and ongoing identification of opportunities 2030 revenue of KRW 25 trillion plant sites in operation achieve 16% in overseas sales secure nuclear power plant for company improvement, KHNP aims to reach a 11 contracts overseas nuclear power plant technology' world-class level. Strategy direction Respect First priority given to the safe Step-by-step promotion of Expansion of technology-based R We acknowledge individual diversity and foster an organizational culture seeking synergy through cooperation based on open communication. operation of nuclear power plants Business strategy overseas business business Domestic nuclear Overseas nuclear Hydraulics New business Ultimate Safety power plants power plants regional expansion in selection and U Safety is highly valued, such that we seek safety as sustainable and step-by-step expansion stages concentration a way of life through preventative measures in daily work activities, rapid response and the internalization safe operation of business model of recurrence prevention. · process systematization · short to mid-term pursuit · secure reference in · focus on nuclear power » establish KHNP’s own of EPC business model Southeast Asia and South plant dismantling business Social Responsibility integrated management model · expand to BOO business Asia » secure core dismantling S As a major producer of power in the national · in the long-term, secure industrial basis, we will achieve social responsibility · technological leadership model in the long-term technology » obtain leading global nuclear · successful execution market share of 3~5% » after securing reference, through public-oriented, environment-friendly power plant technology and development of joint in three major countries enter overseas market management and stakeholder satisfaction. project with KEPCO for including Indonesia · optimization of · specialization of manpower » diversification of recruitment overseas nuclear power economically feasible Timeless Integrity pool plant and look into phased renewable energy portfolio T expansion of own business As a public company serving the nation and the · redefining the organization state, we foster a spirit of world-class anti-corruption » redesigning 2030 mid to longand stand squarely against corruption of all forms. term business organization KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 7 Main business KHNP is predominantly engaged in the business of nuclear power generation, hydroelectric power generation and 2013 Business portfolio (revenue) renewable energy, promoting R&D and international business as well as nuclear power plant construction projects. We are currently operating 23 nuclear power plants and in the process of constructing 9 more, in addition to Domestic operating 21 ordinary hydro, 16 pumped-storage, 5 solar, 1 wind and 14 small hydro power plants. nuclear power Power generation facility (As of June 30, 2014) 5.17 trillion won Nuclear power Hydro ncluding Renewable Total Kori Hanbit Hanul Wolsong pumped storage) Hydropower No. of operating plants 6 6 6 5 37 20 80 Overseas nuclear power 1.08 Facility capacity (MW) 5,137 5,900 5,900 3,779 trillion won Total (MW) 20,716 5,295 28 26,039 0.11 trillion won New business Market share (%) 23.50 6.01 0.03 29.54 0.06 trillion won * Based on standard total domestic power generation capacity of facility as 88,184 MW (excluding self-generating facilities) Power generation (unit: GWh, %) 2010 2011 2012 2013 June 2014 Nuclear power 148,596 154,723 150,327 138,784 77,908 (domestic share) (31.3) (31.1) (29.5) (27.0) (30.2) Hydro, renewable 1,502 4,714 5,034 5,590 2,699 (domestic share) (0.3) (1.0) (1.0) (1.1) (1.0) Financial Stability Evaluation Total 150,098 159,437 155,362 144,374 80,607 (domestic share) (31.6) (32.1) (30.5) (28.1) (31.2) Interest coverage rate * KEPCO electricity statistics news (June 2014) Milestones 491.37%p KHNP has been pioneering Korea's nuclear power industry and leading development of energy industry. Now we 2013 46.72% strive to leap as a global energy leader. First half of 2014 538.09% Beginning Stage Growth and Development Stage Takeoff Stage (1978~1998) (1999~2007) (2008~) Dependence on debt 2008 2009 Domestic nuclear power generation reached 2 trillion KWh. Won the UAE NPP project (USD 40 billion) 1.46%p 2010 Installed Shin-Kori #3 reactor (first APR1400) 2013 20.60% 2011 Acquired pumped storage power First half of 2014 19.14% generation from thermo-power 2001 Launched Korea Hydro & Nuclear generation company (4,700MW) Power Co., Ltd. (spun off from KEPCO) Commercial operation of Shin-Kori #1 2002 Completed construction of Yeonggwang (first OPR 1000) Cashflow coverage rate #5,6 to reach world’s 6th in facility capacity Declared vision 2025 and mid to long-term strategy for 2025 18.94%p 2003 Uljin #2 reached total power generation of 100 billion KWh Selected as an excellent family friendly 1978 Completed construction of Kori #1 2004 Completed ERP system organization 1983 Completed construction of Wolsong Founded KHNP local community volunteer Selected as top Korean company in #1, Kori #2 team quality competitiveness 1985 Completed construction of Kori #3 2013 Signed contract with ACRC for integrity 2013 341.69% 2005 Renewable energy (Kori wind power 1986 Completed construction of Kori #4, and Yeonggwang solar park) success project First half of 2014 360.63% Yeonggwang #1 Completed construction of Uljin #5 and #6 Heavy water reactor nuclear power 1987 Exceeded 100 billion KWh of nuclear plant made with domestic technology 2006 Total power generation of Uljin NPP acquired safety analysis approval for power generation exceeded 400 billion KWh the first time 1988 Completed construction of Uljin #1 Groundbreaking of Shin-Wolsong #1,2 2014 Groundbreaking ceremony of new 1998 Completed construction of Korea 2007 Completed construction of Wolsong Tritium headquarter building (Gyeongju) Credit ratings Standard NPP, Uljin #3 Removal Facility Launched ‘Future Development Won the first overseas NPP contract Breaking ground of Wolsung nuclear power Committee’ that internal and external (Guangdong NPP technical advisory) environment management center experts participate in *raised in Aug. 2014 A Aa3 1978 2014 Global Energy Leader KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 8 Sustainable Sustainable business strategy As a trusted global energy company, KHNP has established a long-term strategy to comply with and has built Business a sustainability strategy framework. Also, detailed execution tasks are derived in accordance with strategic direction. This is aimed at enhancing the execution capability of sustainable management activities and Strategy carrying them out systematically while strengthening monitoring. Mission Enrich Life through Environment Friendly Energy Core value Technology / Respect / Ultimate safety / Social responsibility / Timeless integrity Vision KHNP, a trusted global energy leader Business goal Short-term (2015) Mid-term (2020) Long-term (2030) Restoration of trust World-class safe operator Global energy leader First priority given to the safe Step-by-step promotion of Expansion of technology-based Strategic direction operation of nuclear power plants overseas business business Sustainability management Become a trusted global energy leader through balanced growth with the economy, environment and society strategic direction Economy Environment Society Create sustainable economic Achieve environmental Contribute to community achievements through reliable sustainability and respond to development through business operations climate change community participation as a · reinforcement of safety in nuclear power · advance environmentally friendly responsible corporate citizen plant operation management activity system · eradicate corruption and spread culture · secure leading global technology · reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of integrity and response to climate change · implement social responsibility through · expand overseas business promotion · strengthen crisis and disaster · radioactive waste management social contribution activities management system · expansion of renewable energy · strengthening of mutual growth and business cooperation with small and medium · secure financial strength and profitability enterprises · internalization of management innovation · energy saving and efficiency · expansion of procurement for green · securing experts and strengthening training systems product · creating 'high-quality jobs' · coexistence with local community Sustainability management Management Advisory Committee under the implementation system Board of Directors KHNP reflects sustainability of the overall Chairman Member Secretary management process through an effective CEO each division head head of corporate organizational structure. We practice enterpriseplanning department wide sustainable management through the Sustainable management general practice group systematic cooperation of economy · society · environment-related departments, in particular. group leader: head of corporate group members: head & deputy planning department head of planning team By emphasizing the supervision of responsibility of organizations on a sector-by-sector basis, and Sustainable management dedicated division clearly identifying and defining the tasks to be performed by each sector, we promote individual economy environment society sector activity. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 9 CSV framework KHNP does not regard social responsibility and corporate management as separate, and will respond to the social responsibility issues in all processes that occur throughout the business by constructing a CSV (Creating Shard Value) framework for practicing sustainable management. STEP.1 Verification of social STEP.2 KHNP CSV activities STEP.3 Expansion to responsibility issue stakeholders Industrial Customers Partners factor Social Economic Creation of social Creation of factor factor value utilizing economic value Social KHNP Shareholders KHNP Environcapability of reflecting social and mental Issue investors stakeholders Political CSV groups and Competitive energy public responsibility geopolitical factor factor Environenterprise issues Government mental Employees and local factor community Sustainability management system promotes corporate performance management Result Target indicators 2013 target 2013 result 2014 target evaluation Safety first management Unplanned shutdown rate (%) 0.35 0.26 ● 0.4 Unplanned shutdown by human error (case) less than 2 0 ● less than 2 Improvements and replacement of major facilities 13 13 ● 2 (case) Fukushima accident follow-up action rate (%) 65.2 65.2 ● 82.6 NPP safety accident rate (%) 0 0 ● 0 Radioactive integral dose (man-Sv/unit) 0.65 0.53 ● 0.60 Internalization of management innovation Personnel system innovation result Job specialist retention rate (%) completed 59.9 completed 60.2 ● ● 64.1 0.26% Unplanned shutdown rate BPM promotion result planning planning ● proliferation 60.2% Organizational culture reform planning planning ● building trust Debt ratio (%) 135 132.1 ● 154 Interest coverage rate (times) 9.62 0.552 ◐ 6.82 Job specialist retention rate Restoration of trust of stakeholders 65.2% Support for nuclear power (%) 69.2 52.0 ◐ 72.6 Local residents’ receptivity (point) 49 46.1 ◐ 56 Integrity indicator (grade) good very poor ○ excellent Fukushima accident follow-up International trade integrity (point) 8.43 n/a ○ 8.63 action rate Employment rate of unemployed youth (%) Purchase rate of technologically developed products 4 17.1 5.6 11.2 ● ◐ 4.1 17.1 89.62% (%) Power generation capacity Public service activity index (time) 18 16.2 ◐ 20 indicator 0.53 Reinforcement of business potential Construction progress rate (%) 80.82 81.07 ● 84.98 man-Sv/unit Overseas business sales (USD million) 92.78 105.21 ● 121.53 Radioactive integral dose RPS achievement rate (MW) 778 893 ● 878 Power generation capacity indicator (%) Pumped-storage power generation under full level 86.3 96 89.62 99.9 ● ● 90.8 96.5 105.21 USD million maintenance (%) Overseas business sales KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 10 Corporate Composition and operation of the board of directors The KHNP Board of Directors (BOD) consists of six executive directors including the CEO, as well as seven Governance non-executive directors. The BOD is a final decision-making body that makes major business, sustainability and corporate social responsibility (CSR)-related decisions. It is required that BOD be composed of less than Structure 15 directors, with non-executive directors in the majority. (As of Oct. 2014) Name Position Term at office Cho Seok President & CEO 2013. 9 ~ 2016. 9 Wie Jae Min Auditor General 2014. 10 ~ 2016. 10 Executive Kim Bum Nyun Head of Power Generation Division 2014. 8 ~ 2016. 8 directors Cho Byung Ok Head of Quality & Safety Division 2012. 10 ~ 2014. 10 Jung Ha Hwang Head of Planning Division 2014. 1 ~ 2016. 1 Lee Young Il Head of Construction Division 2014.10~2016.10 Chairman, Soobong Educational Foundation Lee Tae Hyeong 2014. 2 ~ 2016. 2 Senior non-executive director (chairman of the board) Kwon Gi Heon Professor, Sungkyunkwan University 2010. 6 ~ 2014. 12 Jeon Seong Hwan Chairman, Bohae Scholarship Foundation 2014. 2 ~ 2016. 2 Nonexecutive Ryu Sung Kyu Former president of Korea Coal Corporation 2014. 2 ~ 2016. 2 directors Cho Jeong Je Chairman, Daehannews Media Group 2014. 2 ~ 2016. 2 Park Kyu Ho Executive vice president of Domestic Operations, KEPCO 2014. 2 ~ 2016. 2 Director, Research Council of Energy & Resources Cho Seong Hee 2014. 10 ~ 2016. 10 Industrial Development We installed six specialized committees in 2013 to expand the activity and enhance the expertise of the Board of Directors. Specialized Role 2013 core contents committee Strongly requested to limit reemployment of executives to partner companies Ethical Management Ethics, Integrity * Reflected to the code of conducts : 1(b) → 2 grade Requested to operate special T / F to raise revenue in the aftermath of NPP Management Strategy Vision, strategy suspension caused by quality forgery and debt reduction Instructed to report at any time on ‘comprehensive measures to improve Safety and Technology Nuclear safety NPP operations,’ anti-corruption and promoting the innovational process Review the adequacy of the plan and scale for regional businesses Local Development Local cooperation supporting nuclear power plant projects Requested continuing promotion of open employment system to recruit Fair Society Management innovation external experts Future Growth R&D, NPP export 2013 R&D plan review, Finnish NPP bid proposal review President (Chairman) Executive directors (5 people) Non-executive directors (7 people) Ethical Management Safety and Local Fair Society Future Growth Management Strategy Technology Development Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 5 people 3 people 3 people 3 people 3 people 3 people KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 11 Board of Directors operation performance The fruitful operation and stability of the BOD is achieved as we actively identify business issues and make submissions to the board. In the year 2013, 11 board meetings were held and the attendance rate was 92.8%. In particular, we instituted preliminary agenda reporting to help non-executive directors understand the matters then at hand, and the proportion of non-executive directors actively speaking out at meetings increased from 76% in 2012 to 85% in 2013. 2011 result 2012 result 2013 result Attendance of board of directors Number of BOD meetings (event) 12 14 11 Resolved agenda (item) Preliminary review rate (%) 41 100 43 100 34 100 2.5%p 2012 90.3% Amended and resolved agenda (items / %) 8 / 20 4 / 10 2/6 2013 92.8% Reported agenda (item) 9 13 23 Attendance rate (%) 96.1 90.3 92.8 Non-executive directors’ attendance rate (%) 100 90 95 Non-executive directors’ attendance rate Non-executive directors’ rate of speaking (%) 70 76 85 Non-executive directors’ management suggestions (item) 40 42 48 5%p Composition and operation of audit committee 2012 90% 2013 95% To secure the independence and expertise of the audit and to activate internal audit function, we operate an audit committee. The audit committee is composed of one executive director (executive auditor) and two non-executive Non-executive directors’ rate of directors, and members are appointed by resolution of the Board of Directors. The audit committee, in principle, speaking is held quarterly and when necessary, but has been held every month since its installation in June 2012. The meeting is held with more than half of the members present and decisions are made by majority vote. 9%p 2012 76% Recommendation and appointment of directors 2013 85% Appointment of the CEO, Auditor General and non-executive directors are proceeded by an ‘executive recommendation committee,’ which gathers candidates by recommendation or public invitation, selecting usually multiple candidates to be recommended by the ‘public agency steering committee.’ The CEO is appointed by the President following a resolution of a general meeting of shareholders and by recommendation from the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy. The Auditor General is likewise appointed by the President after resolution of a general meeting of shareholders and by recommendation from the Minister of Strategy and Finance. While non-executive directors are appointed by the Minister of Strategy and Finance, executive directors, on the other hand, are appointed by the CEO at the general shareholders’ meeting without any recommendation process. Evaluation of and remuneration of directors The CEO enters into the management contract with the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy, who acts as a supervising department. The CEO’s performance in the three categories of leadership & responsible management, management effectiveness and major business are subject to government management evaluation. Executive directors enter into the management contract with the CEO on major issues to be resolved in that year and their performance is evaluated through an internal management performance evaluation. To invigorate the system of management checks and supervisory functions, KHNP operates an individual evaluation system for non-executive directors. The remuneration limit of executives is determined by resolution of the shareholders' meeting as well as by the standards and payment methods of executive remuneration as determined by the Board of Directors. The remuneration for the CEO and executive directors is determined by the Board of Directors in accordance with remuneration instructions prescribed by the Minister of Strategy and Finance as per the review and decision process of the steering committee. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 12 Stakeholder Engagement 1_Shareholders and investors They invest in a company for profit and are interested in enhancing financial soundness and profitability, distributing business performance, reinforcing IR activities and creating synergy among power group companies. 2_Customers This group pays the cost for the purchase of a product or service of a company. They are a general public group affected by company activity both directly and indirectly. 3_Partners The group (including legal affiliates) that takes some part in the function and production of value within the company, either exclusively or in collaboration, in order to maximize the operational effectiveness 4_Government of the company. They are interested in fair trade practices and accompanied growth. This is the governing organization including legislative, judicial and administrative bodies that have legal authority over the supervision of restriction / regulatory requirements in company operations. 5_Employees These are the people employed for the management and creation of value within the company, including executives and staff. They are interested in a sound and stable labormanagement relationship, rational HR operations and the development of competency. 6_Local community This group is interested in the construction of eco-friendly NPPs, safe NPP operations, transparency in information disclosure and social contribution activities. 7_Environment groups This is a group that exercises environment-related leverage and is interested in the direct and indirect influences of KHNP’s business onto the environment. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 13 KHNP is the first Korean company, in October 2014, to have received ‘SR10 SRMS (Certification of Social Responsibility Management System)’, an international certification of sustainable management that defines and manages major stakeholders of seven types in accordance with the SR10 standard. Communication Opinion Reflected to management Report channel 1 Shareholders and Non-executive director promote a comprehensive reformation plan to regain · establish a management innovation plan 37 investors management advice national trust establishment and execution of a plan to improve · establish roadmap for comprehensive improvement of safe 37 organizational culture culture establishment of a plan to manage partners to prevent · establishment and execution of comprehensive improvement 44 recurrence of accidents plan report to board of directors on audit results to enhance · report quarterly audit result 45 integrity and ethical management necessary to reinforce audit personnel that is required to · reinforce personnel to Audit department 46 perform audit so that it is suits organization size necessary to arrange response system in relation to · redefine response system for disaster or major accident 23 ‘Sewol’ accident 2 Customers Ombudsman system necessary continuous effort to reinforce transparency on · establish external expert advice process, periodic review and 45 fuel purchase and investment projects revision on standard purchase process the local requests in relation to the construction of Shin· setup CSV strategy and reflect to local community support project 62-63 Kori #5 and #6 should not be treated with temporary support but with CSV strategic support business so that KHNP and locals can coexist 3 Partners Accompanied growth resolve ‘thorns under the nail’ red tapes for partners · discover 50 tasks to improve and take corrective measures on 70 meetings 43 others Partner companies council support strengthening competency of second and third · execution of KHNP industry innovation movement 3.0 (fostering 71 partners of second and third partner companies) · extend contract between first and second partners of accompanied growth and fair trade 4 Government National audit expand audit personnel such as personnel management / · continuous reinforcement on headquarters audit infra 46 audit task force · strengthen function of audit team and secure personnel for business unit Management assessment break nuclear pure blood principle and activate internal · expand recruitment of managers from outside 37 communication · establish job capability oriented cross placement among job groups NPP purchase system prepare mid to long-term plan to promote competition · supply-chain management and establishment of team 36, 69 improvement committee responsible for production cost investigation to maintain wholesome checks and exterminate corruption · standardization of NPP parts, establish localization road map to setup NPP market supply chain · eliminate responsibility blind spots by redefining quality control area of NPP organizations 5 Employees Labor-management improve irrational labor-management customs · improve excessive holiday clauses by deleting time-off 17,500H 77 council agreement and retirement preparation leave (30 days) · strengthening rationality for performance appraisal Employee opinion survey gather opinions for elimination of unnecessary tasks · selected ten vows for happy workplace 37 6 Local community Citizen reporters improve purchase quality system that directly connects to · adopt forgery prevention system 25 NPP safety, such as forgery of test reports · adopt NPP component-related integrated information system Anti-corruption citizen worries about radioactivity around NPP on the environment · analyze and publicize influence of radioactivity around NPP on 57 watch group humans 7 Environment groups ISO140001 environment recommend to develop and apply waste water amount · create and manage waste water and inputting chemical condition 55 management system and chemical inputting condition table so that to identify list review appropriate neutralization chemical input amount to treat waste water of power plants recommend to materialize and quantify the target and · develop and apply international standard for environment 54 promotion plan for environment improvement performance index recommend to perform change of waste oil and waste · designate and install place for change of waste lubricant and 55 lubricants at designated area in accordance with waste oil reuse environmental impact assessment report KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 14 Materiality Evaluation When preparing this sustainability report, the KHNP focus was on figuring out and reflecting the interests of stakeholders as well as internal opinions on related issues. To do this, we analyzed the internal and external environment according to our own materiality decision process, selecting the most important issues to stakeholders and reflecting them in both our report and sustainable management strategy. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 Understanding issues Prioritizing Major issues review Determination and report of core issues Internal issues Organization influence External expert review By area ·management strategy / KPI ·strategic importance ·determination and report of core issues ·management policy / system ·business influence Management review External issues Stakeholder interest ·benchmarking / media analysis ·social trend ·stakeholder opinion ·materiality by issues Materiality Issue pool Major issues evaluation STEP 1 To better grasp sustainable management issues at KHNP, we performed various internal and external analyses. A media analysis review included a Understanding total of 643 articles and through report materials, related company analysis, trend & impact analysis, government task analysis and management issue issues analysis, we derived 166 issues important to KHNP. STEP 2 On the basis of these 166 issues, we conducted a survey of 10,960 major KHNP stakeholder groups and 2,698 (24.6%) participated in the prioritizing Prioritizing process. We reviewed the materiality of stakeholders’ points of view against that of the KHNP business point of view and then prioritized issues. From this, 8 economic issues, 10 social issues, 4 environmental issues and 4 general sustainable management issues, or a total of 26 issues, were selected. STEP 3 We underwent external expert and management reviews to decide on the final core issues that would be reported in our sustainable management Major issues report. Also, we checked separately whether opinions of external stakeholders, and moreover opinions of external stakeholders who are on the value review chain, were faithfully reflected in the chosen pool of issues and within the prioritizing process. STEP 4 We selected 7 items on the basis of the 11 core issues that were selected through the major issues review. ‘NPP safety’, ‘Future growth’, and ‘Innovative Determination management’ which considered KHNP’s characteristics, in addition to ‘Anti-corruption’, ‘Environment’, ‘Local community’, and ‘Procurement custom,’ and report of which were suggested by GRI, were selected and passed deliberation of a management advisory committee. They have subsequently been reflected in core issues this report of major activities and results. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 15 Materiality evaluation result External interest (0~100%) 100 Strengthening safety of NPP operation 80 Eradication Radioactive Strengthening of risk disaster of corruption waste management system and spreading management integrity culture Securing leading global technology 60 Enhancement of environmentally-friendly management activity system Strengthening accompanied growth with SMEs Internalization of management innovation Execution of social responsibility through social Securing financial soundness and profitability contribution activities 40 Expanding overseas business promotion 20 0 20 40 60 80 100 Internal interest (0~100%) Core issues and GRI G4 Aspects Opinion of Stakeholders GRI Aspect Core Issues Report Issues Strengthen nuclear plant reliability Strengthening safety of NPP operation Improve safety management system T NPP Establishment of own aspect for business safety Advanced nuclear operational capability Promote safety culture H Strengthening of risk disaster management system Securing global nuclear technology Future I Phased overseas business expansion Expanding overseas business promotion growth Establishment of own aspect for business Diversification of business portfolio and fostering environmentally-friendly energy business N Securing leading global technology Execution of three organization operation innovations Innovative Building a for overall improvement of productivity Establishment of own aspect for business management Internalization of management innovation K Strengthening financial soundness and profitability Securing financial soundness and profitability Economic result Restructuring of ethical management promotion system Eradication of corruption and spreading integrity culture Anti-corruption Eradication of NPP corruption and improvement of anti-corruption system Ethical management Strengthening of transparency in management activities Energy T Enhancement of environmentally-friendly Spreading of integrity culture Water management activity system Respond to climate change Emission R EnvironWaste water and waste mental Establish environment management system Radioactive waste management management U Radioactive waste management Execution of social responsibility through social Local community Strengthening social contribution promotion system S contribution activities Social Creating Shared Value reected business characteristics contribution Expanding investments in development of local community T Activity toward inhibiting competition Building sound nuclear power generation industry ecosystem Strengthening accompanied growth with SMEs Social outcomes of supply-chain Accompanied Growth foundation strengthening through competency support growth Procurement customs R&D and sales channel support KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 16 Think TRUST 01. NPP Safety Korean NPPs should be safely constructed and operated. 2013 unplanned shutdowns 33% down The total number of hours (days) of unplanned shutdown in 2013 was 40.21 days, more than a 45% decrease compared to that of 2012. There were 6 (0.26 cases per power plant) unplanned shutdowns in 2013, which is 33% less than the 9 cases in 2012. We are truly giving it our all when it comes making safe NPPs. 2013 NPP safety accidents Zero In 2013, there were no nuclear power plant accidents, marking 3 consecutive accident-free years since 2011. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 17 Where we stand Environmental changes surrounding KHNP and the present Until recently, the nuclear power policy in Korea was to keep electricity rates cheap in support of export competitiveness, promoting economic efficiency. This was not only true for nuclear power but was one of the major growth-centric policies the whole economy was based upon. However, the 2011 Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant accident left us with the hard-learned lesson that efficiency-oriented policies can be rather disastrous. In particular, concealment of reports on outages that occurred at the time at Kori nuclear power plant #1 stirred up anxiety among the local population. According to a survey conducted by the Korea Nuclear Energy Foundation in May 2014, 69.4% of the nation responded that ‘A nuclear accident in Korea is likely' and another 64.2% responded that ‘Nuclear power is not safe.’ These results came out after Korea had achieved the highest levels of performance in the area of nuclear safety operations, placing second in the world in 2013 on the WANO PI Index, a clear indication that public perception of nuclear power safety had not improved. As such, now more than ever, we need to put enhanced effort into regaining the trust of the people, especially in a situation where a big difference lies between public opinion and actual internal and external measurements. In particular, since KHNP needs to expand nuclear power rates to 29% by 2035 according to the government’s 2nd National Energy Plan, the confidence of the people is tied directly to the survival and sustainability of KHNP. Thus, KHNP is further driven to raise the standards of safety for the company, to prove safety objectively, and at the same time to restore confidence among the people by constantly informing them of our commitment to safety as a top management challenge. What we listen Opinions of stakeholders Out of the various issues surrounding the KHNP, ‘Strengthening the safety of nuclear power plant operation’ and ‘Strengthening of risk disaster management system’ have been drawn to the forefront of the core issues from the 'nuclear safety' section. Stakeholders used a 7-point scale to assess the materiality of these two core issues. An average score of 6.6 points was obtained and selection was prioritized by also considering business impact. We report the derived key issues in detail in this report and will continue to manage the comments made to and reflective of our business. Opinions of Stakeholders GRI Aspect Core Issue Report Issues 1. Strengthen nuclear plant Strengthening safety of NPP reliability operation 2. Improve safety Establishment of management system NPP own aspect for safety business 3. Advanced nuclear Strengthening of risk disaster operational capability management system 4. Promote safety culture KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 18 How we do what we do How to promote nuclear safety at KHNP 1. Strengthen nuclear plant reliability Global standard NPP safety assessment Preparation against extreme natural disasters Think TRUST 01. NPP safety Safety as a top priority for new NPP construction Korean NPPs should be safely constructed and operated Preemptive management of aging equipment Strengthening of overhaul 2. Improve safety management system Redefine disaster or major accident response system Radioactive prevention risk management Establishment of cutting edge physical protection system Establishment of cyber security system 3. Advanced nuclear operational capability Establish KHNP’s own NPP operation management system Prepare NPP operation system standard 1. Strengthen nuclear 2. Improve safety 3. Advanced nuclear 4. Promote safety Establish Korean HSSE (Health, Safety, Security, plant reliability management system operational capability culture Environment) integrated management system Zero human error Strengthening quality management capability Strengthening purchase management capability 4. Promote safety culture NPP safety culture evaluation Enactment of NPP operator safety charter Execution of on-site practice safety culture program Regain peoples’ trust through the safe operation of NPPs Deploy safety moment movement Efforts toward NPP safety communication NPP safety check day In the past, when establishing nuclear policy, safety We recently were condemned by the public due and economy were almost equally considered, but to various issues. However, thanks to the efforts of after the Fukushima accident, safety is now believed more than 10,000 KHNP workers, we have almost to be the most important factor. Therefore, the overcome that obstacle. Indeed, we have a long way government is putting emphasis on safety, even if to go and there are many things left to do. To those economic efficiency is somewhat lowered. in the government and to all those who worked Since KHNP was the last bastion for stable power silently beside us, I would like to extend my deepest supply, in the past the majority of people and the gratitude. Please do not feel at a loss regarding all government considered the most important role of our efforts or lose hope due to these issues. KHNP to be supplying stable power, but at present Since the Fukushima NPP we consider restoring the confidence of citizens in accident, the paradigm of nuclear terms of nuclear safety to be our top priority. In line policy across the world is shifting with these changes, we aim to enhance the site its focus to safety. management of four nuclear headquarters with safety in mind, and at the same time, we will once again Moon Shin Hak Manager, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy enhance the ethics and transparency of workers, which has a significant impact on levels of safety. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 19 Overseas professional agencies’ independent review Strengthen nuclear power plant reliability assessment results WANO Global standard NPP safety assessment KHNP has demonstrated years of high performance. Despite domestic concerns about nuclear safety, we maintain a safety level that However, it requires continuous efforts to improve places us second in the world according to the WANO PI (World Association of internal awareness in order to make the next leap. Nuclear Operators Performance Index), and we also achieved first place among 7 advanced nuclear countries (G-7) for Unplanned Capability Loss Factor, an indication of readiness for unplanned power generation loss. In particular, in TUV Rheinland 2013, a WANO inspection team consisting of 16 world nuclear experts reviewed We were able to add value to the efforts taken the five areas of leadership, oversight, HQ support, human resource management toward actively resolving the safety issues from the and communication for two weeks, concluding that there was an 'organizational environment in which members can participate and collaborate,’ 5 areas that inspection and evaluation of Wolsong #1. improved, four exemplary areas and finally, a designation as ‘the world's top’ with regards to the whole spectrum of WANO performance indicators. In addition, TUV SUD German professional organizations TUV SUD and Rheinland TUV independently We could find a high level of safety culture with reviewed Wolsong #1 and Kori #1 and confirmed the operational safety of these nuclear power plants. transparent and accurate disclosure, as gathered (unit : %) from Kori #1 assessment results. WANO PI (countries with Unplanned Capability Loss Factor Dec. 2013 Dec. 2013 more than 10 NPPs) (G7 advanced countries) EXELON (US) 97.2 Korea 0.96 KHNP (Korea) 86.5 Germany 1.57 NNEGC (Ukraine) 85.0 Russia 2.20 ENTERGY (US) 81.5 US 2.93 NPCIL (India) 75.2 France 3.26 OPG (Canada) 73.5 Canada 7.99 EDF (France) 72.9 UK 8.13 * As of June 2014, 87.9 (2nd place) * Excluded Japan’s 48 NPPs due to long halt Global comparison of NPP safety operation performance for the year 2013 (unit: %) NNEGC EXELON OPG 73.5 85.0 Russia 2.20 97.2 Ukraine ENTERGY Canada 7.99 81.5 KHNP UK 8.13 86.5 US 2.93 EDF Korea 0.96 72.9 France 3.26 Germany 1.57 NPCIL 75.2 India WANO PI (countries with more than 10 NPPs) Unplanned Capability Loss Factor (G7 advanced countries) * Excluded Japan’s 48 NPPs due to long halt KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 20 Preparation against extreme natural disasters Major items improved after Fukushima crisis (6 major areas 56 improvement tasks) Immediately after the Fukushima nuclear crisis broke out, KHNP initiated an NPP inspection group of 73 people, gravitating toward private academic-industrial Earthquake Tsunami Flood experts to check safety issues, and unearthing 56 tasks in six areas for the improvement of nuclear facilities. Accordingly, if earthquakes above a certain Ensuring safety in case of Ensuring safety in case of Electricity cooler upon scale (0.18g) were detected, we programmed the reactor to automatically stop earthquake tsunami flooding and installed emergency power systems, waterproof gate including flood gates 6 improvements including 4 improvements improved including for major facilities and waterproof drain pumps. We also conducted stress tests automatic stopping including coastal barrier secured mobile generator for Wolsong #1 and Kori #1 as the Fukushima nuclear accident increased function during earthquake at Kori NPP vehicle popular concern over long-running nuclear power plants. Stress tests assess Severe Emergency Long running the response capacity of nuclear power plants for large natural disasters that accident response NPP exceed the limits of their design. The five inspection areas are ①earthquakes, ②tsunamis and other natural disasters, ③loss of safety function of power Response to severe accident Emergency response and Kori #1 and long running system, ④severe accident management, and ⑤emergency response. Stress emergency medical system NPPs tests in 2013 were diagnosed as sufficient in terms of extreme natural disaster 10 improvements 11 improvements including 10 improvements including Passive securement of radioactive including strengthening of response capacity, and improvements were also made. Autocatalytic Recombiner protection medicine and regular inspection, safety masks inspection Passive Autocatalytic Recombiner (PAR) Installed hydrogen removal facility that can work unpowered Containment Filtered Venting System (CFVS) Installed containment building pressure rising prevention and radioactive Costal barrier 10m material filtering and ventilating facility Expanded coastal barrier of Kori NPP 7.5m → 10m Mobile generator vehicle Reactor building Secured mobile generator Waterproof gate vehicle for each site Installation of waterproof gate at the emergency Nuclear reactor emergency cooler diesel generator room Installation external injection oil route of emergency Emergency coolant at reactor and steam generator Diesel Generator (EDG) SFP Steam generator Used fuel SFP emergency cooler Used fuel storage emergency cooler Waterproof drain pump Installation external injection oil route Secured Waterproof drain pump (portable diesel pump) Reactor secured for each plant KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 21 Expansion of safety sector R&D Best Practice Improved cooling water intake pipe installation method The existing “concrete box” cooling water intake pipe installation method is complex and takes a long time, so we developed an installation method utilizing a GRP (Glass-fiber Reinforced Plastic) pipe, instead. We proceeded with a mock-up test that maintained the same burial depth and existing conditions as with current sites. Through consultation with Bechtel Corporation and Hongik University research center, we gathered opinions on reinforcing the quality standards of the GRP and received verification regarding its structural safety. As a result, the required installation time was significantly shortened, from 12 to 7.5 months, while corrosion resistance and improved workability minimized factors that interrupted construction. Developed seismic isolation (absorption of earthquake energy) equipment and related technology in case of an earthquake KHNP developed a Korean seismic isolation device (equipment that reduces the seismic forces passing between the ground and the foundation of buildings) in compliance with international nuclear standards. By benchmarking nations with thriving NPP industries, like Japan and France, we set up a performance standard based on an earthquake acceleration of 0.5g and finished our design. And with the advice of various domestic and foreign experts, we developed a high-performance material for the seismic isolation equipment and conducted 10 verification tests before announcing its final completion. With the development of this seismic isolation equipment, we have secured export competitiveness for overseas areas that experience strong earthquakes. Also, we developed excellent seismic-safety and high performance watertight flood control gates and will install them at all operating nuclear power plants by August 2015. These flood control gates were developed to prepare for tsunamis similar in magnitude to that of the Fukushima NPP and they weigh less than half (157kg) of the current ones (350kg), making emergency operation much easier. Thanks to structural design optimization, the production costs have been reduced by KRW 4.2 billion. Developed Korean concrete with excellent erosion resistance Before Inside reactor After Inside reactor corium corium inside inside In preparation for severe NPP accidents, KHNP began development of Korean limestone concrete that has excellent erosion resistant in July 2013, finished the design and in September acquired a grade of ‘good’ from a MCCI* verification test and pressure strength test by KICT (Korea Institute of Civil Engineering and Building basalt limestone Technology). With this technology, we improved concrete erosion problems caused by reactor core melting during severe accidents. We also enhanced the protective barrier function of reactor buildings and are able to prevent damage that would be dealt by high-temperature melting of the reactor core.while corrosion resistance and improved workability minimized factors that interrupted construction. •MCCI (Molten Core Concrete Interactions): After a reactor vessel is damaged, a phenomenon in which high-temperature melting erodes the concrete at the bottom of a reactor, threatening the soundness of the containment building. Developed application technique for high performance structural material (HPC / rebar) In addition to the necessity to secure high durability concrete, especially when considering the NPP export environment, other concerns include excessive rebar, the uneconomical nature of rebar overcrowding, and a decline in constructability. To solve these problems, we first tackled concrete application technology. In June 2013, we proceeded with a performance evaluation of concrete derived from a nominal mix of extreme environment HPC* and also built a global database about concrete material, standards and the user environment. Our second task was developing a high-strength rebar application technology and in June 2013 we presented the test results of a high-strength rebar performance evaluation at ACI* and KEPIC*. *HPC: High Performance Concrete (high strength / high durability / high construct ability) *ACI: American Concrete Institute *KEPIC: Korea Electric Power Industry Code KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 22 Safety as a top priority for new NPP construction Preemptive management of aging equipment Shin-Kori #1 began commercial operation in February 2011, as did Shin-Kori Through economic analysis utilizing a long-term investment plan in conjunction #2 and Shin-Wolsong #2 in July 2012. Shin-Wolsong #2, Shin-Kori #3 and with an investment feasibility evaluation system unique to KHNP (Nuclear Asset #4, as well as Shin-Hanul #1 and #2 are currently under construction. KHNP Investment Project Evaluator NAIPE), KHNP has improved the major facilities its reestablished a business plan that puts safety first when constructing NPPs, operating nuclear power plants in a timely manner and in accordance with set and from the very start of the construction of a new NPP, we work to ensure priorities. In 2013, we enhanced safety by changing out the main nuclear control maximum safety and strengthen severe accident response. In particular, in panel and thermal output control reactor head in the control room of Kori #1, in preparation for a sudden loss of power, we extended battery capacity from 8 addition to replacing several large plants. We are replacing four steam generators hours to 24 hours. Through a new preventative design for excess drainage of of Hanul nuclear power plant #3 and #4 in 2013 and 2014. In October 2014 the reactor cooling system, we are able to maintain the necessary flow of cooling and July 2015, each reactor vessel head of Hanbit NPP #3 and #4 are going to water and have strengthened the overall safety of reactor core design for new be replaced. NPPs. At present, Shin-Kori #3 and #4 are preparing to acquire permission for operation in accordance with a replacement of components that addresses previously forged quality test reports. Hanul #3 steam generator replacement Hanbit #3 reactor vessel head water pressure test Strengthening of overhaul Nuclear power plants undergo fuel replacement during regular overhaul (OH) maintenance after operating for 15-18 months. In 2012, KHNP has switched this maintenance paradigm to strengthen safety even more. To this end, KHNP has been reviewing the overall management of OH by focusing on its safety aspects, such as the adequacy of the maintenance period and process and task management techniques. We therefore derived safety processes related to power loss and safety injection instigation to perform management at the primary process level, adjusting the process by considering risks, by creating a buffer process for safety during operation, and by extending construction maintenance Strengthened design for reactor core safety for new NPPs periods. In 2014, to further improve service quality and safety, if at least 3 of 4 maintenance team shifts were not in operation, we stopped the service at night Secured additional time for operator Achieved world’s lowest level of core time and other vulnerable hours. In addition, by closely inspecting facilities that to respond and take appropriate damage frequency measures toward accident fail often, and performing maintenance regularly throughout expected ranges of 16h 47% durability, we are laying the foundation for enhanced maintenance quality and a reduction of sudden stops. extended the battery capacity from 8 hours in comparison with APWR* to 24 hours *APWR : Advanced Pressurized Water Reactor KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 23 distributed to local governments within a 16 Km radius from NPPs so that a Improve safety management system residential population of about 400,000 people was provided for. From now on, we will shorten the cycle for how often radioactive disaster response drills are Redefined disaster or major accident response performed. The former 5 year cycle will be reduced to 1 year and site-specific system joint drills will likewise be reduced from 4 years to 2 years, strengthening the radioactive emergency management system. KHNP improved its crisis response system in preparation for various disasters and accidents. In September 2013, we improved disaster emergency bylaws and operation guidelines for the disaster safety response division. By establishing an Establishment of cutting edge physical protection emergency duty system we are able to operate flexibly and in accordance with system the specific emergency situation. This differs fundamentally from our past system, Ever since North Korea opened fire on Yeonpyeongdo Island in 2010, NPP where uniform rules were applied regardless of the type of disaster, its scope or defense and protective readiness has been strengthened. In particular, Korea the damages incurred. There has also been a change in the emergency grade successfully received inspection from IAEA’s IPPAS (International Physical ruling system. Whereas in the past the whole company followed the same system, Protection Advisory Service), as promised in the 2012 Nuclear Security Summit. now each business unit can decide on their own emergency ranking scale. Accordingly, we have setup a high-tech entrance management system and Also, in November, risk evaluation that had previously only been performed strictly control unauthorized entrance. We are protecting NPP blueprints and by certain departments was extended to all business units, with 4,911 items design data by strengthening the technology security responsibility of service evaluated in total. We also installed a partner safety management cooperation companies and tightening checks and inspections on the NPP material being program to four nuclear power sites in order to reinforce the industry safety shipped in and out. Also, after the KHNP-government joint protection diagnosis, health management system and improve we installed high-rise watch towers for field command, added CCTVs and the accident prevention system. In increased security personnel to further strengthen the state of security and December, we developed a ‘disaster protection. management mobile application’ to enable real-time disaster information sharing Establishment of cyber security system and integrated management. KHNP also established an emergency response system To prepare for an attack like Stuxnet, as experienced by an Iranian NPP, or to protect people who are most likely to intelligent hacking threats such as APT (Advanced Persistent Threat), we are be harmed first in an emergency situation. strengthening cyber security status. In April 2013, KHNP physically divided During vulnerable hours, we are operating intranet and extranet to protect important internal data. Infrastructural equipment a regular emergency response system Disaster management mobile application such as the NPP control system is safely managed by setting up separate closed based around key executives. We have networks. In November 2013, we were the first among power-generating executed emergency alarm network drills that engage both local governments companies to establish a separate cyber security control center, to link up with and residents, utilizing emergency response guidelines in preparation for major both the national cyber security center and cyber security center of the Ministry accidents. of Trade, Industry and Energy, a triple interconnected system. Besides this, we formed an emergency response team in preparation for a cyber crisis. The team Radioactivity prevention risk management would analyze system disabilities, ensure timely restoration and be important in the maintenance of a full-time emergency response system. In accordance with the ‘nuclear facilities’ protection and radioactive disaster prevention measures law,’ KHNP established and operates a radioactive emergency plan and execution procedure at each NPP site. The plan contains details about emergency response groups and their tasks, emergency classification and emergency issue standards, measures that address the initial stage of an emergency, and actions to be taken to protect residents. KHNP is also operating a radioactive disaster response facility and dedicated organization to smoothly restore control of the situation following an emergency. In 2013, thyroid protection medicine and respiratory protective equipment were Implemenation training for radioactive emergency preparedness KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 24 ‘standard operation guideline for power plant manager’ and ‘basic rules for Advanced nuclear operational capability operator.’ Establish KHNP's own NPP operation management system Establish Korean HSSE (Health, Safety, Security, Since the Fukushima disaster, when safety became a top priority, K-PO&C Environment) integrated management system (KHNP-Performance Objectives & Criteria) was enacted to systematically The NPP industry has been focusing on administrative management to prevent manage safety-oriented NPP operational ability. For the smooth execution safety accidents, but lacks the field awareness and integration of the HSSE of K-PO&C, we optimized seven KHNP Operation Management Processes (Health, Safety, Security, Environment) management system. With a goal to including self-diagnosis, root cause analysis, operation experience, and an prepare an international response system for overseas business, KHNP set up operation improvement program. Also, to comprehensively manage NPP safety a business strategy after benchmarking construction sites in UAE and Hyundai and performance, we developed 30 KHNP Performance Indicators over 4 major Green Power. Accordingly, in April 2013, we launched for the first time in the areas. After performing a trend analysis and performance evaluation of each site NPP construction industry a dedicated team for HSSE integrated management and looking for areas of insufficiency, through self-diagnosis and benchmarking, and adopted the HSSE integrated management system at both the Shin-Hanul we relentlessly improved the safety and performance of power generators. #1 and #2 construction sites. Prepare NPP operation system standard Expansion of HSSE facilities and equipment To standardize the operation process of all NPPs, we developed a detailed manual. First, we enacted a ‘process manual creation and usage procedure,’ and Health Safety Installed automatic defibrillators on-site (3 sets) Secured shock-absorbing mattresses (20) standardized NPP operation manuals’ numbers, composition and compilation Installed emergency treatment center with nurses stationed Operating high speed alarm system Implemented measures for workers during the summer season (supervising the working environment) methods. This eased the ability to make comparisons between power plants, (break time) Installed tool and equipment automatic check point (3 places) allowing for immediate reflection of process manual improvements with regards HSSE to operating experience, design alteration, and classification of the process Security Environment manual using grade, all in accordance with an eye to prevent human error. Also, Installation of CCTV and operation of monitoring system Full-scale inspection of harmful, hazardous materials and management (145 places) Emergency, announcement and emotional safety broadcasting to operate 23 NPPs in sync, as if it were only one, every year we develop NPP Expanded number of resting areas (18 places) and bathrooms (39 places) operation guides such as the ‘comprehensive guide to prevent human error’, KHNP’s original NPP operation management system NPP operation innovation (K-3P) Achieve enhancement K-3P result, weak area in NPP performance operation of improvement TF K-PO&C K-Process K-PI execute self-diagnosis Establish Execute Evaluate feedback on direction of improvement standard standard execution K-PO&C Suggest optimal operation goals and expectations for Korean NPPs Trend analysis of each power plant and Continuous improvement of NPP K-Process Improvement of work process to execute K-PO&C execution of performance evaluation to safety and performance K-PI Quantitative evaluation of power plant performance according to search for weak areas and implement execution of K-PO&C self-diagnosis and benchmarking KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 25 Zero human error We are implementing systematic prevention measures to make sure that no unintended stops are caused by human error. Due to the full-scale promotion of Major improvements for on-offline forgery prevention system the UAE NPP project and growing number of operating NPPs, the proportion of Past Improved new recruits is increasing rapidly. This makes even more salient the requirement for a comprehensive and systematic measure to prevent unintended stops · Database management for quality of power generation due to human error. As major instances of human error test reports not in place · Systematic management of test · Original copy of the quality test report database with QR code are mistakes made by the staff or by not following the procedure manual, we report was not registered at KHNP, · Registered original copy of quality established a ‘power plant manager position’ to oversee the usual ‘2 people, 1 making it impossible to make test report at KHNP and enabled checks on production inspection real-time check within the office team’ operation of equipment, and established an ‘operator basic manual.’ Also, · Possibility of reusing the quality · Prevented double registration we made it compulsory to take 32 hours of human error prevention education test report · Real-time check of original · Impossible to check the original document upon receipt / shipment to become an NPP operator, running 2 courses dividing the main control room copy upon receipt / shipment personnel class from the field operator class. Also, to strengthen NPP operator capabilities, we developed a JQC (job qualification certificate). By developing 167 from companies in violation of having forged quality documents from 1 year to 10 years, tightening the company management standard. Human error class example Self-assessment / Draw improvement kinds of JQC for 12 NPPs, through an evaluation of an NPP operator’s positionspecific education and job capability, we will be able to determine their expertise in a short period of time. Besides this, we developed a core job knowledge management system and adopted an NPP manager qualification program for those without SRO (Senior Reactor Operator) licenses to further strengthen the capability of NPP workers. Strengthening quality management capability To prevent a reoccurrence of quality test report forgery and to strengthen Strengthened quality management competence equipment quality safety, we have set up specific measures. In October 2013, we nominated Lloyd's Register, an NPP inspection specialist, to act as a third Completion of quality competence Restriction of registration for reinforcement education for partner companies in violation of having party in re-verifying quality test reports and in December, we established an companies in 2013 forged documents 813 10 on-offline forgery prevention system. To solve quality problems with equipment suppliers, we provide quality competence reinforcement education to partner companies. The content of this education program includes nuclear power people years quality systems, nuclear power quality assurance and inspection practices, and competence reinforcement education extended from the previous 1 year period 813 people from 464 companies completed it in 2013. Also, we improved the including nuclear quality system supplier registration system by extending the restriction period of registration KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 26 Strengthening purchase management capability As we have learned from the spare parts test report forgery incident that Promote safety culture stopped NPP operation, procurement of material for KHNP is important since NPP safety culture evaluation it is directly connected to safety. To create a sound NPP business ecosystem, KHNP is promoting advancement in the contract system by building an NPP In 2011, using our experience in the operation of NPPs and by referring to industry SCM system and preparing reasonable prices based on cost. By international standard safety culture evaluation guidelines such as IAEA, WANO, loosening the requirements to participate in bidding, more companies were and INPO, KHNP has set Korea’s own safety culture evaluation standards for able to take part. In addition, cost-based purchase price calculations helped surveying, interviewing, document review and field observation. From 2012, we to advance the contract system. In June 2014, we built an NPP parts-related utilized these evaluation standards every year to execute safety culture evaluation comprehensive management system covering information about construction, on all our power plants with the help of academic and research groups as well operation, purchase, inventory and quality. Also, to improve the purchase quality as senior experts. system, we completed a government NPP corruption reoccurrence prevention comprehensive measure and promoted a phased, mid to long-term structural 2013 results of NPP safety culture evaluation improvement measure for the NPP purchase system improvement committee. Performance 2013 2013 Performance index target performance analysis NPP corruption reoccurrence prevention comprehensive measure Safety culture enhancement improve continuous creation of safety considering effort workers’ safety enhancement of work environment foundation Major results consciousness safety consciousness Purchase advance disclosure of purchase plan, introduction of equipment Safety check of long-running evaluate Wolsong completed contractor prepared foundation for improvement purchasing eligibility evaluation system, minimization of private contracts NPPs #1, Kori #1 evaluation continuing operation of longrunning NPPs Strengthening of re-verification by third party of quality documents, direct payment of NPP safety communication operate citizen issued operation expanded scope of quality testing cost from KHNP effort evaluation group, report and participation to ordinary citizens private participation verification for NPP safety operation Extension of used fuel extend saturation extended saturation contributed to safe operation saturation year year for Hanul year (2015 to 2021) by securing storage capability #5 and #6 before arrival of saturation year What is the purchase system improvement committee? Development of flood control waterproof gate development design, production and test gates to prepare for major performance completed completed A part of the corruption-related NPP-government joint measure (June 2013, National policy disasters improvement coordination meeting), they are a private expert committee implementing a ‘systematic improvement Reinforce major accident develop response guide development enhancement of response measure’ for NPP purchase quality. With Kang Ho-in, ex-director of Public Procurement Service response capability guide by area completed capability upon major accident and otherwise large-scale as the chairman, the committee is composed of 14 members who are experts from international damaging accident organizations, private companies, and from the fields of academia and research. The committee diagnosed structural problems of the NPP industry for 3 months and prepared mid to long-term Advancing disaster develop mobile mobile app. real-time disaster information management system app. for disaster development sharing and secured integrated improvement measures related to the supply chain, purchase system, purchase management and completed management network quality management aspects, and since October 2013, KHNP has been executing these measures Set up roadmap for NPP set up roadmap completed execution information exchange among in phases. dismantling technology execution plan and plan, executed industry, academia, research development secure business workshop, received groups, and government and foundation advice reinforcing communication Improvement with active disclosure of public Problem Expected effect measure information Reasonable post-treatment provision spending setup completed prepare transparent promote NPP equipment cost management management and dismantling provision spending inadequate supplier securing stable parts and parts market setup settlement standard participation environment supply chain competition guide advance purchase strengthening following irrational procedure, such as transparency of purchase purchase procedure through a multiple contractor system system Enactment of NPP operator safety charter lacks systematic purchase establish purchase comprehensive purchase For the ‘safe and transparent operation of NPPs and to provide stable electricity,’ management integrated management capability management system KHNP prepared clear operation principles that all NPP public organizations should system enhancement strengthen quality uphold, and to declare its firm will, the ‘NPP operator safety charter’ was enacted quality management blind management by prevent forgery and spot establishing NPP quality eliminate blind spots and announced. The NPP operator safety charter is composed of 6 clauses for verification center securing the utmost safety level, transparent NPP operation, development of a nuclear safety culture, transparent information disclosure, enhancement of KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 27 communication with citizens, and the pursuit of easing national fears regarding and is composed of 13 external members including assembly members, nuclear power. officials, resident representatives, local press, NGOs, local development experts, and 3 internal members. In 2013, council meetings were held twice each in Execution of on-site practice safety culture program Kori, Hanbit, Wolsong and 3 times in Hanul. Also, in August 2013, we tried to secure transparency and objectivity when a private verification group (appointed For continuous enhancement of safety culture, KHNP is implementing a practical by the NPP safety counsel) of 19 people including local recommended experts field-type safety culture promotion program that involves supervisor observation, and environmental groups executed a joint checkup on the self-evaluated stress a worker safety suggestion system, and an objection system. The safety culture test of Wolsong #1. promotion program is targeted at revamping safety culture and encouraging it to take root in the daily duties of all NPP workers, including among partner companies. Composition of NPP operation council External members · assembly members (2 persons) Chairman (Site Vice · public officials (1 person) Safety culture practice process President) · resident representatives (3 persons) · local press (1 person) · safety culture 13 external · NGOs and civil groups (2 persons) enhancement measure PLAN · local development experts (2 persons) · safety culture education · others (2 persons) · safety culture 3 internal plan principle compliance ACTION SAFETY CULTURE · safety culture practice DO PRACTICE program execution PROCESS NPP Safety Check Day · KNRB (deliberation) · safety council (SLT) The government enacted a Nuclear Power Safety Check Day in March 2003 · safety culture deliberation CHECK · safety culture evaluation to enhance workers’ safety consciousness, prevent NPP accidents or failures, committee (NSCMP) · safety oversight execute safety checks of major facilities, and gather safety meetings, all with the · safety culture index purpose of delivering safety messages and safety culture education. Accordingly, monitoring KHNP has set every first Tuesday of the month as Nuclear Power Safety Check Day and this has been implemented at all power plants. Also, to reinforce facility safety inspections, failing or otherwise malfunctioning facilities are checked on a Deploy safety moment movement regular basis by headquarters and at each power plant. Safety Moment is a safety culture practice movement that KHNP started enterprise-wide beginning in December 2013. By allotting 2 to 3 minutes of every meeting or event for the delivery of a ‘safety message’ to all attendants to Major events on NPP safety check day emphasize safety as our first priority, we are creating safety while emphasizing the working environment. Such safety messages greatly contribute to the Power plant Facility safety meeting safety check enhancement of overall worker and staff safety culture consciousness. Through Every month on the day of NPP safety check, Compose checking team including partner the power plant heads’ safety meetings and postings on the intranet homepage, all employees of the power plant (including companies, power plant, key executives partner companies) participate to listen to the check the major subject facilities of the staff as well as partner companies are educated regarding safety. plant head’s speech, deliverance of a safety headquarters and individual power plants message, and safety operation oath Efforts for NPP safety communication NPP safety operation Safety consciousness To relieve the anxieties people have about NPPs, KHNP is strengthening special lecture familiarization To enhance the sense of duty and Posting NPP safety placard and slogan during communications. First, by operating an NPP operation council for each of the responsibility of NPP workers, a special the week of NPP safety check day 4 nuclear power sites, we are gathering opinions and requests and discussing lecture will be held at least once every half quarter by a domestic or foreign NPP expert with the local community about the operation of power plants and safety or socially well-known individual enhancement. The NPP operation council is headed by the Site Vice President, KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 28 Think TRUST 02. Future Growth We need to develop leading global technology and expand overseas business. 2013 Research and Development (R&D) investment 353.9 KRW billion Despite a difficult economic situation, we expanded R&D investment from KRW 346.7 billion in 2012 to KRW 353.9 billion in 2013 to concentrate on our competence in the development of leading technology. 2013 revenue from overseas business 105 USD million Revenue from overseas business increased from USD 100 million in 2012 to USD 105 million in 2013. We are aiming for USD 123.77 million in 2014. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 29 Where we stand Environmental changes surrounding KHNP and present We are facing important an opportunity and challenge for sustainable growth in the future. The opportunity is that despite the negative public sentiment after the Fukushima crisis, there is an expectation that the global NPP construction market will grow until 2030, in accordance with the number of units operating and those under construction. Rapid growth is especially anticipated in Asia, Western Europe and the Middle East, and KHNP has prepared a stepping stone to promote itself in the global market by exporting Korean NPPs to UAE. On the other hand, the important challenge that KHNP is facing is securing nuclear technology with global competitiveness. Securing global NPP technology in KHNP’s main business, nuclear power, such as with the recent success in technology development of a new next generation NPP (APR+), NPP safety technology and dismantling technology, is a very important factor in enhancing export competitiveness and discovering new areas for business venture. Accordingly, KHNP should focus more on investing in NPP technology R&D and executing systematic technology developments as per mid to long-term development strategy and road mapping. What we listen Opinions of stakeholders Out of the various issues of relevance to KHNP, ‘Expanding overseas business promotion’ and ‘Securing leading global technology’ were derived as core issues in terms of future growth aspect. The result of the stakeholders’ 7 point evaluation on the materiality of these two core issues showed an average of 5.8 points, with prioritization based on the effect on business. We are reporting in detail about the core issues that were derived among stakeholders and will reflect suggested opinions and advice back to the management. Opinions of stakeholders GRI Aspect Core Issue Reporting issue 1. Securing global nuclear Expanding overseas technology business promotion 2. Phased overseas Establishment of business expansion own aspect for Future growth business 3. Diversification of Securing leading global business portfolio and fostering technology environmentallyfriendly energy business KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 30 How we do KHNP’s future growth promotion direction Think TRUST 02. Future growth We need to develop leading global technology and expand overseas business 1. Securing global nuclear technology Rebuilding R&D strategy system Next generation NPP technology development Securing NPP dismantling technology 2. Phased overseas business expansion UAE NPP construction and effort toward winning OSSA Advance to new overseas NPPs Seek to advance to overseas hydraulic business 1. Securing nuclear global 2. Phased overseas business 3. Diversification of business technology expansion portfolio and fostering environmentally -friendly energy business 3. Diversification of business portfolio and fostering environmentally-friendly energy business Develop new business and compose mid to long-term portfolio Expand renewable energy business development Lead hydraulic pumped storage core technology Restoration of trust by securing future growth engine For KHNP to enhance its sustainability, it is the people when it comes to operation and closure necessary to effectively operate future growth of NPPs. Renewable energy would be the most engines such as overseas business, R&D projects important theme for KHNP. Together with nuclear and the renewable energy business. To enhance power, renewable energy is also included in clean brand recognition of KHNP in the overseas market, I energy and if KHNP can continue to develop that think collaboration with KEPCO is necessary. business niche, it can build its own image as an If the NPP operation capability of KHNP is combined environmentally-friendly company. with KEPCO’s brand power, the result will be not only a positive power, but also a strengthening of KHNP’s brand power as time goes. The most To enhance sustainability, it important thing for KHNP R&D is to keep an honest is necessary to operate future and open stance, disclosing the entire process of growth engines effectively. technological developments and if any misdeed is found, acknowledging it and improving it; or, if there are any areas that call for persuasion, a Kim Hoe Cheon Head of planning, KEPCO confident attitude becomes the key. These efforts will contribute greatly in resolving the anxiety of KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 31 Next generation NPP technology development Securing global nuclear technology In 2014, KHNP acquired standard design approval for a new 1.5 million kW Rebuilding R&D strategy system reactor (APR+: Advanced Power Reactor Plus), developed with Korea’s own technology. Standard design approval is a system of getting approval for a With a change in the environment of this industry, as can be seen with the standardized design after a comprehensive review by an approving organization demand for safety-strengthening following the Fukushima disaster and with (Nuclear Safety Committee), which means the technology is well-developed so the deepening global competition to win new NPP contracts, KHNP has rebuilt long as construction proceeds with site-specific considerations and a detailed its business strategy and connected R&D strategy. We selected 13 nuclear design. APR+ has made reactor, auxiliary, and related buildings much stronger. representative technologies in the 4 areas of strengthening NPP safety, securing The characteristics of APR+ are based on the Korean standard OPR1000 and stability in electricity supply, securing facility reliability and creating a growth next generation UAE export type reactor, APR1400, which has reinforced safety. engine, establishing a technology development goal to be reached by 2025. Compared to APR1400, APR+ has a 10% increased electricity production capability. With the technological development of APR+, we achieved a new type R&D Strategy system of reactor worth 1.5 million kW; it is expected to have a tremendous effect on Vision the diversification of the overseas export market. KHNP, a trusted global energy leader R&D Vision Securing NPP dismantling technology Top global nuclear energy tech value creator As the number of long running NPPs continues to grow, securing safe NPP R&D Role Leading future, total solution provider dismantling technology early on becomes important for the future. Accordingly, KHNP has set and is currently following a road map to secure NPP dismantling Promotion Securing electricity Upgrading facility technology. The road map is composed of three steps: development of a standard strategy Strengthening NPP safety Creating growth engine supply stability reliability dismantling technology model, business application technology development and an upgrading of dismantling technology. A total of KRW 302.1 billion is planned to be invested, an amount that includes government support. To execute the roadmap, 2 teams from the NPP follow-up management department, a Core value Creativity Safety Challenge dismantling technology team at headquarters and a dismantling technology team at a central research center were formed, and since 2014, domestic and foreign education training in the NPP dismantling field has been carried out. 13 major technology developments Major accident Optimal safety analysis Radiation life safety Radioactive waste prevention and technology evaluation technology vitrification technology Roadmap for securing NPP dismantling technology response technology 1 2 3 4 STEP. 1 STEP. 2 STEP. 3 Human error prevention Used nuclear fuel safe Data (ICT) based NPP Equipment and 2013~2017 2018~2022 2023~ and MMIS (Man storage technology life cycle management structure degradation Development Business Upgrade of Machine Interface technology evaluation of standard application dismantling System) 5 6 7 8 dismantling technology technology technology model development Optimum reliability Major equipment New concept lightNPP dismantling and base operation monitoring, diagnosis water reactor environment recovery technology and verification development technology technology technology 9 10 11 12 Government research subsidy record (unit: KRW 100 million) Hydraulic and renewable energy 2011 597 technology 503 2012 13 2013 627 KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 32 · Sweden electric company : New · Finland electric company TVO : Olkiluoto NPP #4 (OL4) NPP construction project construction project Sweden Finland Canada Czech Republic Paris office New York office WANO Tokyo center Korea Saudi Arabia Headquarters Egypt Pakistan Nepal · 2009 Chameliya hydraulic Indonesia power plant construction Peru project UAE South Africa Republic entered area · 2009 UAE NPP construction project (4 units of APR1400) preparing to enter · 2013 ENEC MOU support service to operate UAE NPP potential to enter (OSSA) KHNP overseas office Phased overseas business expansion KEPCO’s strong nuclear industry supply chain foundation that stretches to Vietnam, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the Czech Republic, with customized activities developed to match individuals countries. With phased overseas expansion acting UAE NPP construction and effort toward winning as an axis, we established a mid to long-term business strategy up until 2030. OSSA (Operating Support Services Agreement) In general, we will proceed forward with the EPC (Engineering Procurement The US 20 billion dollar UAE NPP construction project that we won in 2009 by Construction) turnkey business, operation and maintenance-oriented EPCforming a consortium with KEPCO is proceeding as scheduled and generating O&M as a key business, and in the mid to long-term, we will expand to BOO stable revenue every year. KHNP dispatched 176 NPP technicians to the (Build-Own-Operate), as well. We plan to obtain 11 overseas NPPs by 2030, construction site to fully execute NPP construction, while on-the-job training generating a revenue of KRW 3.2 trillion (13% of total revenue). Also, we have and operation education for personnel at home and abroad was successfully taken on the OL NPP #4 construction project for TVO of Finland, as well as a completed by NPP ordering organization ENEC (UAE nuclear power company). new NPP project of Sweden. After the completion of the UAE NPP, to discover additional areas of business and to generate job opportunities, we signed an MOU with ENEC in October 2013 Seek to advance to overseas hydraulic business on ‘UAE NPP operation personnel supply,’ working toward winning the ‘OSSA As the hydraulic market expands overseas, we are striving to develop a for NPP operation’. If we win, we would need a large scale number of Korean prospective hydraulic business. The chameliya hydro power plant construction NPP technicians to send to UAE, and through this, we expect to alleviate youth project of Nepal began in April 2009, but due to financial difficulties and a delay unemployment by creating quality job opportunities. In 2019, a total of 929 in civil engineering, the construction period has been extended twice so far. Even people are expected to be deployed and we are planning to secure these recruits with these difficulties, however, we completed 86.6% of the work schedule by two to four years earlier to educate them, so that they acquire NPP operation 2013, achieving the target construction period goal. Through networking and experience and meet the necessary qualifications for work. In 2014, we selected strategy negotiations, we also came to an agreement for paying the cost of and have proceeded with the education and training of 605 individuals, working the unexpected extension. In addition, by utilizing key countries such as Nepal, to build an educational infrastructure for the incoming labor force that includes Tajikistan, Canada, and Indonesia, we are striving to develop new prospective such things as education program development. hydraulic projects. Among these, we supported feasibility investigations in Nepal and passed down our advanced hydraulic power generation technology in Advance to new overseas NPP Tajikistan, building up friendly relationships while increasing possibilities for future The overseas NPP business is proceeding with government support and around business. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 33 Through the cooperation of domestic and foreign companies and with selfproject. Also, as a non-solar power business, we jointly participated in a South determined effort in pursuing hydraulic power generation technology, we are west sea wind power development project to diversify our renewable energy overcoming the difficulties of our technological disadvantage to other advanced business. countries and price competitiveness with China. Expand renewable energy business development To achieve a mandatory supply of renewable energy, we are actively promoting Diversification of business portfolio and fostering external joint development projects and constructing our own facilities, and environmentally-friendly energy business through contract selection, our own contracts and the spot market, we are securing REC (Renewable Energy Certificate). In connection with an expansion of the renewable energy business, we are promoting a CDM (Clean Development Develop new business and compose mid to longMechanism) business, and in preparation for a second designation as an term portfolio obligatory greenhouse gas reduction country, we are laying the groundwork to KHNP is striving to develop new business to preoccupy limited domestic obtain CER (Certified Emission Reduction). renewable resources. To achieve this, we composed a mid to long-term portfolio for renewable energy with a consideration for supply and demand by energy type RPS execution result as well as the prevailing business environment, while promoting partnership and 2012 2013 2014 plan remark business connected with government policy to enhance effectiveness. In 2013, Obliged supply amount(GWh) 2,010 2,463 2,524 2012~2013 we participated in several public business-oriented organizations, such as Noeul Executed amount(GWh) 1,625 1,770 1,926 no penalty fuel cell joint development (Seoul), Busan fuel cell joint development (Busan), Execution rate(%) 80.82 71.87 76.3 industrial solar power businesses, and private-public accompanied growth ※ obliged supply amount (GWh) = base generation x adjust obligation rate projects, such as the Gyeonggi fuel cell joint development project, Yeongwol solar power joint development project, and Miryang solar power joint development RPS execution strategy Renewable energy mid to long-term portfolio re-formation (unit: MWh) 2014 2018 2012 plan mid-term plan Obliged amount 2,010,256 2,523,871 4,573,645 In the short-term, selected Mid to long -term nonTo combat limited investment in solar power solar power to execute fuel resources in Korea, 38,679 182,257 323,779 and actively promote own cell business set up of wind concentrate on research Solar power fuel cell / wind business to power site development and development (2.4%) (6.8%) (7%) set up plan targeting more system, develop various than 80% of RPS power generation sources 1,289,124 1,337,743 1,340,681 like bio / marine wind Hydraulic (79.3%) (50%) (29.3%) 790,731 2,312,890 Execution Fuel cell (29.6%) (50.5%) result Wind 240,113 Lead hydraulic·pumped storage core technology (5.2%) 296,813 364,872 364,872 KHNP is trying to lead core hydraulic and pump storage power generation Outside purchase (18.3%) (13.6%) (8%) technology and to prepare for a future overseas hydraulic business foundation Total 1,624,616 2,675,603 4,582,335 through localization development of core technology and modernization of old Execution rate 80.81% 76.3% 98.6% power plants. To accomplish this, we invested KRW 26.5 billon over a 4 year ※ As of July 2014 REC execution result reflected up to June application span starting in 2012, trying to localize 15 MW water-turbine-generator. In 2013, we replaced the old water-turbine-generation facilities of Uiam hydraulic #2 and Chungpyeong hydraulic #3 with new ones and subsequently increased solar power hydraulic power generation. In April 2014, we signed an operation and technology 2014 2018 2012 fuel cell plan mid-term plan exchange MOU with Tokyo Electric Power and Harbin Electric Company, acquiring wind outside purchase source technology in hydraulic power generation. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 34 Think TRUST 03. Innovative Management We need to raise profitability and enhance management effectiveness through strong innovation. Per capita welfare expense 34% decreased Decrease in per capita welfare expense from KRW 5.17 million in 2013 to KRW 3.41 million in 2014, approximately 34%. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 35 Where we stand Environment changes surrounding KHNP and the present The deteriorated business environment of 2013 whereas KHNP has been concentrating on investing 1st was especially harsh to KHNP. Not only was there in our main business, NPPs, meaning that only a long-term suspension of some power plants, but small portion of assets can be sold to reduce debt. because of the downward regulation of electricity However, we are not making excuses for the cards trading coordination factors, revenue from electricity that have been dealt to us. Rather, we will work sales rapidly decreased, creating a deficit. In with the existing circumstances to turn impossible Utilization of project financing (PF) investment technique to relieve addition, there was an increase in construction into possible, trying to find new opportunities and the burden of the procurement of capital, and for the first time, investments and appropriated liabilities. Liability change the organization and business through domestic electric generation PF introduced a tender system. increased 71% from KRW 15.6 trillion in 2010 intense innovation. to KRW 26.7 trillion in 2013, while the debt Aa3 ratio increased from 81.8% to 132% within the same period. As a result, we received the What we listen lowest level of “E” in a business evaluation by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, and were Opinions of stakeholders requested to prepare a plan to reduce liabilities Among the various issues surrounding KHNP, from Successful issue of long-term bond with 20 year maturity, and and rectify reckless management. Despite the the innovative management aspect, ‘Internalization through active investor relations, our 2014 Fitch rating was efforts to reduce debt and increase profit, the upgraded from A+ to AA-. of management innovation’, ‘Eradication of circumstances were far from favorable. According corruption and expansion of integrity culture’, and to the second national basic energy plan, for the ‘Strengthening financial soundness and profitability’ coming 5 years an investment of KRW 30.5 trillion is expected, however because KRW 15.2 trillion is an insufficient amount of funds, an increase were determined to be core issues. The result of the stakeholders’ 7 point evaluation on the materiality A AA A of these particular issues showed an average of 5.9 in borrowing was inevitable. In addition, the NPP points, with priority given after taking into account post-treatment restoration provision liability, which the effect on business. We are offering a detailed takes up the majority of our non-financial debt, is report of core issues derived from stakeholders and supposed to increase in unit cost every 2 years will reflect suggested opinions and advice toward to according to law, so there is a limit to what we can the effective management of our business. accomplish with our own efforts. Also, other public organizations are reducing debt by selling assets, Opinions of stakeholders GRI Aspect Core Issue Reporting issue Establishment of 1. Execution of three Internalization of management own aspect for organization operation innovation business innovations 2. Building a foundation for Eradication of corruption and Innovative Anti-corruption management the overall improvement expansion of integrity culture of productivity 3. Strengthening financial Strengthening financial Economic soundness and soundness and profitability performance profitability KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 36 How we do KHNP’s innovation management promotion direction Think TRUST 03. Innovative management We need to raise profitability and enhance management effectiveness through strong innovation 1. Execution of three organization operation innovations Human resource innovation Organization innovation Culture innovation 2. Building a foundation for the overall improvement of productivity Enhancement of work effectiveness through BPM, BPR Realization of creative welfare system Promotion of intense liability reduction 1. Execution of three organization 2. Building a foundation for 3. Strengthening financial operation innovations the overall improvement of soundness and profitability productivity 3. Strengthening financial soundness and profitability Stable financing and systematic financial management Systematization of business verification Restoration of reliability through enhanced productivity and profit generation KHNP’s achievement through management results to internal and external stakeholders, actively innovation is relatively undervalued in comparison notifying them of the genuinely changing face of the to the efforts that have been taken. The reason company. for this undervaluation is believed to be due to the nonexistence of standards to properly measure results and a lack of communication. For instance, if the financial report of KHNP is evaluated only by its debt ratio, it is easy to assume that the company is in trouble. However, debt is not always bad. If we look at the latest index for evaluating the stability To achieve high-intensity innovation of a company, which considers interest coverage and performance evaluation, both ratio, total borrowings to total assets, and cash the discovery of an accurate coverage ratio, the company’s outlook can actually performance measurement index be evaluated as very stable. Likewise, it is important and effective communication are to grasp and utilize the measurement index necessary. that is best able to accurately portray company Jung Do Jin Professor, Chung-Ang University performance, and further, to effectively deliver these KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 37 Organization innovation Execution of three organization operation KHNP went through a massive reorganization of its goals with ‘safety as innovations first priority in NPP operation,' 'eradication of corruption,' 'strengthening of communication·cooperation,' and 'buildup of a future growth foundation'. KHNP is trying to change from the bottom-up in terms of organization operation Firstly, for ‘safety as first priority in NPP operation', we merged the quality and work methodology, wishing to restart as a corruption-free, transparent assurance office with the safety technology division to form a quality safety company. Three major innovations illuminate the basic direction that the division, expanded and reformed the facility division to the engineering division company is taking, joining together the concepts of blocking corruption from its and also newly established an engineering support center. To target 'eradication source, prioritizing safety in the establishment of NPP operation systems, and of corruption,' we established SCM (Supply Chain Management) and a finally, reinforcing management innovation competence. Through an opinion department dedicated to the investigation of production costs, and reinforced gathering process comprising of attention to both organization and hierarchy, we purchase-related engineering personnel. Also, we reinforced audit personnel are analyzing problems and arranging for various improvements, all the while to strengthen preliminary prevention of NPP corruption. We changed the closed developing an innovative culture where anyone can freely speak out regarding nature of our organizational culture, and to establish a communication base potentially faulty company practices. with the areas neighboring power plants and encourage a 'strengthening of enhancing human resource transparency, strengthening communication·cooperation', we expanded management organization innovation NPP safety operation competence, preparing a foundation Human for progressive human resources of cooperation and communication and established an external cooperation team at nuclear power sites. We set safety as first priority in NPP operation, resources up a human resource development team and a management research team to eradication of corruption, strengthening of communication ·cooperation, buildup of future Basic direction foster strategic human resources and to reinforce CEO Think Tank functions. For growth foundation blocking NPP corruption from the source, building an NPP operation system with safety the timely promotion of UAE NPP and stabilization of domestic NPP construction Organias first priority, strengthening management and trial operations, and through a reinforcement of organization and workforce innovation competence Culture zation personnel, we are preparing to 'buildup a future growth foundation.' realization of clean organization culture, establishment of field-oriented practical safety culture, strengthening of organizational culture innovation competence Culture innovation Cultural innovation includes the ‘realization of clean organization culture’, Human resource innovation ‘establishment of field-oriented practical safety culture’, and the ‘strengthening We introduced an open promotion review system that external personnel and of organizational culture innovation competence,’ goals that are being promoted outside participants could take part in, and to prevent local alliances and combat through the willpower of the and entire staff. For the ‘realization of clean corruption, we implemented a rotation system for long-term employees and organization culture,’ we implemented a real-time public opinion poll (Live customer service staff. At the end of 2013, we implemented a large scale Poll) of all staff and on the basis of their opinions we selected ‘10 vows for a replacement of personnel to bring in a new organizational atmosphere, and happy workplace.’ For ‘establishment of field-oriented practical safety culture,’ adopted an open personnel system to continue expanding the excellence we benchmarked domestic and foreign companies with exemplary safety present in our professional workforce. In 2013, we recruited a total of 5 measures, set up a comprehensive improvement roadmap for safety culture, executives, including 2 females, through internal and external open recruitment, and built a safety culture cooperation system with partner companies. For the and also employed 33 outside experts from NPP dismantling and other ‘strengthening of organizational culture innovation competence,’ we carried out professional fields. Also, the CDP (Career Development Program) was adopted intensive consciousness reform education through a communication & sympathy to induce voluntary development of competence and to diversify the recruitment innovation debate for 800 executives, letting them lead the changes in company channel for experienced personnel, ultimately reinforcing the safe operation of organizational culture. Also, for animated and healthy communication within the NPPs. Breaking away from the management of working personnel based on organization, we keep on developing various communication activities, such as an occupational groups, we introduced an intersecting system for the assignment of ‘idea cafe,’ ‘happy workplace bulletin,’ ‘compliment relay movement,’ and more. individuals to positions, and oriented it instead toward job capability. This helped to eliminate selfishness between departments and reinvigorated communication 10 unsound practices to fix (10 vows for happy workplace) between groups. Job order make clear the background, direction, deadline Meeting culture only have the necessary number of people with an appropriate time limit Communication / conversation do not be disrespectful of others Event / protocol minimize events and simplify protocols Present state of external personnel recruitment 2012 2013 July 2014 Clock out culture minimize overtime and use it effectively when necessary Vacation culture make team plan every month, with superiors going first Executive management 4 9 Total 13 Post-work get-together culture finish after the first round and do not force alcohol upon others 42% of headquarter’s directors Coexistence culture treat people of partner companies as true ‘partners’ Company housing culture respect the private life of others within company housing Hands-on workers 33 36 Total 69 Daily life concentrate during work hours and minimize personal affairs NPP design, equipment verification and related experts KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 38 level children, we now offer scholarships. By drastically reducing gift money and Safety culture comprehensive improvement roadmap adjusting the vacation system, we reduced employee welfare costs by 34% and 2014 2015 ~ 2018 2019 ~ 2024 tried to meet the government’s request to resolve reckless management and Management · introduction of international · upgrade nuclear power · lead global nuclear safety enhance management effectiveness through a promotion of innovation in our system standard safety culture safety culture evaluation culture system methodology welfare system. Human · safety culture education · building worker safety culture · fostering global safety culture Reduction in welfare cost competence customized for each worker competence / leadership core experts improvement system Old New Policy / · execution of field-type · establish Korea’s own safety · establish global safety culture limited tuition support for children of actual amount for middle and high school tuition System practice for safety culture culture operation model and cooperation system government officials (KRW 1.83 million) Education program strengthen cooperation introduction of scholarship system – support tuition for college student (limited to 2 children) support provided according to achievement support for education of children (0 to 4 years old, KRW Nursing 700 thousand per year; 5 year olds KRW 1 million per abolish year) Building a foundation for the improvement of Gift money parents’ 60th birthday, 70th birthday, paid gift money reduce to 50% overall productivity Vacation sick leave set to 90 days per year adjust to less than 60 days for sick leave parents 60th birthday (1 day), 70th birthday (2 days) abolish Per capita 2014: KRW 3.41 million (reduced KRW 2013: KRW 5.17 million Enhancement of work effectiveness through BPM, BPR welfare cost 1.76 million, 34%) To stop corruption at its source and for increased transparency and NPP safety, we Promotion of intense liability reduction have established and are currently operating a BPM system. BPM analyzes each job process, eliminates problems and standardizes the work process so that it can KHNP’s debt is expected to be KRW 40.1 trillion in 2017, with a debt ratio be done through a computer system, enabling real-time progress monitoring and of 181.1%. We are trying to reduce debts without affecting NPP safety. Our enhancing management transparency. This automatization has sped up the work target is to reduce the debt to KRW 34.5 trillion by 2017, with a debt ratio of process and greatly reduced work errors, enhancing work effectiveness. First 151.9%. To achieve this target, we are rationally reducing investments without applied to the areas that influence NPP safety and management transparency the compromising safety and are reforming the way we do business. We are most (the purchase, material, and quality divisions), the system will eventually be restricting new business ventures by strengthening investment deliberations, and expanded to include all other areas of business. from the level of management effectiveness, we are reducing purchase costs through SCM and by performing cost investigations. We remain vigilant of any BPM proceeding stages chances to further reduce our budget. 1st stage (2012.12~2013.6) 2nd stage (2013.6~ ) Besides this, we exported radioactive waste process vitrification technology to Japan, Finland and UAE and are selling tritium that is created during the · Subject: selection of 4 core · Subject: power generation operation and process areas with consideration 16 related areas (managerial accounting, operation of heavy water reactors. for management environment financial accounting, human resources, BPR promotion (purchase&material, power generation power generation operation, data In 2013, sales of electricity reduced greatly due to lowered NPP availability, and maintenance, quality, construction management) business management) · Work process mapping : 522 processes we reduced debt by KRW 597.4 billion by executing an extremely tight budget · Work process mapping: 119 processes operation according to a contingency plan. As a result of these efforts, we achieved a grade of ‘good’ from an interim evaluation by a public organization. · Purchase&material, quality management · Planning to establish streamlined BPM (1 Apr 2013~ ) processes among related establishment · Power generation maintenance, departments and improve work and operation construction business management (6 effectiveness Strengthening debt reduction budget operation May 2013 ~ ) Debt ratio by 2017 Debt reduction in 2013 Realization of creative welfare system 181% (expectation) 152 597.4 KRW We switched from a welfare system based on monetary support to a creative welfare system that provides practical benefits to employees. In 2014, we formed a labor management task force and through active labor management % (target) billion negotiations, such as with a labor management council and collective make it less debt reduction until October 2014 : negotiations, the welfare system was improved. We abolished educational KRW 1.1433 trillion support for employee children, and rather than freely supporting college studentKHNP Sustainability Report 2014 39 To improve this, in the latter half of 2013, we introduced a CEO chairing Strengthening financial soundness and investment feasibility verification process known as the ‘enterprise investment profitability business deliberation committee.’ On the other hand, in executing the budget, to make checks on the effectiveness of the investment management system, Stable financing and systematic financial we set up a comprehensive business management system. At every step along the way, through a real-time ‘watch and warning’ system, we gain immediate management insight into the present state of business promotions, and through this are able With regards to management strategy, we set up a rolling 5 year mid to longto effectively manage the budget. Also, for the budget allocated toward poor term financial plan, and through a contingency plan based on circumstancebusiness transactions, business that was cancelled or that resulted in a difference specific scenarios and crisis situations, we have carried out systematic financial in bidding amount, we recollect the whole amount so that the budget is not management. In addition, we are not only executing close analysis of assets, recklessly executed. liabilities, profits and losses, and cash flow trends according to changes in exchange and interest rates, but also established a financial risk management system to monitor every type of risk and perform quantitative financial risk management. Upon diagnosing financial risk management levels, for objective Best Practice verification purposes, we operate an external expert advising committee. In 2013, on the foundation of systematic financial management, we alone were able to successfully issue a 20 year maturity long-term bond, in contrast to other Enterprise investment business deliberation power companies, and through active investor relations, our Fitch credit rating committee increased from A+ to AA-. The enterprise investment business deliberation committee verifies the necessity of business proceedings through debate among related departments before establishing basic Systematization of business verification plans for construction that cost more than KRW 5 billion (any business costing more than KRW 1 billion is verified instead at the ‘enterprise investment business deliberation practical To prevent deterioration of the financial structure, we strengthened our deliberation committee’ chaired by the head of the planning division). The CEO, management and groups system and set up a rational budgeting system. In the past, we deliberated from various fields of finance / strategy / technology deliberate about objective economy and comprehensive business risks when making decisions regarding business investments. amongst ourselves within the business unit and decided upon investments in that The first enterprise investment business deliberation committee was held in November manner, which resulted in a lack of objective feasibility verification. 2013 and deliberated over the feasibility of 4 businesses, reducing total business costs by KRW 82.4 billion. In the first half of 2014, the enterprise investment business deliberation committee was held 6 times, while the enterprise investment business deliberation practical Composition of comprehensive business management system committee was held 3 times. A total of 33 businesses were deliberated about, which reduced business costs by KRW 124 billion. To reflect on potential areas of improvement Management User derived from the operation of the committees, and to proceed with a more systematic · integrated certification · authority management · user management · UI theme management implementation of the ‘enterprise investment business deliberation practical committee’ in the future, an investment business deliberation guide was created. In 2015, every subject Business comprehensive system business is required to complete the guide before a budget allocation, an active attempt toward a more accurate, investment plan-based budget operation. · Comprehensive management (dashboard) : domestic (profitable business status, invested business status), overseas · Business plan : comprehensive business plan, plan by business and business unit, Result of 2013 investment business deliberation income and expense plan · Business progress : power generation, facility reinforcement, NPP fuel, work facility, Total cost financial lease, intangible assets, investment assets, budget execution statistics Name of business (KRW 100 million) Result · Profitable business : electricity sales management, additional business management Noeul fuel cell power generation business 1,114 conditional approval Connected system Wolsong #1 machinery facility reinforcement 384 postponed emergency diesel generator replacement · Dreams (budget management) : budget execution record Hanbit #3, #4 reactor head upper structure 70 business replacement postponed · INPCMS (NPP construction project portal) : work-in-progress, construction cost · Electricity trading system : electricity trading record Kori #2 reactor head and affiliated facility 495 received · Dreams (purchase management) : purchase progress record replacement approval KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 40 Think TRUST 04. Ethical Management We should improve the system to prevent corruption and stay armed with strict ethical standards. The number of information items disclosed in advance increased two fold compared to the previous year 150 items Increased two fold compared to the previous year, with advance information disclosure items posted on our homepage KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 41 Where we stand Environment changes surrounding KHNP and the present Following the Fukushima NPP disaster, various issues continued to arise among KHNP employees, with corruption, test verification document falsification and NPP malfunctioning all greatly damaging KHNP’s reliability and overall image. The amount of loss compensation for KEPCO and loss in sales was enormous. To our shame, our ex-CEO was arrested for bribery and 20 employees were put on trial due to procurement corruption, accepting bribes, unfair purchase contracts, unfair profits, and a number of related corruption cases like these were discovered. Due to these circumstances, the public regarded KHNP as a corrupt group and in 2013 KHNP indeed received the lowest grade in an integrity evaluation. However, these events came as an opportunity for all the people in the country to recognize that ‘the corruption of KHNP, who maintains NPPs, is not relevant only to this single company, but is an important problem that can threaten the safety of the whole nation.’ Thus, from now on, KHNP approaches ethics not only from a company perspective, but from a wider perspective for the country’s reliability and safety. It will take a long time and concentrated effort to regain the trust that has been broken once already, and the process will not be easy. However, for the safety of this country, all the employees at KHNP will try endlessly to reform the organization and meet the expectations of the public. What we listen Opinions of stakeholders Among the various issues of concern to KHNP, from the ethical management aspect, ‘Eradication of corruption and spreading integrity culture’ was determined to be a core issue. The result of stakeholders’ 7 point evaluation on the materiality of this issue was a 6.6 point average, and selection was prioritized by also considering business impact. We are reporting the derived key issue in detail and will continue to manage the comments made to our business and reflect deeply upon them. Opinions of Stakeholders GRI Aspect Core Issue Reporting Issue 1. Restructuring of ethical management promotion system Eradication of 2. Eradication of NPP corruption corruption and Ethical and improvement of antiAnti-corruption management corruption system spreading integrity culture 3. Strengthening of transparency in management activities 4. Spreading of integrity culture KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 42 How we do KHNP’s ethical management promotion direction 1. Restructuring of ethical management promotion Think TRUST 04. Ethical management system Redefine ethical management promotion system and We should improve the system to prevent corruption and stay armed improve executive ability with strict ethical standards Establish ethical risk prevention system 2. Eradication of NPP corruption and improvement of anti-corruption system Execution of comprehensive improvement measure Promotion of mid to long-term improvement measure Expansion of voluntary reporting Participation in integrity success project 3. Strengthening of transparency in management 1. Restructuring of 2. Eradication of NPP corruption 3. Strengthening of 4. Spreading of activities ethical management and improvement of antitransparency in integrity culture Transparent information disclosure promotion system corruption system management activities Activation of ombudsman operation Strengthening corruption disciplinary action standards Strengthening function and role of auditing 4. Spreading of integrity culture Execution of man of integrity and integrity mileage system Activation of integrity ethics education Establishment of ethical management participation infrastructure Restoring trust by reinforcing transparent management Fostering an ethical management instructor and through expansion of integrity culture institutional improvements, but still the public is Compared to the high level of alarm regarding unforgiving. To clear our name as a corrupt company, the safety of NPPs, there is simply not enough and to restore people’s trust, we need to establish appropriate information made publically available an ethical management environment that comes to the people. In this regard, NPP operation failure from within employee consciousness and that is due to corruption even more severely amplifies attainable only through direct action. On top of this, anxiety among the people. Accordingly, to restore and with the stable operation of NPPs, we can meet people’s trust, the disclosure of information about people’s expectations. NPP operation and construction processes, as To restore the people’s trust, well as transparency, are most important above all we will consider integrity and else. Though KHNP informs the public of its NPP safety as our first priority. operation and failures via its homepage, the truth of the matter is that this information is still largely Hong Byung Gi inaccessible to the general public because it is Assistant Manager, Planning Team, KHNP difficult for a non-expert to understand. From now on, KHNP should disclose information while keeping Ethical management became a very important factor in mind their audience-the people-and through this not only for strengthening company competitiveness Transparent disclosure of transparency will be strengthened. but also for survival. For the last 3 years following the information that caters to the incidents of corruption, all employees at KHNP have public eye is necessary. recognized the importance of ethical management Moon Byung Gi and have set out to adopt a code of ethics and make Reporter, Dong-A Ilbo KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 43 promotion process, strengthening promotion infrastructure. After the execution Restructuring of ethical management promotion of the plan, we subject both KHNP headquarters and domestic business sites to system integrity measurements and a self-ethics diagnosis investigation (KHNP-BEX), and implemented feedback monitoring. Based on the results, we decided to KHNP has thoroughly reflected upon the corruption cases and various problems establish an integrity ombudsman activation plan and by redefining integrity and that occurred in 2012 and subsequently has been trying to eradicate the safety as core values, we have propelled improvements. potential for future instances of this. Especially after the concealment of a NPP failure report in 2012 along with the forgery of quality warrant and test reports, New ethical management promotion system the ethical management system has been drastically improved. We formed a 2030 vision management innovation task force team to set innovation measures and for the KHNP, a trusted global energy leader first time for a public company, we enacted a partner company code of conduct, Core value reinforcing education by fostering an in-house ethical management instructor. Technology /Respect / Ultimate safety / Social responsibility / Timeless integrity To prevent quality warrant and test report forgery, we reformed the purchase CEO management direction process, and to break down the closed organizational culture of the company, we Safe NPPs Clean company Creative innovation Coexistence and communication Establish future foundation adopted an external recruitment system for key positions. 2014 ethical goal Realization of integrity of KHNP’s image through participation in ethical management activity Action tasks Key issues Emergency arises Effort to overcome Establishment Promotion of of participatory Rearming of ethical Strengthening external recognition ethical management consciousness feedback · Concealment of NPP stop · Kori #1 stopped 1st stage improvement activity environment ㆍManagement consciousness report (2012.2) reform debate ㆍManagement innovation TFT operation Ethical management promotion process · Corruption investigation · 22 employees arrested and 2nd stage announced (2012.7) accused ㆍCode of Conduct revision ㆍStrengthened ethical Establish plan Execution Monitoring Evaluation / management system Set up of annual plan for Strengthen promotion Integrity evaluation education the areas of ethics and infrastructure KHNP – BEX Benchmarking education · Finding quality / testing · Hanbit #5, #6 stopped 3rd stage integritya integrity success project organization activity verification certificate forgery ㆍExternal open recruitment for key positions (2012.11) ㆍImprovement of entire purchase process Establish ethical risk prevention system · Find cable certificate forged · Shin-Kori #1, #2, 4th stage (2013. 5) Shin-Wolsong #1 stopped ㆍPromote comprehensive measure To ensure that occurrences of corruption are kept at zero, KHNP established for eradication of corruption ㆍNPP industry resolution for a prevention-discovery-response management system. For the preemptive self-purification prevention of ethical risks, the employee code of conduct was revised, while full-time online monitoring, public interest whistleblowing, and in-depth audits Redefine ethical management promotion system and of vulnerable areas were promoted. Integrity evaluations of senior positions, in improve executive ability particular, have been weighted more heavily, and a systematic risk prevention Following the CEO’s unwavering volition for a ‘New start, realization of a trusted management system is being operated. KHNP,’ the company has redefined its ethical management promotion system. Ethical risk prevention management system With a goal of ‘enhancing the integrity of KHNP’s image through participating Ethical risk prevention Ethical risk discovery Strengthen post response in ethical management activity,’ we emphasize creating a culture of integrity that members can voluntarily participate in. In this vein, we derived 4 plans of · revision of employee code of · full time online monitoring · evaluating integrity of senior conduct (5 times) · activation of whistle-blower positions action that include building an participatory ethical management environment, · activation of integrity ethics · in-depth audits for · increase weighted value a rearming of ethical consciousness, promotion of external recognition education vulnerable areas and · strengthening disciplinary improvement, and strengthening feedback. Also, we established an annual plan · 1 ethical task for 1 team and strengthening of mobile action against corruption anti-corruption idea contest inspection activity in the areas of ethics and integrity in accordance with the ethical management KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 44 such as expanding the ban on retiree reemployment to include those above a Eradication of NPP corruption and improvement second-level rank, strengthening the expertise and independence of purchasing of anti-corruption system groups, and ensuring re-verification of quality documents through third party organizations. Also for executives, we introduced a voluntary asset registration system and encourage reporting partner company stock holding status. In addition, with a vision to secure transparency in bidding, we adopted a tender appropriateness deliberation system and pre-reporting of purchase plans, further improving the system to eradicate structural back-scratching relationships in the overall NPP industry. Promotion of mid to long-term improvement measure To prepare a mid to long-term improvement measure to eradicate NPP irregularity, from June to September 2013 we operated a purchase system Eradication of NPP corruption and improvement of anti-corruption system execution improvement committee composed of 15 private experts. By setting up a Establishment of Establishment of Expansion Participation in roadmap for the standardization and localization of NPP parts, we are promoting comprehensive mid to long-term of voluntary integrity success 8 phased mid to long-term tasks, which include promoting sound competition, improvement improvement reporting project measure measure operation of an equipment and parts integrated information system, and eliminating blind spots in quality management through a redefinition of quality Eradicate connection, Standardize NPP parts, Red whistle, Executive Promotion and Improve purchase, Localized roadmap, auditor communication execution of 37 tasks management areas specific to individual NPP organizations. Strengthen quality Integrated system hotline, Expand in 9 areas management, Redefine reporter compensation quality control domain Expansion of voluntary reporting by NPP organization To expand anti-corruption reporting, we put into operation ‘red whistle,’ a reporting system where tracking the identity of the informer is impossible. This Execution of comprehensive improvement measure anonymity feature contributed to an increase in the number of reports made, which rose from 18 in 2012 to 42 in 2013. We also opened a hotline to an To eradicate structural irregularities, we set up and executed an ‘NPP irregularity executive auditor and expanded the rewards for informants, further inducing eradication comprehensive improvement measure,’ with a goal to strengthen voluntary reports from employees. quality management, improve the purchase system, and eradicate corrupt NPP industry connections. We selected and intensely promoted key core tasks Participation in an integrity success project Comprehensive improvement measure for NPP corruption eradication To strengthen anti-corruption competitiveness, KHNP participated in an integrity Major promotion success project that ACRC(Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission) hosted. Area Core task achievements Through the policy debate that ensued, we found items for improvement that · above second level retiree reemployment Enhancing internal Connection restriction competitiveness would enhance integrity and defined 37 execution tasks in 9 areas with the help eradication · set up of personnel operation · restricting retiree hired company from tender improvement plan of ACRC policy suggestions and department action plans. We formed a nuclear · strengthening tender system · enhancement of purchase group expertise and transparency power site operation council and carried out a ‘thorn under the nail’ movement to Purchase strengthening independence · operation of purchase system improvement · minimize private contract, advance disclosure improvement committee reduce red tape, executing and completing all integrity success project promotion of purchase plan Strengthening industry tasks, except for a single mid to long-term task. co-work · re-verification of quality documents by 3rd party · NPP industry and related Quality · KHNP direct payment for cost of testing and organization strengthening verification · compose and operate council KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 45 2013 information disclosure record Strengthening of transparency in management 2011 2012 2013 activities Information disclosure request (case) 52 60 108 Information disclosure decision (case) 48 51 96 Information disclosure rate (%) 92.3 85 88.9 Information disclosure decision days took (average/day) 4.4 4.1 4.2 ※ major cases for not disclosing: evaluation report for new NPP site selection and other proceedings at that moment or trade-secret related. Activation of ombudsman operation KHNP introduced an ombudsman system in October 2010 and appointed to it 5 experts from various fields. By May 2014, the first term ombudsman members had conducted a total of 12 meetings, 4 of which ran parallel to field instruction Execution of management activity transparency strengthening activities. Ombudsman members had an in-depth deliberation about the Doam dam civil complaint, the 9.15 blackout incident, employee corruption incidents, Transparent Strengthening Expansion of Transparent information audit function and ombudsman management quality document forgery incidents, the Uljin Shinhwa-ri collective migration, disclosure role system utilization and the Shin-Kori #5 and #6 construction civil complaints. In order to enhance expertise, starting from June, second term ombudsman members began to be Advanced disclosure of Expansion of audit Expand and revise Activation of referred to as ‘integrity ombudsman,’ and with execution of division allocations information, Disclosure organization, 3 strategies integrity ombudsman management checking of original information, for strengthening audit system function by member, the operation of the ombudsman advising group and field instruction Opening public data (both sides strategy, activity were strengthened. Field-oriented, inStrengthening Expand participation depth) business unit field of non-executive Strengthening instruction activity directors disciplinary standard Best Practice External Self-effort Internal monitoring monitoring Introduction of ‘fair trade SINMOONGO’ following ombudsman suggestion Transparent information disclosure 1. Diagnosis of problem To systematically carry out the government policy ‘Government 3.0,’ the importance of 2nd partner companies is growing, however there is which relates to public information opening, cooperation and facilitation of no direct communication channel communication, we set up a goal based on the foundation of the CEO’s active necessity to spread fair trade consciousness for 2nd partner companies interest and support, which was ‘proceeding full-scale with Government 3.0 to realize a safe and transparent KHNP.’ We derived 3 major strategies and key 2. Present advice item arrange for transparent communication channel with 2nd partner companies tasks for the application of Government 3.0 and spread of its core values to enhance accessibility and simplify reporting process for unfair trading the entire workplace. These included removing internal and external partitions, activation of private and public cooperation, and preemptive provisions for user3. Direction of improvements and proceedings customized service. We formed the KHNP 3.0 proceeding task force and working introduced ‘fair trade SINMOONGO’ for 2nd partner companies task force to put these item into practice, checking quarterly how performance created ‘fair trade SINMOONGO’ menu at SME support center homepage real name and anonymous postings for ‘fair trade SINMOONGO’ bulletin was proceeding, and sharing the results in a management strategy meeting. In 2013, the number of information items disclosed in advance increased two 4. Expected effects fold to 150, and these items were also posted on our homepage. In addition, expansion of fair trading consciousness and culture of 1st partner company to analyze data on original document disclosure, we prepared an information concerning 2nd partner company disclosure record with a 3 year standard, and disclosed data most frequently enhancement of transparency and fairness of relationship with 2nd partner requested from the people first. company KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 46 Strengthening corruption disciplinary action standards 3 strategies for strengthening audit In July 2013, there was a complete revision to the guidelines relating to the disciplinary practice and criminal prosecution. A dismissal of gratuities of under KRW 100 thousand are stipulated, and accusations against a subject can be KHNP selected vulnerable areas and blind spots extended to the company and external members. Also, if corruption occurs, the derived from internal and external audit results as priority subjects for auditing. In connection to this, we accused subject’s name will be openly disclosed to all employees through the set ‘irregularity eradication audit development’ and intranet portal. Doubled‘establishment of irregularity controlling environment’ sided strategy as a double-sided strategy and proceeded with 8 Strengthening function and role of auditing strategic tasks. To strengthen audit activity, the number of headquarter audit departments was greatly increased, from 33 to 54. Organization was expanded from 3 teams to 6 teams, with a newly formed inspection team and an investigation team divided into a comprehensive audit team and investigation team to strengthen expertise in core areas. For 6 business divisions, the audit team was divided as separate planning and administration teams to strengthen independency, with audit personnel increasing from 59 in 2011 to 108 in February 2014. KHNP quickly patched up the NPP cable quality document forgery incident and arranged the appropriate measures. Among them include severe punishment, NPP safety-related full investigation, Audit activity organization system preventive measures for recurrence and development In-depth strategy of self-audit activities. For quality area equipment Audit committee (Auditor General) certificate forgery, the audit department generalized Inspection Team (including the investigation and requested a police investigation ex-prosecutor / police) of all involved companies. Audit Office Audit Planning & Comprehensive Investigation Compliance Audit Administration Integrity Team Audit Team Team Team Team KHNP is proceeding with a full-time secretion inspection that has aroused alertness among Pursuing transparent management workers. In December 2013, we participated in a ‘joint inspection on electric groups and generation KHNP integrity ombudsman Strengthened discipline standards against Field-oriented companies’ hosted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry meeting corruption strategy and Energy. As a result of these regular inspections, 12 100,000 less than KRW we discovered the unfair receipt of lecture tuition and education costs, employees who were not on duty, and times mild disciplinary actions were taken. composed of experts from various receiving money or valuables is also dismissible fields and discussed in-depth various issues KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 47 Establishment of ethical management participation Spreading of integrity culture infrastructure Execution of man of integrity and integrity mileage We established a participatory ethical management environment to get sympathy systems from every employee. From the enterprise ethical management slogan contest, we selected ‘think in terms of integrity, act fairly’ as the best one, to be posted We are executing a ‘KHNP man of integrity certificate system’ to employees with across the whole company and utilized in electronic approval. At the team over 70 points of annual integrity mileage. In 2013, 194 or 2% of all employees level, we operated an autonomous ethics task to all teams in the company, received the certificate. The system, introduced in August 2010, intended to give and awarded 26 excellent teams. For individuals, through an anti-corruption monetary compensation to those with a certain amount of mileage, but it lacked idea contest, a total of 415 items(197 related to system improvement, 218 practical effects on the improvement and promotion of integrity consciousness. to consciousness innovation) were accepted, and 9 excellent ideas including It was also difficult to take part in due to its criteria for participation. In 2013, ‘improvement in product purchase price investigation method,’ have been we expanded the criteria to make more individuals eligible for mileage, sent reflected in our company policy. official letters, and awarded certificate logos within the groupware to enhance participation. Fostering an ethical management instructor Man of integrity yearly change KHNP has been fostering an ethical management instructor since 2012. (unit : persons) An ethical management instructor is an expert who possesses professional knowledge in ethical management and takes charge of related jobs or provides 194 ethical management consulting, such as through education, counseling, or 33 24 coaching services. Each business unit selected a qualified person to be such 2011 2012 2013 an instructor and proceeded with education at outside professional educational institutions. Those who completed the course became certified as ethical management instructors. As a result, 21 ethical management instructors in 2012, and 16 in 2013 were fostered. These ethical management instructors Activation of integrity ethics education perform their duties at business units all over the country, spreading ethics To enhance the integrity level of employees, we stipulated to pass a proposal for culture through ethical education and by providing contents to partner integrity education. In 2013, 3 courses of collective ethics education were held companies. 18 times, with a total of 378 people completing the education. 8,363 others completed it through 3 cyber education courses. Integral pride healing tour To recover the integral pride of employees, integrity-related activities and KHNP integrity education completion standard education were executed for four months (May to August 2013), targeting all business units. Through a pride recovery program and mutual debate, the Completion of more Completion of more efforts of employees were encouraged and the entirety of the workforce had than 1 hour of emplo than 1 hour of a strong will to reform KHNP into a more transparent, ethical company. ed yee integrity education oy s integrity education pl new 3 level on the year of ly e per year employment m low Integrity be Ethics education evel 2 to l high Completion of more (leve leve Completion of ed l2 l than 5 hours of integrity tive a more than to be a ecu e) education within 1 year dv an ex abov 5 hours of integrity c nd after designation education per year Discovering integrity education Integral pride healing tour KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 48 Think TRUST 05. Environmental Management We should respond to climate change and manage environmental risk. National greenhouse gas emissions from nuclear power generation in 2013 reduced by 16.3 % If bituminous power plants replace NPPs for power generation, 114.22 million tons more carbon dioxide will be emitted by 2013 standards. It follows that NPPs have reduced national greenhouse gas emissions by about 16.3% every year. Compared to 2012, energy consumption in 2013 reduced by 28 % In 2013, the whole company used 262TJ of first energy and 839TJ of second energy, which is 424TJ less than the total 1,525TJ of energy used in 2012. Compared to world average, the worker radioactive cumulative dose for 2013 was 0.2 man-Sv/unit The 2013 cumulative worker radioactive dose increased only a little compared to the 2012 dose of 0.46, but a level much lower than the the world average of 0.73 has been maintained. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 49 Where we stand Environment changes surrounding KHNP and the present As global warming becomes increasingly more serious, the UN IPCC(Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) expects that, ‘if the average temperature of the earth rises by 2.5℃, worldwide GDP will decrease by about 2%,’ and that the cost to respond to climate change will reach USD 100 billion every year. Power generation is blamed as a major contributor and it has been suggested by the IPCC that expenses for fossil fuel power plants should be lowered to USD 30 billion by 2030. As an alternative to this, a plan was announced to increase investment in renewable energy and nuclear power generation through low carbon energy development and carbon trapping facilities. This is an example of how nuclear power generation is recognized as a realistic alternative to solving the problem of global warming and shows how what KHNP is pursuing as a business will gradually be magnified in importance. Thus, KHNP, as Korea’s representative energy cooperation, recognizes global warming as a national energy management issue and acknowledges the necessity to strengthen external influence by participating in international agenda setting. What we listen Opinions of stakeholders Among the various environmental management issues surrounding KHNP, ‘Radioactive waste management’ and ‘Enhancement of environmentally-friendly management activity system’ were derived as core issues. These two core issues received an average of 6.2 points on a 7-point evaluation of issue materiality completed by stakeholders and were selected as priorities after considering their effects on business. We are reporting in detail the core issues that were derived and will reflect suggested opinions and advice back to management. Opinions of Stakeholders GRI Aspect Core Issue Reporting Issue Energy 1. Respond to climate change Enhancement of environmentally-friendly Water Environmental 2. Establish environment management activity system management management system Emissions 3. Radioactive waste Waste water and management Radioactive waste management waste KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 50 How we do KHNP’s environmental management promotion direction Think TRUST 05. Environmental management We should respond to climate change and manage environmental risk 1. Respond to climate change Execution of national greenhouse gas reduction through obtaining proper NPP proportionality Effort to reduce in-house greenhouse gas emissions Energy reduction and effectiveness 2. Establish environment management system Establishment of environment management strategy and targets Strengthening of environmentally friendly management system 1. Respond to climate change 2. Establish environment 3. Radioactive waste Zero environmental contamination management system management Strengthening environment preservation activities 3. Radioactive waste management Radioactive safety management Continuous reduction of low and intermediate level radioactive waste Stable management of used nuclear fuel Restoration of trust through an environmentally friendly management system Optimal management of worker exposure dose As nuclear power generation does not emit of nuclear power generation facilities to respond greenhouse gases, it is in fact the only alternative to the trend of increasing electricity demand and to greenhouse gas reduction. Thermal power to reduce greenhouse gases. If construction of generation and renewable energy could be NPPs stops, we need to give up on greenhouse gas considered alternative power. Renewable energy, restriction policies. The issue of greenhouse gas however, has limits because of its restricted reduction is more important than any other in order potential, and thermal power is in a weak position for KHNP to obtain the people’s trust and approval. in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. After the Fukushima NPP disaster, countries such as Germany and Switzerland decided to abolish NPPs. The only answer to greenhouse Most countries, though, have maintained their gas reduction is nuclear power existing NPP policies. These countries judged that generation. nuclear power generation is an important alternative when considering energy supply and demand, the demand for electricity, and the environmental and Noh Dong Suk economic situations in their own countries. Our Head of Nuclear Policy, Korea Energy Economics Institute country also needs to gradually expand the capacity KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 51 Comparison of greenhouse gas emission coefficient by power generation source (unit : g-CO2/kWh) Coal Wind power 991 Oil 14 Hydraulic power 782 Nuclear power 8 10 Solar power LNG 57 549 * Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by converting total greenhouse gas emissions from the entire life of a power plant (fuel period, construction, operation, dismantling) to the amount of carbon dioxide. Greenhouse gas emission coefficient during power generation (unit : ton-CO2/MWh) Respond to climate change Bituminous Gas Oil Hydraulic Renewable Nuclear coal composite Emission 0.8230 0.7018 0.3625 0 0 0 The greenhouse gases responsible for climate change are carbon dioxide, coefficient methane and nitrous oxide and are usually expressed as CO2-eq or CO2 (carbon * 2012 power exchange issued entire cycle carbon dioxide equivalent emissions by generation source, nuclear power is the same as renewable energy ‘0’ dioxide equivalent or carbon dioxide). A thermal power plant that uses fossil fuels such as coal, oil or LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) emits great amounts Greenhouse gas emission coefficient by generation source of greenhouse gases during the power generation process. Nuclear power, (unit : g-CO2/kWh) Issuing Year of however, does not emit carbon dioxide during the power generation process and organization issuance Coal Oil LNG Solar Hydraulic Wind Nuclear emits only small amounts during uranium mining, enrichment, and the operation IAEA 2006 991 782 549 57 8 14 10 or dismantling of a power plant. Even considering this, the amount of greenhouse IPCC 2011 1001 469 22 4 12 16 gases emitted is 1~2% compared to other fossil fuels and the same or less * Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by converting total greenhouse gas emissions for entire life of power plant (fuel when compared to renewable energy. period, construction, operation, dismantling) to carbon dioxide amount * IAEA : International Atomic Energy Agency * IPCC : Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Comparing 1 unit for the standard type of NPP (1,000MW) to fossil fuels, bituminous power plants emit 6.49 million tons, oil 5.53 million tons, and LNG Greenhouse gas emissions if nuclear power generation is replaced by 2.86 million tons. If nuclear power generation is replaced by bituminous power other generation sources plants, 114.22 million additional tons of carbon dioxide would be emitted CO2 emission coefficient CO2 emission **gain from reducing greenhouse gas (tCO2e/MWh) (tCO2e) by 2013 standards. It could be said that NPPs reduced 16.3% of national (KRW) Bituminous coal 0.8230 114.22 million 962.7 billion greenhouse gas emissions. As such, since nuclear power generation does not Oil 0.7018 97.40 million 820.9 billion emit any carbon dioxide during the power generation process, it is an essential LNG 0.3625 50.31 million 424.0 billion form of power generation necessary to achieve national greenhouse gas * 2013 nuclear power generation : 138,784 GWh (KEPCO electricity statistics news, Dec. 2013) reduction targets. ** Carbon trading price= KRW 8,429/tCO2, [5.82 €/tCO2 X 1,448.20 won/€,2012 European average] KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 52 Execution of national greenhouse gas reduction process of power plant operation, and a greenhouse gas inventory system is run through obtaining proper NPP proportionality to manage emissions amounts by inputting energy usage of emitting sources. Despite the controversy over the safety of NPPs since the Fukushima disaster, Greenhouse gas emission status the government apportioned a 29% share to NPP facilities in the second energy (unit:1,000 tCO2e) basic plan announced earlier this year. This is because, among other things, 2011 2012 2013 nuclear power positively contributes to the nation by reducing greenhouse Direct emissions 102 105 64 gases. In addition, for the effective furtherance of greenhouse gas reduction Indirect emissions 2,717 2,959 3,232 policy, the government set up a comprehensive plan in response to the Total 2,819 3,064 3,296 UNFCCC (2005~2017) and proceeding third stage (2013~2017) program. In * Indirect emissions : pumped-storage and NPP safety operation accompanying necessary external electricity accordance with the plan, KHNP selected 16 items in 4 areas: greenhouse gas reduction, adaption to climate change, establishment of infrastructure and new growth engines and R&D cooperation. We will continue to proceed with response Energy reduction and effectiveness activities. From now on, we will reestablish climate change response programs KHNP is developing various energy saving efforts. The expansion of installation and continue to execute government policy based on the government’s second renewable facilities for new buildings and mandatory high efficiency energy green growth 5 year plan and basic plan for climate change response. equipment usage, rational use of electrical equipment and air-conditioning facilities, operation of a self-car free system, and lightweight car only parking lots reduced energy usage by 28% compared to 2012. In addition, we are Effort to reduce in-house greenhouse gas emissions proceeding with an enterprise energy saving movement through an energy As KHNP is using clean nuclear power and hydraulic energy as its sources of saving idea and catchphrase contest. Periodic energy saving education and power generation, it does not emit any greenhouse gases during the fuel burning presentations of excellent enterprise energy saving every October upgrade process. Only small amounts of greenhouse gases are emitted during the employees’ recognition of energy saving. Greenhouse gas inventory system work process Technology strategy Emission facility management department: environment management team (disaster environment team) / department / External / Organization General affairs team / Operations direct / Electricity team etc. Nuclear policy team fixed emitting mobile emitting omitted process indirect source source emitting source emitting source emitting source emission usage data gathering (select input method) gathering measure emission verification DREAMS accounting DREAMS document direct input process input input (ERP system) (facility running time) (fuel usage) (electricity bill) (ERP system) make report emission report emissions calculation registration management greenhouse gas emissions data gathering and review each business unit review / report : environment management team (disaster environment team) KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 53 Energy usage record by business unit (unit : TJ) Establish environment management system 2011 2012 2013 Kori Nuclear Power Site 79 291 251 Establishment of environment management strategy Wolsong Nuclear Power Site 189 394 162 and targets Yeonggwang Nuclear Power Site 128 183 129 Uljin Nuclear Power Site 152 381 289 KHNP set an environmental vision as ‘Environment friendly company trusted Hydro and pumped-storage 153 131 132 by people’ and for ‘Internalization of safety-oriented, environmental-friendly Special business unit 123 145 138 management ’ by practicing three environment management strategies. These Total 824 1,525 1,101 strategies included strengthening an environmentally friendly management * For energy usage, only energy saving subject is calculated (excluding starting current) system, producing zero environmental pollution and strengthening environment saving activities. Also, for voluntary and active environment management Enterprise usage record by energy source practice, we set and executed an entire employee code of conduct with (unit : TJ) ‘environment guidelines’. 2011 2012 2013 Primary energy usage (oil, coal, natural gas etc.) 358 669 262 Environment management strategy structure Secondary energy usage (electricity, renewable) 467 856 839 Vision Environment friendly company trusted by people * For energy usage, only energy saving subject is calculated (excluding starting current) * In 2012, due to stops of Hanul #3 and #4 and test running of Shin-Wolsong #2, sub boiler operation hour Goal Internalization of safety-oriented, environmental-friendly management increased, resulting much in primary energy usage, Uljin #4 long-term stop (steam generator replacement) and Yecheon #1 and #2 completion of construction (later half of 2011) increased secondary energy usage. Strategy and key promotion task Strengthening environment Strengthening environment Zero environment pollution friendly management system saving activity · maintain enterprise ISO14001 · strengthening chemical substance · ecosystem preserving activity 2014 KHNP climate change response comprehensive plan (environment management management system · fish resources creating activities (16 items in 4 area) international certificate) and green · reducing hazardous substance · marine environmental cleanup company designation usage operation · continuing enhancement of · reducing water pollutant emission Greenhouse gas reduction areas environment performance · expand waste recycling · expand green product purchase · establish marine environment • securing appropriate NPP proportionality management infrastructure • establishment of RPS mandatory implementation promotion foundation • respond to greenhouse gas, energy target management system • enhance power plant waste recycling rate Strengthening of environmentally friendly management system Climate change adaptation area Continuous environment investment KHNP is continuously investing • establish and execute energy saving promotion plan • expand climate change related expert fostering education and internalization in environment facility maintenance, application of cutting edge technology • establishment of preemptive response base for emission right trading system and new facility installation. The cost of environment investment is divided into execution installation, operation and technology development costs and invests more than • setup of climate change responding company mid to long-term roadmap KRW 10 billion every year. Infrastructure and new growth engine establishment Domestic and foreign environment certificate acquisition and • expand environment friendly, high efficiency building introduction • greenhouse gas, energy comprehensive management system operation and maintenance In 2006 we set up an ISO standard environment management improvement system(ISO 14001) for systematic environment • proceed renewable facility CDM business management and have operated it every year since. Through internal evaluation and post-evaluation by Research and development and cooperation area a professional organization, we search for and act • strengthen promotion for clean image enhancement on environment improvement items. Also, following • expand green product purchase • strengthen technology competitiveness designation as green companies in 2010 according • climate change industry, academic, research cooperation to ‘low carbon green growth act’, 9 business units are designated as green companies as of 2014. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 54 Environment improvement items search and treatments Strengthening green product purchase activity To save resources and (unit : case) to protect the environment, KHNP is actively participating in a green product 2011 2012 2013 purchasing system. Since the signing of a ‘green product purchasing voluntary Internal review 29 36 42 External review 30 8 17 contract’ in 2005 with the Ministry of Environment, we revised purchase Total 59 44 59 guidelines and contract rules and set up a green product purchase results monitoring system. Periodic education to enhance the rate of green product Development and application of global standard environment purchases is also being executed. performance index To actively respond to ever strengthening levels of environmental demand and regulation standards, we are measuring environmental performance by nuclear power site and comparing and evaluating Green product purchase amount and purchase rate the results. By developing and applying an environment performance index 2011 2012 2013 containing a 17 detail index chosen from 6 areas which are the same as those Total purchase amount (KRW, thousand) 15,826,891 12,665,521 16,971,170 used in the environment value evaluation model EcoValue21™, a Davos 100 Green product purchase amount (KRW, 14,713,268 12,436,445 16,332,413 company evaluating tool and ISO environment performance evaluation(ISO thousand) 14031), we are enhancing enterprise environment management competence. Green product purchase rate (%) 93.0 98.2 96.2 Environment performance index by year (unit : point) 2011 106.02 Green items KHNP mainly purchases 2012 139.84 2013 201.89 Electronics Furniture Office Others supplies Evaluation process laptop, computer, panel system partition, paper for printer and LED indoor lighting, environment management status diagnosis evaluation subject selection (environment aspect) television, copier, laser working chair, desk copier, toner, file folder LED lamp, fluorescent plan environment performance index printer, fax machine, chair, folding chair, lamp, down-light selection cooling and heating desk facility, street light environment performance index · management performance area selection and define · operation performance area unit facility determine measures and weight · environment conditions area by index do data gathering Zero environmental contamination data conversion (apply weight by index) environment performance evaluation analysis and derive improvement Strengthening harmful chemical substance management system derive integrated index, performance factor evaluation analysis Harmful chemical substances within the NPPs are sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide and hydrazine and are used for corrosion prevention and review and continuous report and communicate improvement water treatment. Humans can be exposed to these chemical substances during the entire process of manufacturing from use to disposal via various routes. If a large scale chemical accident happens, it can produce a critical disaster, so Continuous environment investment thorough management and prevention is essential. In order to prevent chemical accidents and strengthen response competence, KHNP developed the ‘NPP 2013 general environment investment amount customized standard chemical accident emergency response guide’, applied it in the field, and then expanded and designated a toxic substance manager from 1 11.6 KRW to 6~7 for each nuclear power site. Also, since 2013, we have been looking for and treating insufficient matters through safety checks on chemical substance billion storage facilities of NPPs by working with toxic chemical substance experts. In investing more than KRW 10 billion every addition, to reduce the usage of the harmful chemicals from the source through year for environment investment expense KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 55 efforts to improve the pure production process, chemical substance usage was Water use and waste water management At power plants, great reduced in 2013 to 6,673 tons, which was 153 tons less than in 2012. amounts of water are used from power generation water to cooling water of various machinery and drinkable water. Kori uses water from Ulsan and fresh Chemical substance usage within NPP water from Busan, Yeonggwang uses the Gochang Ungog dam, and Wolsong uses the Daesuho dam as their water intake source. In order to effectively use Substance name usage water, each headquarter uses a portion of water discharged after having been Sulfuric acid · the water treatment chamber: ion exchange resin regeneration treated by the waste water treatment facilities for filter washing and chemical Hydrochloric acid · multiple desalination plants: ion exchange resin regeneration washing. Furthermore, newly built power plants adopted grey water facilities to Sodium hydroxide · waste water treatment plants: pH adjustment expand reusing. Hydrazine · secondary system: removal of dissolved oxygen Ammonia · secondary system: pH adjustment Sodium nitrite · auxiliary systems: anti-corrosion Hydrogen peroxide · electrolysis plants: removal of residual chlorine Reducing water pollutants Water waste from NPPs is treated by plant sewage water treatment facilities and waste water treatment facilities and discharged after it has been legally treated. We are setting a standard 35% higher than the standard established by law. Water pollutant discharge standard (unit : ㎎/L) total COD SS total nitrogen phosphorus Legal discharge 70 or less 60 or less 60 or less 8 or less Expand waste and waste water recycling standard Own discharge 20 or less 20 or less 20 or less 2 or less Recycling combustible waste Waste water recycling rate standard 2,851 13.7% Major water pollutant annual average discharge concentration (unit : ㎎/L) 2011 2012 2013 ton COD 5.3 5.2 5.2 about 90% of combustible waste adopted grey water facility for newly SS 1.8 1.3 1.3 constructing power plants T-N 8.0 8.6 8.9 Expansion of business unit waste recycling rate The wastes from NPPs that are released from outside radioactive control areas are general waste, specified waste, construction waste, waste synthetic resin, waste oil, and about 15 kinds of waste wood, and are tightly controlled for throughout the entire process, from the beginning to the final treatment. To minimize air pollutants such as greenhouse gases that are generated by waste incineration, KHNP expanded and built new waste storage facilities for each NPP headquarter. Also, waste was subdivided by kind, state and treatment method, recycling about 90% of combustible waste (domestic waste, waste plastic and waste wood). KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 56 Strengthening environment preservation activities Radioactive waste management Marine environmental research and marine ecosystem conservation During both the construction and operation of NPPs, KHNP is conducting on land Radioactive safety management and marine environment research around the power plants in accordance with environment effect evaluation laws. After the expiration of the legally mandated Radioactive waste is divided into used nuclear fuel, which is high level radioactive execution period for environmental research, we are doing continuous monitoring waste, and low and intermediate level radioactive waste. Radioactive waste of environmental change according to our own ‘guide for environmental research management requires policy establishment and for the completion of storage around NPPs.’ To observe long-term changes in marine environments of the facilities, stable management is very important for minimizing environmental seas surrounding Kori, Wolsong, and Hanul, surface centered marine research influence and the stable operation of NPPs. The ultimate goal of radioactive was changed to depth research and since 2011 ecosystem changes have been waste management is to reduce the amount of radioactive waste that comes monitored not only from the surface but also to the bottom. Comprehensive from NPP operation and to keep worker exposure doses as low as possible. research results from over the past 28 years show that the surrounding Through continuous management improvement activities, KHNP is reducing the environment has a similar community structure to that of a natural ecosystem and amount of radioactive waste and safely storing used fuel within the power plant that no unique influence has been found from the operation of NPPs. until management policy is established. We continue trying to prevent accidental radioactive exposure to local residents and workers and thoroughly managing Yearly changes of community of algae around NPP (unit of population : population /m2) radioactive substance emissions by setting limits for each power plant. 2011 2012 2013 Kori 54 46 48 Continuous reduction of low and intermediate level Number Wolsong 77 49 49 radioactive waste of species appeared Hanbit 27 28 23 Low and intermediate level radioactive wastes are arising from the process of Hanul 136 199 77 using nuclear power of coveralls, booties, waste filters and waste papers, with Kori 137 305 199 weak radioactive wastes. We treat them safely or pack them in waste drums Average Wolsong 190 208 189 presence Hanbit 7 7 4 that are temporarily stored within the NPP. However, as the number of operating Hanul 737 111 86 units grows and improvements and increases in old large machinery and facilities develop, continuous increases of low and intermediate level radioactive Status of marine zoobenthos (soft bottom) around NPP wastes are expected. Accordingly, KHNP composed and held a ‘radioactive (unit of population : population /m2) waste management committee and work committee’ and is making continuous 2011 2012 2013 effort through the improvement of supply materials and the waste treatment Kori 79 126 134 Number process to reduce radioactive waste. A ‘waste storage management guide’ was Wolsong 73 128 142 of species also developed to divide radioactive waste and general waste for treatment and appeared Hanbit 34 58 83 Hanul 351 343 286 Kori 860 668 687 2006 – 2013 low and intermediate level radioactive waste generation Average Wolsong 914 689 683 trends presence Hanbit 744 106 159 (unit : 200 liter drum) Hanul 1,555 2,481 1,952 301 289 Building fish stocks and improving ocean environment 265 249 In order to build fish stocks in the ocean area near NPP, KHNP release fish and shellfish fostered by utilizing warm drain water on every May 31 as ‘Oceans day’. Since 1997, we have released fishes, 22 million of abalone, and 377 tons 121 97 80 83 of shellfish cultivated by warm drain water, in which contributed to increase of fishing village’s income and improvement of ocean environment. Furthermore, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 we continuously strive to improve the environment by environment preservation activities such as cleanup beach near NPP and removing starfishes and fishery environmental improvement. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 57 introduced waste contamination inspection equipment for the self-disposal #2 and Shin-Kori #1 and #2 by 2015. For standard type NPPs (Hanbit and of non-contaminated or less contaminated waste, continuously reducing the Hanul) to prepare for transportation of used nuclear fuel, proceeding to secure amount of radioactive waste. Most notably, a ‘vitrification facility’ installed at the carrier (KN-18). Hanul 3 power plant reduces radioactive waste to 1/30, so the waste of the Hanul 3 power plant is very small. The facility also acquired approval from the Nuclear Safety Commission to treat radioactive waste at Hanul #1 and #2. Optimal management of worker exposure dose The exposure dose of workers in Korean and global NPPs has maintained a continuous downward trend due to the development of exposure lessening technology, strengthened standards for new NPP shielding designs and the Stable management of used nuclear fuel improvement and changing of facilities. In Korean NPPs, worker’s exposure Used nuclear fuel includes fission product, generated radiation and even heat dose keeps decreasing. In 2013, the exposure dose increased a little due to from the reactor. Thus, it should be temporarily kept in storage at certain facilities increases in NPP operation years and massive NPP facility safety enhancement for some amount of time and disposed of according to final management improvements. When measuring the radiation exposure dose of workers in measures. The final management measures include reprocessing, permanent countries operating more than 10 NPP units, we are second in the world, disposal and intermediate storage. Most countries choose intermediate storage maintaining low levels compared to the world average. For systematic process on designated land nearby the power plant. Korea decided through the 253rd Nuclear Safety and Security Commission in 2004 to store and manage used Worker exposure dose (unit : man-Sv/unit) Used nuclear fuel storage status (As of end of December 2013) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (unit : bunch) Average 0.51 0.82 0.79 0.53 0.46 0.53 Saturation year domestic NPP *Storage Present capacity storage Before **After Average 1.03 1.12 0.89 0.85 0.76 0.73 expansion expansion international NPP Kori 6,494 5,154 2016 2028 Hanbit 7,912 5,141 2019 2024 Worker radiation exposure dose rank by nation Hanul 7,066 4,385 2021 2026 1.04 1.44 Light-water 523 64 2022 2038 Wolsong 0.83 Heavy-water 499,632 378,040 2018 2026 0.79 0.71 Total 521,627 392,784 0.65 0.58 * Excluding emergency core amount 0.49 0.51 ** Expected saturation year after expansion, considered below Kori : Shin-Kori #3, #4 construction completed Hanul : Shin-Hanul #1, #2 construction completed Hanbit : Hanbit #2 compact storage replacement install China Korea Ukraine Sweden USA France Canada India Russia Wolsong : Heavy-water reactor compact dry storage facility additionally install nuclear fuel within power plant sites until 2016, and through the Atomic Energy improvement to lessen exposure doses, KHNP developed a web-based cyber Commission in 2012 decided to ‘publicize and establish management measures radiation exposure minimization management system (ALARA). For effective for used nuclear fuel.’ For stable management of used nuclear fuel before the operation of annual exposure management and overhaul radiation safety decisions regarding used nuclear fuel and construction of intermediate storage, management utilizing the developed system, we are planning ALARA work a method of compact storage of wet storage using a material superior in neutron process standardization. In addition, to reduce worker radiation exposure, we are absorption performance to maximize storage capacity was adopted for light operating real-time radiation monitoring system that can remotely monitor in real water reactors. For heavy-water reactors, we installed more Silo and MACSTOR time and communicate with video and audio. Respiratory protective equipment to expand temporary storage facilities. In 2013, compact storage for Hanul #5 to prevent internal exposure due to inhalation of radioactive substances has also and #6 was installed, and we are planning to change compact storage of Hanbit been improved. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 58 Think TRUST 06. Social Contribution We try to contribute to the development of local society through the creating shared values. MINDULE HOLSEE (Dandelion spores) fund 4.37 KRW billion social contribution fund raised by KHNP until 2013. 2013 per capita volunteer hours 16.3 hours per capita volunteer hours increased from 15 hours in 2012 to 16.3 hours in 2013. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 59 Where we stand Environment changes surrounding KHNP and the present According to the ‘power station surrounding area supporting act’ and ‘electric utility act’ KHNP developed various social contribution activities around areas where NPPs are being constructed or operated. The social contributions KHNP has been promoting were regarded as satisfying the needs of the local society and were considered long-term and sincere projects from the point of view of the beneficiaries. Similarly, the social contributions of KHNP are meaningful from a ‘corporate social responsibility’ point of view, but moreover, they also hold importance on a business level. Due to the characteristics of the nuclear power industry, the relationship with local society is very important. All of our business, ranging from site selection to construction, operation, and continued operation, is based on the understanding and cooperation of local residents. That is why, from the start, KHNP has not only approached local society contribution activities with the view that they are only government solutions to the welfare gap or support projects for those with low income, but also from the perspective of local society development. This contributed to KHNP’s social contribution growth as a CSV(Creating Shared Value) aspect, which is where company growth integrates into society. As a company leading social contribution to public organizations through various efforts for the development of local society, we will lead in the establishment of a new social contribution model so that the company grows together with society. What we listen Opinions of stakeholders Among the various social contribution issues surrounding KHNP, ‘Execution of social responsibility through social contribution activities’ was derived as a core issue. This core issue received an average of 5.9 points on a 7-point evaluation of issue materiality completed by stakeholders and was selected as a priority after considering its effects on business. We are reporting in detail the core issue that was derived and will reflect suggested opinions back to management as well as continually manage the issue. Opinions of Stakeholders GRI Aspect Core Issue Reporting Issue 1. Strengthening social contribution promotion system Execution of social 2. Creating Shared Value Local Social responsibility through social reflected business community contribution characteristics contribution activities 3. Expanding investments in development of local community KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 60 How we do KHNP's social contribution promotion direction Think TRUST 06. Social contribution We try to contribute to the development of local society through the creating shared values 1. Strengthening social contribution promotion system Upgrade to social contribution 3.0 Operation of KHNP volunteer group Operation of social contribution fund 2. Creating Shared Value reflected business characteristics NPP’s warm drain water heat utilization project Foster global NPP technical manpower Safety streetlight project 1. Strengthening social 2. Shared value creation 3. Expanding investments in Global volunteers contribution promotion system reflecting business development of local community characteristics 3. Expanding investments in development of local community Youth companion Rural area companion Culture companion Vulnerable class companion Restoration of reliability through coexistence with local society KHNP has been hiring local people and benefitting local service companies in order to aid in the development of local society. However, there are cases in which people from other areas have moved in under false claims only to receive benefits, thereby harming the original local people. We hope that KHNP can work with us to help solve this kind of problem. Also, to improve the negative image of the village due to the NPP, we hope KHNP can actively promote the positive aspects of the NPP A measure that allows NPPs such as clean village and environment facilities and and neighboring areas to grow free electricity for local residents. Therefore, I wish together is necessary. more people would visit the NPP and our village. Kim Young Man Neighborhood Supervisor Wolnae-ri, Jangan-eup, Kijang-gun (Kori NPP surrounding area) KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 61 Strengthening social contribution promotion Operation of social contribution fund system The KHNP volunteer group is operating on voluntary donations, the love fund and a matching grant supported by the company, the ‘MINDULE HOLSEE (Dandelion Upgrade to social contribution 3.0 spores)’ fund. As of the end of 2013, 93% (9,024 people) of employees were KHNP reflected the changing social contribution trends by moving forward participating in the love fund. The ‘MINDULE HOLSEE’ fund raised KRW 4.37 from simple welfare, strategic social contribution to establishing a ‘social billion and in 2014 we are targeting a 7% expansion from the previous year. contribution 3.0 strategy’ that reflects the characteristics of the NPP business and demands of stakeholders. 2013 was declared as the first year of leading social responsibility management. The vision of the ‘social contribution 3.0 strategy’ is that ‘everyone in the world should be safe and happy’. People, Best Practice Public Responsibility, and Public Interest are the core values. We are promoting a practical social contribution program with the strategic goals of ‘enhancing the brand value of social contribution’, ‘establishing a global social contribution What is the happiness plus hope wing project? system’, ‘establishing a stakeholder communication system’, and ‘strengthening employee expertise, such as competence’ KHNP is developing a happiness plus hope wing project that improves the studying environment of child welfare facilities where social care needed. In 2013, KRW 1 billion from the ‘MINDULE HOLSEE(Dandelion Vision spores)’ fund was invested to support 25 commuting buses and 16 Everyone in the world should be safe and happy hope libraries for 41 local child centers. In 2014, we are going to Core value support 40 hope libraries and deliver them to 60 local child welfare People Public Responsibility Public Interest facilities by investing KRW 3 billion. Strategic goal Establishing 2013 support status Enhancing the Establishing a global Strengthening a stakeholder brand value of social social contribution employee expertise, communication contribution system such as competence Hope library support system 16 locations Operation of KHNP volunteer group Commuting bus KHNP officially launched an organization dedicated to social contribution and a ‘KHNP volunteer group’ in June 2004 and proceeded with various volunteering activities. 9,000 employees participate as volunteers for this volunteer group 25 vehicles and work in 4 areas connected to the social contribution vision: ‘safety and Support money 1 happiness’, ‘local love’, created for support and communication within areas KRW surrounding NPPs, ‘human resource fostering’, which gives wings to growing children, and ‘global’ that contributes to solving the social problems of developing billion countries and contributes to education and culture. In 2013, global volunteer and local offices were established by business units and the operation guide was revised. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 62 Foster global NPP technical manpower Creating Shared Value reflected business characteristics KHNP offers job opportunities to socially vulnerable groups around NPPs and established the ‘Global Nuclear Training Center (GNTC)’ in August 2011 with the purpose of fostering NPP skilled manpower. It proceeded to be certified as Social welfare KHNP’s first social enterprise when in August 2014, it was designated as a preliminary social enterprise, the stage prior to social enterprise designation, by Gyeongsangbuk-do. At present, 4 courses for special welding, pipe welding, electrical process, and non-destruction have been opened as nuclear skilled CSV manpower fostering courses and educate 120 people annually. In 2013, 109 Economic Corporate people completed the courses and 99 were employed (an employment rate of growth Competitiveness 90%). Local communities around NPPs expect that the establishment of the GNTC will enhance industry related effects of nuclear industry and employment inducement and greatly contribute to the creation of job opportunities and activation of the local economy. KHNP will secure government expenditures up Virtuous circle of welfare and growth through a corporation to KRW 4 billion and with the goal of opening an international nuclear technical manpower education center in 2016, will strive to foster overseas business NPP’s warm drain water heat utilization project technical manpower. KHNP is implementing a warm drain water support project that supplies waste 2013 GNTC operation result heat from warm drain water that is generated by power plants at a rate of (unit : persons) about 23 billion tons per year. Waste heat is supplied to farm and fishing village Completed Acquired Employed Employed at NPP certificate related company facilities after appropriate discussions with relevant local government officials and Number of local residents. The Hanbit and Wolsong Nuclear Power Site utilize warm drain people 109 88 99 47 water discharged from power plants to develop cutting edge glass greenhouse and fish farm businesses to grow fish and shellfish that contribute to increases in local income through energy savings and job creation and resolve anxiety concerning warm drain water. The Hanbit Nuclear Power Site notably installed an aquarium to provide a place for educational experiences for local residents. Social effect Economic effect KHNP effect Job opportunity for socially Contributed to local Fostering of NPP technical vulnerable groups community economic manpower Enhanced related effect of vitalization Fostering of overseas nuclear business business technical manpower Social effect Economic effect KHNP effect Energy saving Increase income of local Resolve anxiety concerning Contribute to create job society warm drain water and opportunity prove safety Safety streetlight project Despite the fact that a lot of violent crime occurs in dark alleys, installation of streetlights in crimeprone areas is only 6% for Seoul, so public anxiety is growing. The government takes measures such as strengthening security to reduce Hanbit Nuclear Power Site aquarium Fish and shellfish releasing event KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 63 Global volunteers crimes, mostly focusing on highly populated areas or school zone, leaving quiet KHNP deployed social contribution activities to potential NPP export countries places vulnerable to safety issues. Low-income areas especially are treated as to establish a foundation for entering the overseas market. Out of simple blind spots, receiving little support while asking for help. Thus, KHNP started financial support for developing countries through the improvement of residential the ‘safety streetlight project’ in 2013 to install solar powered LED streetlights environments and educational and cultural supporting activities, contributions and CCTVs on roads in dangerous areas that are vulnerable to safety issues to resolve the social problems of the country were made. In 2013, an industryat night. Jointly with the Safe Living Citizens' Coalition, the project focuses on academic cooperation volunteer group was formed with the Seoul National low-income areas and narrow alleys that are ways to and from school and will University volunteer group and went twice, once in February and once in June, continue to become KHNP’s representative focus project. to Vietnam in order to provide labor services for the construction of cultural and sports convenience facilities supported by the Korea-Vietnam disabled rehabilitation center. A talent donation service for children and medical support for disabled people were also implemented. Social effect Economic effect KHNP effect Social effect Economic effect KHNP effect Contribute to crime prevention Reduce government Highlights corporate image Contribute to solution of Contribute to Established foundation for Increase mental security of expenses for crime of safety national social problems establishment of overseas business and residents prevention infrastructure in increased friendliness Reduce public electricity bill developing countries Photo Story 3 1 1. Einstein class 2. Happy+ Heemang Narae (wing of hope) car delivery ceremony 2 3. 2013 winter SNU-KHNP volunteer group 4. Free medical checkup and treatment at Onyang-eup 4 KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 64 Expansion of investment for local community development Youth companion Rural area companion Culture companion Vulnerable class companion For youth in poor family or educational For the health of residents around For those who are not able to participate For the welfare of socially neglected environments, we are proceeding with NPPs, we are providing visiting medical in cultural activities due to geographic neighborhoods, we are proceeding with study guides and career counseling services. location, we are holding various cultural various service activities. activities. activities. Junior engineering technology class / KkumNaMu scholarship Expanding investments in development of local Together with The National Academy of Engineering of Korea, KHNP is operating community a junior engineering technology class in which 100 company volunteer teachers participate as mentors twice a year, once in the first half of the year and again in Youth companion the second half. In 2013, the class helped 1,700 rural primary school students become interested in engineering technology, enlightening the principles through Einstein class ‘Einstein class’ is the educational support mentor program various processes such as ‘electricity runs through painting’, ‘temperature for rural area youth. It was started in January 2010 for rural areas with poor differences make the merry-go-round move’, and ‘engineering technology in a educational environments and introduced to resolve the educational gap between propeller.’ Also, the ‘KkumNaMu scholarship’ supported middle and high school city and rural areas. The Einstein class, composed of 40 college students from students as well as college students who have difficult family situations with top 10 Korean universities, provides study guides and career counseling to KRW 2.94 billion in 2013. primary, middle and high school students every year. The program is KHNP’s representative activity for talent donation and receives good response from mentees and their parents. Rural area companion Rural citizen health protection The KHNP rural health protection medical volunteer group provides general hospital level medical service to rural areas around power plants through ‘rural citizen health protection’ activities. They visit villages and provide medical checkups and essential medicines, from blood to liver function tests, thyroid to bone density tests, and care and prescriptions for internal medicine and surgery in addition to treating rheumatoid and arthritis and diagnosing various types of cancers to facilitate early treatment. The ‘rural citizen health protection’ activities enhance medical welfare a great deal and reach up to three thousand beneficiaries every year. Rural citizen health protection activity performance (unit : persons, KRW milion) Human resource fostering activity results 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 2013 participants for Einstein class 2013 KkumNaMu scholarship amount Number of 2,390 3,060 3,253 2,707 3,297 14,707 beneficiary Expense 493 441 493 470 450 2,347 239 2.94 KRW people billion KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 65 Culture companion Best Practice Local community mecenat activity For rural people who are not active in sports and cultural activities due to their geographic location, KHNP satisfies local Midsummer festival residents’ cultural needs by hosting ‘little love sharing concerts’ for neglected ‘Uljin music farm festival’ groups, as well as sports events and concert tours for rural areas. Especially, the ‘Uljin music farm festival’ that has been hosted every year since 2007 near Utilizing the top level culture show and tour resources in the Uljin the Hanul NPP, has especially drawn lots of tourist families and is becoming the area with an aim of not only local promotion but also the activation area’s representative festival. We are also supporting a beach song contest that of the local economy, the ‘Uljin music farm festival’ has been hosted local residents and tourists can enjoy together, ‘Hanlim concert’ that is held in every year since 2007. This festival is composed of sports activities human resource development center, ‘Jangansansa temple concert’. In addition, such as wind surfing, MTB, and marathon in the daytime, as well as in order to contribute to local cultural development, we are supporting the ‘Kim musical performances at night representing various musical genres. Yu Jeong literary award’ and ‘Dong-ni, Mok-wol literary award’, each awarded Vacationers and tourists flock en masse during the festival period to in Chooncheon and Gyeongju every year. see the abundant supply of eye catching events at the local festival that has come to represent Uljin. Vulnerable class companion Various welfare activities for vulnerable classes To assist marriage immigrants, disadvantaged children, senior citizens living alone, and the disabled, KHNP develops various welfare activities. Since 2005, we have provided mobile homes to vulnerable groups including senior citizens living alone by investing KRW 500 million from the MINDULE HOLSEE(Dandelion spores) fund every year. Also, as a regional special activity, we are proceeding with various volunteer services through the ‘HYO love practice program’. The program includes love meal box delivery, inquiring after senior citizens’ welfare, hand acupuncture, domestic help, a mobile bathing service, and the taking portrait photographs. These activities by KHNP show its special love for the senior citizens. Additionally, Eupcheon port wall painting village fostering through activities such as open air picnics with disabled children, delivery of side project dishes to families headed by children, visiting bath services for the disabled, volunteer services at welfare organizations and operational cost support, KHNP is The Wolsong Nuclear Power Site started to foster a wall painting making a better world. village in 2010 to contribute to the development and enhancement of local economic and culture welfare around the power plant area. At Job opportunities through social contribution KHNP has been making the Eupcheon port wall painting village, one can see about 200 wall a great deal of effort to set up social enterprises to create more quality jobs paintings along the 1.7Km of seaside from contests over the past 4 in areas surrounding NPPs. At present the social enterprises that have been years. It has become famous for being the biggest wall painting village set up at the Hanbit location are ‘Chungram’, which supports businesses in Korea. supporting rural living, ‘sanmeoru maeul’, which processes and sells the leaves of ramie, and Songpyun, which provides English classes for migrant women. Also at the Hanul location ‘dream happy work’ provides residential environment improvement projects, at the Wolsong location ‘Gongyeong ABS’ breeds and processes Woori wheat, and at the Kori location, ‘Heemang Choongjeon’ operates an insect ecology experience hall and local food business. These have all been established to contribute to local economy activation and job opportunities for vulnerable groups. KHNP contributed KRW 2.21 billion to social enterprises for NPP communities and plans to invest KRW 580 million in 2014. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 66 Think TRUST 07. Accompanied Growth We try to establish partnership relationship for coexistence. 2013 human resource support for small and medium partner companies 1,325 people Through accompanied growth programs, KHNP is continuing a project to support and foster human resources which has seen increasing participation every year from 849 people in 2011 to 997 people in 2012 and 1,325 people in 2013. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 67 Where we stand in productivity and the creation of a competitive, win-win industrial ecosystem. To build a nuclear 2013 SMEs product purchase rate Environment changes surrounding 50.2 industrial ecosystem in which big and small to KHNP and the present medium-sized companies can grow together, there must be a change from abnormal to normal, distrust Towards the continuous growth of our economy, it is to trust, support to win-win, and concern to effort. important to establish a fair and transparent market % system. To do this, we need to enter an era in which SMEs product purchase rate was 51.2% in 2011, 54.3% in the coexistence of big and small to medium-sized What we listen 2012 and has been exceeding the legal mandatory purchase rate companies is highly valued. Over the last 10 years, (50%) and the 2014 target of 51.6%. Opinions of stakeholders only 696 companies out of 4 million grew from small and medium sized companies into mediumAmong the various accompanied growth issues 2013 removed obstacles 43 sized enterprises, meaning that company size and surrounding KHNP, ‘Strengthening accompanied status are usually fixed. To address this structural growth with SMEs’ and, ‘Eradication of corruption limitation, the economic system required change. and spreading integrity culture’ were derived as KHNP, as a large and influential public company, core issues. These core issues received an average cases has played a major role in conducting accompanied of 5.8 points on a 7-point evaluation of issue To solve difficulties arising from relationships with partner growth projects. However, as a result of recent materiality completed by stakeholders and were companies, KHNP discovered 50 ‘thorn under the fingernail’ tasks problems with NPP deliveries, such efforts have selected as priorities after considering their effects and removed 43 obstacles. faded. From these incidents, we have realized that on business. We are reporting in detail the core ‘for true coexistence, the creation of a fair business issues that were derived and will reflect suggested environment is more important than any financial opinions back to management as well as continually support’. Through the creation of this environment, manage the issues. trust will be built, leading to a natural increase Opinions of Stakeholders GRI Aspect Core Issue Reporting Issue Eradication of corruption and Activity toward 1. Building sound nuclear inhibiting power generation spreading integrity culture competition industry ecosystem Social outcomes of Accompanied 2. Growth foundation strengthening through supply-chain growth competency support Strengthening accompanied growth with SMEs Procurement 3. R&D and sales channel customs support KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 68 How we do KHNP’s accompanied growth promotion direction Think TRUST 07. Accompanied growth 1. Building sound nuclear power generation We try to establish partnership relationship for coexistence industry ecosystem Spreading value and culture of accompanied growth Establishing KHNP SCM(Supply Chain Management) system System improvement for fair cooperation 2. Growth foundation strengthening through competency support Human Resource : Growth clinic Quality : Qualinovation Liquidity : Danbi(Sweet) financing 1. Building sound nuclear power 2. Growth foundation 3. R&D and sales Development of overseas proper technology with a CSV perspective generation industry ecosystem strengthening through channel support Support for competitiveness of second and third cooperation companies competency support 3. R&D and sales channel support Support for reinforcement of cutting-edge technology competitiveness Support for sales channel Support for overseas marketing Form reliability through building win-win relationships with small and medium-sized companies My company developed a ‘turbine monitoring development, but also through the continued system’ with some developmental cost and promotion of products and feedback to partner technology and information on power generation companies. facilities support through KHNP’s cooperation research and development project and delivered and installed it at the Kori NPP #3 and #4 in 2011. Thanks to that, my company possessed an important reference in the power generation field. We delivered the same system to the Dangjin thermal power #3 and #4 in 2013, and Rather than stopping at cooperative created various other results. One unfortunate research and development, thing is that despite the fact that local products with a foundation and backing are developed with quality equivalent to that of of continuous support, true imported products, we are having difficulty finding accompanied growth can be a sales channel due to the lack of promotion, I am realized. Kim Min Ho certain the cooperation research and development CEO, NADA S&V project will shine more through not just supporting KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 69 Building sound nuclear power generation Establishing KHNP SCM(Supply Chain Management) industry ecosystem system KHNP is preparing the ‘KHNP style SCM(Supply Chain Management) system Spreading value and culture of accompanied growth to drastically improve the equipment supply system to suit NPP industry characteristics so that the competitiveness of the entire NPP industry ecosystem KHNP established ‘leading sound nuclear power generation industry ecosystem is strengthened. To do this, we will establish the ’SCM integrated information Global Top KHNP’ as its vision for accompanied growth. Having selected ‘WITH system’, which will act as the control tower of equipment delivery management, KHNP’ as its core value for accompanied growth, it has proceeded with 6 so that all information related to the supply chain can be checked in real items in 4 areas. To expand the accompanied growth culture domestically and time. Once the SCM integrated information system is completed, life cycle abroad, accompanied growth week is held and meetings, seminars, purchase monitoring from equipment delivery to discarding will be possible, preventing meetings and exhibitions are hosted. In particular, by establishing accompanied partner company insolvency through early response to problem occurrence and growth cooperative systems with related organizations such as KITECH (Korea maintaining and strengthening the soundness of the whole NPP industry. Also, Institute of Industrial Technology), Busan TechnoPark, Gyeongbuk TechnoPark, through VOP(Value Offering Point), a fair value system has been introduced that Ulsan TechnoPark, Dongnam Institute for Regional Program Evaluation, and guarantees appropriate prices to suppliers to prevent distortion and enhance the Korea Nuclear Equipment Advancement Association, small and medium-sized drive for technological development in order to strengthen the competitiveness of companies are encouraged to enter into the nuclear market and enjoy a positive the whole NPP industry ecosystem. response of understanding and sympathy for nuclear industry. We deployed volunteer services with partner companies under the heading of ‘KHNP-partner company together warm companion’. Accompanied growth strategy system What is KHNP style SCM? ‘Big dream of small and medium-sized companies, KHNP will be together.’ To secure NPP’s safety and reliability and receive delivery at right time, at appropriate price, with the best quality product, the system entirely manages the whole supply W World-class (Leading global level accompanied growth) chain of partner company, contract, inventory statistics, material management, quality I Innovation (Creation of differentiated value with continuous innovation and challenge) assurance. T Transparency (Execution of transparent accompanied growth on the base of firm ethical consciousness) H Harmony (Creation of growing together through sustainable development) SCM control tower Core value KHNP WITH Vision Leading sound nuclear power generation industry ecosystem Global Top KHNP Quality Value Procurement Promotion 2nd partner assurance creation at right time Technology Management Sale channel strategy and company support support support items support Establishment of integrated SCM IT system Strengthen Performance 5 short-term tasks small and Accompanied Technology Expansion Fostering sharing medium-sized growth Private contract item regular disclose / Next term material billing / development of public global hidden spreading company 1·2·3 Big Data System / Open Platform / Create Special case open platform purchase champion creating shared growth companion value foundation KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 70 System improvement for fair cooperation Growth foundation strengthening through competency support KHNP is proceeding with various system improvements to establish a fair business infrastructure with partner companies. In 2013, in order to remove Human Resource : Growth clinic obstacles to partner companies, 50 ‘thorn under the fingernail’ tasks were found, and after review of the working department, 43 obstacle factors were To address shortages in technical manpower for small and medium-sized removed. Also, to continuously gather the opinions of partner companies, we companies, KHNP is operating veteran employee exchange, sending technical invite outstanding small and medium-sized partner companies to regularly manpower to KHNP to stay and work for six months. The ‘techno doctor project’ hosted accompanied growth meetings, as well as open various communication dispatches retired experts to small and medium-sized partner companies channels such as an electronic trading system customer service center. and transfers knowhow. The ‘atom mentor alliance’ sends nationally certified technology masters, including professional technical manpower, to partner companies at anytime. Also, to expand educational training support and 2014 ‘thorn under the fingernail’ discovery and removal participation opportunities of small and medium-sized partner companies, employees of small and medium-sized partner companies were invited in 2013 to KHNP field for OJT(on-the-job training), marking the first time this was done Contract for a public company. • Contract condition, payment of advance etc. 13 items of obstacles discovered • The most suggestions Quality : Qualinovation The ‘Qualinovation’ of KHNP stands for Quality and Innovation, which is a Technology, Quality program supporting the ‘strengthening of quality competitiveness’ among • Support and expand promotion on technology, quality partner companies. As part of this initiative, we are operating a ‘KHNP small and excellent equipment design preferred reflection etc. medium-sized companies Q-Doctor’ organization that generalizes accompanied 8 items obstacles discovered growth related to the quality support of small and medium-sized companies. Composed of a division head(head of quality assurance office), center Cooperation research development head(headquarter / business unit team manager), and quality expert(senior • Cooperation research localization expansion etc. 12 items inspector / advanced inspector), KHNP small and medium-sized companies and most of them immediately completed measurement Q-Doctor will enhance the quality level of small and medium-sized companies. We also expect to enhance the safety and reliability of their facilities. Also, we are executing quality and safety education and quality consulting on quality Development selection practice to partner company employees. In 2013, quality activity improvement • Development selection was the most controversial area. 9 items including headquarter package contract task direction was given to 464 companies a total of 14 times in Seoul and at each discovered, completed measurement nuclear power site, and a total of 813 people completed the NPP maintenance education. Completed Under action Contract 11 2 Liquidity : Danbi(Sweet) financing Technology, quality 6 2 To help small and medium-sized partner companies suffering financial Cooperation research development 11 1 difficulties, an ‘accompanied growth cooperation loan’ contract with IBK(Industrial Development selection 9 Bank of Korea) was signed in June 2013 which secured support of KRW 40 Others 6 2 billion at a lower interest than at other commercial banks. Also, a ‘power energy Total 43 7 loan’ and ‘grow together loan’ are operated for companies having signed contracts with KHNP, and through a cooperative contract with Korea EXIM bank, an export support coexistence program is in operation for small and mediumsized partner companies using expert fund loans. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 71 Development of overseas proper technology with a Best Practice CSV perspective KHNP is preparing a new concept project that transfers the amount of appropriate technology developed by outstanding small and medium-sized KHNP industry innovation movement 3.0 partner companies to export prospective areas. The project is a business that links overseas sales channel exploration with social contribution activities, thus To support industry competitiveness of 2nd and 3rd partner companies, raising friendliness among Korean companies and acting as a catalyst for new the ‘KHNP industry innovation movement 3.0’ was deployed to project orders. promote voluntary innovation through technological innovation and improvements in work environments and production processes. The KHNP industry innovation movement 3.0 will invest a total of KRW What is appropriate technology? 3 billion in 150 2nd and 3rd partner companies for the 5 years, Considering the political, cultural, environmental condition of the social community in until 2017. This will help develop self-sustaining power, referred to which the technology is used, the technology is made so that continuous production and consumption is possible. For example, lifesaving products such as Life Straw and in the nuclear industry as the new Saemaul movement. To proceed agriculture related technology such as manual water supplying pumps(Super Money with business in 2014, Korea Productivity Center was selected as a Maker Pump). cooperative organization after through contest and review, and support Able to utilize with Use material from Create jobs Size of the was granted to 31 partner companies and companies wishing to enter little money the region as utilizing the product should be the NPP industry, including Kowel Special Steel Wire, with a total of much as possible region’s appropriate and technology and easy to use KRW 630 million (average of KRW 20 million per company) invested labor in 4 areas: ‘enhancing productivity’, ‘technological innovation’, ‘factory innovation’, and ‘informatization promotion’. Anybody can use Local people can Utilize local Utilize renewable without special make themselves people’s energy for the knowledge cooperative work, source should contribute to local society Users should Should be be able to able to modify understand the under given technology circumstances Support for competitiveness of second and third cooperation companies Considering that in the NPP construction field there are about 400 2nd partner companies doing production activities and using equipment manufacturing characteristics, second and third partner company support projects have Partner company support record contributed greater strength than other public organizations. To address the biggest problem of financial difficulty, an ‘accompanied growth cooperation loan’ Number of companies subject to KHNP industry innovation movement partner company quality consulting 3.0 support amount was executed for the first time to a public corporation, and a ‘subcontractor 464 630 KRW payment monitoring system’ was established. As a result, on-time time payment of subcontractor payments and wages was made possible as well as payment made within 5 working days of request. Also, to support 2nd partner companies, companies million we are operating a technology advising group and educate 2nd and 3rd execute education of NPP maintenance partner companies and companies wishing partner companies on excellent 1st partner company benchmarking in order to case, quality activity improvement plan etc. to enter the NPP industry strengthen networks and support successful case presentation. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 72 Support for overseas marketing R&D and sales channel support KHNP established a goal to advance to the world market together by fostering Support for reinforcement of cutting-edge small and medium-sized companies that secure export competitiveness. technology competitiveness Accordingly, promoting participation support for export related education and seminars, strengthening export support services, expanding cooperation with With the aims of NPP safety enhancement and the strengthening of technological related organizations, and dispatching an overseas market pioneer group have competitiveness among small and medium-sized companies, we are actively all helped to support international exhibit participation. Also, in coordination with supporting joint research and development among small and medium-sized Busan TechnoPark, support for new acquisitions of standard certificates from companies by encouraging excellent equipment development and localization of overseas organizations such as the ASME(American Society of Mechanical imported equipment. To address obstacles related to the business of research Engineers) has been continued to encourage exports of small and medium-sized and development, the joint research and development system and development partner company products. selection designation system were fully revised in 2013. Task public offering procedures were changed to let more companies participate, and if development Core performance index was successful, purchase amounts were fixed in advance and improved every 2014 2011 2012 2013 Remarks year we contracted for the price. This prevented the loss of developmental costs (target) due to poor sales after development and solved the problem of management Purchase amount of SME 5,785 6,366 5,984 6,256 +5% product (KRW, 100 million) instability. Also, selecting companies competent to execute research and Purchase amount of 10% of purchase development introduced open competition and let more companies participate in technology development 431 304 216 253 amount of SME research and development. ‘Task briefings’ were held in advance and received product (KRW, 100 million) product good responses. In addition, to expand the base of technology development and Fund liquidity support amount 1,835 2,230 2,179 2,244 +3% (KRW, 100 million) NPP equipment companies, we hosted ‘the 2nd exhibition and briefing session Human resource support and for NPP equipment private contract reduction and research and development 849 997 1,325 1,450 +9% fostered people (people) promotion’ at Busan BEXCO in April 2014. This event was an inverse concept exhibition to provide business opportunities to development companies by exhibiting equipment imported and stored in storage facilities. 1,500 people from 500 companies visited and we provided information to companies wishing to enter the NPP industry. Support for sales channel In order to open a new market for small and medium-sized companies, we are promoting business unit tours of excellent small and medium-sized companies 1 for purchase meetings every year. About 100 companies participate every year and display a variety of excellent New Technology certified products. Furthermore, the ‘buyer-supplier 1:1 meeting system’ was highly evaluated from a practical result standpoint. In 2014, together with the Korea Venture Business Women’s Association and Korea Venture Business Association, MOU for comprehensive cooperation was signed and exchanged to open doors to venture companies so that they may enter and diversify the supply chain foundation of the NPP industry. Also, as a part of the ‘government 3.0’ (public data disclosing movement), ’Big data’ has been provided to small and medium-sized companies for the past 3 years and new business discovery has been supported. 2 1. Technology transfer signing ceremony and discussion 2. Signing ceremony and Atom Mentor alliance ceremony KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 73 APPENDIX Other Sustainable Management Achievements Third-Party Assurance Statements SR10 Certificate GRI Index Membership and Participating Principles KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 74 Other Creating Job opportunities Sustainable Employee status and recruitment As of the end of 2013, there are 9,553 employees working at KHNP. Recruiting takes into consideration both Management gender and social equality. Meanwhile, with an expectation that the domestic and overseas NPP industry will expand, 13,200 new recruits are going to be needed by 2021. To meet this demand, we are preemptively Achievements recruiting, keeping in mind that a characteristic of the NPP industry is its long-term employee workforce training period and education infrastructure. Employee status by employment type and by region 2011 2012 2013 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Employee grand total (person) 8,277 711 8,988 8,539 798 9,337 8,654 899 9,553 Executive 6 6 6 6 4 4 Rank Middle manager 2,567 31 2,598 3,036 54 3,090 3,133 60 3,193 Staff 5,704 680 6,384 5,497 744 6,241 5,517 839 6,356 Headquarters 907 125 1,032 1,159 167 1,326 1,027 167 1,194 Nuclear power site 6,043 452 6,495 6,106 496 6,602 6,332 587 6,919 Region Hydro & pumped780 59 839 751 59 810 709 62 771 storage Other business 547 75 622 523 76 599 586 83 669 units Average year of service 16.3 9.7 15.8 15.9 9.3 15.3 15.9 9 15.2 Number of females 711 / 7.9% 798 / 8.5% 899 / 9.4% and proportion Out of the total Females above the 3 / 0.42% 4 / 0.50% 7 / 0.78% number rank of team leader of people Proportion of 2.9% 3.1% 3.1% disabled Employment record (unit : persons) 2011 2012 2013 Female 84 118 125 Disabled 100 18 7 Local talent 441 448 409 Permanent new recruit High school graduate 6 132 189 Science and engineering 602 585 561 Total 680 697 627 Youth intern 660 606 613 Temporary employment Fixed term worker 97 151 232 size Short term worker 3 5 0 Operation of intern system linked to permanent positions In 2013, in addition to the conversion of 585 nuclear professional interns (selected from 2011 ~ 2012) into permanent positions, we preemptively selected 314 more people to prepare for the timely construction, stable operation and maintenance of UAE NPPs, and to have a human resource base ready. In 2014, we selected about 1,050 people in the intern system linked to permanent positions and proceeded with the new NPP construction project without any problems. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 75 Recruiting for UAE dispatch Global talent must be fostered for overseas NPP export and early securing of and training. Also, by introducing an education training mileage system and by NPP core technology, but we are also open to the recruitment of core experts reflecting upon personal education and training record in the promotion system, of specific areas. Especially for the operating personnel of UAE NPP (OSSA), members are induced to voluntarily participate in education and training, which considering the necessity for the completion of SAT (main control room operation maximizes development of competence. training) education in order to meet the qualifications of ENEC (Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation), we are planning for about 200 people to be separately recruited as the UAE NPP dispatch. Fostering global job expert We executed customized education and training reflecting characteristics by Expansion of recruiting expert personnel job group and recruit level of newcomers. For the safe operation of NPPs, we To break the elitism of the nuclear power industry and to overcome the extended the education period to a maximum of 2 years to ensure enough limitations of internal manpower, and while considering that the fostering period job experience was obtained, and to secure global competence, we are using required to educate a nuclear expert workforce is 5 years, in 2013 we recruited English teaching materials that are for US NPP workers. Existing personnel are 42 outside executives and experts in specific areas (maintenance and safety). growing as experts in their fields by cultivating job competence in phases. To In 2014, we plan to recruit 250 more people with 3 to 5 years of experience, do this, we are operating an in-house certificate system together with various including personnel, lawyers, and certified public accountant license holders. job education and training programs. Also, by fostering an in-house expert for 100 core jobs that are essential for the safe operation of NPPs, and through a knowledge management system, we are sharing and propagating core job Healthy human resource development knowledge. Promotion of 3 human resource development strategies Rate of securing job experts (unit : %) To enjoy the value systems of KHNP and to secure the quality that our 2011 2012 2013 members should possess, we established a new talent aspect that reflects Target 48.9 54.4 58.9 the environmental changes within management. With a vision for ‘fostering Result 50.2 54.7 60.2 convergence talents possessing core values and expertise’, we proceeded * Job expert : RO / SRO (reactor operator / supervisor ) license, JQC (Job Quality Certification) recipient with three human resource development strategies, including ‘internalization of vision and core values’, ‘strengthening of leadership competence by class’, Per capita employee education and training hours (unit : hr) ‘strengthening of job and global competence.’ 2011 2012 2013 Education hours 122 122 127 KHNP talent forstering system 100 core jobs Talent Fostering convergence talents possessing core values and expertise Core job fostering vision Power generation 11 incl. emergency, operation technology Safety 7 incl. safety culture, safety evaluation Faithful to the basic Considerate coexisting Global professional Talent talent aspects talent talent Machine 29 incl. emergency diesel generator (ethics, ownership, (communication, cooperation, (passion, professional Electricity 20 incl. cooler pump, generator safety) social responsibility) competence, global competence) Measurement 19 incl. power plant protecting facility Eng. 12 incl. prevention / prediction maintenance Human resource Vision Leadership Competency Quality 2 incl. quality assurance, quality inspection development internalization of vision and strengthen leadership strengthen job and global strategy core values competence by class competence Number of people, by rank, that participated in education (number of people per capacity) (unit : persons) 2011 2012 2013 Integrating·strategic human resource management (HRD) First grade 190 (120.2%) 167 (97.6%) 267 (158.9%) To continuously enhance organic connectivity among in-house education and Second grade 1,066 (170.8%) 930 (139.4%) 1,246 (178.5%) By rank training organizations and quality standards of education and training programs, Third grade 3,300 (160.6%) 4,064 (180.4%) 4,185 (179.8%) KHNP established a new talent fostering team that directs enterprise education Fourth grade 9,957 (197.7%) 10,407 (201.9%) 11,210 (207.7%) KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 76 Retired employee support program Employee welfare In preparation for the aging of professional personnel, we improved term GWP program insurance including accident insurance, and strengthened the retirement pension system in preparation for a stable retired life. Also, to allow employees with To create a workplace where employees work merrily and happily like a family, retirement ahead of them to prepare for their uncertain futures with continuous KHNP is operating a family-friendly program that focuses on the life cycle of self-improvement, we provided a 14 week out-placement education program marriage giving birth – fostering – support – retirement. To encourage giving that is composed of lessons on investment techniques, health management, birth, maternity leave has been extended from 1 year to 3 years and from the entrepreneurship, and reemployment. In 2013, 64 applicants (47%) completed third child onward, the whole maternity period will be added to the total years this program. of service. For fostering support, together with economic support, we expanded and are operating daycare centers by business unit, and have furnished feeding machines in the female lounge of every business unit. We also increased ‘family love day,’ a day where workers leave on time, from once to twice a week, supporting family harmony and encouraging workers to use up their leave before it expires. In 2013, we introduced a more flexible work system and employees are gradually utilizing this to set their own schedules. Status of introduction of retirement pension system · introduction : May 6, 2010 2011 2012 2013 · introduction type : Defined Benefit (DB) type, Defined Contribution (DC) type · operating institution : 8 financial institutions including Shinhan bank Personnel Percentage Personnel Percentage Personnel Percentage (%) (%) (%) (3 banks, 3 securities companies, 3 insurance firms) (person) (person) (person) · number of people enrolled: 9,115 (DB : 4,821, DC : 4,294) Percentage Male 1 0.0 · external deposited amount : KRW 101.6 billion that used maternity Female 41 0.5 58 0.6 72 0.8 leave Social insurance support record (As of December 31, 2013, unit : KRW 100 million) Percentage Male 1 100 returning to Beneficiary Company Total work after Female 41 100 58 100 72 100 Health insurance 235 232 467 vacation National pension 186 185 371 Percentage Male 1 100 Occupational hazard 49 49 that work more than 12 Unemployment 44 109 153 months after Female 37 90.2 54 93.1 59 81.9 ※ Difference in financial period (Jan. 1, 2013 to Dec. 31, 2013 ) and salary period (Dec. 16, 2012 to Dec.15, 2015) return to work resulting in different beneficiary payment amount and company supporting amount Worker support program For the stability of the body and mind of employees, KHNP is operating a worker Legal minimum wage compared to newcomer wage support program. We provide outside expert counseling on issues that can KHNP pays the same wage as defined by the legal minimum wage regardless of arouse in personal life (family, emotional, mental, law, finance) or in relation to employee sex. The wage is calculated fairly according to related regulations that work, supporting problem solving techniques for stress and other encountered take into account years of service, job description and job performance. difficulties. All counseling costs are supported by KHNP, and the with regards to the content of the counseling, privacy is guaranteed. In 2013, 398 employees Average wage of new recruit used this program. Also, we are taking care of not only physical health, but 2011 2012 2013 mental health. We formed a ‘visiting medical healing expert team’ with one Average wage of new recruit 28,015 32,942 33,885 specialist and 2 nurses, who move between business units to help prevent (thousand KRW) depression of employees. In addition, for employees above the rank of team Compared to legal minimum wage 259 287 278 leader, we executed mental health self-diagnoses, and aimed to prevent suicide ※ Status of minimum wage: In year 2011, 4,320/H (KRW 902,880 / month), year 2012 4,580/H (KRW 957,220 / well in advance by having all employees watch suicide prevention educational month), year 2013 4,860/H (KRW 1,015,740) videos. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 77 labor activity clause, and removed only the bargaining party clause to improve Advancement of labor-management clauses that make undue claims toward personnel and management rights, relationship thus finding ways for labor and management to coexist. In 2013, we signed 17,500 time-off agreements, removed retirement preparation leave (30 days), Labor union status improved excessive holiday clauses, and also signed a collective agreement that strengthened predictability of the supplement of manpower and rationality of job The KHNP labor union was established on August 10, 2001 and is organized evaluation, all in an attempt to enhance labor-management rationality. to operate as a central labor union with 7 headquarters and 40 branches. As of June 2014, 5,858 out of a total 9,563 joined the union, which is 61.3% of employees. KHNP signed a ‘Time-off’ with labor unions on August 2011 Established various communication channels and recognized a total of 24,200 hours of paid exemption from working hours, KHNP has been trying to establish various communication systems as a equivalent to 12.1 peoples’ paid working hours, and additionally recognized 2 cooperative solution between labor and management. The CEO selected non-paid full-time union officials. ‘coexistence’ and ‘communication’ as the direction of the management, and two-way communication is being attempted by opening a ‘plaza with the Number of union members and proportion by business unit (As of June 2014) CEO’ that includes a KHNP Talk, CEO’s letter, and conversation with the CEO. Number of union Union member Business unit member proportion To encourage the active participation of employees, we implemented a ‘happy Main office 514 8.8 work place bulletin board’ to gather opinions on various subjects such as Nuclear power site 4,605 78.6 human resource management, pending management issues, and social culture, Hangang hydro power site 211 3.6 reflecting upon an overall improvement in the management of KHNP. In the Pumped-storage 327 5.6 beginning of 2013, for the early stabilization of the newly started labor union, Research institute & education institute 201 3.4 we hosted practical labor-management workshops and executive pending Total 5,858 100 issue briefings to facilitate the exchange of different opinions on various areas including the relocation of Headquarters, and to enhance understanding. Also, if Redefining new labor-management culture strategy a major change in business occurs that influences union members’ status, prior notice must be given and processes must be mutually agreed upon. Through internal and external environment analysis and a detailed diagnosis of labor-management, we derived points of improvement for labor-management Labor-management joint social contribution activity culture, and by running in parallel annual mid to long-term labor-management culture visions with strategy, we redefined a new labor-management culture Through a strengthening of labor-management communication, KHNP adopted strategy that reflects KHNP’s traditional labor-management culture. Especially at a rational labor-management culture, and to fulfill the social responsibility of the 7th labor diagnosis executed in 2013, we were able to derive improvement being a public company, executed various joint labor-management programs. by concentrating on what problems existed in the larger labor-management In 2013, we hosted a labor-management joint program contest to share and relationship. The result of our labor diagnosis was a decrease as compared propagate business unit best practices. Meanwhile, through a revision of the to the previous year. It analyzed the accumulation of fatigue from long-lasting joint labor-management collective agreement, the social responsibility clause NPP corruption investigations and audits, and confirmed that joint activity and was strengthened. We established a human rights clause, and reinforced a cooperation is required to overcome crises. mutual effort clause to become a trusted company and to jointly create social contribution funds for socially disadvantaged classes, and to enhance power of Result of member consciousness survey through execution ability. labor-management diagnosis (5-point scale per item) LaborOrganizational Communication management culture relationship 2012 4.03 3.43 3.17 Human rights protection 2013 3.66 3.19 3.03 Percentage and number of major investment Collective agreement to improve irrational practices agreements that include human rights clauses or that Since 2010, KHNP has continuously been trying for the advancement of a have undergone human rights screening collective agreement to improve irrational labor-management practices. We When contracting for an investment, during various risk review processes, established a paid union activity time limit (Timeoff) and prohibition of unfair KHNP comprehensively examines possibilities of human rights breaching. When KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 78 contracting an investment with a constructor and partner company, we ask for Migrant-related policy and management principles agreement and cooperation with UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and we For residents who are subject to migrate, we composed a ‘compensation continuously check that these items have been reflected. However, there are conference’ that the local government, migrating residents, and local influential no investment contracts that specify a human rights protection clause. Also, persons are participating in, supporting the creation of a migrating village and despite that there is no explicit screening factor for it, we are evaluating partner migrant measures according to ‘the law on acquisition and compensation of land companies through a comprehensive consideration of their financial soundness, for public service Article 78.’ company credibility, quality, sales records, and environment and safety management, as well as by executing an external integrity investigation regularly Migrant status every year to check up on partner companies’ corruption status. Migrating Project period Migrating time family Education of security managers on job-related Shin-Kori #3, #4 2007.9~2014.9 20 household 2007.9~ human rights policy Shin-Wolsong #1, #2 2005.9~2013.1 122 household 1995~2003 For all employees, such as security guards, police squad members, and KHNP’s marketing and promotion-related activities other security-related employees who have a high possibility for breaching human rights during their job, we educate them about working procedures KHNP has been providing accurate information on nuclear power generation and acquisition of know-how, as well as on the constitution and the human through the media and internet, newsletters, and various promotion publications, rights protection clause specified in the criminal code, to prevent human rights satisfying the people’s right to know and enhancing social acceptance of nuclear violation. power generation. Also, KHNP is abiding by the procedures stipulated in various regulations and in the prime minister’s instruction on ‘regulation of government Total discrimination and related measures advertisement execution,’ with no instances of breaching either. KHNP clearly specified in its code of conduct that it provides equal opportunities in education and promotion according to personal capability and qualifications, Other fairly evaluating employees and providing compensation in accordance with Status of loss rates including injuries and occupational disease performance and achievement, and further, that it does not discriminate based 2011 2012 2013 on sex, education, religion, region of origin nor disability. Also, KHNP abides Number of injured and diseased employees 1 0 1 by ILO (International Labor Organization) agreement NO.111 (agreement of Percentage of injured and diseased employees 0.01 0 0.01 discrimination in employment and job). KHNP has no record of legal measures or Loss days related to injury and disease 57 0 19 restrictions that have arisen due to discrimination since its foundation in 2001. Percentage of loss days related to injury and 0.002 0 0.001 disease Job related death 1 0 0 Partner companies’ health and safety Absence rate 0.017 0.053 0.023 We are setting the enhancement of partner company safety competence Number of employees with occupational disease 0 0 0 as the basic policy of industry safety management, and to do this, we have Percentage of employees with occupation 0 0 0 disease implemented a partner company safety management symbiosis cooperation Employee turnover rate program in 4 nuclear power sites. Also, all partner companies working in NPP construction, as well as in NPP operation and maintenance, must legally comply 2011 2012 2013 to an 8-hour work day as outlined in the ‘Labor Standard Act’, while periodically Persons Rate Persons Rate Persons Rate receiving safety management and health safety education set by industry safety Voluntary Male 31 0.3 42 0.4 42 0.4 health rules. resigners Female 3 0.0 9 0.1 4 0.0 Non Male 155 1.7 259 2.8 272 2.8 voluntary Business areas with a high danger of using forced resigners Female 1 0.0 3 0.0 6 0.1 children labor and measures for eradication Male 186 2.1 301 3.2 314 3.3 Total KHNP abides to ILO’s ‘Convention Concerning the Prohibition and Immediate resigners Female 4 0.0 12 0.1 10 0.1 Actions Toward the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour' and UN Global Total 190 2.1 313 3.4 324 3.4 Compact labor standards and principles. Since the establishment of the company, *Non-voluntary resigners: everyone including retirement at retirement age, dismissal, dismissal upon death and there have been no cases of breaching either the forced labor policy or the child contract termination, except voluntary resigners *Voluntary resigners: dismissal at request, voluntary resignation and early retirement plan (excluding transferees, labor prohibition policy, with an aim to prevent child labor from its source. affiliation change, dismissal upon death and promotion to directors) KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 79 Percentage of retired employees Participation restriction standard Percentage Subject Next PercenNext PercenNext ten years Percenof retired 5 years tage 10 years tage (cumulative sum) tage Nationwide bidding KRW over 230 million employees Greater city KRW less 230 million Director-level 6 0.1 0.0 6 0.1 Province KRW less 100 million Executive-level 640 6.5 822 8.4 1,462 14.9 Neighborhood KRW less 50 million Regular employees (except directors 619 6.3 513 5.2 1,132 11.5 and executives) Direct indirect fuel usage Regional restrictions on bidding (unit: KgU) 2011 2012 2013 To encourage economic activity in areas around NPPs, during the procurement Light water of some construction, manufacturing, or service bids, KHNP applies regional 501,443 411,216 380,222 (concentrated uranium) NPP fuel restrictions. According to presumed purchase prices, bidding participation is Heavy water (natural 427,761 381,934 291,143 uranium) restricted to a business residing and operating in metropolitan cities and other areas. Terminology Term Explanation A global index published by the World Association of Nuclear Operators Index (WANO) that makes it possible to evaluate countries’ cooperating nuclear power WANO index plants, and compare NPP operations and safety between different NPP operators. 10 items including the productivity of the power plant, shutdowns and the wholesomeness of fuel, are quantified to evaluate the safety performance. seismic isolation equipment Impact absorbing equipment to reduce seismic energy and reducing impact transmitted to the structure Unplanned loss is the loss electricity, calculated by deducting possible power generation capacity and planned loss from facility capacity, meaning the electricity Unplanned loss rate that was generated due to failure of the generator or accident during operation, and unplanned loss rate is unplanned loss compared to facility. INPO (Institute of Nuclear Power An institute that pursues the best safety and reliability in NPP operation, that all american NPPs in commercially operating and nuclear operating organizations Operations) of other countries are members. KHNP-BEX (KHNP Business KHNP self-developed ethics level diagnosis model Ethics Index ) A certificate that the electricity has been produced using renewable energy facility that the certifying organization verifies the renewable energy facility and REC power generation of power generator and based on this distribute according to power generation In accordance to the Article 12 of Kyoto Protocol which was accepted at United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), to loosen global CDM project warming, advanced countries and developing countries jointly promoting reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This technology chemically locks the radioactive waste from a nuclear power plant permanently in a glass structure in the melting furnace. It can perfectly Vitrification technique prevent radioactive materials from being exposed, and drastically reduces the volume to less than 1/33 as compared to conventional technology. ISO 14031 A standard of environment effect evaluation, that defines ways to measure, analyze and evaluate the achievements of an organization. A system marginal price correction factor applicable to each power generation source to stabilize electricity price and to mitigate financial imbalance. The Correction factor nuclear correction factor is a coefficient for allocating the share of KHNP in the added value (system marginal price – variable cost) generated from the sale of 1kWh of electricity. Exposure dose of workers Total exposure dose (dose equivalent) of a person exposed to radiation (excluding the exposure of the skin or limbs) It is not that a corporate does social contribution activity after generating profit, but the corporate activity itself is generating social value and at the same time CSV (Creating Shared Value) pursuing economic profit Mecenat A support on culture and art, sports and corporate support on public service in social and humanitarian point of view Composed of requirements that if a corporate recognizes the influence on stakeholders and society and checking if the management system to manage it is practically SR10 SRMS setup and operating. SR10 is developed by an international certificate network, IQNet and includes ISO26000 (social responsibility), ISO9001 (quality management), ISO14001 (environmental management), OHSAS18001 (industry safety and healthcare), Includes SA8000 and other management system standards. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 80 Third-party assurance statements Verification Statement of KOREA HYDRO & NUCLEAR POWER Co., LTD 2014 Sustainability Report Preface KOREA HYDRO & NUCLEAR POWER Co., LTD (Hereinafter ‘KHNP’) is responsible for establishing compilation criteria including content of this Sustainability Report (Hereinafter ‘the Report’). KFQ responsibility is to provide a verification conclusion of KHNP 2014 Sustainability Report based on our verification procedures in accordance with the selected standard and criteria. GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Electricity Utilities Sector Supplement G3.0 (Hereinafter ‘EUSS G3.0) is finding globally acceptance and those are applied as a reporting criteria. This Sustainability Report is intended for various stakeholders of KHNP. Independence KFQ was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, other than providing a verification opinion, and there has been no conflict of interest between KHNP and KFQ. Further to this KFQ has no biased opinion on stakeholders of KHNP. Verification standards Assurance/verification standards • AA 1000 Assurance Standard 2008 • AA 1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008 • GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines • GRI G3.0 Electricity Utilities Sector Supplement • ISO 26000: Social Responsibility Standard Verification scope The following are included in the scope of this verification. • Report content in relation to the headquarter and entire local power plants of KHNP • Application Level ‘A+’ to GRI3.1 and GRI G3.0 EUSS • GRI G3.1 to assess compliance with content of the Report and assurance principles of reporting quality • Type 2Moderate level of AA 1000 and AA1000 AS 2008 to assess compliance with inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness principles and reliability of sustainability performance information • Core subjects in ISO 26000 Verification procedure KFQ considered the procedures to achieve reasonable assurance of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the sustainability information, as well as internal process and system of data collection to have reliability of sustainability performance information provided in the Report. • Desk review KFQ have performed GAP analysis of the key issue and sustainability performance information provided in the Report against GRI guidelines and information acquired through media survey. KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 81 With regard to the financial data included in the Report, our procedures were limited to verifying that they were correctly derived from the KHNP’s audited 2014 statement of accounts for the first half year. • Site visit Visited headquarter, two nuclear power plants in operation (Kori and Wolsong) and three hydroelectric power plants in operation(Chuncheon, Uiam, Cheongpyeong) to understand and assess the system and processes in place for managing and reporting the sustainability data. Review of a sample of internal documents and interviews with the personnel responsible for internal reporting and data collection to discuss their approach to stakeholder inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. • Resolution of findings Review the final report to check the error and issues identified during above process to provide correct and reliable sustainability performance information, and conduced in independent assessment of the Report in relation to GRI Guidelines Application Level. Consideration and limitation Completeness and responsiveness of sustainability performance information reported in the Report are subject to inherent limitation due to their nature and the methodology used determining, calculating and estimating such data. Verification opinion Based in the verification activity stated herein, KFQ confirmed that this Report meets the GRI G3.1 Guidelines at an Application Level of A+. According to the three principles of AA 1000 AS, namely, inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, sustainability performance information was assessed and KFQ could secured reasonable evidences to provide a moderate level assurance through followings. 1. KHNP implements the process of stakeholder engagement, accepts a variety of stakeholders’ opinion, and works to reflect them in its sustainability policy. 2. KHNP Corporation has a process to define stakeholder group by materiality analysis and identify key issues through communication with each group to set priorities on stakeholder surveys and feedback. 3. KHNP connected key issues identified by stakeholders to long-term sustainability strategy and vision and its performance is clearly improved sustainably, and its activities and performance was appropriately reported. 4. KHNP has effective internal system and procedures of data creation, gathering and analysis for sustainability performance information. KFQ could confirm reliability of reported information through interview, comparison data of internal and external and not found any biased data and information. Recommendation for improvement We recommended that KHNP to develop performance index to comply GRI G3.1 and GRI G3.0 EUSS to review its performance sustainably. Also, we recommended that KHNP make a balance in the Report to include various activities and performance of positive and negative impact under consideration of materiality. In addition, we commended that KHNP have variety communication channel to community with each stakeholder group to identify their needs and use it as essential information to develop company’s long and short-term strategies. October 2014 Seoul, Korea CEO Dae hyun Nam Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 82 SR10 Certificate KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 83 GRI Index GRI 3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ● Reported ○ Not reported N/A Not Applicable ◐ Partially reported Reporting Description ISO 26000 Reported Additional information level Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 2~3 6.2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 2~3 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization ● 6~7 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 6~7 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures ● 6~7 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters ● 6~7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the 2.5 ● 6~7 sustainability issues covered in the report 6.2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 6~7 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) ● 6~7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization (number of employees, net sales and net profits, capital adequacy ratio, quantity of products and services, etc.) ● 6~7 There has been no major change 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● during the reporting period. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ◐ 4~5 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided ● About This Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● About This Report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc) ● About This Report 3.4 Process for defining report content (determination of importance and priority, identifying stakeholders) ● About This Report 3.5 Process for defining report content (determination of importance and priority, identifying stakeholders) ● 12~15 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) ● About This Report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope) ● About This Report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability 3.8 ● About This Report from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation 3.9 ● About This Report of the indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g. mergers/ There has been no reason for re3.10 ● acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) statement There has been no major change 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report ● during the reporting period. 3.12 GRI Content Index ● 83~87 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 7.5.3 ● 80~81 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting 4.1 ● 10 strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 10 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non4.3 ● 10 executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body ● 10 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), 4.5 6.2 ● 11 and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 11 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on 4.7 ● 10~11 economic, environmental, and social topics Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.8 ● 8 and the status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 4.9 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and ◐ 10 principles KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 84 ● Reported ○ Not reported N/A Not Applicable ◐ Partially reported Reporting Description ISO 26000 Reported Additional information level Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance, 4.10 ◐ 11 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. ● 10~11 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses ● 88 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: *Has 4.13 positions in governance bodies;, *Participates in projects or committees;, *Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or *Views ● 88 membership as strategic 6.2 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 12~13 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 12~13 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 12~13 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and 4.17 ● 14~15 concerns, including through its reporting Economy Disclosure on Management Approach Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community 6.8/6.8.3/ http://cms.khnp.co.kr/ EC1 ◐ investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 6.8.7/6.8.9 management2/ EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 6.5.5 ● 48~53 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 6.4.4/6.8 ● 76 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ◐ 31 Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 6.4.4/6.8 ● 76 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallybased suppliers at significant locations of operation 6.6.6/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 ● 79 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 ● 74 Indirect economic impacts 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3/ EC8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts (including types of support) 6.8.4/6.8.5/ ● 19-22 6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts (including scope of impacts) 6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5/ ● 32 6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 Environment Disclosure on Management Approach Materials No fuel consumption containing EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 79 PCBs (Poly Chlorinated Biphenyles) The US-South Korea nuclear EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ● agreement and Korean government policy prohibit nuclear fuel reprocessing Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 52-53 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ● 52-53 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 52-53 EN6 Initiatives to provide energyefficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 6.5/6.5.4 ● 52-53 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 52-53 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 55 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● 55 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 55 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ● 56 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside EN12 protected areas ● 56 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5/6.5.6 ● 56 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity ● 56, 62 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk ○ Emissions, effluents, and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 52 KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 85 ● Reported ○ Not reported N/A Not Applicable ◐ Partially reported Reporting Description ISO 26000 Reported Additional information level EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5/6.5.5 ● 52 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 52 Due to the nature of nuclear power EN19 Emissions of ozonedepleting substances by weight N/A generation, there are no emissions of ozonelayer depleting substances. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight N/A EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 55 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5/6.5.3 ● 54-57 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 54-57 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and No waste is taken out of the EN24 percentage of transported waste shipped internationally ● country. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s EN25 discharges of water and runoff 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 ● 56 Products and services Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s EN26 discharges of water and runoff 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 ● 56-57 Not applicable in consideration of EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 N/A the characteristics of the industry Compliance There has been no violations of EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 6.5 ● environment laws during reporting period. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting EN29 members of the workforce 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 ○ Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 ● 53 Labor Disclosure on Management Approach Labor practices and decent work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 6.4/6.4.3 ● 74 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 6.4/6.4.3 ● 78 Number of turnover and rate LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 ○ LA15 Percentage of employees returning to work after parental leave and retention rate ● 76 GWP program Labor/management relations 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 77 6.4.5/6.3.10 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/ LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements ● 77 6.4.5 Occupational health and safety Joint management-worker health Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on LA6 occupational health and safety programs 6.4/6.4.6 ● and safety committee is composed within 10 representative. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region ● 78 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/ LA8 ● 23,64,76 regarding serious diseases 6.8.3/6.8.4/6.8.8 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4/6.4.6 ● 77 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 6.4/6.4.7 ◐ 75 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 ● 76 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 6.4/6.4.7 ○ Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 6.3.7/6.3.10/ LA13 ● 10,74 indicators of diversity 6.4/6.4.3 6.3.7/6.3.10/ LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ● 76 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 86 ● Reported ○ Not reported N/A Not Applicable ◐ Partially reported Reporting Description ISO 26000 Reported Additional information level Human rights Disclosure on Management Approach Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/6.6.6 ● 77~78 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/ HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken ● 77~78 6.4.3/6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the HR3 percentage of employees trained part-time employees, by major operations 6.3/6.3.5 ◐ 78 Non-discrimination 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken ● 78 6.3.10/6.4.3 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to HR5 6.3.5/6.3.8/6.3.10/ ● 77 support these rights 6.4.3/6.4.5 Child labor / prevention of forced and compulsory labor 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor ● 78 6.3.5/6.3.7/6.3.10 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or HR7 compulsory labor reviews ● 78 Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/ HR8 ● 78 operations 6.6.6 Indigenous rights 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ● 78 6.3.8/6.6.7 Assessment HR10 Percentage and number of operations supervising human rights and conducting impact assessment ◐ 77~78 Remediation There has been no complaints HR11 Number of human rights-related complaints raised through an official mechanism of complaint delivery 6.2 ● 76 regarding human rights Society Disclosure on Management Approach Local communities Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/ SO1 ● 58-59 entering, operating, and exiting 6.8.7/6.6.7 S09 Existence of operations having potential or real negative impacts on the local community ● 16-27 S10 Mechanisms to relieve the negative impacts of operations on the local community or protect the local community from them ● 16-27 Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ● 40~47 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6/6.6.3 ● 47 S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 40~47 Public policy S05 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying (prohibition of donation of political funds) 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 ● 17 We abide by political fundraising S06 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country ● laws which prohibited any kinds of provision of political fund. Anti-competitive behavior S07 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 ● There has been no violation of laws. Compliance S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 ● There has been no fines or sanctions Social Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7/ PR1 ● 19 and services categories subject to such procedures 6.7.4/6.7.5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7/ There has been no violation of PR2 ● during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 6.7.4/6.7.5 laws. Product and service labelling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/ PR3 ● 78 requirements 6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7.9 KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 87 ● Reported ○ Not reported N/A Not Applicable ◐ Partially reported Reporting Description ISO 26000 Reported Additional information level Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/ There has been no violation of PR4 ● outcomes 6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7.9 laws. 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/ PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 17 6.7.6/6.7.8/6.7.9 Marketing communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and PR6 sponsorship 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6/6.7.9 ● 78 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6/ There has been no violation of PR7 ● 78 promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes 6.7.9 laws. Customer privacy KHNP's customer is Kepco PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 6.7/6.7.7 ● and there has been no leaks of customer information. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 6.7/6.7.6 ● There has been no violations of laws. Additional GRI Indexes for the Electric Utilities Industry EU1 Equipment capacity by power source ● 7 EU2 Power generation by source ● 7 We do not have a role in electricity EU3 Classification and number of general households, industrial, commercial and institutional customers N/A sales to general customers We have neither holding facilities for EU4 Length of transmission and distribution line N/A transmission and distribution nor any role in managing them we have neither emissions trading EU5 Emission credit quota under the emission trade system ● performance nor results. EU6 Disclosure of short-term and mid-term management policy for stable supply of electric power ● 28~29 We do not have a role in managing EU7 Whether electric power demand management program is in place and current status N/A electricity demand. EU8 R&D expenditure and activities for stable supply of electric power and sustainable growth ● 31 EU9 Laws and guidelines for decommissioning nuclear power plants ● 31 EU10 Plan to expand facilities by source according to long-term estimated demands for electric power ● 22 There are no thermal power EU11 Efficiency of thermal power generation by source N/A generation facilities. We have neither holding facilities EU12 Ratio of transmission and distribution loss to total energy N/A for transmission and distribution nor any role in managing them EU13 Ecological status in biodiversity protection activity areas ◐ 56 EU14 HR management process and programs for reinforcing professional manpower ● 75 EU15 Percentage of employees scheduled to retire within 5~10 years by job category and by region ● 79 EU16 Policy and guideline concerning the health and safety of KHNP’s employees and suppliers’ employees ● 78 EU17 Working hours of subcontract workers engaged in power plant construction, maintenance and operations ● 78 EU18 Percentage of suppliers’ employees who received training on health and safety ● 78 Stakeholders’ participation in the decision-making process concerning energy supply and demand planning and construction of power generation EU19 infrastructure ● 26,52 EU20 Resident relocation policy and management policy ● 78 EU21 Measures to prevent accidents and disasters and education programs ● 23 EU22 Number of relocating residents by projects 78 We do not have a role in electricity EU23 Programs for improvement of diffusion of electric power N/A sales to general customers We do not have a role in electricity EU24 Programs for supporting supply of electric power to the disadvantages in terms of electric power consumption N/A sales to general customers There have been no general death Number of general deaths or disasters for which legal sanctions were given or with regard to which a legal action is in progress(harms done to the EU25 general public, not employees) ● 16 or disaster accidents among court lawsuits. There are no power transmission EU26 Number of people living in areas without any transmission and distribution network N/A and distribution facilities. We do not have a role in electricity EU27 Number of households for which electric power supply was cutoff due to unpaid electric rates (reported as segmented by length of supply suspension) N/A sales to general customers EU28 Frequency of shutdowns ● 16 EU29 Average length of shutdowns ● 16 EU30 Average NPP capacity factor ● 75.5% in 2013 KHNP Sustainability Report 2014 88 Membership and participating principles Joining and support UN Global Compact KHNP joined an international convention on corporate social responsibilities, the UN Global Compact in March 2007 act up to its 10 principles in the 4 sectors of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Principle 1 Principle 7 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 2 Principle 8 Business should ensure that they are notcomplicit in human rights abuses. Environment Human rights Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Principle 3 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 5 Anti-corruption Labor Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Membership Domestic International Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Korea Fusion Industry and Technology Association Pressurized Water Reactor Owners Group (PWROG) Korean Committee of Northeast Asia Economic Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) Korean Association for Radiation Protection Forum Institute of Nuclear Power Operation (INPO) Korean Nuclear Society Korean Radioactive Waste Society CANDU Owners Group Inc. (COG) Korea Radioisotope Association Korean Society of Pressure Vessel and Piping World Nuclear Association (WNA) Korea Industrial Safety Association Korea Nuclear Equipment Qualification Association World Association of Nuclear Operators (WANO) Korea Project Management Association (KPMA) Korean Society of Energy & Climate Change Framatome Owners Group (FROG) Korea Environmental Preservation Association Korean Society for New and Renewable Energy Nuclear Procurement Issues Committee (NUPIC) Earthquake Engineering Society of Korea Korea Forum for Progress Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) Korean Standards Association Korea Energy Foundation American Society for Quality (ASQ) Korea Institute of Plant Engineering and Korean Institute of Internal Auditors Construction WHO: Radiation Emergency Medical Preparedness and Assistance Network Korea Association of Standards and Testing Korea Society of Innovation World Nuclear Fuel Market (WNFM) Organizations Korean Society for Quality Management Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry COMPSIS Working Group (OECD/NEA) Korean Institute of Electric Engineers Korean Society of Radiation Bioscience Romanian Atomic Forum (ROMATOM) Korea Electric Association Korea Employers Federation CANDU Procurement Audit Committee (CANPAC) Korea National Committee on Large Dams Korean Society of Public Enterprise CEA Technologies Inc. Hydraulic Power Life Interest Group (CEATI HPLIG) Energy & Mineral Resources Development Korean Society for Nondestructive Testing Association of Korea Korea Academy of Nuclear Safety Korean Society of Suggestion Activities Korea Management Association Korea Smart Grid Association Corrosion Science Society of Korea The Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers Korean Federation of Women’ s Science & Forum on Climate Change and Energy Policy Technology Associations Korean Resource Economics Association Korea Productivity Association Korea Plant Industries Association KHNP Corporate Planning Dept. Planning team Phone: 82-2-3456-2761 Fax: 82-2-3456-2229 Homepage: www.khnp.co.kr E-mail: sustainability@khnp.co.kr Address: 520 Yeongdongdaero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul Think TRUST Eco-Design To minimize environmental pollution and resource wastage throughout the entire lifecycle of this eco-design report, KHNP has used soybean oil and shunned the use of spot color printing or coating.
