UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014 Statement of the CEO on the progress report to the UN Global Compact “Sustainability has been an important part of Kärcher’s corporate culture since the earliest days of the company. That is why Kärcher joined the Global Compact in 2011. Once again we have made great progress, since the most recent Global Compact Report. A worldwide survey has been conducted in order to get to know where we can further improve our efforts in the areas of environment, economy and social responsibility. The results of our research will be implemented in the upcoming year according to our already proven “Sustainability Excellence” strategy and marks the next logical step in the continuing development of our sustainable management and operations.” Hartmut Jenner Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Management Board © Alfred Kärcher GmbH & Co. KG / 25.08.2014 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014 UN Global Compact's ten principles Kärcher Code of Conduct 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. © Alfred Kärcher GmbH & Co. KG / 25.08.2014 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014 Practical actions in the period under review Measurement of outcomes in the period under review § Confirmation of compliance with the Kärcher Code of § In the period under review 146 new suppliers have Conduct from new suppliers. committed compliance with the Kärcher Code of Conduct. § Conduction of supplier and internal audits to take § In the period under review 199 suppliers have been corrective actions when necessary. audited worldwide. § SA 8000 certification of production sites in risk countries. § In September 2013 the first SA 8000 certification was approved for our Romania site. § Standardization of environmental management processes § Rollout of an environmental management software to 5 according to ISO 14001 worldwide. production sites in the US and in China. The number of sites using the software has increased from 14 in 2013 to 19 in 2014. § Consideration of environmental regulations in the product § Built up of an international network of legal experts development process. among all R&D sites worldwide to standardize the evaluation of legal product requirements. § Continuous improvement of the social and environmental § For this purpose 14 sustainability targets have been set performance of the Kärcher group of companies. worldwide. The targets have been aligned in a global survey with the expectations of our customers and other interested parties. © Alfred Kärcher GmbH & Co. KG / 25.08.2014 3
