Editing Policy ITOCHU Corporation’s Perspectives on CSR Disclosure of CSR-related Information ITOCHU Corporation believes that corporate social responsibility (CSR) lies in To make information on ITOCHU’s CSR initiatives widely accessible, corporate thought and action on the question of how to play a role in building information is disclosed through the following media. sustainable societies through business activities. This report presents the role we must discharge and our initiatives for it. Corporate Website CSR Pages HIGHLIGHT Information is disclosed regarding ITOCHU Corporation’s CSR activities in a format that provides detailed coverage across a The following four initiatives, which are related to the four major CSR agenda wide range of themes. Moreover, information on activities items for ITOCHU's sustainable business activities, are presented in this conducted during the current year is disseminated on a timely report as highlighted features. basis. www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/ 1 Climate change This section introduces ITOCHU's initiatives on solution-based businesses, including business in renewable energy, which are operated globally. CSR Report 2 Sustainable use of resources Wide-ranging information covered in detail on the website CSR This section reports on ITOCHU's supply chain for Australian coal, from pages is published in PDF format as an annual CSR report. The reports provide an ongoing perspective of ITOCHU’s CSR activities. the extraction at the mine to the ship loading at the port, in the form of a documentary report by a third party individual. www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/report/ Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains Vol.6 ITOCHU’s Australian Coal Supply Chain: Coexisting with Natural Environments 3 Respect and consideration for human rights This section provides information about initiatives on respect for human Annual Report rights and labor management that are implemented on the textile Aimed at investors and other stakeholders, we provide particularly manufacturing floor in Cambodia. important reporting on ITOCHU’s CSR activities, along with Manufacturing Strategy which Supports the Marketing Company. information such as management results and future growth strategies, in a comprehensive manner from a perspective based on 4 Contribution to local communities the characteristics of the business activities of a sogo shosha. This section shows examples of ITOCHU's initiatives with regard to the www.itochu.co.jp/en/ir/ issues and needs of the host regions through both business activities and social contribution efforts. From the cover Referenced guidelines Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 issued by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) In June 2014, ITOCHU Corporation announced its Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) issued by the Ministry of the Corporate Message, “I am One with Infinite Environment of Japan Missions.” The Corporate Message is an ISO 26000 (Guidance on social responsibility) expression that comes to mind when pondering the corporate philosophy of “Committed to the A side-by-side comparison of GRI guidelines and the UN Global Compact can Global Good.” It is also a phrase that enables be found at:http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/report/gri/ ITOCHU Corporation to “give its word” to society, with the aim to ensure that there is a shared value between society and ITOCHU employees. Reporting period This report principally covers actual data for the fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2013, and Statement ended on March 31, 2014 (FY2014). However, some of the most recent information on our activities and initiatives are also Mistake me not for just any ordinary person. I am one with countless included. missions. My workplace is the entire world. I engage in business across borders, touching people’s lives and creating new lifestyles. Publication information Through my business, I bring about a brighter tomorrow for all around me. Publication: September 2014 I dedicate myself to our common future, mindful of my responsibility to Next publication (scheduled): September 2015 promote the prosperity of all earthly beings. Previous publication: September 2013 In the end, I believe this leads to my own betterment. I am Itochu, with infinite missions around the world. Reporting boundary This report covers ITOCHU Corporation (9 domestic offices and 115 overseas offices) About the design and its major group companies. The blue sky was made the background to convey “sincerity.” This is not a sky seen from below while gazing upward, but a dynamic sky spreading out Inquiries across the horizon, expressing the unlimited possibilities of “infinite ITOCHU Corporation missions.” Clusters of clouds flowing horizontally in brushstrokes that give off Corporate Communications Division, a feeling of wind and movement bring out an impression of an individual CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department employee constantly on the move. Tel: +81-3-3497-4069 Fax: +81-3-5474-7296 E-mail: csr@itochu.co.jp 1 Contents 1 Contents / Editing Policy CSR in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment 3 President's Commitment 54 Supply Chain Management 57 Business Investment Management CSR for ITOCHU Corporation 5 ITOCHU Mission and Values Employee Relations 6 Sampo Yoshi and ITOCHU CSR 58 Human Resource Development Supporting the “Seeking of New Opportunities” 8 Basic Policy on CSR and Promotion System 62 Ongoing Promotion of Our Global Human Resources Strategy 12 Stakeholder Relations 63 Support for Activity by Diverse Human Resources 13 CSR Advisory Board 65 Creating Environments That Bring Out the Best in Employees 15 Respect for Human Rights 68 Initiatives Aimed at Occupational Health and Safety 18 The United Nations Global Compact 69 Introduction of Morning-Focused Working System 19 Penetration of CSR at ITOCHU 70 Communications with Employees 72 Basic Data Highlight 21 Sustainable use of resources Social Contribution Documentary Report Project 74 Basic Activity Guidelines on Social Contribution on Supply Chains vol. 6 Social Contribution Activities 75 Great East Japan Earthquake Support Activities 23 79 Action on Global Humanitarian Issues Respect and consideration for 81 Environmental Conservation human rights 82 Community Contribution 86 Growth of Future Generations 25 89 Support for Volunteer work by our Employees Climate change Our Initiatives for the Environment 92 Environmental Activities Policies 94 Environmental Management 26 97 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Risks Contribution to local communities 98 Promotion of Environment Conserving Businesses 101 Approaches to Conservation of Biodiversity 103 Environmental Education and Awareness CSR and Our Business 105 Environmental Performance Data 27 CSR at the Textile Company 110 Environmental Accounting 30 CSR at the Machinery Company 111 Initiatives toward Environmental Distribution 33 CSR at the Metals & Minerals Company 36 CSR at the Energy & Chemicals Company 112 Evaluation by Society 40 CSR at the Food Company 43 CSR at the ICT, General Products & Realty Company 113 ISO26000 Core Subjects and ITOCHU's Initiatives Corporate Governance and 114 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and Internal Control / Compliance UN Global Compact Principles 47 Corporate Governance and Internal Control 51 Compliance 123 Independent Assurance Report 124 Corporate Profile / Financial Overview 2 President’ s Commitment Masahiro Okafuji President and Chief Executive Officer President’s Commitment With Integrity in Business as a Starting Point, Fulfilling Our Missions to Society Infinite Missions that We Must Accomplish In June 2014, ITOCHU Corporation announced its Corporate Message, “I am One with Infinite Missions.” The Corporate Message is an expression that comes to mind when pondering the corporate philosophy of “Committed to the Global Good” as well as a phrase that passes on to wider society the role of ITOCHU. ITOCHU has a history of more than 150 years since its foundation in 1858. As Japan’ s economy transitioned from the post-war recovery phase through a period of rapid economic growth, an economic bubble, and a mature economy, the industrial structure underwent substantial changes. Over that period, ITOCHU and many other general trading companies overcame difficult times to record sustained corporate growth. The reason is that we focused on “selling products that the market wants.” This consists of not simply handling a wide range of products and merely trading a commercial good from one place to another, but having individual employees quickly ascertain changing market needs on the front lines of various businesses around the world and continually offer added value. This is how we have maintained our presence. This approach is not limited to the business front lines. Responding to demands from ever-changing society and providing the abundance that results from trade is required for sustainable growth. And this path is aligned with sampo yoshi (Good for the seller, Good for the buyer, and Good for society), the management philosophy of ITOCHU founder Chubei Itoh and the Ohmi merchants. It is the mission that we must accomplish. The Corporate Message: “I am One with Infinite Missions” expresses ITOCHU’ s strengths in easy-to-understand words, including the concept of sampo yoshi and the capabilities of individuals. Regarding the message as the starting point of ITOCHU’ s “integrity,” I would like us to set about completing “countless missions.” In part to demonstrate our consistent embodiment of this approach in international society, ITOCHU has participated in the United Nations Global Compact since 2009. Avoiding Risks and Generating Opportunities Looking at our business environment, the scope of our business activities has expanded and our business fields are becoming increasingly diverse, in accordance with the growth in the scale of our profits. Inevitably, the extent and scale of the impact of our business activities on society are also increasing, and the range of missions that we must fulfill for society continues to expand. For example, if we work to expand our value chain in emerging countries, we will face increased responsibilities in the areas of respect for human rights and environmental conservation. If we neglect those aspects of management, we will be judged harshly by global society, and our corporate value could be adversely impacted in one fell swoop. We must advance while always paying attention to the risks that we face as our business activities grow. If we can establish the practice of responding appropriately to these types of demands from society, then we can generate opportunities to ensure the continuity of our corporate value. In addition, we should be able to capture further diverse opportunities by leveraging the management resources that we have accumulated as a general trading company and sharpening our focus on establishing businesses that resolve the challenges faced by society. To avoid business risks and grasp opportunities that lie within social challenges, individual employees must sustain the values that are shared with society, and continue to carry out our front-line approach to enhance their sensitivity in determining what their missions are. Securing the Human Resources Who Will Support the Future In Japan, there are concerns that the working population will decline over the medium to long term due to the trends toward fewer children and an aging population. This is an extremely important issue for ITOCHU because our people are our greatest management asset. We are well aware of the necessity of hiring and developing the people who will support the future. I believe that we need to hire on the basis of talent, without regard to gender or nationality. ITOCHU’ s female executive officer, the first among general trading companies in Japan, was appointed to this position not because she is a woman but because of her superior abilities. In much the same way, the term “global human resources” does not necessarily refer to non-Japanese. We need to employ and develop human resources who can understand and respect the culture of each country, work effectively on the front lines around the world, and take the lead in business activities. Being Neither Overconfident Nor Satisfied; Entering a New Growth Stage We are able to thoroughly go on the offensive and generate strong earnings because we have been sure to inherit the spirit of sampo yoshi and positioned shared values with society as the foundation of our business activities. It is exactly at this time when we are moving to a new growth stage that we can clear a path for ITOCHU’ s sustained growth by each employee throughout the world possessing integrity in business, accomplishing our missions to society, and not being overconfident. We will steadily move forward step by step while keeping an eye on the next stage. 4 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation ITOCHU Corporation is pursuing multi-facetted corporate activities in various regions of the world and a wide range of fields, and as such, ITOCHU is well aware of how significant its impact on society is. We believe that corporate social responsibility (CSR) lies in corporate thought and action on the question of how to play a role in building sustainable societies through business activities. We also believe that our mission is to fulfill our Corporate Social Responsibility as a global enterprise, always working from the viewpoint of whether we are contributing to the countries of the world and to society. ITOCHU Mission and Values ITOCHU founder Chubei Itoh first launched a wholesale linen business in 1858. For more than 150 years since, ITOCHU has passed down the spirit of sampo yoshi (good for the buyer, seller and society), a management philosophy embraced by Ohmi merchants that is the source of its CSR thinking today. After considering ways to demonstrate its commitment to society as an international corporation and to put this commitment into practice, in 1992 ITOCHU formulated “Committed to the Global Good” as a corporate philosophy. The conceptual framework for this philosophy was reorganized in 2009. In order for all employees to properly understand the responsibility that the ITOCHU Group is charged with fulfilling for society and to make this philosophy an integral part of actions everyday, its core element, “Committed to the Global Good,” was set as the ITOCHU Mission for the entire ITOCHU Group. Accompanying this is a new set of five values, called the ITOCHU Values, considered vital for enabling each employee to fulfill their role in realizing the ITOCHU Mission. To embed the ITOCHU Values, ITOCHU has formulated “5 self-tests” that employees can refer to in order to determine that the five values are present in their actions. 5 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Sampo Yoshi and ITOCHU CSR Basic Perspective on CSR at ITOCHU ITOCHU Corporation is strongly aware that companies are also members of society, and that a company cannot remain sustainable unless it coexists with society as a good corporate citizen, and meets the expectations of society through its business activities. We at ITOCHU Corporation believe that corporate social responsibility (CSR) lies in corporate thought and action on the question of how to play a role in building sustainable “Itoh Itomise” societies through business activities. This approach ties into a management philosophy of thread and yarn sampo yoshi held by the Ohmi merchants, which forms the cornerstone upon which our store at the time founder Chubei Itoh built his business. We believe that it is our mission to understand of its opening in 1893 diverse values as a truly global enterprise, meet the expectations of society, and continue to be a company that is needed by society. Our Founder Chubei Itoh and Sampo Yoshi ITOCHU traces its origins back to 1858, the year in which Chubei Itoh set out from Toyosato Village in Shiga Prefecture on a journey to Nagasaki as a traveling linen merchant. Chubei Itoh grounded his business in the spirit of sampo yoshi, a management philosophy embraced by merchants in the feudal province of Ohmi, where he was born. In adherence with their sampo yoshi philosophy, as well as being good for the seller and the buyer, Ohmi Our founder Ohmi merchants merchants contributed to the economies of the regions they visited. In Chubei Itoh (courtesy of the shogunate era, Ohmi merchants came into existence and their (1842-1903) Museum of Ohmi Merchant) economic activities were permitted because they were regarded as being good for society. This can be said to be the roots of today's idea of CSR, which calls on companies to balance their business activities with the interests of a variety of stakeholders. That spirit is evident in Chubei Itoh's personal motto, “Trade is a compassionate business. It is noble when it accords with the spirit of Buddha by profiting those who sell and those who buy and supplying the needs of society.” The Roots of a Management Philosophy Passed Down for 150 Years Our founder Chubei Itoh established a “store law” in 1872. Also, he adopted a meeting system. The store law was a set of house rules covering what in modern parlance we would call management philosophy, a human resources system, and employment regulations, which subsequently became the foundation of ITOCHU Corporation's management philosophy. Emphasizing communication with employees, Chubei Itoh chaired meetings himself. Moreover, he incorporated a series of what were at the time groundbreaking management systems, including the codification of “sharing of profit by three parties” (*) A daifukucho and Western bookkeeping methods. Those initiatives built the foundations of mutual trust ledger from the between the store owner and employees. Since that era, we have based our corporate time of ITOCHU's management on CSR. founding * Sharing of profit by three parties: In a predominately feudal era, this was an extremely progressive philosophy of sharing profits with employees. The store's net profit was divided among three parties: the store owner, the store's reserve fund, and store employees. 6 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation 150 Years of History and CSR In 2008, ITOCHU Corporation marked its 150th anniversary. Why has ITOCHU continued to develop? Because ITOCHU has over 150 years put into practice the spirit of sampo yoshi, a management philosophy trumpeted by Ohmi merchants that is the source of its CSR thinking today. At the same time, as the business environment has changed with the times, ITOCHU has built a corporate culture that anticipates The headquarters with modern change and turns it into opportunities. amenities built in 1915 Since its foundation, ITOCHU Corporation has consistently thrived despite the turmoil it has faced in different eras, including two world wars and periods of economic volatility. Launched as a trading company mainly handling textiles, ITOCHU Corporation has fulfilled the role of a trading company that has responsively changed according to the demands of each generation while significantly changing its product and business portfolios-expanding its sphere of influence to include areas from upstream raw materials through to downstream consumer sales. As it has grown, ITOCHU Corporation has evolved into a general trading company and from there into a globally integrated corporation. We are convinced that our history has continued for 150 years because we have surely upheld and passed on the spirit of sampo yoshi while remaining an essential component of society by responding to changes in its expectations in different eras. 7 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Basic Policy on CSR and Promotion System Approach to CSR Promotion at ITOCHU Corporation For more than 150 years since its founding in 1858, ITOCHU Corporation has carried on the spirit of sampo Yoshi(Good for the seller, Good for the buyer, Good for society), which might be termed the management philosophy of merchants in the province of Ohmi. We at ITOCHU Corporation, in accordance with the ITOCHU Mission “Committed to the Global Good,” believe that fulfilling our social responsibility through our business activities is important. While addressing tasks such as environmental conservation and respect for human rights, we have defined the orientation for our promotion of CSR based on changes in the internal and external environments in the form of our Basic Policies for CSR Promotion. For steady promotion of CSR activities in both an organized and systematic manner, each organizational unit also prepares CSR action plans grounded in the basic policies. These action plans are linked to the resolution of major CSR issues through the business activities of trading and business investment as well as corporate governance, compliance and other components of the foundation supporting our business activities. In addition, we communicate with our various stakeholders inside and outside the company regularly to grasp the expectations and demands of society towards our company and leverage these for the promotion of CSR. CSR promotion flow 8 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Basic Policies for CSR Promotion Alongside the drafting of its management plan, ITOCHU formulates basic policies for CSR promotion, with the aim of globally promoting CSR with direct linkages to the management plan. “Basic policies for CSR promotion” during the period of “Brand-new Deal 2014”, which covers fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2015, are as follows. 1. Strengthening communication with stakeholders through a front-line approach At the business front-lines of all division companies, ITOCHU will work to understand the needs of stakeholders through more intensive communication with them by each and every employee, and take advantage of and reflect those needs in businesses and operations. 2. Promoting businesses that help solve social issues A sustainable society is essential for ensuring the continuity of businesses. In order to ensure the continuation of one's businesses, a company must do what it can for society through its businesses to help solve social issues such as climate change and human rights abuses. ITOCHU aims to help solve social issues through businesses that respond to social needs. 3. Strengthening supply chain management to lead to sustainable use of natural resources with respect for human rights and consideration for the environment ITOCHU's business is closely related to the consumption of all of natural resources (water, air, forest, food, minerals, fossil fuels, and so on). On each front-line, it is essential to grasp the utilization status of natural resources in supply chains of the products we handle, and to reflect them into the long-term business strategy. Simultaneously, it is also important to prevent problems from arising in areas such as human rights, labor and the environment in individual supply chain. Both actions are directly linked to sustainability of our business. Based on the ITOCHU Corporation's CSR Action Guideline for Supply Chains we established in April 2009, we conduct checking of supplier on human rights, labor and environmental conservation every year, and ask our suppliers to understand and practice ITOCHU's stance. 4. Promoting education on CSR and environmental conservation The expression of CSR rests in the hands of each individual employee. This is why it is critical that all employees correctly understand the kind of CSR that the ITOCHU Group should engage in. In a bid to have a CSR mindset take root among all employees, ITOCHU conducts education on CSR and environmental conservation through a wide range of training and other programs, and all organizations conduct lively discussions about CSR action plans. 5. Involving in and contributing to development of local and global communities ITOCHU is a member of the local communities where it has a business base. At the same time, it is a member of the global community. Accordingly, ITOCHU aims to actively participate in society as a member of the local community and the global community and contribute to development at both levels. ITOCHU aims to grasp the social issues local to the areas where we operate, and contribute to the mediumto long-term development of the region through its business as well as social contribution activities. 9 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation CSR Promotion System at ITOCHU Corporation At ITOCHU Corporation, the CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department within our Corporate Communications Division plans and drafts policies and initiatives for companywide CSR promotion based on the internal and external business environment and the opinions of the CSR Taskforce, which is composed of representatives of each Division Company and administrative divisions. These policies and initiatives are discussed and determined by the CSR Committee, which is one of our key internal committees. In addition, various CSR-related policies and initiatives are translated into activities by each organizational unit through the personnel in it assigned to CSR. CSR management system Awareness of Risks and Ongoing Review in Each Business Field ITOCHU Corporation's business spans a wide range of fields. We regularly make reviews to assess industry-specific risks in each field in the aspects of both internal factors and the external environment. More specifically, we identify CSR risks in each field, ascertain the prospective frequency of incidence and degree of importance, and assess them. Taking account of these assessment results, we develop measures linked to prevention of actualization and curtailment of their influence. We likewise incorporate these methodologies into the CSR action plans and review them on a continuous basis. CSR Promotion through the CSR Action Plans ITOCHU Corporation develops business in a wide range of fields through its six Division Companies. In order to steadily promote CSR through its business activities in trading and business investment, each Division Company formulates CSR action plans setting forth key CSR tasks in its fields, and then promotes CSR in accordance with the PDCA cycle system. In order to make the foundation supporting our business activities even more solid, our headquarters administrative divisions, domestic branches and offices, overseas sites, and other organizational units also formulate CSR action plans in line with the respective businesses and functions. We make it a key requirement of our CSR promotion to see that each and every employee understands the action plans and diligently puts them into practice in his or her work. 10 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation CSR Material Issues At ITOCHU Corporation, each Division Company that promotes our business activities regularly reviews the risks and opportunities encountered in each of its business incorporates the findings into its CSR action plans to help solve CSR issues, and makes ongoing reviews of the results. In 2013, ITOCHU selected material CSR issues in sustainable business activities based on its CSR action plans, and is also making ongoing checks of and additions to these material issues while taking account of our business strategy, international developments, and opinions from inside and outside the company (CSR Advisory Board (page13-14), CSR Employee Questionnaire (page19)). Such checks and additions are implemented for promotion of CSR through our business activities from a long-term perspective. Process of identifying CSR material issues 1. Climate change Climate change is an issue capable of affecting all sorts of business activities. We are going to assist the resolution of this issue through measures in each of two aspects: adaptation to risks such as natural disasters induced by climate change, and mitigation of impact by solutions-oriented business in areas such as reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from, and use of renewable energy in, our business activities. 2. Sustainable use of resources The wide-ranging business activities of ITOCHU Corporation depend on diverse resources from the natural world and their circulation. Amid increasing apprehensions about resource depletion, we have positioned resource conservation as a major task to be approached from both the risk and opportunity aspects in all phases, from development to utilization, with consideration for sustainability. 3. Respect and consideration for human rights As our business physically broadens and becomes more complex, the influence of our business activities is widening in scope. With an awareness of this situation, we consider it vital to view our business activities as a value chain, ascertain who can possibly be impacted, and thereby make full provisions for respect and consideration for the human rights of the people involved. 4. Contribution to local communities While developing business in various regions around the world, we take actions on issues and needs faced by host societies in both our business activities and social contribution initiatives. By so doing, we hope to assist the advancement of those societies and cultivate the development of new markets that will lead to growth for us. In accordance with our operating strategy and with international guidelines, such as the Global Reporting Initiative 4.0 and the IIRC Framework, we will continue working to verify and enhance our initiatives to resolve these important issues, and, from a long-term perspective, we will strive to advance CSR through our business activities. * For further information about specific initiatives, please see Highlight (pages21-26). CSR management in the Supply Chain and Business Investment ITOCHU Corporation is developing business in a wide range of fields in regions around the world. In our business activities, which consist of trading and business investment, we ascertain impact in the aspects of human rights, labor, and the environment, and work to construct sustainable value chains. Related Page: CSR in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment (pages54-57) 11 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Stakeholder Relations Stakeholders of the ITOCHU Group Approaching CSR through dialogue with our stakeholders. In our diverse range of corporate activities conducted worldwide, we place strong emphasis on dialogue with the many stakeholders that surround ITOCHU. Through these efforts, we promote CSR activities to help solve social issues by comprehending the expectations and concerns that industry and regional society may have regarding ITOCHU and reflecting this understanding in our business activities. * Besides those noted above, the list of our major stakeholders includes many other parties, such as NGOs and NPOs, financial institutions, government ministries and agencies, mass media, and the coming generations. 12 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation CSR Advisory Board 2013 ITOCHU Corporation held a meeting of the CSR Advisory Board to host a dialogue between management members of ITOCHU and external experts as regards the promotion of CSR at Tokyo Headquarters. The CSR Advisory Board was set up to facilitate a dialogue with external stakeholders about whether the direction of ITOCHU’s CSR approach matches the needs of society in the context of the diversification and expansion of ITOCHU’s business activities. The discussion of this dialogue can then be made use of in CSR promotion going forward. On this occasion, the Board had a lively discussion for about two hours around the two themes of “The further promotion of businesses that help solve social issues” and “Sustainable supply chains and business investment management.” The three external experts who made up the CSR Advisory Board presented a wide array of opinions and proposals as regards the promotion of CSR at ITOCHU going forward. The topics included the building of a value chain that is meaningful and beneficial to a wide variety of stakeholders in fields ranging from materials resources development to production and consumption (recycling), the importance of relationships with stakeholders in local communities around the world, and the creation of more opportunities to explain about CSR issues. Looking ahead, ITOCHU will continue to hold dialogues with stakeholders in order to make use of opinions and ideas from external sources in the promotion of CSR, and to enhance understanding of ITOCHU’s activities. Date February 28, 2014 ITOCHU Toru Matsushima members Representative Director, Managing Topic The further promotion of businesses Executive Officer, CAO that help solve social issues Isao Kubo Sustainable supply chains and business Executive Officer, General Manager, investment management Corporate Planning & Administration CSR Dr. Seiichiro Yonekura Division Advisory Professor, Hitotsubashi University Hiroshi Oka Board Mr. Ken Shibusawa General Manager, Planning & members Chairman, Commons Asset Administration Department, Textile Management Inc. Company Ms. Mariko Kawaguchi Masazumi Nishikage Senior Researcher, Daiwa Institute of General Manager, Planning & Research Holdings Ltd. Administration Department, Food Company Hiroya Ono Manager, CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department 13 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Representative views of participants Social projects have thus far been undertaken mainly by national governments and public entities. On a global scale, private enterprises are being called upon to take a larger part in such projects from now on, through innovative approaches in their own business. In the course of its growth, Japan accumulated know-how in the building and conditioning of diverse social infrastructures. I believe export of this know-how to provide solutions for issues faced by developing countries in the course of their growth is another one of the roles demanded of today's general trading companies. Dr. Seiichiro Yonekura Efforts to harness global growth will be linked to the creation of corporate value at ITOCHU. One prerequisite here is a long-term perspective on activities to support this global growth. I would also like to see ITOCHU consider the prospect of creating opportunities for presentations that would give investors and other stakeholders a look at business sites and impart an understanding of how this business is linked to the building of sustainable societies. Ken Shibusawa As a general trading company involved throughout the product supply chain, I hope that ITOCHU further pursues the construction of schemes that solidly convey added value, including that in the social and environmental aspects, to consumers and gain the empathy and participation of all concerned stakeholders. From now on, I also would like it to squarely address the need for implementation of due diligence extending to the environmental and human rights areas and on a level up to international standards, even in its business in developing countries. Mariko Kawaguchi Reflections from the Dialogue I am really grateful to the experts for their views on promotion of CSR activities at ITOCHU. We intend to carefully study the issues and proposals emerging from the meeting, and reflect the results in approaches which will make them realize we have achieved another round of advancement. In keeping with the sampo yoshi spirit of trade that is to benefit not only the seller and the buyer but also society as a whole, we are going to work for assimilation of our corporate value with societal value. Toru Matsushima Representative Director, Managing Executive Officer, and CAO 14 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Respect for Human Rights Policy on Respect for Human Rights The ITOCHU Mission Committed to the Global Good stands at the heart of the ITOCHU Group's corporate philosophy. The “Global good” refers not only to improved living standards, but also a general sense of well-being. ITOCHU, as a company with diverse operations worldwide, respect human rights and individuality, and is committed to the global good of society and individuals alike. Accompanying this corporate philosophy, the ITOCHU Values consist of five values important for fulfilling the ITOCHU Mission “Committed to the Global Good.” One of those values is “Diversity,” under which the Group holds the human rights and individuality of every person as important. Based on this policy, ITOCHU supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1948 as a common standard of achievement for all people and all nations. Furthermore, ITOCHU participated in the United Nations Global Compact in 2009 which is derived from this Declaration and other international standards. Guided by this approach, we clearly prohibit the violation of human rights and sexual harassment in our employment regulations, and have outlined punitive measures to be taken against those who engage in such conduct. Excerpt from the ITOCHU Group Philosophy and Code of Conduct Booklet Respecting human rights and individuality We value the rights and individuality of each person. We show respect and are attentive to others regardless of gender, race, religion, or position. We don't discuss matters that cause discomfort; we don't discriminate or harass; we respect basic labor rights and eliminate forced labor and child labor. Excerpt from the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1:Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Related Page: The United Nations Global Compact (page18) Respect for Human Rights in Business Activities ITOCHU Corporation engages in business activities all over the world and conducts its business while respecting people's human rights in each of the regions in which it operates. Respecting the Rights of Indigenous People As part of its commitment to respecting human rights, when conducting business activities in regions that are home to indigenous populations, ITOCHU will recognize the unique cultures and histories of such peoples and endeavor to respect and consider their human rights in accordance with the laws of the country or region concerned as well as international agreements such as the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and Convention No. 169 of the International Labour Organization (ILO). Further, when considering investing in new business projects, ITOCHU will enforce prior checks on how such projects might impact the rights of indigenous people. Approach to Engaging the Services of Security Firms In December 1979, the United Nations adopted the Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials to compel member states to thoroughly enforce and promote appropriate roles for law enforcement officials such as police offers and the military, and to facilitate the respect and safeguarding of people's dignity in the execution of said officials' duties. For its part, ITOCHU Corporation supports the Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials in which the United Nations established basic principles governing the use of firearms by law enforcement officials based on the above Code of Conduct, and will engage in the selection of security firms in accordance with such principles. 15 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Human Rights in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Consideration for human rights and labor practice in our supply chain and business investment is an important CSR issue for ITOCHU Corporation with business activities in various regions around the world. We regularly make checks to see that our suppliers and investment subjects are properly managing things in this respect. Related Page: CSR in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment (pages54-57) Approach to Conflict Minerals Issues Some of the minerals produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries where conflicts are taking place can potentially provide sources of funding to armed groups which engage in inhumane acts, foment conflict or bring about human rights violations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted in the United States in July 2010, required that U.S. listed companies disclose information such as their use of “conflict minerals*” produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries in their products. While ITOCHU Corporation is not bound by the reporting requirements of the United States' Securities Exchange Act, to fulfill its social responsibility in procurement activities, ITOCHU Corporation will coordinate with its business partners in keeping with the spirit of this legislation and promote initiatives to ensure that it does not help armed grounds that engage in human rights violations. * “Conflict Minerals” as defined by the law refer to tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and other minerals specified by the U.S. Secretary of State. Raising Awareness Internally of Respect for Human Rights Raising awareness through internal Number of employees participated in human training programs rights training programs We work to extensively embed understanding of the Number of empolyees relationship between business activities and human participated rights through in-house training programs. In the Training for New 124 people training program for new recruits, they are instructed to Recruits acquire the proper mindset for respecting human rights that they should have as members of the ITOCHU Training for newly48 people family. In in-house training for organization heads, appointed managers sexual harassment and power harassment issues are Training prior to 198 people discussed, and a thorough understanding of human overseas rights is fostered. Also, training conducted prior to assignments overseas assignments includes the topic of consideration for human rights in the supply chain. In this way, we are working to raise awareness in each region. In fiscal 2014, 370 people participated in human rights training. Enlightenment about “Business and Human Rights” As a general trading company that operates around the world and plays an important role in supply chains, we are implementing educational activities about “business and human rights” in each region. The objective of these activities is to keep up with the latest developments relating to business and human rights, and to incorporate this knowledge into our business. In fiscal 2014, we implemented a program of e-learning on the subject of “business and human rights” for all ITOCHU employees worldwide in order to provide them with CSR-related knowledge they should have at least. The program took up the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as well as cases involving the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. The program was directed to a total of 6,738 non-consolidated and overseas bloc employees, and was completed by 6,505, or 96.5 percent, of them. 16 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Establishment of a 24-Hour Employee Consultation Desk System Employee Consultation Desk and Hotline ITOCHU has set up an employee consultation desk to allow employees to discuss problems they may be individually confronting. A “HR Help Guide Book” has also been posted to the ITOCHU intranet, and efforts to broadly raise employee awareness of the consultation desk are made as part of a structure that allows employees to consult on issues of concern. An external Hotline System staffed by independent counselors has also been established. Career Counseling Center ITOCHU was one of the first Japanese companies to establish its own Career Counseling The “HR Help Guide Center, where employees can consult regarding not only their individual careers, but on Book” posted on the intranet workplace culture, interaction with colleagues, remuneration, harassment, and other issues. Consultations can take place via phone, fax, email, post, or other means, and are dealt with by expert office staff. Raising Awareness Through Various Publications In an effort to avoid violations of human rights in the workplace, ITOCHU strives to raise awareness of human rights through a variety of publications distributed to all employees. ITOCHU's basic stance regarding respect for human rights is conveyed in a booklet explaining the ITOCHU Group's corporate philosophy and code of conduct to all employees. The Compliance Handbook has pages on respect for human rights, as well as power and sexual harassment, giving concrete examples of such conduct in an effort to avoid any violations of human rights in the workplace. A pocket-sized card on proper workplace etiquette details rules on the strict prohibition of any forms of harassment. Fair and Honest Recruitment At ITOCHU, recruitment decisions are based solely on an individual's abilities and merits, for fair and honest recruitment practices without regard for age, sex, or nationality. A watchdog system for ensuring fair and honest recruitment is also in place, and employees are selected and notified to serve as watchdogs and to promote awareness of human rights. 17 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation The United Nations Global Compact ITOCHU's Participation in the United Nations Global Compact In April 2009, ITOCHU Corporation joined the United Nations Global Compact, a global initiative to achieve sustainable growth of the international Community. In the compliance of the Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, ITOCHU is striving to fulfill its corporate mission of “Committed to the Global Good.” The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anticorruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Contribution to Activities of the Global Compact Japan Network ITOCHU Corporation actively engages in activities as a Board Member of the Global Compact Japan Network (GCJN), the local network of United Nations Global Compact in Japan. The GC-JN organizes the Working Groups by issues related CSR where member companies are able to learn from other companies' best practices and academic experts and to have discussions and exchange opinions regarding CSR initiatives. In FY2014, ITOCHU took part in 5 Working Groups related to Human Rights Due Diligence, Human rights Education, ISO26000, Environmental Management, and BOP & Social Businesses. Moreover, we play an active role as a co-chair in the Expansion Committee to enlarge the Japan Network and raise the level of its activities. 18 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Penetration of CSR at ITOCHU CSR Employee Questionnaire and Confirmation Test Each year, we conduct the on-line Employee Questionnaire Survey on CSR and confirmation test with all ITOCHU employees around the world, in order to promote the in-house penetration of CSR awareness. More specifically, once a year, our in-house magazine ITOCHU Monthly, which is published in the three languages of Japanese, English, and Chinese, puts out a special CSR issue. This issue presents the minimum requisite CSR-related knowledge and information which every employee should know. The implementation of the confirmation test on-line helps to heighten understanding of CSR among all employees. In FY2014, ITOCHU Monthly ran an article that was titled Exploring Business and Human Rights as new CSR-related knowledge. The confirmation test presented questions from examples introduced in the article. Non-consolidated employees were requested to take a confirmation test on Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act. Among 6,738 non-consolidated and overseas bloc employees who were covered by the survey and test, a total of 6,505, or 96.5 percent, answered. As a variety of fixed-point observation, the Employee Questionnaire Survey on CSR, which surveys awareness on the topic, asks employees what CSR issues they think ITOCHU ought to tackle each year. For FY2014, against the backdrop that companies have an increasing responsibility to tackle the issue of the global depletion of resources that is mainly resulting from the development of economies and increase of populations around the world, we see that the CSR issue ranked top is that ITOCHU should address “Sustainable use of natural resources.” Furthermore, we see that the CSR issue that ranked second is “Promotion of business contributing to solving social issues.” These two results show that we can say that ITOCHU’s fundamental thinking about CSR, namely that we can contribute to building a sustainable society through our main business activities, has become firmly established among our employees. Response rate of the CSR employee questionnaire and confirmation test 2014 Questionnaire for Questionnaire for Total employees of employees of ITOCHU Corporation overseas blocs Number of employees 4,844 1,894 6,738 Number of respondents 4,818 1,687 6,505 Response rate 99.5% 89.1% 96.5% <Questionnaire Results Excerpt> Top 3 CSR Issues ITOCHU Corporation should address over the past three years FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 1 Sustainable use of 53.7% Promotion of business 54.8% Promotion of business 48.3% natural resources contributing to solving contributing to solving social issues social issues 2 Promotion of business 52.6% Employee relation 45.7% Transparent corporate 40.5% contributing to solving governance system social issues 3 Employee relations 49.3% Measures to prevent the 40.2% Employee relations 36.4% depletion of resources 19 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation CSR Seminars We regularly organize internal CSR seminars to incorporate the views and opinions on various CSR issues from outside experts. Since FY2014, we have been holding the seminars under the title of the CSR and Global Environment Seminar on themes selected for their importance in the pursuit of business activities by ITOCHU employees. CSR and Global Environment Seminar FY 2014 Climate Change: Risk and Business Opportunities (page108) 20 CSR Material Issues ~Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains~ Sustainable use of resources HIGHLIGHT ITOCHU’s Australian Coal Supply Chain: Coexisting with Natural Environments Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains for Products Handled by ITOCHU Corporation. This year’s report, the sixth in the series, covers ITOCHU’s supply chain for Australian coal, from the extraction at the mine to the shiploading at the port. From the perspective of using sustainable resources, the report introduces how management gives consideration to environmental conservation and a safe working environment. Front-Line Report Jiro Yamatomi, Dr. Professor, Department of Systems Coal being transported from the mine to the port Innovation, University of Tokyo Ravensworth North •• (RVN) In the Hunter Valley, New South Wales (N.S.W.), Australia, which is located about 150 kilometers north of Sydney, there is a coal mining area producing high-quality coal. The Hunter Valley Ravensworth Complex is famous for its wine, and as I traveled through the region’s grasslands dotted with pastureland Port of Newcastle and vineyards, I came to the coal mining site. In March 2014, I visited Ravensworth North (RVN), which belongs to the Ravensworth Complex owned by Glencore Coal Assets Australia*, a resource major. During my visit, I was able to confirm the operational status of the site and the related CSR activities. ITOCHU owns 10% of RVN through a local subsidiary. Sydney * A group company of Glencore Xstrata, a major resources company Consideration for the Environment areas. Mined coal is transported to the coal handling and preparaat the Site of the Coal Mine tion plant, where coal tailings and rejects, associated soils and minerals in coal seams, are removed from ROM coal and later Operations began at RVN in May 2012, with initial mine producused to fill up the ex-open cut void. Plans call for the site to be tion achieving 3.0 million tonnes per annum (Mtpa) of run of mine rehabilitated back to the typical landscape of the Hunter Valley, (ROM) coal by December 31, 2012. Throughout 2013 and 2014 with woodlands and grasslands, through a series of planting and the mine has progressively grown by the introduction of additional other rehabilitation initiatives. equipment. By 2015, production is scheduled to be about 11 milIn its operations, RVN is paying special attention to the lion ROM tonnes, which equates to 7.8 million tonnes (clean coal). impact on the environment caused by dust generation and blastCoal reserves at the site total 280 million ROM tonnes, and the ing vibration. Air and water monitoring is conducted at several mine life is more than 20 years. The mine manager said that this is locations on and off the site. Water is sprayed on roads using the latest large-scale, high-grade coal development project in the a water truck, and automatic water sprinkling equipment is Hunter Valley. The start-up of the RVN mine required an investinstalled in the conveyor transfers, dump hopper, and crushing ment of approximately AUD1.4 billion to expand the coal handling plants. In addition, the site also continues to use and trial other and preparation plant, relocate roads and power transmission dust minimization technologies such as fogger and water canlines, and purchase giant mining equipment including off-highway nons. Moreover, RVN restricts or ceases dust-generating activitrucks and hydraulic excavators. ties on extremely windy or dry days. RVN has had positive Over the four years from 2010 to 2013, 493 hectares of land results with these measures. In 2013, there were three comwere disturbed for RVN development and coal mining activities, plaints regarding blasting vibration from nearby residents, and while rehabilitation of 396 hectares in the Ravensworth Complex the person in charge responded immediately in accordance with was performed. In mining coal, soil and waste rock over and site procedures. The maintenance of good relationships with between coal seams are removed prior to mining, which is known local communities is an essential element of mining operations, as stripping. The topsoil is directly placed on prepared rehabilitaand the entire Ravensworth Complex is taking steps to sustain tion areas or stockpiled and later used in the rehabilitation of the those relationships. For example, comprehensive operational mine site. The overburden is placed in nearby emplacement and environmental reports are issued several times a year. The world’s largest off-highway trucks and hydraulic excavators in use Hunter Valley, N.S.W., Australia at the RVN site 21 Column: Japan’s Clean Coal Technology for the Earth In April 2014, Japan’s Cabinet decided on the new Strategic Energy Plan. In regard to coal, the plan stated that, “Though coal has a problem—it emits a large amount of greenhouse gas—it is now being reevaluated as an important base-load power supply... It is an energy source that we should use while reducing the environmental load...” Currently, coal accounts for about 25% of Japan’s primary energy, and that importance is not expected to change in the future. Globally, electric power is the foundation for economic development, especially in emerging countries, and coal-fired thermal power generation will have an Motohiko Kato extremely important position. Accordingly, demand for coal is forecast to increase. In terms of efficiency, Senior Executive Director and environmental countermeasures, and facility operations, Japan has the world’s most advanced technoloSecretary General gies for the use of coal. Moving forward, Japan will have a significant role to play in the development and Japan Coal Energy Center use of coal resources with consideration for the environment. Protecting the Health and Safety of Employees Consideration for the Environment and Safety at the Port RVN is also working hard in training employees. For example, on the road to the RVN offices there is a series of signs with The Port of Newcastle has nine safety provisions. At the main entrance, a monitor is used three coal terminals with a to give employees and guests an induction comprising quescombined annual shiploadtions about safe behaviors and operations. There is also a ing capacity of about 200 device used to conduct breath tests to check blood alcohol Mtpa. In 2012, about 134 concentration. On the mining site, the huge off-highway trucks million tonnes was loaded. used to carry coal, which are dozens of times larger than pasTwo of the terminals, senger vehicles, move back and forth at a rapid pace. Directly Kooragang, which has the viewing this scene in person impressed upon me the imporhighest shiploading capacLarge reclaimer in operation as coal is loaded onto belt conveyor tance of ensuring that machinery is operated correctly. ity (120 Mtpa), and Carrington (25 Mtpa), are operated by Port Waratah Coal Services Realizing Communications with Close Ties to Limited. Investors in Port Waratah include Glencore Xstrata and Local Communities other mining companies, Japanese coal users, and general trading companies, such as ITOCHU. Coal from the RVN mine is RVN is working to achieve continual communications with Federal exported from the Port Waratah terminals to Japan and other and State authorities and local communities. For example, in 2013 destinations in Asia. RVN participated in 26 local activities in such areas as tree plantKooragang has four rail receival facilities that automatically ing, school commemorative activities, emergency rescue helicopunload coal from bottom-dumping wagons of coal trains. Coal ter training, and fund raising for cancer eradication. Twice a year, is then carried by belt conveyor to open coal stockpile yards. a consultative community meeting is held with the participation of There are four large stockpile yards, each of which is 2.5 kilolocal residents and government authorities, and reports are made meters long and 56 meters wide. At the stockpiles, dust is on a variety of topics, such as the state of operations, results of controlled through the sprinkling of water at regular intervals, monitoring, and safety records. The regional support program is depending on the weather conditions. When it is time for coal also discussed. to be loaded, reclaimers are used to collect coal from the stockpiles, and then belt conveyors transport coal to the shipRail Transport from the Mine to the Port loaders. Port Waratah is actively committed to environmental conservation and its relationship with local communities. Railroad tracks have been laid to the Ravensworth Complex hanAccordingly, despite the recent increase in volume of coal dling and preparation plant, and clean coal for export is loaded handled, the quantity of dust deposited, as regularly measured onto freight cars and transported by rail about 100 kilometers to at monitoring sites, has generally remained the same. the Port of Newcastle. In 2013, about 7.24 million tonnes of coal To ensure the safety of workers, education and training are was transported on 979 trains, with measures taken to prevent complemented with a rigorous approach to safe operations the coal from falling off the rail car during transport. based on know-how accumulated over many years. Concluding the Observation: Japanese Society and Australian Coal Supply Chain Other than steam locomotive enthusiasts, the number of Japanese impression of how that awareness is incorporated into the front-line who have actually seen coal is probably declining. Australia’s coal coal mining operations that provide Japan with an ongoing supply exports have expanded rapidly over the past several years, espeof coal, as well as the important role that trading companies play in cially to China, yet Japan is still the largest importer of coal from that mission. All of us in Japan benefit from the work that is being Australia. The Hunter Valley’s coal operations are conducted with done on the front lines and throughout the coal supply chain. awareness of the burden placed on the environment and nature, Website for Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains and of the importance of local communities as coal is exported http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/supply_chain/reportage/ to Japan. Visiting the RVN mine firsthand left me with a strong 22 CSR Material Issues Respect and consideration for HIGHLIGHT human rights Manufacturing Strategy which Supports the Marketing Company As a customer-oriented marketing company, ITOCHU’s Textile Company is pursuing a new business model which aims to add value within the supply chain that is socially beneﬁcial and environmentally friendly. Textile Company’s Manufacturing Strategy The Textile Company, the roots of which are in manufacturing, initiative, a progressive program that M&S has developed to handles a broad range of products such as apparel, sportswear, pursue sustainability. Each of the Quantum Group’s factories underwear, uniforms, bags, and shoes for both men and women. meet strict management standards related to working environIt is able to provide products with high added value due to its ment, contributions to society, environment protection, and other ability to recommend materials and its extensive network of proaspects. Also, in addition to possessing advanced technical duction bases. This has become a major source of the Textile skills related to quality and price competitiveness, the company Company’s growth. Furthermore, in the apparel industry, subcreates high added value in terms of society and the stantial added value for customers and consumers is generated environment. not only by product quality and competitive prices but also a Building on the solid production infrastructure that comwholehearted commitment to improving labor conditions and bines Bramhope’s expertise in supplying ethically compliant making contributions to society. products and the ITOCHU Group’s production network, which ITOCHU acquired Bramhope Group Holdings Ltd. (hereinextends throughout Asia, the Textile Company will strive to after “Bramhope”) in July 2012. Bramhope is an apparel manuenter global markets such as those of North America, China, facturer and wholesaler with headquarters in the U.K., founded and developing countries and develop a new business model in 2000. The major strength of its subsidiary, Quantum Clothing as a marketing company. Group (hereinafter “Quantum Group”), is its extensive production network that includes the company’s own factories in 100% ownership India, Sri Lanka, and Cambodia and affiliated factories in variBramhope Group Holdings ous ASEAN countries. The Quantum Group’s main customer is Marks & Spencer Quantum Clothing Group Affiliated Factories PLC (hereinafter “M&S”), which is one of the world’s top U.K.based retailers. M&S purchases a large percentage of its apparel India Cambodia Sri Lanka Quantum Clothing India Quantum Clothing Cambodia Ltd. Quantum Clothing from the Quantum Group. In addition to handling various prod(PVT) Ltd. Products: Sri Lanka (PVT) Ltd. ucts including women’s underwear (hosiery, lingerie, etc.) and Products: Shirts, Pajamas, Trousers Products: Intimates, Men’s shirts, Quantum Apparel Cambodia Ltd. Lingerie, Intimates men’s shirts, the Quantum Group has the ability to develop stylUnderwear Products: Lingerie, Intimates ish products in the U.K. that are in line with the M&S Plan A Quantum Group’s CSR In 2010, the Quantum Group’s management came together and country is an extremely important production base where more compiled a plan in order to create a firm footing for a sustainable than 5,000 employees from both companies work. Quantum business; this would later become the Quantum Business Clothing is ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified, while Quantum Excellence Model. Developed with the Quantum Group’s mediumApparel is currently developing their model. Both companies give and long-term strategy in mind, this program, which covers due consideration to people, the environment, and sustainable use of raw materials, high quality standards is implemented by the Quantum Group throughout the world. and the environment. Ethical Standard Health & Safety Efforts by Quantum Cambodia In Cambodia, which is in the spotlight as a center of textile manPromotion Employee and ufacturing, the Quantum Group has its two main factories, one Education Community for Quantum Clothing and one for Quantum Apparel. The Sustainable Human Rights Environment 23 Efforts to Ensure Employee Safety introduced an outstanding Recognizing human resources employee award system, which as its most important asset, the reinforces employee drive and Quantum Group strives to create motivation. These efforts have a working environment in which been highly praised in terms of employees can not only work their contributions to society, as enthusiastically but also do so can be seen in various outcomes English class safely. As for the factory’s producPacking assembly line such as the factory being officially recognized by the local govtion ﬂoor, where many employees work, the company was the ernment as one with a labor environment which makes it possifirst to manage factory workers’ working time using a computble for factory workers to do their work with peace of mind. erized system. The company also has thorough health and safety controls and checks in place to look after workers’ Efforts to Preserve the Environment well-being and to prevent accidents. In addition, the company In 2004, the company received ISO 14001 certification and conhas been able to create an easy-to-work-in environment that tinually works to make improvements through the plan–do– includes break areas, a cafeteria for factory workers, and a check–act (PDCA) cycle. Since this PDCA cycle was introduced, nurse’s office. Surveys of employee satisfaction are also reguthe company has implemented a variety of measures that have larly conducted and acted upon, which leads to improvements resulted in reductions in electricity use, wastewater, and waste. that make the workplace one that employees want to work in An ongoing monitoring program helps to continually drive these and take pride in. numbers down. With regard to specific measures, the company has not only Satisfactory in Working with the Company installed energy-efficient T5 ﬂuorescent lights on factory production ﬂoors but has also made meticulous efforts to save energy 12% 75% 12% wherever it can, such as introducing light-emitting diodes (LEDs) Great pleasure & enjoy very much Pleasure & enjoy 1% for all sewing machines. In addition, the company conducts variDispleasure (do not enjoy) No pleasure at all (do not enjoy at all) ous educational activities and is striving to spread and raise awareness among front-line workers. Providing Employees with Learning Opportunities As for Quantum Group’s CSR activities, the company considers it important that each employee properly understands CSR, Environmental Target and initiatives are in place to fulfill the company’s responsibiliQuantum Clothing (Cambodia) Ltd. has set the following plan for Eco Sustainable Management against a base line in 2007: ties at all worksites, offering a wide range of programs and providing employees with opportunities to learn. The factory is Reduce electricity use 25% equipped with training rooms and the company actively works to develop the skills of factory workers and to conduct educaSustainable Reduce generation of waste 10% tional activities, which include instruction from sewing technienvironment cians, courses in the English language, IT skills courses, and Reduce wastewater 25% workshops in calculating wages. The company has also Comment from a Customer M&S launched its Plan A initiative in 2007 in order to become issues. In particular, the company conthe most sustainable retailer in the world. The plan consists tinuously implements innovative meaof 180 concrete goals in seven fields related to sustainability sures related to employees, including which the company plans to achieve by 2020; these goals education and training programs, welfare relate to areas such as climate change, waste, and systems, and maintaining an active dianatural resources. logue. In addition, many of the compaThe most important way of promoting Plan A is by gaining ny’s factories have won our Eco-Factory the understanding of consumers and business partners status because of their passionate enviKrishan Hundal regarding the aims of the plan and sharing the same values. ronmental efforts. Marks & Spencer Director of GM In order to do this, we provide awards to suppliers who fully Throughout the world there is a Technology understand the principles embodied in Plan A and have congrowing focus on transparency and there tributed to improving the quality of people’s lives and maintainare demands that companies fulfill their responsibilities, which ing the environment. In 2013, the Quantum Group was are proportional to the scale of their operations. We are hopeful selected as the Supplier of the Year. For the apparel industry, that as leading companies in the industry, both the Quantum issues relating to sustainability include worker welfare, raw Group and the ITOCHU Group will continue to pursue innovamaterials, and use of chemicals throughout the supply chain, tion which leads to sustainability within their daily operations and the Quantum Group has aggressively worked on all these and that those efforts become part of their corporate cultures. 24 CSR Material Issues Climate change HIGHLIGHT Working to realize sustainability that will deliver enrichment for the next generation by advancing environment-friendly businesses, centered on renewable energy Renewable energy, such as geothermal and wind power, is expected to record growth as a key pillar of the energy supply in the future. Through business investment in power generation assets that utilize renewable energy, ITOCHU is working to help alleviate climate change, which is a pressing issue for global society. Geothermal IPP Project in Indonesia In April 2013, ITOCHU concluded a contract to construct a 320 reservoirs deep underground to generate electricity. The CO2 emitMW geothermal power generation plant in Indonesia’s Sarulla ted during power generation is limited. In addition, the power genregion in North Sumatra and to sell the power generated by eration is not dependent on weather conditions, and as a result the the plant to Indonesia’s state-owned electricity company for 30 supply of electric power is stable in comparison with other forms years. In addition, a loan contract concerning this project was of energy. Consequently, geothermal power is a form of renewable concluded in March 2014. Indonesia’s potential geothermal energy that is drawing attention around the world. This project is resources are among the most extensive in the world, accountone of the largest geothermal independent power producer (IPP) ing for 40% of global geothermal resources, and the country has projects in the world. Plans call for commercial operation to compositioned geothermal energy as a strategic power source. mence in stages from 2016, and the project is expected to contribGeothermal power generation uses high-temperature and ute to economic development in Indonesia, where demand for high-pressure steam and hot water extracted from geothermal electric power is projected to increase in the future. Working with GE to Advance the Wind Power Generation Business in the United States In May 2010, ITOCHU and General Electric Company (GE) reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 1.5 entered into a comprehensive agreement to identify comillion tons annually. The Shepherds Flat Wind Project and the investment opportunities in renewable energy worldwide, and Keenan II Wind Power Project in the U.S. state of Oklahoma, ITOCHU is now forging ahead with renewable energy operations. which has a total capacity of 152 MW, are expected to reduce The Shepherds Flat Wind Project in the U.S. state of Oregon greenhouse gas emissions by a combined total of approximately is one of the world’s largest wind power projects, with a total two million tons annually. Moving forward, ITOCHU will continue capacity of 845 MW. The power is supplied to approximately working to contribute to the stable supply of electricity and the 235,000 regular households in California under a 20-year power alleviation of climate change through these two projects. purchase agreement with Southern California Edison, a California power utility. The project is contributing to the Global Map of Renewable Energy Power Generation Projects U.K.: Waste processing / power generation (See page 53) U.S.: Wind power generation Waste processing Greenhouse gas emissions Power generation Greenhouse gas emissions Project name Project name capacity per year reduction scale capacity / scale reduction scale ST&W 260,000 tons Approx. 62,000 tons per year Shepherds Flat 845 MW Approx. 150,000 tons per year Cornwall 240,000 tons Approx. 60,000 tons per year Merseyside 460,000 tons Approx. 130,000 tons per year West London 350,000 tons Approx. 830,000 tons per year U.S.: Wind power generation Power generation Greenhouse gas emissions Project name Spain: Concentrating solar capacity / scale reduction scale power generation CPV Keenan II 152 MW Approx. 410,000 tons per year Power generation Greenhouse gas emissions Project name capacity / scale reduction scale Solaben2&3 100 MW Approx. 63,000 tons per year Indonesia: Geothermal power generation Power generation Greenhouse gas emissions Project name capacity / scale reduction scale South Africa: Solar power generation (See page 57) Sarulla 320 MW Approx. 1 million tons per year Power generation Greenhouse gas emissions Project name capacity / scale reduction scale Kalkbult 75 MW Approx. 125,000 tons per year Dreunberg 75 MW Approx. 125,000 tons per year Linde 40 MW Approx. 65,000 tons per year 25 CSR Material Issues Contribution to local communities HIGHLIGHT ITOCHU is aiming for sustainable growth through the establishment of business models that contribute to the development of local communities ITOCHU conducts business activities in regions throughout the world, and we strive to contribute to the development of local regions through both our business activities and our social contribution activities, thereby addressing the challenges and needs of local communities. Supporting Cotton Farmers in India Transfer to Organic Cotton Cultivation ITOCHU and KURKKU Co., Ltd., jointly plan higher POC sales and an expansion of the POC market, and to and operate the Pre Organic Cotton (POC) generate volumes of 2,500 tons. In 2012, as a business model Program, which helps farmers in India to transachieving commercial activities and sustainable development, fer from cotton farming to organic cotton cultithe project was approved as an initiative of the Business Call vation. The program aims to stop the vicious circle of to Action (BCtA), which is a global initiative led by the United environmental damage, health hazards, and economic burdens Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Since that time, busion farmers caused by pesticides and chemical fertilizers. To that nesses working on development issues, centered on the UNDP, end, the program includes giving guidance on organic farming have earned growing recognition. and supporting acquisition of organic farming certificates during Moving forward, we will work to further expand the POC a three-year transition. From the start of the program in 2008 to Program, supported by understanding and empathy among its end in 2013, 3,348 farming households took part, and 1,479 companies, organizations, and consumers. of these have acquired organic farming certificates. In addition, with products from upward of 40 companies, including apparel Volume handled and sales of related products and natural cosmetics manufacturers, having been introduced, 2013 1,500 tons ¥500 million in 2013 the volume of cotton handled reached 1,500 tons. In 2015* 5,000 tons ¥2.3 billion 2017* 10,000 tons ¥5.0 billion 2014, initiatives with major customers are expected to drive * Outlook Contributing to the Reconstruction and Development of Disaster-Affected Areas with the Support of Local Industry The ITOCHU Group is working to support the reconstruction of and harvesting while engaging in the city of Rikuzentakata, which suffered considerable damage exchanges with local farmers. due to the Great East Japan Earthquake. As a part of those iniThe Group is also implementing tiatives, ITOCHU is providing support, from production to sales, PR activities. of Takata no Yume, a variety of rice grown in the region. Nearly every month since The city of Rikuzentakata is aiming to establish Takata no the earthquake, ITOCHU Group Yume as an original, regional brand of rice that will serve as a employee volunteers have vissymbol for the reconstruction of farms that suffered catastrophic ited the city of Rikuzentakata, and the Group is also supporting damage. Production in 2014 is forecast to reach 150 tons. As a sports and other activities for the local children (see page 85). means of helping disaster-affected areas through Group busiMoving forward, the ITOCHU Group will continue to provide ness activities, ITOCHU Food Sales and Marketing Co., Ltd., is support, both through its business activities and through social providing support in the area of sales to department stores in the contribution, thereby contributing to the reconstruction and Tokyo metropolitan area. Moreover, in the area of production, development of the region. Group employees have volunteered to participate in rice planting Supporting Agriculture through Employee Volunteers PR Sales Employee volunteers provide assistance from • Booth at Roppongi Hills in Tokyo sells • ITOCHU Food Sales and Marketing, which rice planting to harvest while enjoying interacrice balls. handles the ITOCHU Group's wholesale and tion with local farmers. • At Takashimaya Shinjuku Store, which sells a sales of rice, sold Takata no Yume rice at wide variety of products including rice, the Takashimaya Shinjuku, Ginza Mitsukoshi, city of Rikuzentakata photo exhibition was and other stores. held, providing PR for Takata no Yume rice. • Le Pain Quotidien, a high-end bakery restau• Rice samples distributed at local cycling rant operated by ITOCHU, offered a limitedevent. time menu using Takata no Yume rice. 26 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Textile Company Mediumto long-term Growth Strategies Rapport and Reach The Textile Company has inherited the original business of ITOCHU. Our scope of business covers the entire area of lifestyle categories, and, as a customeroriented marketing company, we have developed businesses that cover the entire textile industries, from raw materials / fabrics to garment manufacturing, brands, and industrial materials. Hitoshi Okamoto In Japan, we are continuously improving our high-value-added production in order to President, Textile Company meet consumers' needs. In the retail area, we are also focusing on expanding our business domain, as well as strengthening life & healthcare businesses. We are also concentrating on brand development in China, countries in the ASEAN region, the Middle East, and Latin America, where consumer markets are expected to expand. Furthermore, we will enhance our production capabilities across Asia to meet our global customers' needs. CSR at this Division Company A marketing company that adopts a social perspective The Textile Company places a high priority on further improving the safety of its products and services as well as customer satisfaction. It is promoting sustainable manufacturing that takes full account of labor customs in the supply chain and the environment in its global setup for production at the most suitable sites worldwide, which supports the manufacturing at the heart of the Textile Company. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2015 action plans We will pursue further advancement in supply chain management through employee education as well as groupwide implementation of monitoring surveys to overseas manufacturing factories. We will also continue to promote socially and environmentally friendly businesses. 27 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Pre Organic Cotton Program In cooperation with KURKUU K.K., ITOCHU is conducting a Pre Organic Cotton(POC) Program to support the transition of cotton farmers in India to organic cultivation. The program aims to stop the vicious circle of environmental damage, health hazards, and economic burdens on farmers caused by pesticides and chemical fertilizers. To that end, the program includes giving guidance on organic farming and supporting acquisition of organic farming certificates during a three-year transition. Since the program began in 2008, 3,348 farming households have taken part as of the end of 2013, and 1,479 of these have acquired Cotton harvesting on one of our farms organic farming certificates. In addition, having been introduced to in India products from over 40 companies, including apparel and natural cosmetics manufacturers, the volume of cotton handled in 2013 reached 1,500 tons. In 2014, initiatives with major customers are expected to drive higher POC sales and an expansion of the POC market, and to generate volumes of 2,500 tons. In 2012, the project was approved as an initiative of the Business Call to Action (BCtA), which is a global initiative led by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) as a business achieving commercial activities and sustainable development. There has since been a rise in recognition of companies tackling development issues around the UNDP. Moving forward, we will work to further expand the Pre Organic Cotton Program, supported by understanding and empathy among companies, organizations, and consumers. For further information about Pre Organic Cotton Program, please see Contribution to local communities in Highlight (page26) 28 CSR and Our Business Hunting World's Activities to Support Borneo Hunting World is a luxury brand handled by ITOCHU Corporation. Since its creation in 1965, its logo has depicted a tuskless baby elephant. Besides symbolizing freedom and rebirth, this logo likewise anticipated the issue of protection of endangered species, and underscores the love and respect for nature felt by the brand's founder. To realize its dream of coexistence with nature, Hunting World Japan Co., Ltd., which sells the brand in Japan, has been supporting activities for conservation of biodiversity by the NPO Borneo Conservation Trust (BCT) since 2008. The company designs and sells charity goods, and donates 1% of the proceeds from these sales to BCT. By so doing, it is defraying part of the Borneo bag by Hunting World cost for purchase of land for the green corridors and rescue of Borneo elephants which have strayed into plantations. In addition, the fall of 2011 saw the birth of Hunting World Kyosei no Mori (Symbiotic Forest of Hunting World) based on independent purchase of four acres of land within the Green Corridor Plan* zone, using the financial aid provided up to that year. Furthermore, BCT Japan, which is supporting BCT, helped out with the funding needed for establishment of the Borneo Elephant Sanctuary, the first facility in the Wildlife Rescue Center project, which began in September 2013. * Green Corridor Plan: A initiative for conservation of biodiversity by such Panoramic view of the rescue center activities as buying back land separating forest preserves and protected forests, to make a corridor for movement between them by wild animals. For further information on supply chain approaches exhibiting concern for the environment and human rights, please see Respect and consideration for human rights in Highlight (pages23-24) 29 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Machinery Company Mediumto long-term Growth Strategies In IPP, water supply, environmental, energy, and other infrastructure businesses, we will give consideration to environmental impact. At the same time, we will strive to promote a balance between the accumulation of superior assets in industrialized countries and highly profitable development projects in developing countries. We will endeavor to expand trade in line with improvements in the external environment such as foreign exchange in fields of conventional strength, including marine, aerospace, automobile, construction machinery, and industrial machinery. We will also strive to Takao Shiomi generate stable earnings through stringently selected investments in peripheral sectors. President, Machinery Furthermore, we will promote the construction of a medical value chain to meet Company anticipated future growth in this sector, aiming to further enhance business investment and trade in Japan and other parts of Asia. Through these approaches, we will maximize earnings from existing investments and promote the accumulation of superior assets and ongoing, large-scale asset replacement, maximizing earnings as we also conduct trade in related and ancillary fields. CSR at this Division Company Delivering enrichment to the next generation Through its business, which provides wide-ranging support for social infrastructure, the Machinery Company aspires for the advancement of communities by providing a more affluent lifestyle. We strive for contribution to the resolution of global problems such as climate change through environment preservation businesses and the building of a healthy society through healthcare businesses. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2015 action plans In FY2015, we will continue our commitment to implementing management considering environmental and CSR issues. We will also aggressively work on businesses related to renewable energies including wind power and geothermal, participating in EfW (Energy from Waste) projects as well as water-related projects including desalination. Furthermore, we will supply local governments and related organizations in Japan with equipment to prevent epidemics and protect against disasters, conduct awareness-raising activities and endeavor to help maintain a healthy society. 30 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved 31 CSR and Our Business Major CSR Initiatives Equity participation in waterworks business in the Canary Islands ITOCHU Corporation has reached an agreement with CANARAGUA S.A., a subsidiary of AGBAR (Sociedad General de Aguas de Barcelona) which is Spain's largest private waterworks firm, to acquire 33.4% of the shares of CANARAGUA CONCESIONES S.A., which manages concessions of upstream and downstream water in the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands. This investment is the second acquisition by ITOCHU in a regulated water utility, after the investment in Bristol Water in the UK, and marks the first Japanese investment in the Spanish water sector. Spanish water utility sector is one of the biggest water concession market in the world and has a long Waste water treatment plant Gran established stable regulatory framework. It is forecasted to have Canaria constant growth of the private and P.P.P. market in order to fulfil the need of efficient operation and investment requirements. Through its equity participation in CANARAGUA CONCESIONES, ITOCHU shall contribute in providing high-quality, sustainable and efficient water services in Spain. Furthermore, ITOCHU intends to expand its water concession business activities in Spain as well as in the growing privatized water market worldwide. Signature of a contract for Energy from Waste project in Merseyside County, UK In December 2013, ITOCHU Corporation has signed a contract for Energy from Waste (EfW) project promoted by the Merseyside Recycling and Waste Authority. ITOCHU has a 20 per cent stake in the consortium. ITOCHU has developed a total of four EfW projects in the UK, and will be involved in about 20% of the annual waste volume treated by EfW facilities in the UK and contribute to reduce greenhouse gases and the amount of waste to be landfilled. The Merseyside project is environmentally friendly and will be expected to divert 92 per cent of the residual waste from landfill and save 130,000 tons of CO2 per year. ITOCHU will make use of its experience An artist's illustration of the new Energy gained through these UK projects to bolster its approaches to EfW from Waste facility at Teesside upon projects in the regions of Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Asia, completion where the needs for reduction of environmental burden and clean power generation is predicted to rise. For further information on our approaches to renewable energy, please see Climate change in Highlight (page25). 32 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Metals & Minerals Company Mediumto long-term Growth Strategies The Metals & Minerals Company is working to expand its equity interests in order to secure stable supplies of metals and mineral resources underpinning the industrial framework. In addition, we are working to build a value chain that starts from equity interests and to create added value in the trade business by leveraging the ITOCHU Group's comprehensive strengths. Furthermore, we are working to secure non-ferrous metals, rare metals, rare earth metals, and other natural resources that have become increasingly difficult to procure in recent years. In response to Eiichi Yonekura growing international concern with environmental problems, we are also actively President, Metals & Minerals involved in such areas as solar power and biomass fuels-related business. Company CSR at this Division Company Sustainable development and stable supply of metals & mineral resources As it promotes the sustainable use of metals & mineral resources for their stable supply, ITOCHU is working with business partners to tighten arrangements for concerning the environment, harmony with communities, and a safe labor environment on development sites. We are also committed to effective use of resources, pursuit of renewable energy projects, and the building of recycling-oriented societies. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2015 action plans As a global company, we will promote environmental management both domestically and at overseas Group companies. As well as promoting the concerns for safety, the environment, and local communities with partners when we engage in the development and exploration of mineral resources, we will take on the challenge of businesses that are friendly to the global environment, such as solar businesses and other initiatives aimed at the sustainable utilization of resources. We will also continue to promote CSR education and training based on the social issues facing the industry. 33 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Launch of the application of environment, health, and labor safety (EHS) guidelines (mining business) The Metals & Minerals Company has determined and begun applying its own environment, health, and labor safety (EHS) guidelines (for mining). The guidelines are aimed at avoidance or reduction of environmental pollution, accidents, health hazards, and other EHS risks deriving from projects for development, production, or exploration of minerals, such as iron ore, coal or uranium in which it is involved, with full understanding of and maximum concern for host societies and local communities. The application will cover projects being seriously considered for investment, financing, or similar action, regardless of whether or not the Company's involvement is direct or indirect. The Company is educating all employees about the substance and application of the guidelines, to make sure that all know about them. Construction Started on One of Africa's Largest Solar Power Plants in South Africa In the first and second bids for solar power generation projects conducted by South Africa's Department of Energy, Norway-based solar power generation system integrator Scatec Solar, where ITOCHU Corporation owns a 37.5% stake, was selected for solar power generation projects with a combined output of 190 MW, and subsequently concluded an agreement with the South African statedowned power utility Eskom to sell power for a period of 20 years. Construction for the first phase (75-MW capacity) commenced in September 2012 and was completed in September 2013. November 2013 saw an on-site tape-cutting ceremony followed by the start of operation. The South African government has established a target of The 75-MW solar power generating increasing its total power generating capacity up to 85 GW by the year system selected in the first bid on 2030 and plans for renewable energies to account for roughly twenty operation percent of the increase. This project is being conducted as a part of this effort. 34 CSR and Our Business Under the project, a 265-hectare site will be carpeted with more than 750,000 solar panels, expected to generate over 370 GWh annually. As well as covering the energy consumption of the equivalent of 88,000 homes, this is expected to have an annual CO2 reduction effect of 315,000 tons. With this project, Scatec Solar has firmly established its position in Africa as a solar power generation system integrator involved in all facets of solar power plants from development to construction and ownership. Acquisition of New Interest in the Jimblebar Iron Ore Mine ITOCHU Corporation has acquired interest in BHP Iron Ore (Jimblebar) Pty. Ltd., which is one of the iron ore businesses of BHP Billiton (an Australian and British concern) and is developing the Jimblebar iron ore mine in Western Australia. The Jimblebar mine is a large iron ore mine with abundant deposits. It is producing high-grade ore with low cost, open pit mining operation. ITOCHU have a long term relationship in three iron ore mines in Western Australia with BHP Billiton, and the ore extracted from the Jimblebar mine will be shipped using the existing railways and port owned by the three concerned companies. To meet Jimblebar Iron Ore Mine Source: BHP the demand in Asia, which is projected to increase over the medium Billiton and long terms, ITOCHU is planning to further increase the supply capacity of iron ore projects in Western Australia. For further information on the supply chain for coal produced in Australia, please see Sustainable use of resources in Highlight (pages21-22). 35 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Energy & Chemicals Company Mediumto long-term Growth Strategies Energy Area: With regard to trading, we will continue to expand the traditional flow of business— importing and wholesaling products to countries in Asia. Meanwhile, we will take advantage of the opportunity presented by growing unconventional crude oil and gas production in North America to encourage the new flow of trade from North America to Asia. With regard to oil resource development, we plan to expand existing projects and Yuji Fukuda participate in promising new projects while minimizing risks, leveraging our expertise President, Energy & and experience to expand our business in this area. Chemicals Company Chemicals Area: Based on worldwide trading operations in the areas of organic chemicals, plastics, and fertilizer and other inorganic chemicals, the division will advance projects in upstream areas to secure competitive raw materials. In addition, in downstream areas the division will take steps to expand its business and bolster its supply chains, especially in the retail area, including pharmaceuticals, plastics processing, and electronic materials. CSR at this Division Company Pursuit of stable supply of diversifying energy resources and materials The Energy & Chemicals Company aspires for the stable supply of energy and materials at the foundation of modern living, and is tightening measures for concerning for the environment, harmony with communities, and safety in product handling throughout its wide-ranging value chains for oil, gas, and chemicals. The company is also committed to the building of an enriched society through the development of diverse energy resources and the environment preservation business. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2015 action plans While working for the stable acquisition and supply of energy resources by conventional development of oil fields, ITOCHU is simultaneously mounting a Group-wide approach to new businesses that are gentle to the global environment, as exemplified by projects related to lithium-ion batteries, which have good prospects for demand expansion as a form of clean energy. Meanwhile, we continue to implement programs of education and training in laws, regulations, and safety related to energy and chemicals. 36 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved 37 CSR and Our Business Major CSR Initiatives Initiatives in the Development of U.K. North Sea Oil Fields Aimed at Secure Stable Resources For new cluster of oil fields (Western Isles Development Project, “WIDP”) discovered at a block owned (23.08% ownership ratio) by CIECO Exploration and Production (UK) Limited (100% owned subsidiary of ITOCHU Corporation) in U.K. North Sea, ITOCHU Corporation decided to make a joint investment with block operator Dana Petroleum (E&P) Limited. Subsequently, the development plan was approved by the British government in December 2012. Since 1993, ITOCHU has engaged in oil development projects in the North Sea, including the additional acquisition of Alba Oilfield interests in 2005, and strived to secure a stable supply of resources. ITOCHU has taken part in the WIDP since exploratory drilling was carried out in 1996, and the project has now transitioned to the development phase. With production commencing in 2015, the volume from ITOCHU’s oil and gas interests is expected to be added by approximately 10,000 barrels / day (during peak production). Utilizing the technical and commercial expertise developed in the North Sea, ITOCHU aims to transition the WIDP into production and further expand its operations. Diagram showing the WIDP Mining Block Food Stability through Fertilizer Manufacturing and Sales Business ITOCHU has acquired shares in Agromate Holdings Sdn Bhd (“Agromate”), one of the largest fertilizer manufacturers and distributors in Malaysia. Maintaining seven distribution centers in Malaysia and two in Indonesia, and handling around 1.3 million tons of fertilizer annually, Agromate is one of the largest fertilizer distributors in Malaysia and Asia. The company also owns an NPK (nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potassium) fertilizer plant boasting a production capacity of 200,000 tons annually in Sabah, Malaysia. The demand for fertilizer in Asia is expected to expand in the future, particularly in countries like China and India, and from a global perspective, the demand for fertilizer resources will likely tighten in the Agromate products medium-to-long term through the increased demand for food associated with population growth. By investing in new fields of fertilizer resources and building a robust Asiacentric sales structure on a joint basis with Agromate, ITOCHU is playing a part in ensuring the stable supply of food. Initiatives in Lithium-ion Battery-related Business Lithium-ion batteries (LiB) are expected to experience demand expansion in connection with eco vehicles, stationary rechargeable batteries, and clean energy systems. The Company is emphasizing the construction of value chains for relative businesses (including lithium resources, major battery components such as cathode and anode materials on the upstream side, and rechargeable battery systems on the downstream side). Through its investment in the U.S. firm Simbol Materials in June 2010, ITOCHU began participating in operations for the manufacture of lithium compounds. Simbol continues to engage in the development and promotion of the business of manufacture of lithium compounds using spent brine containing lithium from geothermal power stations. In Geothermal brine well in southern October 2013, it succeeded in the manufacture of lithium carbonate at California a demonstration plant, and is working on the development and refinement of technology enabling production on commercial footing. In the same month, we launched sales of stationary rechargeable lithium-ion systems which had been developed and commercialized by NF Circuit Design Block Co., Ltd. Furthermore, Kureha Battery Materials Japan Co., Ltd., a joint venture with Kureha Corporation, Kuraray Co., Ltd., and the Innovative Network Corporation of Japan, is working on joint commercialization of Biocarbotron, a hard carbon derived from plant material, in addition to the conventional anode materials. ITOCHU will continue this action by making full use of the Group network. 38 CSR and Our Business Chemical Logitec Co., Ltd. acquired certification under ISO 22301：2012 (business continuity) Chemical Logitec Co., Ltd. manages and operates Nagoya Chemport(name changed from the former Nagoya Oil Tank Facility effective May 1, 2014), which is engaged in work centered around the storage, receipt, and supply of liquid chemicals at the No. 9 lot in the Port of Nagoya. It is an important link in our chain for supply to many customers in the Nagoya and surrounding areas. Learning from the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on March 11, 2011, the company has since been preparing its facilities for the anticipated Nankai Trough Earthquake. Its aim is a chemical port that is both safe & secure and resilient to disaster, and thereby enables the earliest possible resumption of operations and continuation of business in Certification emergencies. As a result of its two years of efforts in the areas of employee education and training, facility improvement and systemic arrangements, the company recently obtained certification under ISO 22301-2012. This was a milestone event, because it became the first company in Japan’s chemical tank industry and the whole ITOCHU Group to be given such certification.Using this certification as a springboard, Chemical Logitec is going to continue placing top priority on respect for human life and striving to assure the safety of its employees, customers, and visitors in emergencies. It is also committed to achieving higher levels of business continuity management with the guidance of the competent authorities and cooperation of neighboring companies. 39 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Food Company Mediumto long-term Growth Strategies In the implementation of the Food Company's SIS strategy, we have further accelerated our initiatives, including capital / business alliances in the retail sector and integration of Group companies in the distribution and marketing area in Japan. We have also broadened the foundations for our SIS strategy through its horizontal extension and development across the food value chain overseas. We have achieved this through joint initiatives with strategic partners in China and other Asian countries such as TING HSIN (CAYMAN ISLANDS) HOLDING because we recognize that although Yoshihisa Aoki the Japanese market is shrinking due to a falling birthrate and an aging population, President, Food Company demand in fast-growing emerging countries is rising. The acquisition of the Dole businesses in 2013 will enable the Food Company to organically combine its existing food value chain with Dole's global brand and production and sales network. To accelerate the rollout of our global SIS strategy, we will expand sales of existing products and develop new products and businesses that leverage the Dole brand. CSR at this Division Company Construction of value chains for food safety and security Developing diverse food-related business on a global scale, the Food Company has made rigorous provisions for assurance of food safety and security as well as concern for the environment. It endeavors to deliver healthy and rewarding lifestyles to all people through value chains with high value-added levels encompassing all processes, from stable supply and food resources to their processing, manufacture, wholesaling, and retailing. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2015 action plans We will continue advancing initiatives that meet a variety of societal needs, such as ensuring the stable supply of food resources, protecting the environment, strengthening convenience store functions as social and lifestyle infrastructure, developing healthier foods and improving inspection systems to ensure food safety. 40 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Improvement and promotion of procurement networks for stable acquisition and supply of food resources The rapid expansion of the demand for grains and food products is expected worldwide, accompanying the rise in population and income levels in various regions. At the same time, there are rising preferences for safe and secure food among consumers not only in Japan but also in other Asian countries. Increasing importance is consequently being attached to the assurance of quality and safety, and establishment of systems for traceability. The Food Company works to assure sources for supply of foodstuffs on a global scale, as exemplified by its involvement in projects for grain collection in North America, coffee in Latin America, and dairy products in Oceania. It is making a vital contribution to a stable supply as well as Capital participation in a dairy product food safety and security for customers in Japan, China, and other Asian manufacturer in Victoria, Australia countries. In the aforementioned grain business, it is steadily expanding the collection areas and points while augmenting logistics capabilities. As a result, it has been able to keep the supply stable even when the region has been hit by record-breaking droughts. 41 CSR and Our Business The demand for dairy products is also expanding. In 2009, the Food Company acquired 45 percent of the stock of a dairy company in the Gippsland district of the Australian state of Victoria, one of the major dairy farming areas in the entire country. The dairy company has been smoothly building its business since this stock acquisition. In May of this year, it commenced production of high-value-added powdered milk (for infants) with a vision of entering markets in China and other Asian countries where demand is rapidly expanding. Initiatives to develop foods for healthier lifestyles ITOCHU Corporation is committed to developing value-added foods which satisfy consumers who are increasingly health-conscious. In FY 2014, the Food Company developed and sold a series of bread products containing the same amount of calcium as a carton of milk, together with Circle K/Sunkus and FamilyMart. These products are made with calcium-reinforced ingredients for bread making, and are the first of their kind in Japan. They were certified under the Smart Life Project (whose slogan is “Let’s lead longer and healthier lives!”), which is being led by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. On another front, in 2008 ITOCHU established a capital and business alliance with euglena Co., Ltd., a company involved with the mass One of the series of bread products cultivation of and research and development into Euglena (Japanese containing the same amount of calcium name: Midori Mushi), a type of algae that has been attracting attention as 1 carton of milk as a rich source of nutrients. ITOCHU is considering business development from multiple perspectives. We have also launched sales of Euglena & Yogurt together with Uny, CircleK/Sunkus, and FamilyMart, as a joint four-company product. This product is made with euglena (Midori Mushi) developed by the Food Company. In addition, ITOCHU developed prepared food products together with a vegetable culinary specialist, under an exclusive contract, that allows for the convenient and tasty consumption of vegetables. In February 2014, FamilyMart began selling these products at all of its stores throughout Japan. As this indicates, we are promoting the development of various food products to deliver healthier living to customers both inside and outside of Japan. Ensuring food safety through regular auditing of overseas suppliers Against a backdrop of increasingly diverse dietary lifestyles, the globalization of food distribution and increased awareness of health, consumers are taking an even greater interest in the safety and security of food. Meanwhile, incidents and problems have been occurring that threaten the safety and security of food, such as the BSE problem, violations of residue standards with pesticides and other substances, and the distribution of foods using additives untested for safety. In FY2003, ITOCHU Corporation set up the Food Safety and Compliance Management Office and has since taken broad measures to ensure safety in the trading of food. Since FY2012, as part of these measures, ITOCHU has been regularly visiting and auditing food A food audit underway processing plants of overseas suppliers for imported food. ITOCHU determines the subjects and frequency of audits in correspondence with various factors, including the management setup in the host country, product characteristics, and sanitation risks in processing steps. Our employees, local staff, and/or Group company employees make on-site visits to carry out audits based on our own Plant Audit Check Sheet. These audits confirm the 25 items related to food protection in addition to the 100 items related to food safety. Proposals for improvement are made as necessary. In FY2014, we conducted a total of 174 on-site audits for a total of 137 suppliers. 42 CSR and Our Business CSR at the ICT, General Products & Realty Company Mediumto long-term Growth Strategies As the ICT, General Products & Realty Company is involved in a broad range of areas, our first approach is to add and augment the specialist strengths in each division and sector, while at the same time building a robust earnings platform spanning all organizations. For instance, in Forest Products & General Merchandise we are a leader in the business of distributing domestic and overseas construction products. Next, to expand earnings we are adopting a holistically cooperative approach that transcends individual departments and sectors. Looking at construction, for example, Tomofumi Yoshida we are introducing Internet services developed in our ICT business into condominium President, ICT, General projects we have developed in our construction business, thereby increasing the level Products & Realty Company of service to customers and augmenting operations within the Group. These moves aim to create “new and true value” that supports affluent lifestyles in the sense that they involve new transactions generated by pursuing additional and overlapping earnings. CSR at this Division Company Contribution to concerns for the environment and creation of enriched communities Developing businesses in diverse domains, the ICT, General Products & Realty Company has adopted the mission of contribution to establishment of safe and rewarding lifestyles. It does so through the provision of products and solutions that are closely intertwined with people’s lives and adapted to societal needs. We also pursue the stable procurement and efficient use of forest resources in sustainable ways and are working to build a more recyclingoriented society. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2015 action plans Our development of environment-friendly business may be exemplified by transactions for lumber from certified forests linked to sustainable resource use, energy management solution business utilizing IT, and development of environment-friendly condominiums. We are also assisting advancement of the international community and rise of fulfilling societies through business with partners in Asia and other regions, especially in the fields of logistics, finance, and construction. 43 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Sustainable forest management of CENIBRA in Brazil ITOCHU’s Group company CENIBRA in Brazil has consistently engaged in everything from forest management to pulp production. In 2005, CENIBRA obtained forest certification from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) as well as CoC certification (certification for management of processing and distribution processes). Of the roughly 250,000 hectares of land the company owns (equivalent to the area of Kanagawa Prefecture), about 130,000 hectares are used to plant trees and produce pulp, while the other approximately 100,000 hectares are preserved as permanently protected forest or legally protected forest, maintaining the ecosystem. The company also addresses the restoration of natural forests. Each year it plants some 70,000 tree samplings of the four varieties that make up the native forests in an initiative that spans as much as 300 hectares each year. Protective breeding activities for endangered species of bird are also underway at Macedonia Farm in a protected zone of natural forest. Scarce wild birds such as the pheasant family bird, mutum are protected and bred at the farm and later released into the wild. 44 CSR and Our Business One of CENIBRA’s vast plantations The rare mutum at Macedonia Farm Energy management business with IT ITOCHU Corporation is developing businesses in energy management and smart infrastructures utilizing IT, under the ecoFORTE brand and in collaboration with partners inside and outside of Japan. In Japan, there has been an increase in CO2 emissions in the last few years because of a rise in dependence on thermal power in the energy mix. In addition, the jump in prices for energy use is becoming a critical issue for companies. ecoFORTE’s capabilities extend from apprehension of the facts of energy use and discovery of issues to selection of solutions and their execution with automatic control. As such, it provides a mechanism for enabling reduction of energy use even without any specialized knowledge. Recently, we made ecoFORTE easier to be introduced even in small and medium-sized commercial facilities, which have found it hard to do so thus far, by offering more compact, low-priced models. We are going to continue contributing to the reduction of CO2 emissions and preservation of the environment on a global scale by supporting the efficient utilization of finite energy resources. Outline of ecoFORTE 45 CSR and Our Business CSR Initiatives by Major Group Companies Contribution to the reduction of power consumption based on power visualization ITOCHU Urban Community, Ltd. ITOCHU Urban Community developed the Mansion Energy Management System (MEMS) aggregator, which provides services to support energy management. Upon registration with the Sustainable Open Innovation Initiative (SII), the MEMS aggregator was adopted in the project for accelerated input of “smart condominiums” (contained in the supplemental budget for fiscal 2012) conducted by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. For customers or condominium management associations introducing its energy management service, ITOCHU Urban Community offers visualization of power consumption based on automatic measurements taken every 30 minutes using the latest “smart meters.” It also alerts all condominium residents, by smart phone or computer, of the time periods in which the power supply is forecast to be tight. This arrangement supports energy conservation while helping to reduce power consumption. Following the adoption of this aggregator, the company hopes to propose and provide additional services to support energy management (based on measurement of power consumption and support for its reduction) for condominiums for sale or rent. It likewise intends to develop approaches extending to area-wide energy management in the future. 46 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Corporate governance and internal Control ITOCHU Corporation operates its business to establish the long-term preservation and enhancement of its corporate value by building fair and positive relationships with its stakeholders in accordance with the ITOCHU Group corporate philosophy and Code of Conduct. To ensure its appropriate and efficient business operations, ITOCHU is increasing the transparency of its decision-making process and constructing a corporate governance system that incorporates proper monitoring and supervisory functions. overview of the Corporate governance system Corporate Governance System Type of system Company with the Board of Directors and corporate auditors (the Board of Corporate Auditors) Number of directors 13 Of which, number of outside directors 2 Number of corporate auditors 5 Of which, number of outside corporate auditors 3 Term of office for directors 1 year (the same for outside directors) Employment of an Executive Officer System Yes Headquarters Management Committee (HMC) deliberates companywide management policy and Organization to support CEO decision-making important issues (1) Monthly compensation Monthly compensation determined by the contribution to ITOCHU of each director according to a base amount set by position Corporate Officer Compensation System (2) Performance-linked bonuses Total payment amount determined on the basis of consolidated net income attributable to ITOCHU Note: Outside directors paid monthly compensation only Independent external auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Steps Taken to Strengthen Corporate Governance To accelerate decision making / increase efficiency of busi1997 Introduced the Division Company System ness management To strengthen decision-making and supervisory functions 1999 Introduced the Executive Officer System of the Board of Directors 2007 Shortened the terms of office of directors and executive officers to one year To clarify management responsibility during terms of office To increase the effectiveness of the supervision of manage2011 Introduced an Outside Directors System ment and improve the transparency of decision making ITOCHU is a company with the Board of Directors and corporate HMC discusses companywide management policy and imporauditors (the Board of Corporate Auditors). tant issues. The various internal committees screen and discuss Comprising 13 directors (including 2 outside directors) as of management issues in individual areas of responsibility. July 1, 2014, the Board of Directors makes decisions on imporMoreover, ITOCHU is developing and implementing a system for tant management matters and supervises each director’s busiincorporating third-party opinions in some internal committees in ness management. which outside experts become members. Since June 2011, ITOCHU has appointed two highly indeIn addition, ITOCHU appoints five corporate auditors, includpendent outside directors. The outside directors contribute to ing three outside corporate auditors. Each auditor monitors and ensuring and increasing the effectiveness of the supervision of audits business management independently and objectively. management by the Board of Directors, as well as the transparStanding corporate auditors strengthen audit functions by reguency of the Board of Directors’ decision-making, by way of larly attending meetings of the Board of Directors and other inappropriately providing their monitoring and supervising funchouse meetings and by working in cooperation with ITOCHU’s tions to the internal directors and management advice based on independent auditor and other audit bodies inside and outside various perspectives from their neutral and objective position. ITOCHU. ITOCHU’s Internal Audit Division is responsible for ITOCHU has adopted an Executive Officer System to internal audits. Members of this division discuss internal audit strengthen decision-making and supervisory functions of the planning, exchange information, and collaborate closely with Board of Directors and to boost the efficiency of business corporate auditors though regular meetings. In order to support execution. Also, ITOCHU has in place the Headquarters corporate auditors’ activities and performance, the Corporate Management Committee (HMC) and various internal committees Auditors’ Office, reporting directly to the Board of Corporate to support appropriate and flexible decision-making by the CEO Auditors, has been established. and the Board of Directors. As a body to support the CEO, the 47 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Overview of ITOCHU’s Corporate Governance and Internal Control System Election and dismissal Election and dismissal General Meeting of Shareholders Election and dismissal Board of Directors Board of Corporate Auditors Monitoring and auditing (Directors, (Corporate Auditors, Outside Directors) Outside Corporate Auditors) Monitoring and auditing Appointment and supervision Corporate Auditors’ Office President and C.E.O. Independent Auditors HMC CSO Internal Control Committee CAO Disclosure Committee CFO ALM Committee Financial audit Internal Audit Division Compliance Committee CSR Committee Investment Consultative Committee Division Companies Energy & ICT, General Machinery Metals & Minerals Textile Company Chemicals Food Company Products & Company Company Company Realty Company *1 HMC: Headquarters Management Committee CSO: Chief Strategy Officer CAO: Chief Administrative Officer CFO: Chief Financial Officer ALM: Asset Liability Management *2 CAO is the chief officer for compliance. Also, each Division Company has a Division Company president. *3 Internal control systems and mechanisms have been implemented at every level of ITOCHU. Only the main internal control organization and committees are described herein. Further, the Internal Control Committee receives reports from internal departments related to internal control on the development and operation of respective internal controls for which they are responsible; evaluates the overall development and implementation status of internal control; and reports the results of evaluations as well as items for improvement to the HMC and Board of Directors. Principal Internal Committees Name Objectives Name Objectives Internal Control Deliberates on issues related to the development of internal Deliberates on issues related to corporate social responsiCommittee control systems CSR Committee bility, environmental problems, and social contribution initiatives Deliberates on issues related to business activity disclosure Disclosure Committee and on issues related to the development and operation of Investment Consultative Deliberates on issues related to investment and financing internal control systems in the area of financial reporting Committee Deliberates on issues related to risk management systems Corporate Officer Deliberates on issues related to the compensation of ALM Committee and balance sheet management Compensation corporate officers, including their compensation after Consultative Committee retirement Compliance Committee Deliberates on issues related to compliance appointment of outside Directors and outside domestic financial instrument exchanges. As of July 1, 2014, Corporate auditors ITOCHU had two outside directors and three outside corporate In the course of appointing outside directors and outside corpoauditors, all of whom satisfy the aforementioned requirements rate auditors, ITOCHU places a high value on ensuring their and therefore are registered as “Independent Director(s) / independence by way of considering certain requirements for Auditor(s)” in the domestic financial instrument exchanges “Independent Director(s) / Auditor(s)” as prescribed by the on which ITOCHU is listed. Reason for Appointment as Outside Directors Name Reason for appointment Mr. Fujisaki is appointed as an outside director in the anticipation that he will use his high level of insight and knowledge on the international situation, Ichiro Fujisaki economy and cultures, and other matters, nurtured through his many years of experience as a diplomat and also monitor and supervise the corporate appointed in June 2013 management of ITOCHU from an independent perspective. Mr. Fujisaki has no material interests in ITOCHU. Mr. Kawakita is appointed as an outside director in the anticipation that he will use his high level of insight and knowledge on public finance, financial Chikara Kawakita transaction and tax affairs, and other matters, nurtured through his many years of experience at the Ministry of Finance and National Tax Agency and also appointed in June 2013 monitor and supervise the corporate management of ITOCHU from an independent perspective. Mr. Kawakita has no material interests in ITOCHU. Reason for Appointment as Outside Corporate Auditors Name Reason for appointment Mr. Shimojo is appointed as an outside corporate auditor in the anticipation that he will monitor management and provide auditing from an independent Masahiro Shimojo perspective by utilizing his wealth of experience and expertise as a lawyer in the field of corporate legal practice and international business law. appointed in June 2011 Mr. Shimojo has no material interests in ITOCHU. Mr. Majima is appointed as an outside corporate auditor in the anticipation that he will monitor management and provide auditing from an independent Shingo Majima perspective by utilizing his wealth of experience and expertise on finance and accounting as a certified public accountant and university professor. appointed in June 2013 Mr. Majima has no material interests in ITOCHU. Mr. Mochizuki is appointed as an outside corporate auditor in the anticipation that he will monitor management and provide auditing from an independent Harufumi Mochizuki perspective by utilizing his wealth of experience and expertise in economics and industrial policy nurtured through his service at the Ministry of Economy, appointed in June 2014 Trade and Industry (formerly, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry) and other governmental agencies of Japan. Mr. Mochizuki has no material interests in ITOCHU. 48 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Messages from outside Directors At meetings of the Board of Directors, we consider resolutions that have undergone an internal deliberation process and discussion at the HMC. Reports are received on the details and results of those deliberations, and their appropriateness and suitability are discussed. We also receive explanations of issues with the resolutions and conditions for their approval. Looking at this process, I believe that each item has been carefully deliberated. Internal directors are well-versed in the business of a general trading company. On the other hand, outside directors have extensive experience ichiro fujisaki Apr. 1969 Joined Ministry of Foreign Affairs outside the company and can view things from a more open perspective. Worked in the Embassy of Japan in Indonesia, Permanent Delegation of In that sense, I believe that these groups have mutually complementary roles. Japan to the OECD, Budget Bureau, Ministry of Finance Aug. 1987 Counselor, Embassy of Japan in the UK I intend to fulfill my responsibilities as an outside director from three Feb. 1991 Director, Overseas Establishments Division, Minister’s Secretariat, Ministry of Foreign Affairs viewpoints—leveraging my experience in government in a wide range of Mar. 1992 Director, Financial Affairs Division, Minister’s Secretariat, fields, fulfilling my responsibilities to shareholders, and drawing on social Ministry of Foreign Affairs Feb. 1994 Deputy Director-General, Asian Affairs Bureau, standards. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jul. 1995 Minister, Embassy of Japan in the United States of America * Headquarters Management Committee (HMC): A supporting body of the CEO where companywide (Political Affairs) management policy and important issues are discussed and decided. Aug. 1999 Director-General, North American Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Sep. 2002 Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs (Economic Affairs), Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan. 2005 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, Permanent representative of Japan to the International Organizations in Geneva Apr. 2008 Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United States of America Nov. 2012 Retired from Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan. 2013 Distinguished Professor, Chairman of International Strategies, Sophia University (current position) Jun. 2013 Outside Director, ITOCHU Corporation Jun. 2014 Outside Director, NIPPON STEEL & SUMITOMO METAL CORPORATION (current position) In the year that has passed since I was appointed, I have deepened my understanding of ITOCHU’s business. The matters brought up before the Board of Directors, such as long-term investment projects, are all extremely important and require careful management decision-making. As an outside director, I receive explanations from the divisions in charge and confirm the details of the internal deliberation process before attending a meeting of the Board of Directors. Chikara Kawakita In these endeavors, I draw on my own experience while asking quesApr. 1977 Joined Ministry of Finance Jul. 2001 Director, Income Tax and Property Tax Policy Division, tions from such perspectives as “How will this be explained to the shareTax Bureau, Ministry of Finance holders?” and “What will society think about this?” On this basis, I offer my Jul. 2002 Director, Policy Planning and Research Division, Minister’s Secretariat, Ministry of Finance opinion. From this viewpoint, I believe that additional verification increases Jul. 2004 Director, Management and Co-ordination Division, Minister’s Secretariat, Ministry of Finance the accuracy of internal decision-making and also helps the company to fulfill Jul. 2005 Regional Commissioner, Osaka Regional Taxation Bureau, its responsibilities in the area of accountability. National Tax Agency Jul. 2007 Deputy Director-General, Tax Bureau, Ministry of Finance ITOCHU’s corporate culture prioritizes the abilities of all employees as well Jul. 2008 Deputy Vice Minister for Policy Planning and Co-ordination, Minister’s Secretariat, Ministry of Finance as their spirit of taking on challenges. I believe that carefully passing on that Jul. 2009 Director-General, Financial Bureau, Ministry of Finance tradition will be the cornerstone of further growth. I expect ITOCHU to institute Jul. 2010 Commissioner, National Tax Agency Aug. 2012 Retired from Ministry of Finance bold initiatives while rigorously ensuring internal control and compliance so Oct. 2012 Professor, Graduate School of Law, Hitotsubashi University that the company continues to earn the respect of society. In this fiscal year, (current position) Jun. 2013 Outside Director, ITOCHU Corporation I will continue to support ITOCHU as it takes on these kinds of challenges. internal Control system On April 19, 2006, ITOCHU’s Board of Directors established the system that is even more appropriate and efficient. The following Basic Policy regarding the Internal Control System, which was highlights two noteworthy initiatives under this policy. partially revised on May 8, 2013. ITOCHU intends to revise and (For ITOCHU’s Basic Policy regarding the Internal Control System, please see: improve the internal control system tirelessly in order to build a http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/about/governance_compliance/control/policy/) 49 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance initiatives to further enhance the reliability of strengthening risk Management financial reporting ITOCHU has established internal committees and responsible In order to further enhance the reliability of our consolidated departments in order to address the various risks associated financial reporting, we have established a company structure. with its business operations, such as market risk, credit risk, The designing and implementing of internal control are periodicountry risk, and investment risk. At the same time, ITOCHU cally assessed to keep making appropriate improvements. has developed the risk management systems and methods to Specifically, a Chief Responsible for Internal Control has been manage various risks individually and on a companywide basis. appointed in each organization to design and implement interThose include a range of management regulations, investment nal control. The Internal Audit Division evaluates the effectivecriteria, risk exposure limits, and transaction limits, as well as ness of internal control and provides feedback to each reporting and monitoring systems. Moreover, ITOCHU regularly organization to ensure the continuous improvement. Overall reviews the effectiveness of its risk management systems. As management of these initiatives is conducted by the Internal part of such efforts, the ALM Committee protects the ITOCHU Audit Division, and important matters are determined through Group’s assets through deliberations on balance sheet managedeliberations in the Disclosure Committee chaired by the ment as well as analysis and management of risk. Corporate Headquarters CFO. In this way, we are working to reinforce the companywide internal control system. Examples of Risk Management Managing investment risk (example: Decision-Making process for investments) executing new investments Decision-Making Process for New Investments When making new investments, first the department making the application gives HMC due consideration to factors such as the purpose of the investment, growth strategies, business plans, the appropriateness of the acquisition price, the state of conProjects that exceed the authority formance with investment criteria, and the setting of exit conditions. Next, related of Division Company Presidents administrative organizations implement risk analysis from various specialized perInvestment Consultative Committee spectives and attach their screening results to the application. After deliberation by In the event that it is determined that additional investigathe Division Company Management Committee (DMC), the application is submittion / examination is required before proceeding to HMC ted to the Division Company President for a final decision. Projects that exceed the Division Company President’s authority must be approved by the HMC. If addiDivision Companies tional consideration and screening of an investment’s profitability and strategy are Division Company Presidents Decision needed prior to the HMC, the application is sent to the Investment Consultative Committee for deliberation. After discussing the application, this committee— whose members include the CSO, CFO, and the General Manager of the Global DMC Judgment Risk Management Division—puts the matter before the HMC. This approach Judgment based on risk analysis devolves authority to the Division Companies and speeds decision-making, while Functional organizations at the same time providing multiple screening processes to control investment risk. Organization making application Monitoring To promote asset replacement and achieve other objectives, we implement annual reviews of all Group companies from both the qualitative (such as strategic significance) and quantitative (such as scale of earnings and investment efficiency) perspectives. This methodology enables us to determine the future policies of all Group companies after confirming whether Group companies are infringing on exit selection criteria. exiting The Global Risk Management Division monitors the progress of Group companies that have been slated for exits during the annual reviews, ensuring that they are moving steadily toward an exit. Managing Concentrated risks In addition to distributing internal covenants on management resources to each Division Company, ITOCHU defines asset limits in areas of trading where exposure is high, thereby managing the concentration of risk in specific segments and areas. We also manage overall country risk exposure to non-industrialized countries and manage individual country risk based on internal country rating standards. Limits on assets in specific areas and country limits are deliberated by the ALM Committee and approved by the HMC. 50 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Compliance ITOCHU Group’s Compliance System The ITOCHU Group is building a promotion system of Compliance System compliance by placing compliance officers in each organization within Headquarters and at all major Group companies worldwide. The ITOCHU Group Compliance Program is part of the system and structure of the ITOCHU Group that was established so that each organization can consider local laws, business characteristics, and operational formats while complying with compliance. Besides carrying out Monitor & Review surveys once a year for key organizations, such as overseas offices and Group companies, we are implementing activities with a focus on system operation such as on-site guidance with the objective of ascertaining actual front-line compliance conditions and identifying risks. Furthermore, based on trends in former incidences of compliance violations and the findings of the Monitor & Review surveys, we are formulating individual compliance reinforcement measures tailored to each Division Company, and these measures are steadily being implemented. Internal Information Reporting System(Hotlines) ITOCHU Corporation has formulated regulations on the Internal Information Reporting System (Hotlines) and instructed the installment of hotlines at Group companies as well. In addition to protecting whistleblowers through these arrangements, we have defined mechanisms for proper disposal of cases. This initiative is reinforcing compliance management by supporting the prompt discovery and rectification of any incidents of corruption. Implementation of Compliance Training On-Site Compliance Training We periodically conduct On-Site Compliance Training for all Headquarters employees and for employees of Group companies that requested training. This training, which was intended to raise compliance awareness and prevent the occurrence of any cases, used actual incidences of compliance violations as teaching materials. We also conduct separate programs of finely-tuned education and training for each employee layer that are likewise based on actual cases. In fiscal 2014, compliance training was provided to an extended total of 6,300 employees at ITOCHU Headquarters and 52 Group companies. Compliance Awareness Survey The ITOCHU Group implements a Compliance Awareness Survey every two years with all Group employees. The survey ascertains the status in regards to penetration of compliance among the employees, and assists the implementation of specific initiatives. In fiscal 2014, we conducted the survey of about 30,000 Group employees, and received response from 27,598 of them (retrieval rate of 90.7%). The results of the analysis of the findings are presented as feedback to each organization and reflected in efforts to improve the compliance system. Bolstering Measures to Fight Corruption The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (U.S. FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 evidence the global trend toward the tightening of legislation against bribery. In keeping with this trend, ITOCHU Corporation has thus far determined Regulation Concerning the Prohibition of Giving Illicit Profit and three related guidelines (regarding public officers, agents and consultants, and foreign public officers). These rules and guidelines are aimed at prohibiting all employees from giving any improper advantage to Japanese or foreign civil servants or people in an equivalent position, and indicate guides for decision and judgment in actual business. We are working to prevent corruption by pursuing their full penetration. 51 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Measures to Fight Collusive Bidding and Cartels In recent years, there have been many reports of suspected cartel activities in markets around the world. In response, to prevent involvement in any illicit transactions, we regularly revise our Anti-Monopoly Law Manual and the document “A Must-Read! 51 Q&A about the Anti-Monopoly Law”, which facilitates referral. Through various Monitor & Review surveys and education and training programs as well, we are making sure all employees are aware of requirements. Measures for Intellectual Property To completely prevent infringements on intellectual property rights held by other parties in businesses related to such rights, as well as in the ordinary course of business, ITOCHU implements measures to call attention to the issue by holding seminars for employees and by establishing internal rules, regulations and manuals that conform to related laws and regulations. We also define and properly apply internal rules for employees’ inventions and work and rules for application, renewal, etc. of rights to properly manage and handle intellectual property rights that constitute property of the companies. Basic Policy on Product Safety ITOCHU Corporation has prepared a product safety manual for each internal company to assure safety. The manuals are based on its policy of observing obligations stipulated by laws related to the safety of the products it handles, and providing safe and secure products to its customers. We are going to continue with efforts to assure provision of safe and secure products through in-house education, institution of ad-hoc units assigned to product safety, establishment of information relay routes, and response in the event of product accidents, while revising arrangements in these aspects as necessary. Measures for Comprehensive Import and Export Control To prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons, Japan maintains strict trade-security under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act. To observe such laws and regulations, we have implemented our own internal trade-security control program. Further, to ensure that we do not take part in business transactions that threaten international peace and security, not only do we meticulously comply with existing government laws and regulations, but we are voluntarily taking extra measures to ensure that our stakeholders and corporate reputation are adequately safeguarded through our implementation of a comprehensive global security risk management program. The potential intersection of corporate operations with global terrorism or the development and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction can give rise to reputational and financial risks for ITOCHU and other companies with extensive international business operations. Accordingly ITOCHU recognizes that, as a responsible member of society and the global business community, we need to manage carefully the potential risks associated with business operations in certain locations. In response to the growing field of corporate governance termed global security risk, ITOCHU has developed and implemented corporate policies, procedures, and internal reporting structures to ensure that we perform rigorous, securityminded due diligence with respect to projects and transactions in which security issues are implicated. In addition, to properly conduct customs procedures for import and export, including import (payment of customs duty) declaration, we conduct internal customs examination (monitoring), provide training for clearing and customs valuation control, and take a host of other measures under the internal control/management provisions and regulations, thereby ensuring full compliance with customs procedures, etc. These measures have led to the director-general of Yokohama Customs certifying ITOCHU as an Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) (both Authorized Exporter and Authorized Importer), a title given to operators with outstanding compliance systems and security control. 52 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Basic Policy and Efforts against Antisocial Forces ITOCHU has set out basic policy to tackle antisocial forces and groups that threaten the order and safety of civic society, stipulating three basic principles plus one Don't fear, Don't pay, Don't use, and Don't associate in its stance against antisocial forces and 10-point guideline as a manual to disseminate this information among all employees. We have also established a special department with overall responsibility for countermeasures in relation to antisocial forces within the Human Resources & General Affairs Division. In addition, we are improving systems and promoting enlightenment education in hopes of preventing unintentional entry into transactional relationships with anti-social forces and groups. Insider Trading Regulations ITOCHU Corporation has an internal rule regarding the restriction of insider trading, and formulated the guideline regarding reporting and management of insider information in April 2014 in conjunction with the revision of the rule. The above guideline stipulates, for example, recommended handling in case of acknowledging the insider information of entity which ITOCHU has capital or contractual relationship, and we are taking action to assure that all employees know about them. Perspectives on Information Management ITOCHU Corporation has formulated IT Security Management Policy for all executives and employees. The objective of these rules is to provide proper management of information required for business activities by setting forth a code of conduct on information handling and assuring a high level of information security. More specifically, we have determined rules and standards on personal information management, document management, and IT security, and are striving to prevent the leakage of personal information and other confidential information. 53 CSR in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Engaged in trading and business investment on a worldwide basis, ITOCHU Corporation also takes full consideration for human rights, labor, and the environment etc., through CSR management that is commensurate with respective business activities for its supply chain and business investment. Through such consideration, the Company is determined to build a sustainable value chain and link this to a heightening of the competitiveness and corporate value of the ITOCHU Group. * Please refer to page97 Supply Chain Management Basic stance on supply chain management Trading firms are engaged in the trading of all sorts of articles, from resources to intermediate materials and finished products, around the world. In light of the increasing complexity of their supply chains, their business requires risk management concerning human rights, labor, and the environment not only in processes under their direct control but also in areas such as procurement of raw materials, production sites, intermediate distribution, and the regions of consumption. We at ITOCHU Corporation pay particular attention to management on the site of suppliers which occupy a fairly high share of our purchasing, and view our consideration and sense of responsibility for these areas as matters of great importance to be addressed with a high priority. ITOCHU Corporation has set out its CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains, and implements the following surveys and reviews. Through these activities, it is striving to prevent the occurrence of any problems. When problems are detected, it aims for improvement in the concerned areas through communication with suppliers. ITOCHU Corporation's CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains 1. Suppliers shall respect the human rights of its employees, and shall not treat employees in an inhumane manner including verbal abuse and physical punishment. 2. Suppliers shall not engage in forced labor or child labor. 3. Suppliers shall not practice discrimination in hiring and employment. 4. Suppliers shall prevent unfair low-wage labor. 5. Suppliers shall respect the rights of employees to organize and bargain collectively to promote smooth negotiation between labor and management. 6. Suppliers shall ensure that employees' working hours, holidays, and use of leave of absence are properly managed so as to comply with statutory standards. 7. Suppliers shall strive to provide employees with a safe and healthy work environment. 8. In the course of their business activities, suppliers shall duly consider the need to conserve ecosystems as well as local and global environments, and strive to prevent the occurrence of any environmental pollution. 9. Suppliers shall observe all related laws and international rules, and ensure fair transactions and prevent corruption. 10. Suppliers shall disclose information regarding the above items in a timely and appropriate manner. 54 CSR in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Communication of the CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to suppliers We believe it is important to win the understanding and cooperation of all our suppliers for our procurement-related policies. In keeping with this belief, in fiscal 2014, we again made notice of the ITOCHU Corporation’s CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to the approximately 4,000 suppliers with whom we have continuing transactions. We are endeavoring to deepen communication with them on our CSR-related policies. Response to non-compliant supplier When a case that does not comply with the intent of guidelines has been confirmed, ITOCHU will request the relevant supplier to take remedial action, and will provide support and guidance as needed. If a remedy is deemed difficult despite ITOCHU making continuous requests for remedial action, ITOCHU will reexamine its dealings with the supplier concerned. CSR Survey of Supply Chains In order to check the status of our various suppliers, ITOCHU conducts survey with a method suited to the characteristics of the goods of each Division Company, along with mandatory questions on the ten items in our “CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains.” In addition to the ten items covering human rights, labor, and environmental issues, we added further items specific to each Division Company. For example, we added check items for forest conservation for the Forest Products & General Merchandise Division (lumber, pulp & paper); product safety items for the Food Company; and items on protection of intellectual property for our Textile Company. Each Division Company selects target suppliers and creates a survey plan based on such parameters as high-risk countries, products handled, and transaction amounts. Sales representatives or locally assigned ITOCHU employees of each Division Company visit the suppliers, and survey them by means of interviews or questionnaires. For our significant suppliers, we also have personnel from the CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department of our Corporate Communications Division make visits for on-site surveys together with external experts, as necessary. Moving forward, in addition to conducting surveys of the actual situation and reviewing survey methods, ITOCHU plans to continue this initiative. CSR Surveys in fiscal 2014 In fiscal 2014, ITOCHU surveyed 380 companies, including 25 CSR Survey: Survey results by suppliers of overseas offices and 89 suppliers of 12 Group organization (FY2014) companies. No serious problems requiring immediate response Division Companies Suppliers were found in the survey results. Even when surveys have revealed the existence of problems that Textile Company 26 are cause for apprehension, we confirm the initiatives for prompt improvement or countermeasures taken by the supplier. We are Machinery Company 13 going to continue to engage in communication with suppliers to Metals & Minerals 12 seek their understanding of our thinking.Comments from local Company employees in charge of the surveys included, “Through these annual surveys, supply chain management is steadily advancing.” Energy & Chemicals 62 By continuing these surveys in the years ahead, we will work to Company raise employee awareness and enhance supplier understanding and implementation. Food Company 118 ICT, General Products & 149 Realty Company Total 380 55 CSR in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment On-site report: a fact-finding survey at a natural rubber processing plant in Indonesia On February 27 and 28, 2014, ITOCHU paid a visit together with an external expert to two plants operated by PT. Aneka Bumi Pratama, a member and supplier of the ITOCHU Group, in Jambi and Palembang, Indonesia. They confirmed that management was taking due consideration for the environment and labor safety in the processing sequence for natural rubber used to manufacture tires. The external expert advised action to bolster prevention of environmental and labor accidents in areas including control of plant wastewater and rainwater drainage routes, prevention of soil contamination, and anti-noise measures. The plant personnel are rapidly implementing proper initiatives and working to raise the control level even higher. 56 CSR in Our Supply Chain and Business Investment Business Investment Management The business activities at companies in which we invest must take account of and address their possible influence on the global environment and society at large. For this reason, we endeavor to understand the potential CSR risks and to prevent the actualization of CSR risks at the Group companies. We assess their activities by using a checklist and doing on-site visits, and take the requisite measures in response to the assessment results. We do these assessments as part of our environmental management system and try to improve their management level. Evaluating CSR Risks of New Investment Projects In approaching prospective new business investment projects, the proposing unit is required to make an advance assessment using our CSR and environmental checklist for investments. Specifically, an assessment is made of items such as whether there are the policies and setups at the investment subject set in place as viewed from the standpoint of CSR and the environment and whether there is the possibility of significant adverse environmental impact, legal or regulatory violations, and the risk of litigation by concerned parties. The checklist consists of 33 items, including the seven core subjects in ISO 26000*, the international CSR guideline. （*Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, The Environment, Fair Operating Practices, Consumer Issues, Community Involvement and Development) The proposing unit also takes consideration of the opinions deriving from assessment based on risk analysis by the related administrative division. If any causes for apprehension are identified, a request is made for an advance due diligence study by an external specialized institution in the case of projects requiring an expert perspective. The actual project will commence only after this study confirms the absence of any problems. Fact-finding Investigations of Group Companies To prevent environmental pollution and related problems among the ITOCHU Group companies, ITOCHU（the CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department of our Corporate Communications Division）has been making on-site visits for the purpose of survey work continuously since 2001. In fiscal 2014, such visits were made to a total of 10 companies, some involving the participation of external experts, with consideration of the level of environmental risk at each company. By the end of March 2014, such surveys had been completed at a total of 249 establishments. The survey work consists of interviews with management, a survey of facilities such as factories and warehouses as well as drainage into rivers, and checks of compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Based on the findings, the survey work team points out problems, indicates measures for prevention, and confirms the status as regards correction. On-site report: a fact-finding environmental survey at Marine Access On August 7, 2013, ITOCHU visited a site of Marine Access Corporation (which was then named the Shizuoka Center of Access Fresh Food Processing Corporation). The site performs storage and processing of marine products, and there are many environmental laws and regulations pertaining to these operations, such as the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act and various local ordinances. We consequently advised the site to practice surer control. They also confirmed that the site's determination to work in response to such advice for prevention of environmental pollution on a continuous basis. 57 Employee Relations As a general trading company that has a diverse range of businesses around the world, ITOCHU believes that its human resources are its greatest management asset. Accordingly, ITOCHU will proactively advance efforts to develop and strengthen human resources as the management foundation supporting the growth of its business activities. We will continue to pursue human resources initiatives, such as cultivating industry professionals and creating systems in which diverse human resources can flourish globally. Human Resource Development Supporting the “Seeking of New Opportunities” Human Resource Development Supporting the “Seeking of New Opportunities” Human resources are what support the stable, ongoing growth of ITOCHU Corporation. Our human resource development activities are available to employees throughout the Group, both domestically and in overseas blocs. Based on each employee’s work experience and abilities, we strive to help them develop into professionals who play an active role in their business field and to provide them with the skills necessary to manage business on a global level. Through individual evaluations and feedback, centered on valuable job experience via on-the-job training (OJT), we help to cultivate the motivation and willingness of employees to increase their career opportunities within the Group. To further support employees’ selfdevelopment, we not only provide skills and knowledge through training Basic Structure of Human Resource but also actively support career development. We will continue to invest Development substantially in our human resources, while at the same time promoting human resources development which is proactively led by the frontlines. 58 Employee Relations Human Resources Development System ITOCHU conducts various trainings to employee in all levels in its organization. In addition, independent business and skills-based trainings are also conducted by each Division company and Administration Division to develop professionals who can manage business on a global level. GEP: Global Executive Program GLP: Global Leadership Program GNP: Global Network Program NS UTR: National Staff U-turn Rotation Training 59 Employee Relations A Variety of Training Schemes ITOCHU conducts a variety of training schemes that include essential training by position and job class, as well as select and elective training. With a view to nurturing the growth of global management human resources, we provide training in such forms as global development programs (GEP, GLP, and GNP*), dispatch of staff to business schools for short-term programs, and workshops for organizational managers. In order to develop English language skills and an international perspective among junior staff, we instituted a program for shortGlobal term dispatch overseas in 1999, ahead of other companies in our industry. At present, we are Development developing candidates for future growth into specialists in each market around our program for Program short-term dispatch of junior staff to China and other emerging markets, for training in Chinese and other languages. Further, to produce professionals with diverse outlooks on value, besides offering training to support career visions and a junior job intern program (allowing young sales staff to acquire experience of work in in-house administrative units for a certain time), we also provide diverse object-oriented training such as independent training based on the human resource strategy of each Division Company and the headquarters administrative divisions. * Global Executive Program (GEP): This core part of the global talent development program provides training to cultivate global executives. * Global Leadership Program (GLP): The purpose of this training is to cultivate organization managers who can be active in global business. * Global Network Program (GNP): Through training held at Headquarters, this program enables locally-hired overseas staff to learn firsthand about the ITOCHU Group’s global operations and build up a network with other participants. Human resources development policy and training details (excerpt) Overview of human resources Training program name (excerpt) development system Development of global management Global development programs (GEP, GLP, GNP*), Dispatch of staff talent to business schools for short-term, Workshop for organizational managers Business leader development Dispatch of junior staff overseas to learn Chinese and other languages, Junior overseas training, Dispatch to designated overseas areas Development of industry professionals Career vision support training, distinctive training for each Division and diverse human resources Company, Headquarters' administrative division Number of employees participated in major training programs Training program name FY2014 Results Global development program 135 Organization manager workshops 325 Dispatch of staff to business schools for short-term 50 Junior staff overseas training for English and 54 Junior staff overseas training for multi-language Career vision support training 2,025 60 Employee Relations Comments by Training Participants Junior staff overseas training for multi-language (Chinese) I went to China for a stay of about half a year, to study Chinese language and culture at Nankai University in the city of Tianjin. When I first came to Tianjin, I was virtually unable to speak or understand Chinese. As such, I was very apprehensive at the start, since I was unable to exchange apartment rental contract, purchase a mobile phone, or perform other procedures required for living and studying in China by myself. In time, however, I became able to converse even with cab drivers who had a strong Tianjin accent, thanks to instruction and assistance by my teachers at the language school, my fellow students at the university, and Takuya Matsumoto members of the ITOCHU national staff. Front row, third from the left Through this experience, I learned that the most important factor Synthetic Fiber Materials Section No. 2 for developing business on a global scale is the collection of raw Organic Chemicals Department No. 2 information using your own eyes and doing the legwork. I also learned how to make an integrated analysis of this raw information, find the keys to success, and persevere in building the business while making on-site inroads. I hope to apply what I learned in efforts to refine my business acumen in all sorts of situations and make a positive contribution to our company and society as a whole. Junior staff overseas training for multi-language (Indonesian) In August 2013, I went to Indonesia to study for about five months in the city of Jakarta. When I started the program, my Indonesian was on the level of baby-talk. Besides attending the classes at the language training facility in the university, I participated in joint study groups with other students there, tried to read the local newspaper, and took one-to-one private lessons on a daily basis. As a result of these efforts, I eventually progressed to the point where I did not feel any language difficulty in daily life. For the local business report I Xu Jingyuan was required to prepare as part of the training, I researched the Front row, third from the left construction machinery industry, in which I had been involved at Construction Machinery Section No.1 ITOCHU. My research began with the heavy equipment I spotted Construction Machinery Department on a construction site on the university campus. Through the crew on the site, I succeeded in making the acquaintance of many people at concerned companies, whom I did my best to interview in Indonesian. The encounter with Indonesians whom I would not have been able to meet if I had merely taken the university classes was a precious experience for my future activity. Personnel Evaluation Systems Personnel evaluation systems are positioned as the foundation of a personnel system that helps employees realize their full potential with enthusiasm and drive. One of these systems is the management by objectives (MBO) scheme, which functions as the driver of management strategy by dividing objectives among individual employees based on the company-wide management plan and verifying their execution. We have also established a human resources assessment system that takes a comprehensive look at the skills, expertise, past careers, aspirations and suitability of individual employees and utilizes this information for placement and transfer plans. We regard fair and equitable evaluations by supervisors and feedback through interviews with subordinates as critically important to ensure proper functioning of these personnel evaluation systems. We make use of evaluator training and other activities to communicate the importance of encouraging employee growth and development to supervisors. 61 Employee Relations Ongoing Promotion of Global Human Resources Strategy Ongoing Promotion of Global Human Resources Strategy Since fiscal 2008, ITOCHU has been promoting a global human resources strategy in order to maximize the value of human resources and optimize the talent development of the Group on a global basis. By fiscal 2011, we had taken steps to create a platform for promoting the development and utilization of human resources worldwide, including the development of a global human resources database and the establishment of leadership standards for managers. Currently, we are strengthening our human resources development through such programs as the NS Headquarters UTR Program * ,Global Development Program , and assisting overseas blocs to formulate human resource development programs specific to each bloc. In addition, cooperating with each Division Company, we are implementing a Talent Management Process by preparing individual development plans for talented personnel who will play key roles in the expansion of revenues and profits overseas. Through these initiatives, we are bolstering the recruitment, development, and utilization of personnel who will contribute to global business development. Talent Management Process Specific Initiatives 1. We are inviting employees from our overseas blocs worldwide to come to our headquarters for approximately two years as a form of HR development through actual operations. These employees are provided the opportunity to learn business operations, gain a firm understanding of our corporate philosophy and culture, and build interpersonal networks. At the same time, this initiative encourages our headquarters to become more global in its outlook. (From April 1, 2008 to March 31, 2014, a cumulative total of 69 employees have been dispatched.) 2. We are assigning, promoting, and developing human resources on a global basis regardless of nationality, by implementing the ITOCHU Global Classification (IGC) in 2009 as a common measure of job level / level of responsibility for all jobs and positions worldwide. 3. ITOCHU Mission and Values, which we have passed down since our founding more than 150 years ago, and the ITOCHU Values have been incorporated into the human-resource requirements for ITOCHU leaders. These requirements are reflected in our recruiting standards and our evaluation and human resources development programs and are passed on through in-house instructors. This enables us to hire and develop human resources around the world who are suited to ITOCHU’s values. Related Data: Number of overseas bloc employees by region (page72) 62 Employee Relations Support for Activity by Diverse Human Resources Amid intensifying competition with newly emerging economies, we at ITOCHU Corporation believe that diversity as an organization is indispensable for accurate response to diversifying needs in the global market as well as continuous creation of new business and additional value. Based on this belief, we formulated the Plan for Promotion of Human Resource Diversification in December 2003 and set about efforts to increase the number of diverse personnel and support their acclimation and activity. We are committed to continued efforts to prepare environments enabling each and every employee to exercise his or her unique talents to the fullest, and to strengthen our power on both the individual and organizational levels. By so doing, we are going to make ITOCHU an attractive company with attractive corporate culture. Supporting the career development of female employees To date, ITOCHU Corporation has actively promoted measures to support the career development of female employees to reflect the advancement of women in Japanese society, and established various schemes to this effect. Moving forward, we will push even harder to ensure the fair application of these schemes and strengthen support the career development of female employees who contribute to the corporate growth, through efforts including the promotion of individual support measures based on the life stages and careers of individual employees. Holding of the Women’s Executive Forum by female executive officers In addition to its in-house career training for women, ITOCHU Corporation has thus far planned and held special forums to present various role models and support endeavors to nurture career consciousness. Specific examples are the Five-Company Forum (2011), which brought together female employees from a total of five Japanese trading companies, and the Cross-industrial Women’s Forum (2013), which was an inter-industry venue for exchange among female employees of Japan’s leading global firms (co-hosted with Nomura Holdings, Inc.; Shiseido Co., Ltd.; All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd.; and Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.). In April 2013, ITOCHU Corporation became the first major Japanese At the panel discussion trading company to appoint a woman to the post of executive officer. In 2014, we held a panel discussion along with Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. and Calbee, Inc. featuring three female executive officers who had been appointed at their respective companies about the same time. In February 2013, ITOCHU Corporation and Nomura Holdings, Inc. jointly held the Cross-industrial Women’s Forum, an event where female employees from five of Japanese leading global firms gathered to engage in interindustry exchanges and learn from one another about their future careers (other participating companies were Shiseido Co., Ltd., All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. and Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.) Roughly 100 junior female employees from each company broadened their views through exchanges with other participants and stories of the personal experiences delivered by a diverse range of role models selected from each company, including female employees posted overseas (living along with their children) and those working in management positions. The event was a highly productive opportunity for female employees to find the motivation to open up their own careers and gain awareness. 63 Employee Relations Comment by female executive officer ITOCHU Corporation is “everywhere,” both in terms of its diverse industry and jurisdictional coverage. Our people are the back-bone of the company’s success. We believe that diversity is a matter of business strategy. With this in mind, we will continue our aggressive investment in diverse human capital. Mitsuru Claire Chino, Executive Officer General Manager, Legal Division Related Data: Figures concerning employees (page72) Proportion of female career-track employee, manager, and executive officer (page72) Number of hires by gender (page72) Permission for employees posted overseas to take children along without taking spouse For a sogo shosha (general trading company) such as ITOCHU Corporation, overseas service is an important career path option. It has, however, also been a factor blocking career development by female employees, because the company has not allowed employees posted overseas to bring children with them without taking spouse as a general rule. Effective fiscal 2014, we revised this rule to permit employees to bring children along without taking spouse on overseas assignments as necessary, and also allowed accompaniment by the employee’s parent for the purpose of childcare support. Under this new arrangement, we thus far have posted one employee to New York with the child. Supporting the Utilization of Senior Human Resources ITOCHU Corporation is supporting the employment of aged workers even more actively than before. In light of factors such as the declining Japanese birth rate and aging population and support for the utilization of diverse human resources, we have introduced an employment extension system as a new option in addition to mandatory retirement at the age of sixty. This provides an environment in which willing employees can continue to play an active role so that their wealth of knowledge and experience can be utilized. In the future, we will make further efforts to develop environments in which aged employees can continue to work with even greater drive and enthusiasm. Supporting the Participation in Society by People with Disability In 1987, ITOCHU Corporation established Itochu Uneedus Co., Ltd., as a special subsidiary based on the Disabled Persons Employment Promotion Act (Law for the Employment Promotion of the Disabled) in order to create work opportunities for those with disability. As of March 2014, the proportion of our workforce with disabilities is 2.16%, which exceeds the legally stipulated ratio of 2%. We will continue to actively support the participation in society by people with disabilities. Common menu of category from here. Related Data: Employment ratio of people with disabilities (page73) 64 Employee Relations Creating Environments That Bring Out the Best in Employees ITOCHU Corporation regards people as its greatest asset and considers the development of environments that allow employees to enjoy peace of mind and concentrate on their work with a sense of job satisfaction to be of crucial importance. To this end, ITOCHU has enhanced and expanded a number of systems, promoted greater understanding of systems among employees themselves and their colleagues, and promoted the development of environments that bring out the best in employees. Providing Support for Work as well as Employees’ Childcare and Nursing Care During the course of their working lives, employees inevitably pass through life stages that require them to render childcare and nursing care. To enable them to continue working with peace of mind and demonstrate their fullest potential, ITOCHU has expanded and upgraded systems to help that are far and above those required by law. These systems are available to both male and female employees, and provide support to them in their work as well as child and / or nursing care duties. In 2010, we opened I-Kids, a childcare center for our employees, at a location close to our Tokyo Headquarters. This move was made in light of a widespread social issue where many children are currently waiting for entry to nurseries in the Tokyo metropolitan area, and female workers face difficulties in planning their return from childcare leave. In 2011, ITOCHU Corporation received approval from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to display Kurumin certification mark in recognition of its formulation and execution of an action plan for this childcare support. Starting October 2012, we also made revisions to treat the five-day period following the start of childcare leave as paid leave instead of unpaid to encourage male employees to take part in childcare. In 2011, in cooperation with the SECOM Group, we launched the “Furusato Care Service” to help employees posted abroad care for their elderly relatives (all expenses are paid by the company). As ITOCHU aims to increase overseas revenues and profits, one of the key strategic approaches in its overseas policy is to increase the number of staff on overseas assignment. The service helps keep our employees working overseas updated on the lives and health of their elderly relatives living alone in Japan, helping our middle-aged employees to meet their work and nursing care responsibilities. Through this care service, we are working to establish an environment that enables employees to concentrate on their overseas assignments. (Click here for details about the Chuzai-in Furusato Care Service.) In addition, since October 2012 we have been expanding and upgrading our nursing care systems in anticipation of the coming era of increased demand for nursing care. Changes included extending the available period of shorter working hours for nursing care (from three years to five years) and launching a web-based consultation service for nursing care matters. Related data: Acquisition of leave according to child care or nursing care related systems (page73) 65 Employee Relations Comments from an I-Kids user Maiko Masuda Legal Division My older child has been in I-Kids since May 2013. I was unable to place her in the nursery school run by the Ward due to the timing of my return to work, and am really grateful for the existence of this kind of childcare center. Although there are few children to become friends of my daughter, I feel that the staff are looking after each child more carefully because of it. I am pleased at how they are providing the children with opportunities for contact with nature such as walks to parks and strolls along the avenue lined with gingko trees, as well as making sure to celebrate festivals such as Children’s Day, Setsubun (a day with a traditional bean-throwing ceremony to celebrate the coming of spring ) and the Doll’s Festival. I constantly realize that I am now able to work with peace of mind because of I-Kids and the warmhearted support of people concerned. I hope that IKids will definitely remain in operation as part of the efforts to prepare an environment allowing all employees to work free from worry. Stroll along avenue of ginkgo trees nutritional education Comments from a user of childcare leave The explanation I received from my superior about the provisions for taking childcare leave prompted me to apply for it. In taking this leave, I was deeply moved by the tremendous support I received from work-related people both inside and outside Japan. I hope in turn to support people around me at work just as they did for me. During my leave, I wanted to do things in the home that I ordinarily hadn't done. My first task was to take my daughter to the doctor when she caught a cold. I even cooked dinner on some nights, and found out how much time it took, from making preparations to cleaning up afterward. The leave was good way for me to learn about the importance of housework. Shinya Takaoka Construction Machinery Department 66 Employee Relations ITOCHU Kids Day for Visiting Dad and Mom at Work In March 2014, 17 boys and girls in elementary school were invited to ITOCHU Kids Day—an initiative where kids can visit their dads and moms at work in the Tokyo Head Office. After studying a little about ITOCHU, the children went to visit their parents in the office. There they practiced exchanging name cards with people at work, using their own cards printed especially for Kids Day, and sat at their parent’s desks to experience the office atmosphere. The children also held a mock conference in the Board of Directors conference room on the 22nd floor, and enjoyed lunch in the employee cafeteria as virtual ITOCHU employees. Kids Day was also very favorably received among the parents who were grateful that their children received an easy-to-understand explanation about their jobs at ITOCHU, which they usually had difficulty explaining, and reported that their children said they wanted to work for ITOCHU in the future. It appears that the special day left a lasting impression on the children, as well. ITOCHU Kids Day was planned and held in response to employees’ voices. The company also considers such measures for strengthening family ties and the understanding of ITOCHU to be very significant, and plans to continue holding ITOCHU Kids Day in the future. Career Counseling The Career Counseling Center offers a wide range of counseling and support for diverse career stages, ranging from new recruits to organization managers. Staffed by employees, majority of whom are certified as career counselors, the department touches on an array of topics fit for the circumstances of each individual, including relationships with supervisors, junior staff and peers, approaches to work, and considerations about one’s own future. A mechanism is in place in which all young employees go to career counseling at certain milestones after joining ITOCHU as part of their training. A system is in place for all young employees to receive career counseling when they reach certain milestones in their ITOCHU careers, as part of their training. Counseling is also available to midcareer employees as well as middle-aged employees looking to continue working. The Career Counseling Center aims to provide ITOCHU employees—and through them, their organizations— with the opportunity to develop their careers, as well as with a safety net. 67 Employee Relations Initiatives Aimed at Occupational Health and Safety For ITOCHU Corporation, employees are assets, and ensuring the health and safety of employee workplaces is one of the vital responsibilities a company must fulfill so that its employees can reach their full potential. To ensure that ITOCHU Corporation employees stationed around the world and their families can enjoy a meaningful assignment in safety and good health, we have built a full system not only for incidents, accidents, disasters and other emergencies, but also for health management. Overseas Security Management ITOCHU Corporation maintains global business operations with roughly 800 rotational staffs stationed overseas, and sends a total of ten thousand staffs on overseas business travel from Headquarters in Japan each year. In terms of overseas security management, based on the belief that a shared awareness between the overseas location and Japan is important, the Research & Business Development Division have assigned security management to some staffs in each regional headquarters of nine blocs worldwide. Information concerning politics, economics, public safety and other factors is periodically collected and disseminated internally. We have also established a system to cover regions where information is more difficult to obtain through contracts with international security consultant firms. To prepare for emergencies such as diseases or injuries, including preventative measures for infectious diseases in the dispatched area, we collaborate with an international emergency medical service company and developed complete support systems for preventative and post-incident measures. Before being stationed overseas, rotational staffs are given extensive guidance to deal with matters such as local security, health care and different cultures. Awareness raising activities are conducted after arrival, such as security management seminars for rotational staffs as well as their families. Employee Health Management For ITOCHU Corporation, employees are assets, and thus the health management of every single employee is extremely important to ensure that a diversity of employees can freely exert their capabilities. We have developed an in-house system that allows employees to receive counseling on their health at any time. For example, the Health Administration Center at ITOCHU’s Tokyo Headquarters, which also serves as a clinic, has 20 specialist physicians on staff, as well as an X-ray technician and a pharmacist. These health maintenance professionals, who each act as a “health concierge,” care for every aspect of health for each employee, providing them with the support needed to manage their own health. In terms of specific services, in addition to general medicine (internal medicine, orthopedics, dental), medical checkups (regular medical checkups, half-day complete medical checkups, medical checkups for employees traveling overseas and those returning temporarily or permanently), various vaccinations, examinations (VDT examination, adult-onset disease examinations), we also offer medical counseling and provide information. Web services such as the Health Support System (HSS), which allows individuals to view their medical checkup history, are also available. As well as the operating four recreation facilities through our health insurance society, we run quit smoking and other health campaigns. Mental Health Where mental health is concerned, we have established a stress management room in-house, and offer counseling given by a clinical psychologist. Employees can also seek counseling from a company physician as well as see a psychiatrist in-house. Through our health insurance society, we have set up the “Health & Mind Online” health consultation website where employees can seek consultations over the web. Working Hours Management To achieve more effective working style, ITOCHU Corporation has introduced an morning-focused working system (page69). This initiative is aimed at practicing an effective working style to reduce the total number of working hours. Specifically, the Company reviewed the work style that assumes overtime work and shifted from a nightfocused style to morning-focused work centered on the basic hours of 9 a.m. to 5:15 p.m. We believe that this initiative would not only further strengthen the effectiveness of operations and maintain and improve its employees’ health, but also help female employees demonstrate their abilities and help employees achieve a good balance between work and family life. We are pursuing a well-balanced reform of work awareness and style among all employees, in order to discharge our corporate mission of “Committed to the Global Good” by always viewing things from the customer's perspective. 68 Employee Relations Close up taking steps to achieve a More-effective Working style introduction of Morning-focused Working system On May 1, 2014, ITOCHU officially introduced a morning-focused for operations in any workplace. In addition, the system met the iniworking system to achieve a more-effective working style. tial objective, which was a significant reduction in the number of With a focus on managing employee health and promoting overtime work hours. Consequently, ITOCHU decided to officially effective operations, ITOCHU has long sought to reduce overtime introduce the system on May 1, 2014, in accordance with the laborwork. To that end, we decided that it was necessary to implement management agreement with the ITOCHU Labor Union. decisive reforms by reevaluating the traditional working style, ITOCHU believes that this initiative will help individual employees which is based on the assumption that employees will work overto reform their approach to their own working styles and to advance time. In October 2013, we started a trial of a new working system well-balanced operational reforms. In this way, the Company will that was intended to foster a shift from a night-focused, overtimestrive to achieve a work environment that further strengthens the based system to a morning-focused working style. effectiveness of operations, supports the maintenance and improveReviews that were conducted during the trial period confirmed ment of employees’ health, and helps diverse employees, including that the new system was effective. For example, the morningfemale employees, to make full use of their capabilities. focused working system did not cause any particular inconvenience Outline and Effects of Initiatives during Trial Period Period: October 2013 to March 2014 Scope: Approx. 2,600 employees in Japan (excluding employees on temporary assignment) Outline of Initiatives (Continued after official introduction) Effects of Initiatives Night work (10 p.m.–5 a.m.) is prohibited. Work after 8 p.m.–10 p.m is, in principle, (Comparison with same period in the previous fiscal year) prohibited, though it is permitted upon prior application when such work needs to be performed due to unavoidable reasons. Entering and Leaving Office (Percentage of employees who entered / left the office) Prior to introduction Trial period As an incentive for employees who work early in the morning (5 a.m.–8 a.m.), extra 8:00 p.m. or after About 30% About 7% wages are provided at the same rate paid for night work (employees subject to time Leaving management: 50%; employees not subject to time management: 25%). 10:00 p.m. or after About 10% Nearly 0* * When an employee starts working at 7:50 a.m. or before, the extra wage rate is Entering 8:00 a.m. or before About 20% About 34% applied not only for 5 a.m.–8 a.m. but also for 8 a.m.–9 a.m. * Includes employees who applied in advance or on-the-spot From the perspective of managing employees’ health, the Company provides light Hours of Overtime Work per Person (Monthly average)★ meals to employees who begin work before 8 a.m. Prior to introduction Trial period Effectiveness Employees in career49 hours 45 hours Reduction of about track positions 11 minutes 20 minutes 4 hours Cost Employees in clerical 27 hours 25 hours Reduction of about (1) Amount of overtime Reduced by about 7%, even when extra wages positions 3 minutes 5 minutes 2 hours allowance provided for early-morning work are included Reduction of a cumulative total of about 20,100 hours over six months (Employees (2) People receiving light meals Average of 550 people per day subject to time management) Overall (1 + 2) Reduction of about 4%* ★Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance pro* With overtime allowance (including extra wages for early-morning work) and cost of vider based on the international standard ISAE 3000 (page123) light meals, overall reduction of about 4%*. Electricity Consumption (Tokyo Headquarters) About 6% reduction Diagram of Morning-Focused Working System Time Schedule: Employees subject to time management 5:00 9:00 12:00 13:00 17:15 20:00 22:00 24:00 Night work Night work Before Prohibited Overtime work Work hours Break Work hours Overtime work Prohibited introduction in principle in principle Extra 150% 125% 125% 150% wages 5:00 8:00 9:00 12:00 13:00 17:15 20:00 22:00 24:00 Night work Morning work Overtime Overtime work Night work After Work hours Break Work hours Overtime work Prohibited introduction Prohibited Recommended work Prohibited in principle Extra 150% 150% 125% 125% 125% 150% wages employee voice Now I have more time to spend with my family after the day’s Typical day work is done. My children are still young, so I get a great deal of 5:00 Wake up enjoyment when I find their growth each day. It makes me feel 5:30 Go to the gym positive and realize that I should keep working hard. Also, since 7:30 Drop children off at I-Kids (childcare I want to find time to think quietly every day, I go to a library near center for employees) 7:40 Arrive at work my house to make some time for thinking and studying after my 18:30 Pick up children at I-Kids children are asleep. Now that I go to sleep earlier than I used to, 19:00 Dinner, cleaning up, relax with family I wake up refreshed and start the day with a good feeling. 21:30 Study or reading at nearby library 23:00 Lights out Keisuke Masuda Legal Division 69 Employee Relations Communications with Employees Dialogue Meetings with the President ITOCHU Corporation is proactive about offering employees opportunities for twoway discussions with the president. In fiscal 2014, the president visited 6 domestic branches, which usually have limited opportunities for dialogue with the president, and held dialogue meetings. Along with these domestic meetings, the president also has dialogue meetings with our staff on overseas assignment, as well as overseas bloc employees when he visits one of our overseas bloc areas. In fiscal 2014, the president held 9 meetings at our business locations in Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand, Myanmar, China, the United Kingdom, France, the United States, and Australia. In these discussions, the president shares directly with employees the company’s management policies and his passion for their realization, while employees in turn can express their opinions to the president and ask questions. The meetings therefore provide extremely valuable opportunities for deepening two-way communication. Every meeting is held in a very spirited atmosphere, and touches on everything from management policies to more personal topics. Dialogue with the Labor Union At ITOCHU Corporation, a wide range of issues is discussed with the ITOCHU Labor Union in order to realize our corporate mission, “Committed to the Global Good.” In fiscal 2014, we held five meetings, including management meetings with the President and similar meetings with Division Companies and the Administrative Headquarters. Labor and management enter repeated and active discussions to build up a healthy relationship that enables both sides to recognize and share challenges currently facing them and to study and implement improvement measures. Initiatives with the ITOCHU Labor Union in fiscal 2014 June 2013 Settlement of accountings meeting August 2013 ICT, General Products & Realty Company management meeting October 2013 Metals & Minerals Company management meeting December 2013 Textile Company management meeting Ratio of ITOCHU Labor Union members as of February 2014 Management meeting with the President April 1, 2014 Comments from the ITOCHU Labor Union President The ITOCHU Labor Union is involved in a host of measures designed to realize working environments that allow one of the Company’s key stakeholder groups, its employees, to be more enthusiastic and motivated, and bring their individual abilities to the fore. Based on input gathered from a wide array of frontline operations, we hope to encourage communication between the Company and employees through active dialogue with the Company at management meetings, and ultimately to contribute to CSR activities. Noriko Imamura President, ITOCHU Labor Union 70 Employee Relations Improving the Infrastructure for Employee Communication ITOCHU Corporation works to revitalize communication between employees and provide opportunities for exchange through a range of welfare facilities and schemes. Revitalized communication helps to foster a sense of belonging and motivation to work in individual employees and also helps to invigorate the organization as a whole. Dormitories for Single Employees More than 300 junior career-track employees spread across four buildings for males and two buildings for females make use of company dormitories. The dormitories allow employees to interact with junior and senior employees joined the company at different times or who belong to different departments, and also leads to more lively communication among fellow junior employees. Employee Cafeteria The employee cafeteria at the Tokyo Head Office underwent large-scale renovations in May 2013 and was transformed into a space that is brighter and a more comfortable meeting place than before. Each day around 1,500 employees make use of the employee cafeteria, which helps promote exchanges between fellow employees during meal times. “SOGO-KAI” Associations “SOGO-KAI” associations are organizations in which fellow employees assemble and enjoy the same sports or cultural activities. More than forty such associations are active within the company and boast more than 700 employee members. The associations are not limited to current employees of ITOCHU Corporation. Many former employees and Group company employees also take part. Through sports and cultural activities, these associations promote exchanges and communication across different generations and organizations. 71 Employee Relations Basic Data Figures concerning employees ★ (As of the end of March 31) Non-consolidated Consolidated Total Male Female Average age Average Average Number of of employees number of annual salary employees employee years of service (JPY) s 2012 4,255 3,162 1,093 41 15.6 12,810,035 72,528 2013 4,219 3,162 1,057 41 15.8 13,893,019 83,768 2014 4,235 3,200 1,035 41 16.1 13,835,551 104,310 Number of employees by operating segments ★ (As of the end of March 31, 2014) (Unit: persons) Textile Machinery Metals & Energy & Food ICT, General Others, Total Minerals Chemicals Products & Adjustments & Realty Eliminations Non422 444 209 334 375 406 1,035 3,225 consolidated Consolidated 20,191 12,358 618 9,459 27,410 30,808 3,466 104,310 Number of overseas bloc employees by region ★ (As of the end of March 31, 2014) (Unit: persons) North Latin Europe Africa Middle Oceania East ASEAN & CIS Total America America East South Asia West Asia 139 163 205 37 150 30 742 615 82 2,163 Employees working in overseas subsidiaries Number of hires by gender ★ (Unit: persons) New-graduates Mid-career Total Male Female Total Male Female Total FY2013 103 20 123 10 4 14 137 FY2014 99 25 124 8 2 10 134 FY2015* 107 28 135 135 *The figures as of April 1st, 2014 Proportion of female career-track employee, manager, and executive officer ★ (As of April 1) Career-track employee Manager Executive Officer Total Female Proportion Total Female Proportion Total Female Proportion of Female of Female of Female 2012 3,293 300 9.1% 1,644 23 1.4% 46 0 0.0% 2013 3,339 302 9.0% 1,692 25 1.5% 43 1 2.3% 2014 3,401 301 8.9% 1,745 30 1.7% 43 1 2.3% 72 Employee Relations Acquisition of leave according to child care or nursing care related systems ★ (Unit: persons) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Child Childcare Leave 2 59 61 0 43 43 3 51 54 care Leave to nurse sick children 51 74 125 58 76 134 43 91 134 Shorter working hours for 1 56 57 0 64 64 0 61 61 child care Special parental leave 5 3 8 6 29 35 5 31 36 Return rate for employees 88% 100% 91% after taking childcare leave Nursing Nursing care leave 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 care Special nursing care leave 6 6 12 4 8 12 1 5 6 Leave for nursing care 7 11 18 6 12 18 14 19 33 Shorter working hours for 0 3 3 0 2 2 0 3 3 nursing care Family support leave 325 211 536 248 206 454 104 84 188 Employment ratio of people with disabilities ★ (As of March 1) Employment ratio Legally stipulated ratio of people with disabilities 2012 1.91% 1.80% 2013 1.95% 1.80% 2014 2.16% 2.00% ★ Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000. Independent Assurance Report (page123) * The figures are for non-consolidated unless otherwise indicated as consolidated. * The number of oversea bloc employees by region is the total of employees hired locally by each overseas subsidiary. * The figures of employment ratio of people with disabilities are the combined total of ITOCHU Corporation and the certified special-purpose subsidiary, ITOCHU Uneedus Co.,Ltd. 73 Social Contribution Viewing issues from a global perspective, we always remain aware of the role to play as a good corporate citizen, see that our activities are at harmony with both local communities and the international community, and contribute to the rise of societies offering a higher quality of life. Following our corporate mission “Committed to the global good,” we have identified five areas of focus in our basic activity guidelines. Basic Activity Guidelines on Social Contribution 1. Action on Global Humanitarian Issues As a globally active enterprise, ITOCHU Corporation shall take proactive approaches to humanitarian issues around the world and help to build a better, more humane world. 2. Environmental Conservation ITOCHU Corporation shall vigorously pursue activities of environmental conservation and contribute to sustainable social advancement. 3. Community Contribution As a good corporate citizen, ITOCHU Corporation shall construct favorable relationships, and harmonize its business, with local communities. 4. Growth of Future Generations ITOCHU Corporation shall conduct activities to support the sound development of youth as tomorrow's leaders and work for the emergence of fulfilling and vibrant communities. 5. Support for Volunteer Work by our Employees ITOCHU Corporation shall provide positive support for the activities of social contribution by each and every one of its employees. 74 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: The Great East Japan Earthquake Support Activities We undertake long-term support for the reconstruction of areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck in March 2011. ITOCHU Children's Dream Fund The ITOCHU Children's Dream Fund is part of the disaster support activities that ITOCHU Corporation has been conducting since March 2013. It is aimed at providing aid to the children in the areas afflicted by the Great East Japan Earthquake. In fiscal 2014, the following support was provided through the ITOCHU Children's Dream Fund. We will continue to support the children's dreams in various ways going forward. First Round: Support Related to Club Activities of Junior High School Students and Boys' Baseball Teams in Rikuzentakata City Financial Assistance to Help Seven Rikuzentakata City Youth Sports Teams to Attend Prefectural Tournaments and Away Games In Rikuzentakata City, the playgrounds and parks where children usually play have been taken over as sites for temporary housing. The children in the baseball teams have continued practicing every day since the disaster, feeling cramped in the limited space. With parents still suffering or out of work due to the disaster, the team activity fees had become a burden on some households. Aware of the difficulties faced by the children, ITOCHU has provided them with assistance. Specifically, ITOCHU donated 1.15 million yen to help all the boys' baseball teams in Rikuzentakata City (seven teams with around 160 members) to attend prefectural tournaments and away games. On June 8, 2013, a ceremony was held in the playground of Otomo Elementary School of Rikuzentakata City to present the boys' baseball teams with financial assistance for away games. Since the fall of 2013, ITOCHU has also been holding the ITOCHU Children's Dream Cup, a boys' baseball championship, to support all the boys' baseball teams in Rikuzentakata City. It will be held twice in 2014. Donation of Sports Uniforms to Takata Higashi Junior High School Three junior high schools (Yonezaki, Otomo and Hirota) in Rikuzentakata City were heavily damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake and the subsequent tsunami. In April 2013, these schools were integrated and reformed as Takata Higashi Junior High School. Through the Dream Fund, ITOCHU assisted the students of this school by donating 800,000 yen to cover the expenses for 114 sports uniforms for the basketball club, volleyball club, track and field club, and others. The uniforms bear the name of the new school, which is a local symbol of reconstruction. In July, ITOCHU employee volunteers, who were staying in Rikuzentakata City to provide reconstruction support, visited the school and interacted with the students. 75 Social Contribution Second Round: Reconstruction Support through 15th Joint Concert by Tokyo Metropolitan Symphony Orchestra ITOCHU Corporation participated in and sponsored the Joint Concert program as the second round of support activities by the ITOCHU's Children's Dream Fund. The Joint Concerts are sponsored by the Tokyo Metropolitan Symphony Orchestra. Once a year, the orchestra calls for application from children in the fourth year of elementary school through to high school, who live or study in Tokyo. Based on their written applications, around 100 applicants are selected to participate in a five-lesson program before performing in a concert on a dream stage with a professional orchestra. Through the donation made by ITOCHU Corporation, 14 junior high school and high school students from disaster-affected areas in Fukushima Prefecture were selected from applicants and invited to join the orchestra. The students were given lessons together with children from Tokyo in accordance with the instruction program of the Tokyo Metropolitan Symphony Orchestra. The lessons were held for two months, and the students went to Tokyo for each lesson. The Joint Concert was held on July 27, 2013. The students performed with the professional orchestra on a dream stage and their exquisite performance deeply moved the entire audience of around 1,500 people. Third Round: Support for Two Schools on the Third Anniversary of the Great East Japan Earthquake On March 11, 2014, the day of the third anniversary of the Great East Japan Earthquake, ITOCHU Corporation provided assistance to two schools as the third round of support through the ITOCHU Children's Dream Fund. Support for Iwate Prefectural Yamada High School Boat Club ITOCHU donated 3.5 million yen to the Iwate Prefectural Yamada High School boat club to cover its expenses for needs such as lifeboats and installation of a floating pier. The high school's boat club drew nationwide attention as a competitive club even before the earthquake, but it lost almost all its equipment, including its boats, boathouse and even oars, in the disaster. There was concern about the safety of students in training since they still did not have a lifeboat. Moreover, they had to swim in the cold water every time they needed to get to their boats since they lacked a floating pier, a basic facility. ITOCHU decided to provide support to improve this situation. Support for Nakano Splash Nakano Volleyball Junior Sport Club and Nakano Sparrows Boys' Baseball Team of Sendai Municipal Nakano Elementary School ITOCHU donated a total of 650,000 yen to the sports clubs of Sendai Municipal Nakano Elementary School, including 450,000 yen to the Nakano Splash Nakano Volleyball Junior Sports Club for uniforms with the boys' team name and for backpacks for the boys' and girls' teams, and 200,000 yen to the Nakano Sparrows Boys' Baseball Team for game balls and plastic training balls, a foldable tent, and other items. The entire school district was severely affected by the disaster and the damaged school building had already been demolished. The number of students had more than halved and classes continued in the nearby Nakano Sakae Elementary School. The Nakano Splash had been moving from between a neighboring elementary school or junior high school to keep practicing, while the Nakano Sparrows had recovered and converted the damaged plaza into a training space to practice. ITOCHU decided to provide this support to assist these youths who were giving their all in the affected areas. 76 Social Contribution ITOCHU Takata no Yume Project In the Takata no Yume (Takata's dream) Project, associated with a local brand of rice launched by Rikuzentakata City in Iwate Prefecture as a symbol of revitalizing its agriculture, ITOCHU Group employees were involved in the production process from rice planting to harvesting as local volunteers for around six months in 2013. ITOCHU Food Sales and Marketing Co., Ltd. supported the sales of Takata no Yume. ITOCHU Group executives also visited Rikuzentakata City with the volunteers, and exchanged opinions with the mayor of Rikuzentakata City discussing and hearing the requests for Takata no Yume from the local farmers and reflected them to undertake PR and sales promotion activities. In addition, the ITOCHU Group transmitted information by setting up a website to communicate how we support Takata no Yume and, at the same time, held food tastings and provided a revitalization support menu in the company cafeteria to increase its recognition within the company. The ITOCHU Group continues to actively support the Takata no Yume Project by making concerted efforts as an organization. For details of the Takata no Yume Project, see HIGHLIGHT: Contribution to local communities (page26). Rikuzentakata Photo Exhibiton and Takata no Yume Exhibition at the Takashimaya Shinjuku Store From February 2014 until March 11, 2014, when three years had passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake, ITOCHU held the photo exhibitions Rikuzentakata Photo Exhibition An Expression of Emotional Support and Takata no Yume Exhibition at the Takashimaya Shinjuku Store. The exhibited photographs describing the disaster and the progress of reconstruction were the works of photojournalist Natsuki Yasuda, who has kept a photographic record of the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, especially Rikuzentakata City. Activities to Support Disaster-Affected Areas through the ITOCHU Foundation Activities with the ITOCHU Foundation in Tohoku for Sending Picture Books to Southeast Asia Shanti Volunteer Association engages in activities of sending Japanese picture books to children in Southeast Asia, by affixing labels showing text translated into local languages on the picture books. Every week, employee volunteers of ITOCHU affix the labels on the picture books together with the ITOCHU Foundation by using a dedicated kit purchased from Shanti Volunteer Association. An initiative was taken to expand these activities to children in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Employee volunteers of ITOCHU visited Sendai City of Miyagi Prefecture on July 6, 2013 and Shirakawa City of Fukushima Prefecture on July 13, 2013. The volunteers gave instructions on how to affix the labels to local children with groups engaged in book aid in the local areas and other organizations. 77 Social Contribution The 100 Children's Books Grant Conducted with Shareholders In fiscal 2014, a total of 6,216 shareholders agreed to receive shareholder information electronically. The money saved through the electronic distribution of the information and an equivalent amount of money donated by ITOCHU Corporation was sent to elementary schools and libraries in the affected areas via the ITOCHU Foundation. Specifically, new sets of books were donated via local book stores to the following 11 facilities. The books are enjoyed by children including those from Otsuchi Elementary School of Otsuchi Town, Iwate Prefecture, which has integrated three other elementary schools damaged severely by the tsunami, and those from Kodomo Hon-no Ie Soramame (Soramame the children's book house), a facility in Fukushima City that was forced to be relocated due to the nuclear accident. Fiscal 2014 recipients Iwate Prefecture Otsuchi Elementary School of Otsuchi Town, Kamaishi City Library, Ofunato City Library, Takkon District Community Center of Ofunato City, Sano District Community Center of Ofunato City, Fureai Kyoshitsu (Rikuzentakata City) Miyagi Prefecture Shishiori Elementary School of Kesennuma City, Kids' Room Ohisama (Kesennuma City), Masuda Children's Center, Shimo-Masuda Hokago Jido Club (Natori City) Fukushima Prefecture Kodomo-no Hon-no Ie Soramame (Fukushima City) Activities to Support Disaster-Affected Areas through ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE Aonoinori, the event for requiem for the victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake and reconstruction at ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE At ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE, Happy Island Blossoming in the Future -Art Exhibition 'God of Flowers Advent (I)' by IKEBANA Artist Hiroki Maeno, which was planned with hopes of disaster recovery, was held from March 8 to March 16. On the evening of March 10, the day before the third anniversary of the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aonoinori took place as an event to express the wish for recovery. This event was held using the stage where Hiroki Maeno, an IKEBANA artist, created the White Horse Art Monument using debris from disaster-affected areas in Miyako City, Iwate Prefecture. Mr. Maeno gave a performance of placing cherry blossoms, which herald the arrival of spring, onto the driftwood, and Reijiro Tsumura, a Noh performer, performed solemn dances along with the musical performance by Iwao Furusawa, a violinist, and Keiko Daito, a cellist. Their performance aimed at giving a prayer for requiem and regeneration from Aoyama, Tokyo to Tohoku. Over one hundred audience members visited the gallery despite the cold weather like the day of the disaster, watching the performance in silence. 78 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Action on Global Humanitarian Issues Providing Aid to Areas Affected by Major Natural Disasters For humanitarian reasons, we donate money and provide supplies for emergency relief for those affected by natural disasters both in Japan and overseas. We collaborated with local branch offices and related organizations to provide the following aid. Recent examples Philippines: Typhoon Haiyan (Nov. 2013) ¥15,563,616 China: earthquake in Szechuan (Apr. 2013) ¥5,025,000 (Through local subsidiary) United States: Hurricane in the northeast (Nov. 2012) US$50,000 Support Activities for the World Food Programme (WFP) With the hope of alleviating hunger and poverty worldwide, we have been serving as a council member of the Japan Association for the WFP, a nonprofit organization that focuses on building support in Japan for the World Food Programme (WFP) and its hunger relief operations. In May 2014, 270 employees of ITOCHU Corporation and ITOCHU Group companies participated in End Hunger: Walk the World, held in Yokohama. This is an annual event to raise money and awareness for the WFP's efforts to fight child hunger and malnutrition. At its Tokyo Headquarters as well, ITOCHU regularly engages in activities such as fundraising and holding panel exhibitions for introducing the WFP's Participated in End Hunger: Walk the activities. World TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) Fighting to Fix the Food Supply Imbalance between Developing and Developed Countries Our TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) is a social contribution program based on the concept of people in developed countries sharing a meal with those in developing nations beyond the restrictions of time and space so as to simultaneously work toward solving the problems of hunger faced by developing nations and obesity and lifestyle-related diseases faced by industrialized countries. TFT was established in Japan in October 2007, and in April 2008 in the corporate cafeterias in Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya ITOCHU introduced the TFT program at full-scale ahead of other companies. For each healthy TFT meal purchased by employees, a donation of 20 yen is automatically made. ITOCHU has introduced a matching gift program under which it donates an additional 20 yen per TFT meal purchased by its employees. This means that a total of 40 yen per meal is donated to the Japan Association for the World Food Programme and used to provide school lunches for children in developing nations. The cafeteria at the Tokyo head office has been serving TFT lunch specials daily since its renewal in May 2013. This is reflected in a significant increase of 31,242 in the number of TFT meals purchased and the corresponding donations of 613,280 yen. 79 Social Contribution Guidelines for TABLE FOR TWO meal 1. Meal with calories of approximately 730kcal (between 680 to 800kcal) 2. Nutritionally well-balanced meal 3. Meal with a generous amount of vegetables 80 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Environmental Conservation Activities to Restore the Tropical Rainforests and Conserve Borneo's Ecosystem In 2008 ITOCHU celebrated the 150th anniversary of the company's foundation. To commemorate the anniversary, the Company decided to implement a social contribution program. A questionnaire conducted to determine what type of program to conduct found forest conservation to be the theme employees desired most strongly. Since FY2010, under this program, ITOCHU has been engaged in activities to restore the tropical rainforests and conserve the ecosystem in Borneo by collaborating with World Wide Fund (WWF) for Nature Japan. In northeast Borneo, at North Ulu Segama in the state of Sabah in Planting of tree saplings Malaysia, where ITOCHU supports an area for rainforest regeneration, the international conservation organization WWF is collaborating on reforestation with the Forestry Department of the State Government of Sabah. The ITOCHU Group is supporting the regeneration of 967 hectares in the area – one of the largest forest regeneration programs to be carried out by a private enterprise. Since the land is also a habitat for orangutans, an endangered species, ITOCHU has named the program ITOCHU Group Forest for Orangutans and has worked together with Group companies to promote it. We also organize a tour to the island every year comprised of volunteers from among ITOCHU Group employees. In these tours, the employees take part in reforestation efforts (including tree planting and cutting grass), observing wild animals, and other activities. Support for Manila Hemp Plantation Rehabilitation Project On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of our Manila branch in 1912, in June we signed a project agreement with the Fiber Industry Development Authority of the Department of Agriculture and the St. Ann’s Family Service Cooperative, a local agricultural cooperative. The project has begun in August 2012, and ITOCHU will donate ¥2 million, the amount needed to plant and grow 90 hectares of Manila hemp (about 144,000 plants), which is scheduled to be completed by 2014. In addition, the project is expected to absorb approximately 18 tons of CO2 a year. 81 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Community Contribution Establishment of ITOCHU Medical Plaza for Contributing to Development of Kobe Medical Industrial City To the Foundation for Kobe International Medical Alliance, we donated 500 million yen necessary for constructing the ITOCHU Medical Plaza, a facility aimed at conducting international medical exchange. The Plaza is planned to open in October 2014 in the Kobe Medical Industrial City, one of the largest medical clusters in Japan. There is great expectation locally and internationally for the development of the center for human resource development, including education and technical training of overseas physicians and healthcare practitioners mainly from Southeast Asia, projects for accepting trainees from overseas, and a variety of research projects such as joint development of medical equipment with universities and other institutions. Image of completed ITOCHU Medical Plaza Running ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE In October 2012, we opened ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE in the CI Plaza next to ITOCHU’s Tokyo Headquarters. We established the facility as a base for our CSR activities aimed at contributing to the development of future generations, making local contributions through art, and contributing to art and cultural promotion, both in Japan and abroad. In Aoyama, an area that thrives with a variety of cultures, we will showcase artwork that reflects fresh perceptions and present exhibitions that serve as a bridge for international exchange. In fiscal 2014, ITOCHU held twelve exhibitions as described below, and the number of visitors since the opening had exceeded 45,000 people as of the end of March 2014. ART SQUARE facade ITOCHU will continue to address a range of social issues through art and regularly present exhibitions to contribute to creation of the culture of life in local communities. Period Exhibition Summary March 16, 2013 Exhibition of Edokiriko by As the number of artisans carrying out Edokiriko, a April 21, 2013 15 Young Artists traditional Japanese craft, has been decreasing year after year, attractive works by 15 young artists of Edokiriko in Koto-ku, Tokyo that are imbued with tradition and innovation are exhibited. This exhibition contributes to the cultivation of the next-generation artists who will continue the traditional craft. April 26, 2013 The Bicycle Expo IN Around 20 rare models from the history of bicycles are May 26, 2013 AOYAMA exhibited. In collaboration with the Federation of Aoyama Shopping Malls, which declared a bike-friendly district in 2009, this exhibition makes a contribution to the local community by developing the area through bicycles. June 10, 2013 Book Art Exhibition: An experience-based exhibition project that showcases July 14, 2013 'Books' Read with Five book art pieces created by Brazilian artists, which are Senses displayed for the first time in Japan and in which the books themselves are the works of art, with the cooperation of the Embassy of Brazil in Japan, as well as treasured original drawings and picture book applications of young Japanese picture book author Yoshikazu Ikeya. 82 Social Contribution Period Exhibition Summary July 16, 2013 Happy Island Blossoming A new style art exhibition in which flower arranger Hiroki July 18, 2013 in the Future Maeno expresses the now of his imagination with flower arrangements based on the theme of the reconstruction of Fukushima. The Kofuku Talk Show is presented for three days in the same space. July 22, 2013 Photo Exhibition by Teruo A photo exhibition by Teruo Sekiguchi, a photographer August 31, 2013 Sekiguchi: Smiles from who has visited far-flung regions around the world and Around the World made capturing glimpses of the various lifestyles and people of such locations his life's work. Visitors can view images of people living their lives in Bhutan, Myanmar and Cuba. September 9, 2013 Photo Exhibition to Mark Activities to commemorate 15 years since the foundation September 23, 2013 the 15th Anniversary of of Kokkyo naki Kodomotachi (KnK, Children without the Foundation of Kokkyo Borders), which supports street children and children naki Kodomotachi (KnK, stricken by major disasters in developing countries, are Children Without Borders) introduced through approximately 60 photographs taken by six photographers and photojournalists. October 1, 2013 Fantasy Art Grand Prix Ninety-six artworks that won prizes in an art competition October 10, 2013 Exhibition held jointly with an art gallery are exhibited to create an opportunity for artists to flourish. This project also aims to deliver the fun of purchasing an art work and revitalize the art world as a whole by adopting a bidding system. October 14, 2013 Word Exhibition of Shuji The exhibition presents the words of Shuji Terayama, November 4, 2013 Terayama who was described as an alchemist of words, in the form of artwork visually expressed by leading creators. In collaboration with Shuji Terayama: Knock held by neighboring Watari-um Museum, this exhibition is held for the entire district, delivering the significance of contributing to the local community. November 11, 2013 Tomo ni Ikiru An exhibition of calligraphy by Shoko Kanazawa, a young December 23, 2013 Exhibition of Calligraphy of calligrapher who studies with her mother, calligrapher Shoko Kanazawa Ranho (Yasuko) Kanazawa, and who is now receiving a lot of attention for her calligraphy, which is infused with a great love and exudes a warmth within its power, despite her difficulties due to having Down syndrome. January 10, 2014 Iro no Tsuranari A exhibition of works by Yuuki Sori, a young JapaneseFebruary 28, 2014 Japanese Painting style painter who creates rhythmic paintings using Exhibition by Yuuki Sori traditional Japanese painting materials from the close observation of flowers. This is an exhibition to support an up-and-coming Japanese-style painter who leads the next generation and wants people to enjoy Japanesestyle paintings in their modern lives. March 8, 2014 Art Exhibition 'God of An exhibition of flower arrangements by flower arranger March 16, 2014 Flowers Advent (I)' by Hiroki Maeno using cherry blossoms, which signal the Flower Arranger Hiroki coming of spring, on rubble from the Great East Japan Maeno Earthquake transported from Miyako City, Iwate Prefecture, as a prayer for the reconstruction following the disaster. March 21, 2014 Down Syndrome: The This exhibition showcases photographic works featuring March 30, 2014 Family View children and adults with Down syndrome, taken from an affectionate perspective. Having already achieved critical acclaim in seven countries, the exhibition makes its Japan premier on March 21, World Down Syndrome Day of the United Nations. 83 Social Contribution Lobby concert On July 22, 2013, we organized the 22nd ITOCHU lobby concert at the Tokyo head office attended by more than 700 current employees, former employees and their families as well as people in the local community. As we do every year, we also invited everyone from the Agape Center, a facility providing comprehensive welfare services for people with disabilities, and before the concert, we organized a social event with the presenter Keiko Takeshita and ITOCHU Chairman, Eizo Kobayashi. Everyone had been looking forward to the annual event and were very pleased to socialize and have photos take to commemorate the evening. The performance by the New York Symphonic Ensemble was also extremely well received. The talk between Mr. Kobayashi and Ms. Takeshita during break time drew attentions from the audience, who left such comments as I am impressed with the intelligent topics, which were unlike usual concerts. People who came to the concert enjoyed a time of healing by music on the hot summer evening. We will prepare exciting new events and plan new initiatives for the next year's lobby concert, so that many people will come to enjoy it as a summer feature of ITOCHU. 84 Social Contribution Community Cleanup Activities on Aoyama-dori ITOCHU employees take part in community cleanup activities around our Tokyo Headquarters. As members of the local community, they clean up the street and distribute items for raising awareness by cooperating with the local residents' association and staff of other companies in the area. 85 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Growth of Future Generations ITOCHU Foundation ITOCHU has promoted social contribution activities aiming for the sound development of young people since setting up the ITOCHU Foundation in 1974. The foundation engages in activities for contributing to the healthy growth of children, such as two current major projects: subsidizing development of children's literature collections (including subsidies for library development at schools and supplementary schools for Japanese nationals overseas), and promoting development of an e-book library. Students at Japanese Language School of Greater Hartford Subsidies for Children's Literature Collections Number of subsidies Subsidies for purchase of children's books 41 (of which, 2 overseas) Subsidies for purchase of children's books for hospitals 7 100 Children's Books Subsidy 27 (of which, 7 overseas) Subsidies for libraries at Japanese schools / supplementary schools 30 Award for distinguished service to children's literature collections and 2 related initiatives Support for areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake 21 Total 128 (of which, 39 overseas) Promoting Use of e-books Number of title developed Multimedia Daisy Library 55 titles (sent to 600 locations) Running Eco Shop Pavilion in KidZania Tokyo Since April 2012, ITOCHU operates its Eco Shop environmental pavilion in KidZania Tokyo, a facility for children to experience diverse types of work. ITOCHU operates the Eco Shop by utilizing the expertise in environmental education it has developed through the MOTTAINAI Campaign, a global environmental effort in which ITOCHU participates. To allow children to experience environmental activities, the pavilion provides visitors with opportunities to create original products such as a My Furoshiki Wrapping Cloth, Eco-Bag for Shopping, and My Chopsticks to Carry Along, all using eco-friendly materials. Children making soap from recycled At KidZania Tokyo, a popular venue for children, we will continue to materials provide them with opportunities to enjoy learning environmental preservation from a global perspective, helping to develop young people who will be leaders of sustainable society. 86 Social Contribution Launch of a project “Mobile Learning Center” in India with Save the Children Japan Together with Save the Children Japan, ITOCHU has launched a project Mobile Learning Center in the M-East district of Mumbai, India, in hopes to reach out to about 1,000 children who do not attend school because they are living on the street or engaged in child labor. To support this project, ITOCHU committed 20 million yen between 2013 and 2014. These funds were used to wrap the bus that operates as the mobile library; equip it with benches, blackboard, and bookshelves; and employ two persons (an education facilitator（*） and counselor), which mimics the learning environment of an ordinary school classroom. An opening ceremony was held in Mumbai on June 12th, designated by the International Labour Organization (ILO) as the World Day Against Child Labour. The objective of the project is to help children to reconnect to and cope with mainstream schooling through provision of learning opportunities that apply interactive games, a TV-DVD player, and other tools and are enjoyable for the participating children. * Education Facilitator plays a role like a teacher at MLC. The facilitator will encourage children’s active participation in learning activities. Children gathered for the opening ceremony Support the House for Youth in Philippines of NGO Kokkyo naki Kodomotachi(KnK) In December 2009, ITOCHU provided support for renovation of the House for Youth, a home that helps young people become independent, located on the outskirts of Manila. Support was provided via Kokkyo naki Kodomotachi (KnK: meaning children without borders ), an authorized Japanese NPO that supports street children, children who are victims of major disasters, and other children in developing countries. House for Youth was again renovated in 2012 into a job training facility that helps children achieve independence. In November 2013, the underground floor and the roof of the house were renovated, enabling the facility to Exterior steps of the House for Youth provide more job training courses, which allows more young people to after renovation acquire practical skills. The facility currently provides a wide range of support to approximately 1,000 young people every year. The renovated basement room of Vocational training of making Vocational training of using PC sewing machines handicrafts 87 Social Contribution KnK Reports From the Philippines (an excerpt from KnK’s website) The KnK Philippines House for Youth, which was established in November 2001, was renovated in December 2009 with support from ITOCHU Corporation. Young children who were abandoned by their parents live together here under the family-like love of staff members and receive appropriate care. Some children who suffered from severe malnutrition before they came here are extremely small for their age. Yet their health conditions have now improved significantly because they receive a well-balanced diet and Together with the live a regular life. staff members of At the House for Youth, we help young people living in slums get jobs by providing them KnK with training courses in computer skills and sewing. We have also started activities for creating income in the slums mainly through handicrafts. Through this work, young people can, for instance, create and sell accessories to help them become financially independent. 88 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Support for Volunteer Work by our Employees ITOCHU strives to heighten employees' awareness of volunteer activities. In one such effort we have introduced a system that lets employees take up to three days of annual volunteer leave and volunteer programs in which they can participate on holidays or during lunch breaks. We especially recommend that our employees participate in the following activities, for which we have launched our own support programs. Japan: Volunteering to provide support for recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake Overseas: Volunteer tree-planting in Borneo Volunteer Program to support reconstruction from the Great East Japan Earthquake In fiscal 2014, ITOCHU continued its program of employees volunteering to provide support for the recovery, which commenced immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake. A total of 98 ITOCHU Group employees participated in the program. The nature of our activities has changed from the removal of rubble immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake to direct support of the people by the earthquake for the reconstruction. We have participated in a range of activities, including rice planting, mowing, rice harvesting, agricultural support in orchards, fishery support such as assistance with oyster farming, the development of a meeting place for affected people, and the operation of a boys’ baseball championship. Employees participating in the activities were very impressed by the positive attitude of the afflicted people, and have become strongly motivated to continue undertaking activities to support disaster-affected areas. Although it is expected to take a lot more time to reconstruct the affected areas, we would like to continue to undertake volunteer activities suited to the situations in the disaster-affected areas. Activities to Restore the Tropical Rainforests and Conserve Borneo's Ecosystem Since 2009, ITOCHU has been engaged in activities to restore the tropical rainforests and conserve the ecosystem in Borneo by collaborating with World Wide Fund for Nature Japan. We organize employee volunteer tours every year and visit Borneo regularly with employees working for ITOCHU Group companies, national staff working overseas, and others. A total of 59 ITOCHU employees had helped plant trees at the program sites in the four tours made by the end of 2012. Examples of Other Volunteer Programs in which Employees can Participate Support for Child Chemo House through installation of vending machines To support operation of the Child Chemo House, the Japan's first specialized childhood cancer treatment facility, we have installed beverage vending machines specially designed for Chemo House in our Headquarters in Tokyo and Osaka. We donate an amount equaling 6%-10% of sales from all beverage vending machines installed in the buildings to Child Chemo House. In fiscal 2014, we donated a total of 3,073,542 yen from the sales of 512,257 beverages. 89 Social Contribution Lobby concert (Tokyo Headquarters) (Held in July) We volunteer to support the music appreciation of invitees from the Agape Center * every year, while deepening exchanges with them. * A facility of Japan Church World Service, Inc. for providing comprehensive welfare services for people with disabilities ITOCHU Baseball Class (Tokyo Headquarters) As part of nurturing young people, thinking that we want to give disabled children the opportunity to challenge themselves in a variety of activities, and that we would like to help create opportunities for them to explore their own potential, we have sponsored the classes since 2007. The instructor Kazuya Yano, former pitcher for the Yakult Swallows, covered a lot of ground, from sportsmanship, basic movements and other fundamentals that are difficult to master by practicing at home, to catching fly balls and practicing pitching. In fiscal 2014, 33 children and 38 volunteers participated. Expressing a common sentiment, one child who participated said, I am happy because it was the first opportunity for me to use some of this gear. From now on I want to practice more. The event is very popular with everyone including the children and their guardians, and the number of volunteers are increasing year by year. Campaign to Deliver Picture Books (Headquarters in Tokyo and Osaka, Chubu Branch, Kanazawa Branch) Participants in this campaign affix labels bearing text translated into local languages on corresponding pages of Japanese picture books and send the books to children in Southeast Asian countries as gifts. A room on the fifth floor of the Tokyo Headquarters is offered for these activities during lunchtime every Thursday. Selling Bread from the Swan Bakery The Swan Bakery was established by the Yamato Welfare Foundation with the aim of encouraging employment for people with disabilities at reasonable wages. Since May 2008, we sell bread from the Swan Bakery every Wednesday in the employee cafeteria at the Tokyo head office. As many employees have purchased bread from the Swan Bakery, we received the following favorable comment from the people in the bakery: We are grateful that you have purchased a lot of bread. Nature Observation Sessions organized by the Fureai Network We conducted the nature observation at Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden in early April, the cicada walk in early August, and the nature observation tour in Yokosawari in early October, and employees and their family members participated. 90 Social Contribution Book reading by Fureai Network's Reading Aloud Group (held on second Saturday of each month) Current and retired employees of the ITOCHU Group visit elderly residents of a nursing home in Shibuya ward as volunteers once a month and interact with them by reading books aloud, singing with them, and engaging in other activities. As we have been conducting these activities for more than 10 years, we have received a certificate of appreciation. 91 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Activities Policies ITOCHU Corporation positions global warming and other environmental problems as one of the top priority issues in its management policy. In addition, to fulfill our corporate philosophy “Committed to the Global Good,” we have established the ITOCHU Group Environmental Policy. Now, we advance our corporate management and activities on a global scale under this policy, not only to contribute to the prosperity of the present generation, but also from the view point of what we can create to pass on to the next generation, while keeping a strong awareness of global environmental problems. The ITOCHU Group Environmental Policy I . Basic Philosophy Global warming and other environmental issues are affecting the future of mankind. As a global enterprise, ITOCHU Group is positioning these issues as one of the most important management policies. ITOCHU Group contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by promoting “Actively addressing the better global environment” based on The ITOCHU Group Corporate Code of Conduct, in order to achieve the goals of The ITOCHU Group Corporate Philosophy, “Committed to the Global Good”. II . Activity Guidelines In keeping with the basic philosophy presented above, ITOCHU Group pursues a continual improvement of its environmental management system and defines the following guidelines concerning activities of environmental conservation. (1) Prevention of In all business activities, duly consider the need to conserve ecosystems environmental pollution and biodiversity, as well as local and global environments, and strive to prevent the occurrence of any environmental pollution. (2) Observance of laws and Observe all domestic and foreign laws and regulations related to regulations environmental conservation, along with other requirements to which we have subscribed. (3) Promotion of Besides promoting activities for conservation of energy and resources as environmental conservation well as reduction and recycling of waste as needed to establish the activities recycling-oriented society, endeavor to develop and supply products and services that help to conserve the environment. (4) Harmonious coexistence As a good corporate citizen, aspiring for the prosperity of succeeding with society generations and positive contribution to society in general, support local communities for environmental education and assist in basic research pertaining to conservation of the global environment. (5) Promotion of educational Educate both our own employees and those of Group companies in order to activities raise their awareness of environmental conservation and improve the quality and effectiveness of associated activities. May 2010 Masahiro Okafuji President & Chief Executive Officer 92 Our Initiatives for the Environment ITOCHU Corporation's Stance on the Environment ITOCHU Corporation is active in Japan and internationally, offering a wide range of products and services, developing resources, and investing in businesses. Our activities are closely related to global environment problems. We believe that a company cannot grow sustainably without awareness of these problems. In 1990, we created a Global Environment Department, and in April 1993, we documented our environmental activity guidelines in the ITOCHU's Activity Guidelines on the Environment (the predecessor of our Environmental Policy). In 1997, these guidelines were revised to the “ITOCHU Corporation Environmental Policy” and we have subsequently revised this policy several times, in order to keep up with changing demands over time and reflect them in the Policy's expression. We also made the following two revisions in May 2010. 1. We changed the name from the “ITOCHU Corporation's Environmental Policy” to “The ITOCHU Group Environmental Policy,” in order to express clearly that our commitment to environmental issues is shared throughout the ITOCHU Group, rather than just by ITOCHU Corporation. 2. We revised the Activity Guidelines in our current Environmental Policy, in order to make it clear that our commitment goes a step beyond conserving ecosystems, to conserving biodiversity as well. The expression was thus changed from “conserve ecosystems” to “conserve ecosystems and biodiversity.” 93 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Management ITOCHU Corporation has formulated an Environmental Policy covering the entire ITOCHU Group. ITOCHU is aware of the impact that its business activities may have on the global environment. We have thus built a framework for assessing the impact of the products we handle, and in particular before making new investment, in order to prevent environmental risk. We believe it is important to contribute to sustainable development as a corporation by implementing both the offense of promoting environment conserving businesses and the defense of taking a precautionary approach to environmental risks. Environmental Management System In 1997, ITOCHU Corporation became the first trading company to establish an environmental management system (EMS) based on ISO 14001, and we continue to work to improve our EMS. The system's aim is to comply with environmental laws and regulations, take precautionary approaches to environmental risks and promote environment conserving businesses. Specifically, the system controls and manages targets through a yearly PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle of setting targets for preventing environmental risk and promoting environment conserving businesses; evaluating and analyzing progress; and acting to achieve our targets. 94 Our Initiatives for the Environment ITOCHU Corporation’s Environmental Management Organization Our president has the ultimate responsibility for ITOCHU Corporation’s environmental management organization. The president appoints a CAO who has complete authority for the environmental management system. Concrete management work is carried out by the CSR Committee, established to review environmental policies and perform annual reviews of corporate-wide activities. The CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department of the Corporate Communications Division serves as the CSR Committee's secretariat. Environmental managers, assigned to each division that is subject to environmental audits (60 total in fiscal 2015), and assisted by eco-leaders (287 total as of April 1, 2014), are responsible for promoting environmental conservation in their respective divisions. Internal Environmental Audits Internal environmental audits based on ISO 14001 are conducted every year, and in fiscal 2014, they were carried out in 60departments. Findings from the audits, conducted over roughly six months, are instrumental in taking precautionary approach on the environmental risks. Audit teams are comprised of members of the CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department and employees qualified to serve as In-house environmental auditors (367 registered individuals), and carried out their work with an emphasis on auditing legal compliance. Results of External Inspections Each year, ITOCHU is inspected by the Japan Audit and Certification Organization for Environment and Quality (JACO) in connection to ISO 14001 certification. The fiscal 2014 inspection was to retain certification. The outcome of the inspection was an overall “improvement” grade and continued certification, based on an acknowledgement of ongoing system improvement efforts by ITOCHU. 95 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Management Results and Targets With respect to environmental management, ITOCHU establishes environmental objectives to be tackled in the medium-term, and then sets specific targets and conducts performance reviews based on those targets each fiscal year. Item Fiscal 2014 Environmental Review Fiscal 2015 Environmental Targets Targets When investing, perform When investing, perform environmental risk assessments in environmental risk assessments in advance and ensure thorough advance and ensure thorough corporate wide utilization of the CSR corporate wide utilization of the CSR and Environmental Checklist for and Environmental Checklist for Investments. Investments. ○ Strengthen the awareness of risk Strengthen the awareness of risk management through the entire management through the entire supply chain through Environmental supply chain through Environmental Prevention of Risk Assessments by Product and Risk Assessments by Product and Environmental ensure thorough corporate-wide ensure thorough corporate-wide Pollution/ utilization. utilization. Observance of Laws and Regulations Promote initiatives to improve Promote initiatives to improve management levels by confirming management levels by confirming environmental management systems, environmental management systems, ○ legal compliance and the state of legal compliance and the state of environmental performance through environmental performance through internal auditing. internal auditing. Select Group companies and conduct Select Group companies and conduct on-site surveys of their environmental ○ onsite surveys of their environmental management status. management status. Expand the scope of monitoring to Expand the scope of monitoring to information such as the energy information such as the energy ○ emissions of overseas Group Promotion of emissions of major domestic companies and major domestic and Environmental subsidiaries. oversea subsidiaries. Conservation Activities Set and review targets based on the Set and review targets based on the CSR Action Plan. CSR Action Plan. ○ (Promote at least one target at each (Promote at least one target at each company and branch) company and branch) Conduct environmental education for Conduct environmental education for elementary and junior high school ○ elementary and junior high school students. students. Harmonious Coexistence with Coordinate with regional companies Coordinate with regional companies Society and local governments on and local governments on environmental conservation activities ○ environmental conservation activities (Promote at least once such initiative (Promote at least once such initiative at each branch) at each branch) Conduct and promote learning Conduct and promote learning through seminars, tours, basic through seminars, tours, basic environmental education and environmental education and ○ education for personnel with specific education for personnel with specific duties for employees of ITOCHU duties for employees of ITOCHU Corporation and Group companies. Corporation and Group companies. Promotion of Educational Activities Conduct training sessions and Conduct training sessions and promote learning regarding Waste promote learning regarding Waste Management and Public Cleansing Management and Public Cleansing Law and Soil Contamination ○ Law and Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act for employees Countermeasures Act for employees of ITOCHU Corporation and Group of ITOCHU Corporation and Group companies. companies. * ○: Implemented △: Partially ×: Not yet implemented 96 Our Initiatives for the Environment Precautionary Approach to Environmental Risks In addition to evaluating environmental risks of the products we handle, we are committed to taking a precautionary approach to environmental risks. This commitment also extends to ITOCHU Group companies, reflecting the need to identify the impact on the global environment of the business activities of the Group as a whole. Evaluating Environmental Risks Posed by Products Handled We handle a wide and diverse range of products on a global scale. We thus carry out our own original environmental impact evaluations on all the products based on our belief that it is vital to evaluate the impact of these products to the global environment, the state of our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and their relationship with stakeholders. We use a so-called LCA (*) -based analysis method at all stage of product life cycle from procurement of raw materials, production, and use, through disposal of products. If the evaluation shows that the impact on the global environment by particular products exceeds predetermined benchmarks, then we create manuals and the concrete procedures to manage transactions of these products. * LCA (life-cycle assessment) is a method that evaluates the environmental impact of products at all stages of their life cycle, from raw materials, manufacturing, transport and use through to disposal and recycling or reuse. Fact-finding Investigations of Group Companies We analyze about 200 of our 393 Group companies (as of March 31, 2014) with relatively higher levels of impact on the global environment, and conduct investigations of about 10 to 20 of them per year. Over the 13 years to the end of March 2014, we did on-site investigation at 249 worksites. The evaluation is made using Q&As between auditors and management, inspections of plants, warehouses, and other facilities, surveys of wastewater released into rivers, and assessments of compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Evaluating the Environmental Risks of New Investment Projects ITOCHU Corporation and its subsidiaries in Japan employ a CSR and environmental checklist for investments to evaluate in advance the market, social and environmental impact of business investment projects entered via M&A in Japan and overseas. We revised this checklist to reflect the seven core subjects (Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, The Environment, Fair Operating Practices, Consumer Issues, Community Involvement and Development) of ISO 26000, and we began to utilize the new checklist in fiscal 2014. When specialist insight is needed, ITOCHU calls on specialized external bodies to render an advance inspection of the project. Action on the project then moves forward once inspection results and the presence of no major problems are confirmed. Internal and External Inquiries and Our Response In the year ended March 31, 2014, we received a total of 64-inquiries from outside the Company, which were broken down as follows: environmental groups (3), industry (7), government and industry groups (18), and media and research firms (12), requirement of ISO14001 certification from customers (24). There were no environmentrelated incidents, problems, lawsuits against the Company. Meanwhile, the number of inquiries from within the Company and ITOCHU Group companies was as follows: 54 inquiries regarding Japan’s Waste Management and Public Cleaning Law, and 9 inquiries regarding business investments. 97 Our Initiatives for the Environment Promotion of Environment Conserving Businesses ITOCHU Corporation is committed to solving environmental issues through its businesses. As a framework for promoting these businesses, each division formulates a CSR Action Plan and promotes initiatives according to the PDCA cycle. ITOCHU also recognizes climate change and sustainable resource utilization as material issues and focuses on finding solutions to these challenges. Renewable Energy Details of Name of Business Country Generating Capacity / Size Greenhouse Gas Initiative Operator/Investment Reduction Project Figures Wind Power CPV Keenan II Wind Approx. 410,000 USA 152MW Generation Power Generation Project tons / year Business Shepherds Flat Wind Approx. Power Generation USA 845MW 1,500,000tons / Business year Biodiesel Biodiesel manufacturing Manufacturing project in Nebraska, USA Approx. 500,000～ Business run by Flint Hills USA About 50 million gallon/year 750,000 tons / Resources, Benefuel and year others Energy-fromST&W Waste Incineration Incineration treatment of Waste Business and Power Generation 260,000 tons / year of Estimated 62,000 Project / SITA South England general waste Scale of power tons / year Tyne & Wear Holdings generation: Equivalent power Limited consumption of 31,000 homes Cornwall Waste Incineration treatment of Incineration and Power 240,000 tons / year of Estimated 60,000 Generating Business / England general waste Scale of power tons / year SITA Cornwall Holdings generation: Equivalent power Limited consumption of 21,000 homes Merseyside Waste Incineration treatment of Incineration and Power 460,000 tons / year of Estimated Generating Business / England general waste Scale of power 130,000 tons / SITA Merseyside Holdings generation: Equivalent power year Limited consumption of 63,000 homes West London Waste Incineration treatment of Incineration and Power 350,000 tons / year of Estimated 83,000 Generating Business / England general waste Scale of power tons / year SITA West London generation: Equivalent power Holdings Limited consumption of 50,000 homes Geothermal About 1,000,000 Sarulla Operations Ltd Indonesia 320MW Power Generation tons/year Photovoltaic South Scatec Solar AS 75MW 125,000 tons/year Power Generation Africa Production of aviation biofuel Solena Fuels Corporation USA N/A N/A from municipal solid waste ITOCHU Corporation is working for the solution of social issues through investment in power generation assets that are anticipated to experience growth as necessary means of energy supply from now on and that make effective use of renewable energy such as geothermal power and wind power. Related page: Highlight: Climate change (page25) Shepherds Flat wind power plant 98 Our Initiatives for the Environment Water-Related Businesses Country Details of Initiative Seawater ITOCHU began delivering large numbers of seawater desalination plants from the 1970s. Desalination In the 2000s, ITOCHU and Sasakura established the joint venture company ACWA Power Sasakura with local capital in the country. In addition, against a backdrop of population growth and industrialization, ITOCHU also expanded into rehabilitation projects for seawater desalination plants. In May 2012, the joint venture company Arabian Japanese Membrane Company, LLC, which manufactures reverse osmosis membrane elements for seawater desalination, was established with Saudi Arabian firm ACWA Holding and Toyobo. In 2009, ITOCHU invested and participated in a seawater desalination project (daily capacity of 440,000 tons) in Victoria, Australia. It commenced operation from 2013. Water treatment ITOCHU was consigned to perform maintenance and operational services for the NorthSouth Sewage Treatment Facility at the Changxing Island Harbor Industrial Zone in Dalian City, Liaoning Province, China. The facility boasts a processing capacity of 40,000 tons per day. ITOCHU established a joint venture company with Suez affiliate Sino French Water Development Co. Ltd., and is currently implementing the project. Concession In 2012, ITOCHU invested in the UK-based Bristol Water Group. This made it the first project Japanese company to participate in the UK water supply business. ITOCHU is currently providing tap water services encompassing everything from water resource management to water purification, water supply and distribution, collection of charges, and customer service to some 1.2 million customers in UK. In 2014, ITOCHU invested in CANARAGUA CONCESIONES S.A., which provides both water supply and sewerage works services in the Canary Islands in Spain. This made it the first Japanese company to participate in a Spanish water supply business. ITOCHU is currently providing water supply and sewerage works services to an extended total of about 1.3 million customers in Spain , based on a concession agreement concluded with the local governments. About 97.5% of the earth's water consists of sea water. Water available for use by human beings accounts for only 0.01% of the total. Meanwhile, the demand for water worldwide is steadily increasing due to economic development driven by the newly emerging countries, population growth, and changes in precipitation patterns caused by climate change. ITOCHU Corporation has positioned water-related business as a priority field, and is globally developing business in areas such as sea water desalination, water treatment, and Itochu invests in concession projects (newly undertaken beginning in 2013), with a view to assisting solution UK water utility of water problems around the world. Bristol Water Tree Plantation Name of Business Operator/Tree Plantation Country Project Size CENIBRA (Celulose Nipo-Brasileira S.A.) Brazil 132,000ha ANCHILE Chile 27,000ha Southland Plantation Forest Co. New Zealand 10,000ha South East Fibre Exports Australia 5,000ha Acacia Afforestation Asia Vietnam 2,000ha South Wood Export Ltd. New Zealand 1,000ha 99 Our Initiatives for the Environment Other Environmental Businesses Project Name Details of Initiative Lithium-ion Batteries ITOCHU has invested and participated in a lithium compound manufacturing business, cathode material business and anode material business. ITOCHU has built a value chain in the lithium-ion battery field based on investment projects with the likes of US-based SIMBOL MATERIALS as well as Toda Kogyo Corp. and Kureha Battery Materials Japan Co., Ltd., and will promote the stable production and supply of raw materials, related products, and storage battery system. In 2013, ITOCHU launched a lithium-ion storage battery system for industrial applications with a capacity of 16.8 kWh. The system has been developed and commercialized by NF Corporation. Energy Management Since 2009 ITOCHU has deployed the ecoFORTE IT-based energy management Systems/ system (EMS), achieving the visualization and automated operating control of Energy-Saving Solutions the power for air conditioning, lighting equipment and other facilities, and helping customers conserve electricity. In 2013, ITOCHU took a stake in Kankyo Keiei Senryaku Soken, and has been enhancing EMS business. ITOCHU has developed the Smart Street Lighting Service, a smart street lighting business utilizing cutting-edge technologies. In 2012, the service won the Grand Prize for Energy Saving Service in the EcoServices category of the 9th Eco-Products Awards. Currently, pilot tests are underway at several sites inside and outside of Japan, such as those owned by municipal governments and those located at industrial complexes, and we are strengthening our efforts for the full-fledged start of this business. For the “Smart Streetlight Service,” ITOCHU won the Grand Prize for Energy Saving Service at the 9th Eco Products Awards in 2012. For this service, devices compatible with power line communications will be attached to each streetlight. These devices will enable remote control of each streetlight, including fine adjustment of the brightness level in accordance with the environment. Moving forward, we will continue to strengthen our energy and smart IT infrastructure business and to promote energy management. In this way, we will strive to contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society. 100 Our Initiatives for the Environment Approaches to Conservation of Biodiversity The business activities of ITOCHU Corporation are heavily bound up with consumption of all sorts of resources in the natural world (e.g., water, air, forests, food, minerals, and fossil fuels). Our business rests on supply of the natural bounty produced by the ecosystem to society at large, whether directly or indirectly. With this awareness, we stipulated consideration for biodiversity as part of our Activity Guidelines under the ITOCHU Group Environmental Policy. Our concern for biodiversity in our business activities is reflected in efforts for sustainable forest management, conservation of natural forests, and protection of endangered plant and animal species. Concern for Biodiversity in Business Activities Concern for biodiversity in pulp production projects ITOCHU’s Group company CENIBRA in Brazil has consistently engaged in everything from forest management to pulp production. In 2005, CENIBRA obtained forest certification from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) as well as CoC certification (certification for management of processing and distribution processes). For more details, please see Major CSR Initiatives of ICT, Gerneral Products & Realty Company (page44-45) One of CENIBRA’s vast plantations Activities for Conservation of Biodiversity Even apart from its business activities, the ITOCHU Group is working to conserve biodiversity through social contribution initiatives. Activities for Revival of Tropical Forest and Conservation of the Ecosystem on the Island of Borneo The island of Borneo is largely covered with tropical forests spanning the countries of Malaysia, Indonesia, and Brunei. In area, it is about twice as large as Japan and the third-largest island in the world. It is known as a treasure-trove of biodiversity. However, it is also in the process of development, and some tropical forest areas have been damaged to the point that their ecosystems cannot be conserved on the strength of nature's own powers of revival alone. The ITOCHU Group is supporting activities for revival of forests in the district of North Ulu Segama in the Malaysian state of Sabah, in the northeastern part of the island. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), the globally active organization for protection of nature, is engaged in activities for forest revival in an area of about 2,400 hectares, in coordination with the Sabah Forestry Department. The ITOCHU Group is supporting revival over a portion measuring 967 hectares, larger than any other zone of forest revival supported by an ordinary private enterprise. The district is also a habitat for the orangutan, an endangered species. The revival will help to protect not only the orangutan but also many other species living there. Related page: Social Contribution Activities: Environmental Conservation (page81) Tree-planting by tour participants The orangutan, an endangered species 101 Our Initiatives for the Environment Hunting World's Activities to Support Borneo Hunting World is a luxury brand handled by ITOCHU Corporation. Since its creation in 1965, its logo has depicted a tuskless baby elephant. For more details, please see Major CSR Initiatives of Textile Company (page29) The Borneo elephant, an endangered species Support is also provided for efforts including construction of facilities for temporary protection and treatment of the elephants before returning them to the forest, as well as for taming them. Support for Tree-planting Activities in Kenya In April 2012, ITOCHU Corporation opened Eco Shop, an environmental pavilion giving children actual experience of eco activities, in KidZania Tokyo, a facility devoted to vocational experience for children. For each child visiting, the pavilion donates an amount equivalent to the cost of one seedling to the Green Belt Movement, a tree-planting program in Kenya. By the end of March 2014, about 60,000 children had visited to participate in the activities at the pavilion, and the pavilion had therefore donated an amount sufficient for purchase of about 60,000 seedlings to Kenya. Besides tree planting, the funds are used in Kenya for various other purposes, including facilities for storage of rainwater to permit the continuation of forest revival and the holding of workshops for local residents to educate them about ecological approaches to sound utilization of forest resources. Related page: Social Contribution Activities: Growth of Future Generations (page86) The ceremony of presenting saplings to Tree-planting activities in Kenya (photo the kenyan ambassador in April 2013 courtesy of the Mainichi Newspapers) 102 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Education and Awareness We are committed to improving the environmental awareness of the entire ITOCHU Group. To encourage environmental conservation efforts among our employees we offer a wide range of education programs, as well as seminars on environmental law, and seminars to raise awareness of global environmental issues, which also target Group employees. Seminars We actively hold seminars in order to ensure that all employees of the ITOCHU Group are aware of and comply with the requirements of environmental laws and regulations, and in order to raise environmental awareness. Internal Seminars and Training Sessions (fiscal 2014 results) Content Timing Target Participant Environmental Managers 25th April 2013 (Tokyo) Employees and Group 135 Conference 26th April 2013 (Osaka) Company Employees General Education From May to July 2013 Employees and 3960 59 times in total Group Company Employees Education of staff in specific From May 2013 to Employees and 461 operations February 2014 Group Company 41 times in total Employees Seminar on Soil 18th July 2013 Employees and 218 Contamination (Tokyo/Osaka/Taiwan) Group Company Countermeasures Law Employees The Waste Seminar 11th September 2013 Employees and 418 Management and (Tokyo/Osaka/Taiwan) Group Company Public Cleansing ※Other 1 time Employees Law e-learning October～December 2013 Employees 4818 CSR and Global Environment 20th February 2014 Employees and 216 Seminar (Tokyo/Osaka/Taiwan) Group Company Employees CSR Seminar for the specific at any time Employees and 205 departments and ITOCHU Group Company group companies Employees 103 Our Initiatives for the Environment CSR and Global Environment Seminar A CSR and Global Environment Seminar entitled “Climate Change: Risk and Business Opportunities” was held on February 20. 216 members of ITOCHU Corporation and Group companies participated in the seminar by means of a videoconferencing system that connected the ITOCHU Tokyo Head Office, the ITOCHU Osaka Head Office, and ITOCHU TAIWAN. The keynote speech for the first half of the seminar was given by Masahide Kimoto, a professor at the University of Tokyo’s Atmosphere and Ocean Research Institute. Professor Kimoto said that global warming had reached a serious stage, and he provided information based on the latest research about what kinds of climate change we may expect to occur in the future, together with their impact on us and what countermeasures are available. In the second half of the seminar, there was a panel discussion in which detailed case studies of climate change phenomena were presented by Shuhei Maeda of the Japan Meteorological Agency who is in charge of information about the El Niño phenomenon, and by Mr. Yakushiji, General Manager of the Planning & Administration Department of the Machinery Company. Based on these case studies, a lively discussion developed about how businesses should embrace climate change and the available future possibilities. A questionnaire revealed a variety of opinions about expanding the environmental business going forward, including hopes concerning these valuable opportunities for the development of ITOCHU’s business and the concrete application of this climate data. The keynote speech being The panel discussion in given by Professor progress Masahide Kimoto of the University of Tokyo’s Atmosphere and Ocean Research institute 104 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Performance Data ITOCHU Corporation strives to achieve environmental conservation not only through business activities, but also through office activities, such as cutting back electricity consumption and the promotion of the recycling of waste, in which all its employees can easily participate. In addition, it has gradually expanded the scope of the collection of environmental performance data on Group companies in Japan and oversea, and overseas subsidiaries to understand the actual environmental situation and improve its environmental conservation activities in the future. Environmental Performance Scope of the Data ○:in scope of aggregation Electricity CO2 emissions Waste volume Paper Water consumption from business consumption consumption facilities and wastewater discharge Tokyo ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ headquarters Osaka ○ ○ headquarters Branches in ○ ○ Japan *1 Other branches and business ○ ○ facilities in Japan *2 Group companies ○ ○ ○ ○ in Japan *3 Overseas ○ ○ ○ ○ subsidiaries *4 Overseas group ○ ○ ○ ○ companies *5 *1 The branches in Japan cover all 5 domestic branches of ITOCHU Corporation. *2 Aggregation since FY2011 (FY2011: 16 offices; FY2012: 14 offices,FY2013: 13 offices; FY2014: 12 offices) *3 Aggregation since FY2011 (FY2011: 56 companies, FY2012: 61 companies, FY2013: 66 companies; FY2014: 66 companies) *4 Aggregation since FY2011 (FY2011: 5 offices, FY2012: 10 offices, FY2013: 14 offices; FY2014: 15 offices) *5 Aggregation since FY2013 (FY2013: 33 offices, FY2014: 36 offices) Independent Assurance Report (page123): The following data marked with ★ are assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000 & ISAE 3410. ★ : Data on electricity consumption, CO2 emissions for the Tokyo headquarters, the Osaka headquarters and branches in Japan, CO2 emissions attributed to distribution, waste volume and water consumption and wastewater discharge for the Tokyo headquarters. 105 Our Initiatives for the Environment Electricity Consumption The table below shows electricity consumption and CO2 emissions from business facilities from FY 2011 and FY2014. ITOCHU has announced a goal of reducing specific energy consumption at ITOCHU Corporation itself and its domestic subsidiaries by an average of at least one percent per year and is striving to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. ITOCHU installed inverters for the ventilation systems and LED desk stands, and introduced other energy-saving facilities, while all employees took the initiative of turning off lights and office equipment when not in use. In addition, an early-morning shift option was launched on a trial basis for full-time employees at the headquarters, branch companies, and branch offices in Japan beginning in October 2013, and this has also led to the reduction in our electricity consumption. Unit:Thousand kWh FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Tokyo headquarters ★ 13,006 10,418 9,914 9,391 Osaka headquarters ★ 1,750 1,119 505 473 Branches in Japan ★ 512 472 446 422 Other branches and business 3,971 3,404 3,237 1,826 facilities in Japan Group companies in Japan 1,881,894 1,881,147 1,981,389 2,079,998 Overseas subsidiaries 651 987 2,720 3,580 Overseas group companies 157,908 182,229 ・ For the Tokyo headquarters, data has been collated in accordance with the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. For the Osaka headquarters, domestic branches and offices and other business facilities, data has been collated in accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (it covers business facilities ITOCHU Corporation owns or rents, excluding the facilities for dwellings). ・ Group companies in Japan: Data on the Group companies that responded was combined (FY2011: 56companies, FY2012: 61 companies, FY2013: 66 companies, FY2014: 66 companies). ・ Overseas subsidiaries: Data on the overseas subsidiaries that responded was combined (FY2011: 5 offices, FY2012: 10 offices, FY2013: 14 offices, FY2014: 15 offices). ・ Overseas group companies: Data on the overseas group companies that responded was combined ( FY2013: 33 companies, FY2014: 36 companies). ・ We have revised the past FY data of group companies in Japan and overseas subsidiaries, since we expanded the boundaries. CO2 Emissions from Business Facilities Unit:t-CO2 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Tokyo headquarters ★ 7,032 5,778 5,492 5,202 Osaka headquarters ★ 647 413 227 243 Branches in Japan ★ 273 255 270 278 Other branches and business 1,372 1,160 1,494 964 facilities in Japan Group companies in Japan 1,099,187 1,095,571 1,132,954 1,187,846 Overseas subsidiaries 441 697 1,582 2,007 Overseas group companies 129,860 142,106 ・ For the Tokyo headquarters, data has been calculated in accordance with the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. For the Osaka headquarters, domestic branches and offices, other business facilities and Group companies in Japan, data has been calculated in accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. ・ For overseas subsidiaries, the figures are the total based on the CO2 conversion factor of the International Energy Agency (IEA). ・ We have revised the past FY data of group companies in Japan and overseas subsidiaries, since we expanded the boundaries. ・ For the Tokyo headquarters and Osaka headquarters, CO2 emission of Scope 1 is 154t-CO2 and CO2 emission of Scope 2 is 5,569t-CO2. 106 Our Initiatives for the Environment Waste Volume The table below shows the waste volume generated in Tokyo headquarters building, group companies in Japan, overseas subsidiaries and overseas group companies from FY2011 to FY2014. We have been promoting waste segregation. FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Tokyo headquarters Waste volume (Unit: t) 1,049 706 763 833 building ★ Recycling rate (Unit: 89 89 88 94 %) Group companies in Japan* Waste volume (Unit: t) 183,098 202,099 213,123 216,374 Overseas subsidiaries Waste volume (Unit: t) 5 5 5 26 Overseas group companies Waste volume (Unit: t) 145,098 155,150 ・ Group companies in Japan: Data on the Group companies that responded was combined (FY2011: 49 companies, FY2012: 50 companies, FY2013: 52 companies, FY2014: 52 companies). ・ Overseas subsidiaries: Data on the overseas subsidiaries that responded was combined (FY2011: 1 office, FY2012: 1 office, FY2013: 1 office, FY2014: 3 office). ・ Overseas group companies: Data on the overseas group companies that responded was combined (FY2013: 17 companies, FY2014: 19 companies). ・ For the waste volume of Tokyo headquarters includes waste sold as valuable resources. ・ We have revised the past FY data of Tokyo headquarters and group companies in Japan, since we expanded the boundaries. Paper Consumption The table below shows the paper consumption in Tokyo headquarters building from FY2011 to FY2014. We have been promoting the reduction of paper consumption by means such as encouraging paperless activities and stopping the unnecessary use of paper. Unit: Thousand sheets (A4 equivalent) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Copy paper consumption 36,558 37,478 36,883 35,315 Water Consumption and Wastewater Discharge The table below shows the water consumption and wastewater discharge in Tokyo headquarters, group companies, overseas subsidiaries and overseas group companies from FY2011 to FY2014. Unit:m3 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 City water usage by the Tokyo headquarters ★ 54,226 44,590 43,068 44,154 Gray water production by the Tokyo headquarters ★ 31,577 37,222 37,212 36,431 Wastewater discharge by the Tokyo headquarters ★ 51,472 46,095 46,593 60,837 (*1) Wastewater discharge by group companies in Japan *2 5,390,872 5,556,297 5,774,459 5,968,838 Wastewater discharge by overseas subsidiaries *2 3,482 4,583 15,524 249,861 Wastewater discharge by Overseas group companies *2 8,829,067 8,987,458 *1 We changed the calculation method of wastewater discharge for Tokyo headquarters in fiscal 2014. *2 Calculation assumes the same volume as water consumption when wastewater discharge has not been ascertained. ・ Group companies in Japan: Data on the Group companies that responded was combined (FY2011: 33 companies, FY2012: 34 companies, FY2013: 39 companies, FY2014: 40 companies). ・ Overseas subsidiaries: Data on the overseas subsidiaries that responded was combined (FY2011: 2 office, FY2012: 2 office, FY2013: 5 offices, FY2014: 5 office). ・ Overseas group companies : Data on the overseas group companies that responded was combined (FY2013: 27 offices, FY2014: 29 office). ・ We have revised the past FY data of group companies in Japan and overseas subsidiaries, since we expanded the boundaries. 107 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental conservation at the Tokyo Headquarters Building Solar power generation We installed solar panels on the roofs of our TOKYO headquarters and the adjacent CI Plaza. It has started to generate electricity since March 2010. The capacity of generation for solar panels is total 100kw which is equivalent to prevailing 30 detached houses (approximately 3.0kw per detached house). We make use of all clean energy generated solar power in our TOKYO headquarters and it regards as electric energy (Maximum power generation at moment) covered 3.5 floors lighting. Effective Use of Water Resources Since the treatment facilities for recovered water (gray water, rainwater and spring water) were installed when the Tokyo headquarters was built in 1980, recovered water have been effectively utilized to flush the toilets. The change on amount of securing gray water may be caused by the rainfall every year so that city water usage tends to increase when the rainfall is a little. Therefore, we take care of saving water to install the devise for economize hand washing water and flushing in toilets. Tokyo Metropolitan Government Program to prevent Global Warming ITOCHU Corporation submitted the Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, in accordance with their Ordinance on Environmental conservation. In the plan, we committed to reduce CO2 emissions in the Tokyo headquarters by 6%, compared to the benchmark (the average of annual CO2 emissions from FY2003 to 2005). Emissions in FY2013 came to 5,492 tons CO2, down 35% from the benchmark. (Data for FY2014 will be reported to Tokyo Metropolitan Government in November 2014 after they are complied.) Those below submitted to Tokyo Metropolitan Government are available in Japanese. Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2011) (Japanese Only) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2012) (Japanese Only) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2013) (Japanese Only) * The plan submitted to Tokyo Metropolitan Government for greenhouse gas emission reduction includes not only the Tokyo headquarters, but also the adjacent commercial facility, “CI PLAZA”. 108 Our Initiatives for the Environment Participation in “Fun to Share” ITOCHU Corporation is participating in “Fun to Share,” the campaign aimed at building a low-carbon society to alleviate climate change, led by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment. In keeping with this participation, it is striving to hold down use of airconditioning in summer and heating in winter, and to turn power off when not needed. It is also promoting other activities of environmental conservation that can readily be performed by all employees in their workplaces, such as rigorous sorting of refuse in the office and extensive recycling. 109 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Accounting Environmental Conservation Costs The environmental conservation costs for all of ITOCHU Corporation's domestic branches in fiscal 2014 are as follows. (Unit: 1,000 yen) Classification Investment Amount Cost Costs inside business areas 2,090 1,310,892 Up/downstream costs 0 52,632 Management activity costs 0 140,116 Research and development costs 0 980 Social activity costs 0 23,497 Costs to address environmental 0 20,589 damage Total 2,090 1,548,707 Summarized based on the Environmental Accounting Guidelines – 2005 Edition from the Ministry of the Environment. Scope of Calculation: All domestic branches Target period: April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Environmental Conservation / Economic Effects The environmental conservation effects and economic effects of ITOCHU Corporation's paper and electricity usage and waste emissions for fiscal 2014 are as follows. Environmental Conservation Economic Effects Effects (Unit:1,000JPY) Paper Usage 1,567,000sheets 1,113 Electricity Usage 579,000kWh -23,961* Waste Emissions -403t -17,127 Water Usage -2,687m3 -1,197 Environmental conservation and economic effects are calculated by subtracting actual values for the current fiscal year from those for the previous fiscal year. Scope of Calculation: Paper and Water Usage – Tokyo Headquarters building, Electricity Usage Tokyo Headquarters building, Osaka Headquarters and five branches, Waste Emissions: All of domestic branches. *Due to increase in electricity charges. Monitoring the State of Environmental Liabilities With respect to environmental risks, particularly asbestos, PCB and soil contamination, associated with tangible fixed assets of ITOCHU Corporation itself and its Group companies including land and buildings, ITOCHU not only complies with legal requirements but also conducts monitoring on a voluntary basis and seeks to respond in a way that is conducive to the switch determination and judgment of management policies. In fiscal 2014, ITOCHU will continue to promote the sharing of related information through various training (page103) such as Environment and Social Risk Response Seminar. 110 Our Initiatives for the Environment Initiatives toward Environmental Distribution ITOCHU Corporation is working on green distribution that will reduce the burden on the environment in order to comply with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Carbon Dioxide Emissions Associated with Distribution The following graph shows the carbon dioxide emissions generated in connection to energy usage through transportation carried out by ITOCHU Corporation. Change in CO2 Emissions Attributed to Distribution ★ ★ Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000 & ISAE 3410. Independent Assurance Report (page123) Environmental Energy-Saving Measures Environmental Energy-saving measures are set forth in the following measures and policies in effect across the company. In addition to these, each division company formulates specific measures. Selection of Modes of Transportation Promoting utilization of rail and sea transportation Actions to Improve Transportation Use of partial and consolidated cargo services Efficiency Selection of appropriate vehicle models and larger vehicles Transportation route ingenuity Improved loading ratios Coordination between freight carriers Review of transportation plans, frequency, etc. and recipients Specific Measures (1) Selection of Modes of Transportation ・ Examine and analyze the circumstances of long-haul truck-based transportation and consider changing modes of transportation, starting with businesses able to transition to rail and domestic vessel-based transportation, which place a comparatively lighter burden on the environment. (2) Actions to Improve Transportation Efficiency ・ Examine the circumstances of transportation and consider actions such as appropriate vehicle model and transportation route selection. Further, try to improve loading efficiency and reduce specific energy consumption. (3) Coordination between Freight Carriers and Recipients ・ ITOCHU’s internal judgment criteria on the use of distribution companies requires it to check the status of a company’s environmental distribution initiatives and recommends the usage of accredited companies. ・ To achieve measures (1) and (2) above, ITOCHU will endeavor to build cooperative frameworks with distribution companies as well as partner suppliers and other parties. 111 Evaluation by Society Selected for Social Responsibility Investment (SRI) Indices Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index is a global stock index developed jointly by Dow Jones & Company in the U.S. and RobecoSAM in Switzerland. It evaluates the corporate social responsibility of approximately 2,500 major companies around the world in terms of their social, environmental, and economic performance, selecting the top 10% of these corporations among each Industry Sector for inclusion. Globally, 333 companies have been selected, with 21 Japanese companies including ITOCHU Corporation. ITOCHU was also awarded Bronze Class in “RobecoSAM Sustainability Mr.Daniel Wild (Head of sustainability Award 2014” for the excellence in the Trading Companies & Distributors research & development, Member of the sector. (as of January, 2014) executive committee) coming from RobecoSAM handed over a trophy for Bronze Class to Seki CAO. At Tokyo Headquarters of ITOCHU Corporation on 23rd, June, 2014. Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) is the first socially responsible investment index in Japan. Morningstar Japan K.K. conducts questionnaire and screening quantitative data for approximately 4,000 listed companies in Japan and the MS-SRI is comprised of 150 leading socially responsible companies including ITOCHU Corporation. (as of January, 2014) Evaluation by Stakeholders 2014 Feb. 10 ITOCHU Wins the Grand Prize in the Nikkei Annual Report Awards 2013 2013 Dec. 26 2014 Excellent Award for the Corporate Value Improvement Award by Tokyo Stock Exchange Nov. 26 Award for Companies Providing Career Support in 2013 Oct. 7 2013 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure (for the second consecutive year) Jun. 5 Trading Company In-House Team of the Year in the ALB (Asian Legal Business) Japan Law Awards 2013 (for the fourth consecutive year) 112 ISO26000 Core Subjects and ITOCHU's Initiatives As a member of international society, ITOCHU aims to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society by reflecting the expectations and concerns of society in its business activities and by developing businesses that help solve social issues. This report provides information about ITOCHU’s fundamental approach and implementation system, which covers the seven core subjects of ISO26000, the international standard for social responsibility, as well as major topics for fiscal 2014. Fundamental Approach Major Topics Organizational Governance • Establishment of the process for identification of CSR Material P11 In accordance with its corporate philosophy of “Committed to the Global Issues Good,” ITOCHU believes it is important to understand how its business • Holding the CSR Advisory Board P13 activities influence society and the environment. We have established a system that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society, in accordance with a PDCA cycle, through the identification of material CSR issues and the formulation of CSR Action Plans for each business field. Human Rights • The e-learning of “Exploring Business and Human Rights” taken P16 As a company that conducts business transactions around the world, by 6,505 employees ITOCHU believes that the relationship between business and human rights is • Implementation of CSR Survey at 380 overseas suppliers P55 vitally important, and that belief is reflected in the supply chain and in busi• Formulation of policies, “Respecting the Rights of Indigenous P15-16 nesses in which ITOCHU invests. We give serious consideration to human rights and People” and “Approach to Conflict Minerals Issues” individuality so that employees can make the most of their individual capabilities. Labor Practices • Introduction of Morning-Focused Working System P69 ITOCHU is working to develop and strengthen human resources who can • Starting permission for employees posted overseas to take P64 play active roles in global business as true industry professionals. We are children along without taking spouse also establishing a system that enables diverse human resources to make • Holding the Women’s Executive Forum with the panelists of P63 the most of their capabilities. In addition, we have built a system to support safe and female executive officers healthy lifestyles for the employees who support our business activities around the world, as well as for their families. The Environment • Expanding business in renewable energy P25 ITOCHU pays close attention to the influence of its business activities on the • Implementation of Environmental Fact-finding Investigations at P97 environment and takes both proactive initiatives (advancing environment10 group companies conserving businesses) and precautionary initiatives (preventing problems • Continuing certification of ISO14001 with “improvement” grade P95 associated with environmental risks). In particular, in proactive initiatives, we are devel• ITOCHU Group environment-related seminars participated by P103 oping multifaceted business initiatives in line with such themes as the use of sustain10,431 group employees able resources, responding to climate change, and conservation of biodiversity. Fair Operating Practices • Compliance Awareness Survey responded by 27,598 group P51 In addition to ensuring that our business activities are in accordance with employees laws and international rules, we do not limit ourselves to simply following • Compliance related trainings taken by total 6,300 employees of P51 industry practice, and accordingly we have also established and continually ITOCHU and 52 group companies improve our compliance system so that individual employees can sincerely conduct • Issuing “A Must-Read! 51 Q&A about the Anti-Monopoly Law” P52 their daily activities from a highly ethical viewpoint. for implementation to employees Consumer Issues • Regular On-Site Audits at overseas food suppliers (174 audits P42 ITOCHU, which handles a wide variety of goods and services that support at 137 companies) people’s everyday lives, is implementing activities that contribute improve• Developing initiatives of foods for healthier lifestyles P42 ments in the quality of consumer lifestyles, such as working to ensure prod• Power visualization’s contribution to the reduction of power P46 uct safety and quality, developing products that contribute to environmental consumption conservation, and promoting awareness of sustainable consumption. • Third-party report on the Australian coal supply chain P21-22 Community Involvement and Development • Supporting cotton farmers in India to transfer to cultivation of P26 In the regions where ITOCHU conducts business, we consider ourselves to organic cotton be members of local communities. Accordingly, we strive to participate in • Contributing to the reconstruction and development of disasterP26 local communities in ways that transcend the scope of our business activities affected areas with our support to local industry and to contribute to the sustainable development of those communities through both business activities and social contribution activities. 113 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles The following is the comparative table of our CSR initiatives with Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 issued by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. GC Item Indicator Full WEB Principles Report 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior 3-4 President's Commitment decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 3-4 President's Commitment opportunities. 21-26 CSR Material Issues (Materiality) 27-46 CSR and Our Business 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 124 Corporate Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 27-46 CSR and Our Business 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, 27-46 CSR and Our Business including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 124 Corporate Profile 2.5 Number of countries where the organization 124 Corporate Profile operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 124 Corporate Profile 2.7 Markets served (including geographic 27-46 CSR and Our Business breakdown, sectors served, and types of 124 Corporate Profile customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, 27-46 CSR and Our Business including: 124 Corporate Profile Number of employees; Financial Statements Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting N/A period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for 0private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 112 Evaluation by Society 114 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles 3 Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) 1 for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the 1 report or its contents. Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, 1 including: 8-11 Basic Policy on CSR and Determining materiality; Promotion System Prioritizing topics within the report; and Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, 1 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or 1 boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, N/A subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases 105-109 Environmental Performance of calculations, including assumptions and Data techniques underlying estimations applied to 110 Environmental Accounting the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting N/A periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard 114-122 GRI Comparative Table Disclosures in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to Employee Relations seeking external assurance for the report. If 69 (Introduction of Morningnot included in the assurance report Focused Working System, accompanying the sustainability report, 72-73 Basic Data) explain the scope and basis of any external 105-109 Environmental Performance assurance provided. Also explain the Data relationship between the reporting 111 Initiatives toward organization and the assurance provider(s). Environmental Distribution 123 Independent Assurance Report 115 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, 47-50 Corporate Governance including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 47-50 Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board 47-50 Corporate Governance structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 47-50 Corporate Governance to provide recommendations or direction to 70-71 Communications with the highest governance body. Employees 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members Corporate Governance Report of the highest governance body, senior (238KB) managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest 47-50 Corporate Governance governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications 47-50 Corporate Governance and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission 5 ITOCHU Mission and Values or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body 3-4 President's Commitment for overseeing the organization's 18 The United Nations Global identification and management of economic, Compact environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 8-11 Basic Policy on CSR and precautionary approach or principle is Promotion System addressed by the organization. 97 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Risks 4.12 Externally developed economic, 18 The United Nations Global environmental, and social charters, Compact principles, or other initiatives to which the 15-17 Respect for Human Rights organization subscribes or endorses. 116 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as 18 The United Nations Global industry associations) and/or Compact national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 12 Stakeholder Relations organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 12 Stakeholder Relations stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 54-57 CSR in Our Supply Chain and including frequency of engagement by type Business Investment and by stakeholder group. 27-46 CSR and Our Business 58-73 Employee Relations 74-91 Social Contribution Investor Relations 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been 54-56 CSR in Our Supply Chain and raised through stakeholder engagement, and Business Investment how the organization has responded to those 27-46 CSR and Our Business key topics and concerns, including through 58-73 Employee Relations its reporting. 74-91 Social Contribution Investor Relations 5 Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Annual Report (691KB) Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and 72-73 Employee Relations(Basic distributed, including revenues, operating Data) costs, employee compensation, donations 79-80 Social Contribution(Action on and other community investments, retained Global Humanitarian Issues) earnings, and payments to capital providers Financial Report P2-3, 15, 46, and governments. 49 (Japanese only) (1,245KB) Principle 7 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 98-100 Promotion of Environment opportunities for the organization's activities Conserving Businesses due to climate change. Financial Report P28 (Japanese only) (1,245KB) EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined Financial Report P120-123 benefit plan obligations. (Japanese only) (1,245KB) EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Market Presence Principle 1 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending 54-57 CSR in Our Supply Chain and on locally-based suppliers at significant Business Investment locations of operation. Principle 6 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of 58-73 Employee Relations senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. 117 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure 27-46 CSR and Our Business investments and services provided primarily 74-91 Social Contribution for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach 92-111 Our Initiatives for the Environment Materials Principle 8 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8, EN2 Percentage of materials used that are 9 recycled input materials. Energy Principle 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Principle 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary 105-109 Environmental Performance energy source. Data Principle 8, EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and 105-109 Environmental Performance 9 efficiency improvements. Data Principle 8, EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or 98-100 Promotion of Environment 9 renewable energy based products and Conserving Businesses services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Principle 8, EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 98-100 Promotion of Environment 9 consumption and reductions achieved. Conserving Businesses Water Principle 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 105-109 Environmental Performance Data Principle 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Principle 8, EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 105-109 Environmental Performance 9 recycled and reused. Data Biodiversity Principle 8 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, 101-102 Approaches to Conservation of managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Biodiversity and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Principle 8 EN12 Description of significant impacts of 101-102 Approaches to Conservation of activities, products, and services on Biodiversity biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Principle 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 101-102 Approaches to Conservation of Biodiversity Principle 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans 101-102 Approaches to Conservation of for managing impacts on biodiversity. Biodiversity Principle 8 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 118 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles Emisions, Effluents, and Waste Principle 8 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas 105-109 Environmental Performance emissions by weight. Data Principle 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas 105-109 Environmental Performance emissions by weight. Data Principle 7, EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 105-109 Environmental Performance 8, 9 emissions and reductions achieved. Data Principle 8 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Principle 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Principle 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and 105-109 Environmental Performance destination. Data Principle 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 105-109 Environmental Performance method. Data Principle 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Principle 8 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Principle 8 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organizationÅfs discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services Principle 7, EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 27-46 CSR and Our Business 8, 9 of products and services, and extent of 98-100 Promotion of Environment impact mitigation. Conserving Businesses Principle 8, EN27 Percentage of products sold and their 9 packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance Principle 8 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport Principle 8 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of 111 Initiatives toward transporting products and other goods and Environmental Distribution materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall Principle 7, EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures 110 Environmental Accounting 8, 9 and investments by type. Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach 58-73 Employee Relations Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 72-73 Employee Relations (Basic employment contract, and region. Data) Principle 6 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 119 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 65-67 Creating Environments That are not provided to temporary or part-time Bring Out the Best in employees, by major operations. Employees Labor/Management Relations Principle 1, LA4 Percentage of employees covered by 70-71 Communications with 3 collective bargaining agreements. Employees Principle 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety Principle 1 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management_worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Principle 1 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities by region. Principle 1 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, 65-67 Creating Environments That and risk-control programs in place to assist Bring Out the Best in workforce members, their families, or Employees community members regarding serious 68 Initiatives Aimed at diseases. Occupational Health and Safety Principle 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong 58-61 Human Resource learning that support the continued Development Supporting the employability of employees and assist them Seeking of New in managing career endings. Opportunities 63-64 Support for Activity by Diverse Human Resources LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Principle 1, LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 63-64 Support for Activity by Diverse 6 breakdown of employees per category Human Resources according to gender, age group, minority 72-73 Basic Data group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Principle 1, LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by 6 employee category. Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach 15-17 Respect for Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practice Principle 1, HR1 Percentage and total number of significant 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Principle 1, HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and 54-57 CSR in Our Supply Chain and 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 contractors that have undergone screening Business Investment on human rights and actions taken. 120 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles Principle 1, HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies 15-17 Respect for Human Rights 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-Discrimination Principle 1, HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination 2, 6 and actions taken. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Principle 1, HR5 Operations identified in which the right to 54-57 CSR in Our Supply Chain and 2, 3 exercise freedom of association and Business Investment collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor Principle 1, HR6 Operations identified as having significant 54-57 CSR in Our Supply Chain and 2, 5 risk for incidents of child labor, and Business Investment measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Forced and Compulsory Labor Principle 1, HR7 Operations identified as having significant 54-57 CSR in Our Supply Chain and 2, 4 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Business Investment labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices Principle 1, HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in 15-17 Respect for Human Rights 2 the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights Principle 1, HR9 Total number of incidents of violations 15-17 Respect for Human Rights 2 involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Society Disclosure on Management Approach 5-20 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Compliance 51-53 Social Contribution 74-91 Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Corruption Principle 10 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Principle 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in 51-53 Compliance organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. Principle 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Public Policy Principle 1, SO5 Public policy positions and participation in 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, public policy development and lobbying. 7, 8, 9, 10 121 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles Principle 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach 51-53 Compliance Customer Health and Safety Principle 1 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety 42 Ensuring food safety through impacts of products and services are regular auditing of overseas assessed for improvement, and percentage suppliers of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Principle 1 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 51-53 Compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling Principle 8 PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Principle 8 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customar Privacy Principle 1 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 122 Corporate Profile Company name ITOCHU Corporation Founded 1858 Incorporated December 1, 1949 Headquarters Tokyo: 5-1, Kita-Aoyama 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8077, Japan Osaka: 1-3, Umeda 3-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8448, Japan President & CEO Masahiro Okafuji Common Stock ¥202,241 million Number of offices Domestic offices 9 Overseas offices 115 North America 9 Latin America 10 Europe 16 Africa 6 Middle East 17 Oceania 4 ASEAN, Southwest Asia 22 East Asia 23 CIS 8 Number of employees* Consolidated 104,310 Non-consolidated 4,235 (As of March 31, 2014) * The number of consolidated employees is based on actual working employees excluding Tokyo Headquarters Osaka Headquarters temporary staff. (North Gate Building) Financial Overview Total Trading Transactions Net Income (Billions of Yen) Consolidated(U.S.) Consolidated(IFRS) Non-consolidated (Billions of Yen) Consolidated(U.S.) Consolidated(IFRS) Non-consolidated 15,000 350 14,566.8 14,645.7 310.3 300.5 12,551.6 300 11,904.7 280.3 12,000 11,323.8 245.3 10,308.6 250 9,000 200 177.9 161.1 153.3 5,673.5 150 131.0 6,000 128.9 4,885.0 4,310.4 4,503.3 3,842.7 100 74.2 3,000 63.5 50 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) Total Trading Transactions by Division Company (Consolidated・U.S. GAAP) Revenue by Region (Consolidated・IFRS) * The figures of the Revenue by Region has been calculated based on IFRS. Textile Company 4.6% Other 0.2% Machinery Company Other 5.6% ICT, General 8.7% the United Kingdom Products & Realty 3.9% Company Metals & Minerals Company Australia 4.2% 13.2% 5.1% Total Total Singapore Food Company 26.1% 14,566.8 8.0% 5,587.5 Japan 62.8% Billions of Yen Billions of Yen Energy & Chemicals Company 42.1% United States 15.5% (Year ended March 31, 2014) (Year ended March 31, 2014) Notes: • “ITOCHU Corporation has voluntarily adopted the Internal Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”), from the consolidated financial statements of the annual report for the year ended March 31, 2014.However, for the purpose of the management and performance control, this Fiscal Year 2014 has been performed in U.S. GAAP. • Total trading transactions is presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practice, and consists of sales with respect to transactions in which the companies act as principal and the total amount of transactions in which the companies act as an agent. • “Revenue” is attributed to countries based on the locations of the assets. • With respect to distribution cost related to the ITOCHU’s Group’s food distribution and marketing business, ITOCHU has made a change in presentation in the financial statements related to ITOCHU’s Group’s portion of operational cost arising at the distribution centers of the ITOCHU Group’s customers, such as mass merchandisers, and delivery costs from the distribution centers to the customers’ stores since the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. The aforementioned distribution cost for the same period of the previous fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 have been reclassified in the same manner. 124
