Communication on Progress Declaration of Support and Progress Support Report m:con-mannheim:congress GmbH Regarding Its Membership in The United Nations “Global Compact” Mannheim, Germany – April 2014 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Introduction: i As a service provider in the event and trade fair industry, the m:con-mannheim:congress center has been since 2008 staunchly committed to the guidelines and principles of the UN Global Compact. The commitment to a policy of sustainability within the corporate sector poses within the event and trade fair industry an enormous challenge, and requires a conscious handling of and respect for resources. This demands a high degree of innovative thinking as well as unceasing degree of self-reflectivity. The subject of sustainability in the event and trade fair industry is influenced by and consists of various contradictions. Temporary structures that are intended for very short periods of time are quickly constructed with a great deal of effort, materials and energy. It is often the case in this industry that more priority is given to convenience and light weight construction than to longevity. In addition, many of the methods for advertisement for such events, simultaneously produces large amounts of paper products which ultimately contribute to massive quantities of waste. Therefore, the power and influence of the event and trade fair industry in regard to ecological, economic and social sustainability cannot be underestimated. The m:con is consciously aware of the ongoing necessity for concrete measures regarding sustainability. We firmly believe that these measures must be communicated to our clients and partners and implemented within the conceptual planning of events and trade fairs. The m:con views itself as a pioneer in this field and increasingly strives to sensitize it clients and partners regarding the significance of sustainability in this sector. This report documents the achievements of m: con for 2013 and 2014 also provides information regarding projects that are currently in process. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Human Rights/ social aspect Principle 1 Enterprises shall support and respect the protection of International human Rights within their area of influence as well as Principle 2 – ensure that they are not guilty of violating human rights in any area of their business dealings The m:con has been steadfast in its participation in socially oriented initiatives and projects. As always the sustainability of the project was and is a significant criterion in the selection process. th 27 July 2013 m:con hosted the 4 Benefit Golf Tournament “m:con Goes Golf” in cooperation with the cancer research project of Mannheim’s Children’s Clinic (Kinderklinikum Mannheim).The tournament raised € 25,000 all of which went to further research for a particular type of cancer known as neuroblastoma, which primarily affects young th children. The 5 Benefit Golf Tournament titled “Kinder Spiel” is scheduled to take place on 19 July 2014. On 13 January 2014 m: con invited neuroblastoma patients along with their siblings and parents to attend a admission-free performance of the children’s musical “Bibi Blocksberg”. This event was in cooperation with the company Alter Seilerei (The Old Ropeyard). m: con has been a long-time advocate of the neuroblastoma research project located at Mannheim’s University Clinic and took this opportunity to offer additional support to children and their families afflicted with the disease. As of this time, plans are already in the making to repeat a children’s musical event again with the showing of Käpit’n Blaubär on 4 January 2015. The Corporate Charter of Diversity for Germany. In 2006, three DAX companies Daimler, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Telekom along with BP Europe SE joined forces and initiated the Corporate Charter of Diversity in Germany. The German Charter of Diversity is based on the French business initiative titled Charte de la Diversité and served as a step in the recognition of the significance of diversity and the ensuing demographic changes regarding Germany’s workforce. Many companies have come to realize the significance of diverse teams and staff, and that such teams open new opportunities for innovative and creative solutions. The implementation of the Charter aims to create and maintain workplace environments that are free of prejudice and discrimination. Diversity and inclusion are topics that are important to the corporate culture and environment of m:con. In April 2013 the m: con congress center became a signatory of the Corporate Charter of Diversity for Germany and is as of now the sole congress venue and professional congress organizer in the Federal State of Baden-Wuerttemberg to support this business initiative. Employees from m: con also participated in the first nationwide Diversity Day activity in Germany on 11 June 2013. m: con is committed to the respectful treatment of all employees regardless of gender, “race”, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, physical ability or age. In cooperation with the Dorint Hotel, Artists Society Rhine-Neckar and several art galleries in Mannheim, the m: con ii congress center will host (free of cost) a fundraising event on 30 November 2014 on behalf of the LGBTIQ community iii based organization titled KOSI.MA .KOSI.MA is an organization that advocates the awareness and treatment of HIVAIDS and other sexually transmitted infections for all individuals regardless of sexual orientation. The event will take place in the form of an art auction and all proceeds will be used to further the work of KOSI.MA. In the past years m: con has taken architectural and constructional measures to ensure accessibility for individuals with reduced mobility and for those who are hearing impaired. m: con congress center is currently in the process of creating and installing pictographic images that indicate wheelchair and induction loop access. Induction loops are necessary for the generation of an electromagnetic field that produces a better tone quality and transmission for hearing aid devices. Pictographic images that display wheelchair and induction loop access will be visible from the main entrance, foyer of the building and throughout the entire area leading up to the two main conference halls. The wellbeing of employees and visitors with special needs is of great importance to the management of m: con congress center. Therefore one member of staff has been specifically delegated as the contact person for representing the interests and catering to their needs. The duties of this staff member entail the following:  Attending to the concerns and complaints of employees and visitors with special needs  Revision and implementation of measures which further assist individuals with special needs in the workplace (preventive as well as conducive measures)  m: con congress center fulfills the yearly quota (according to Art. 80 Section 2 of the Social Legal Code). This Social Legal Code stipulates that 5 % of the entire staff must be comprised of employees with special needs. In the case that these regulations are not adhered to, companies are penalized and required to pay a fine. The company is pleased to announce that it has not had to pay any fines during the last years. Future Measures: m: con congress center is continuously seeking to increase access for all clients and visitors with special needs. In the foreseeable future, the company plans to utilize audible signposts, which will give directions to the main event halls for the blind and visually impaired. Until now, wheelchair users could only access the building via a side entrance or via a temporary ramp that was installed at the front entrance. Permanent ramps for wheelchair access will be installed at the main entrance of the building by fall 2014, thus ensuring equal access to the premises for all visitors with reduced mobility. In addition, m:con is planning to produce in 2014 a short video clip giving an overview of m:con and the Rosengarten in German Sign Language (DGSDeutsche Gebärdensprache). Working Standards/ the economic and social aspect Principle 3 Enterprises should safeguard freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining as well as Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced labour Principle 5the abolition of child labour Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in both hiring practices and on-the-job assignment work As a one hundred percent subsidiary company of the City of Mannheim Investment Company LLC, m: con is legally obliged to uphold the stipulations of the Collective Wage Agreements for Employees in Public Service Jobs (TVÖD). m:con congress center strictly adheres to the statutory and standardized salary payment regulations entailed in this agreement for all current as well as future employees. As early as 1996 the company demonstrated it willingness to accommodate and promote a work-life balance model by introducing the possibility of home-office for several of its employees. While this work model has primarily been utilized by female employees, there has been an increase of male employees in the company who have taken advantage of this option. In 2007, the flexi-time scale model was introduced so that employees are not required to punch a time clock and enjoy greater freedom to select their working hours based on individual needs. The company’s management and Workers Council entered into an agreement that permitted employees to individually and independently create their own work schedules as long as these remained within the time frame as specified by the company’s flexi-time scale. In order to ensure the accuracy of the working hours, a system which can be likened to the method of a traffic light account (Ampelkonto) was introduced. Work hours are accumulated and stored in an account which offers an oversight and management thereof. The system works in the following manner: Green light: the employee is within the monthly 30 overtime and 10 minus hours limit Yellow Light: A warning is given if the employee has exceeded the monthly 30-50 hours maximum or is in overdraft with 1020 minus hours. In this case the employee’s Line Manager is contacted and asked to assist in finding a solution to decrease or increase the number of hours within the account. Red light: In the case that overtime hours have surpassed the 50 hours of overtime limit or the work hours account indicates 20 hours in the minus; the Human Resources department and the Line Manager are called together to swiftly find and implement a solution. The topic of discrimination and exclusion are both taken very seriously by the m: con congress center. The company’s human resources policies strictly prohibit discriminatory practices or behavior towards its staff or during recruitment. Advertisements for vacancies are formulated in gender neutral language and are impartial to the sex, “race”, sexual orientation or religious beliefs of the applicant .As mentioned earlier m: con became the first congress center in Southern Germany to promote the topic of diversity by signing the Corporate Charter of Diversity for Germany in 2013. m: con currently has 100 employees. Of these 100 employees 53 are female, 53 male. One female employee holds a management level position and five employees are foreign nationals. In addition to a digital “Welcome Brochure” for all new m: con employees, an introductory workshop that offers an overview of the company’s various departments and specific tasks was implemented in December 2013. The head of each department at m: con was requested to give a 30 minute introduction and overview of her or his specific area and to explain exactly how the various departments interact and cooperate to complete the tasks that are demanded of a service provider. Further, a guided tour through the entire congress center has also become part of a welcoming incentive offered to all new employees so that they can familiarize themselves with the history and inner as well as outer workings of the building and its various halls. The Human Resources Department also promotes comprehensive team-building incentives for its staff and has promoted events such as the “After Work” and “m: con goes …” These events offer an incentive to staff members to meet and interact outside of the work environment. The topic of cultural diversity is of importance and is part of daily life at m: con. During a two week period in December 2013, all m: con employees were asked to share their favorite stories or memories about the holiday time in December in the form of a calendar. Each day a personal story was presented that demonstrated the culturally diverse ways that m: con employees celebrate during this time of the year. In addition, the idea of team building will constitute an integral part of this year’s summer celebration on 11 July 2014 where m: con trainees will be responsible for the organization of this event. The idea here is to offer m: con trainees the space for further development of their creativity, and the opportunity to independently plan and execute projects. The health and wellbeing of all m: con staff members are also of importance to the General Management of the company. In 2011 a joint collaboration ensued between m: con and the fitness and rehabilitation center Sportomed. Sportomed offers every m: con staff member the opportunity to work-out and enjoy the facilities of this fitness center without additional cost. The tenure of the current members of the company’s Workers Council is ending in the first quarter of 2014. On 10 April 2014 the Workers Council elections will take place again after a four-year period and either new or past members will assume the duty of protecting the rights and interests of their fellow employees. The Workers Council will continue to act as an impartial instrument in helping to uphold the predefined working standards as stipulated by the UN Global Compact. The Workers Council (Betriebsrat) has and will continue with the improvement of communication measures. This is done by maintaining fixed weekly office hours where employees have direct access to members of the council. Communication is also enhanced by use of an intranet platform where employees and council members can exchange ideas and information. In addition, one member of the council has been assigned the duty of attending to the needs and concerns of the B.A. degree trainees and apprentices. Education and Advanced Training The m: con congress center offers a combined vocational training and Bachelor of Arts degree in cooperation with the DHBW (Baden-Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University). Degrees can be completed in the following fields:  Event Technology  Event Management  Media Management  IT-Specialist  Application Development At the time of this COP report, our company currently has a total of 9 trainees. 2 of these trainees are B.A. students from the Baden Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University; 6 are vocational trainees and 1 is trainee in the area of public relations. In addition, there are also as of this writing, 2 interns. It is m: con’s goal whenever possible to offer its trainees upon completion of their B.A. studies an employment contract. m: con also offers training opportunities and short term internships to high school pupils and students so that they can gain practical work experience in the event and congress management sector from early on. The company also offers every year to all employees, according to their needs, the opportunity to participate in advanced training courses and workshops in all areas related to the event and congress management sector. In 2013 the company set an internal budget allocated at Euros 27,000 for the advanced training of its employees and in 2014 Euro 30,000. In 2005 m: con established The International Event & Congress Academy (IECA) which offers additional training to employed individuals who are already working in the event and congress sector. Since 2010 IECA has cooperated with the regional Rhine-Neckar Chamber of Industry and Commerce and continuously built upon and advanced the types of workshops and courses offered by IECA. Since 2012 the IECA Academy has expanded its seminar/course selection and includes workshops and seminars in the areas of sustainability in the congress and event sector, event management & compliance, diversity and intercultural communication. These seminars are open to not only outside participants but, also to m: con employees as well. Environmental Protection/ecological aspect Principle 7 Enterprises shall take preventive actions and support preventative measures when dealing with environmental issues. Principle 8 – take initiatives to create greater awareness and responsibility towards the environment and Principle 9 – promote the development and distribution of environmentally friendly technology. Protection of the Environment/ Ecological Dimension In addition to creating public awareness regarding the issue of environmental protection and responsibility within the business and entertainment event sector, m: con has completed additional certification. In 2011 m: con became certified by the FAMAB -Sustainable Company. FAMAB Sustainable Company has developed a certification system for environmental sustainability for the event and trade fair sector in cooperation with the companies CO2OL and Viabono. FAMAB Sustainable Company has in the meantime become a cross border European label. As of now, FAMAB is recognized as the sustainability certification process for Germany and Switzerland. After rigorous reporting and two extensive telephone interviews, m: con was awarded in 2011 the FAMAB certification for a two-year period and became recently re-certified in February 2014. m: con became a supporter in October 2012 of the German Convention Bureau’s (GCB) and European Association of Event Centre’s (EVVC) sustainability initiative titled Fairpflichtet .m: con also fulfilled the conditions for the Fairplichtet certification. Fairpflichtet advocates a sustainability codex for the German event and trade fair industry that corresponds to the principles of the UN Global Compact. m: con is as of the writing of this report in the process of completing its re-certification for 2014. m: con is proud of these achievements and has communicated its steady progress in the area of sustainability by issuing external and internal press releases. On Saturday 29 March 2014 m: con congress center participated for the first time in the Earth Hour initiative. Earth Hour is a global movement that encourages individuals, communities, institutions and businesses to refrain from utilizing all essential lighting for sixty minutes. The city of Mannheim was one of the many cities in Germany that participated in this worldwide initiative. Due to security measures the m:con congress center could not turn off all interior and exterior lighting on the premises. However, m:con did support the initiative by advertising and promoting the event via its billboard – the cubelocated directly in front of the venue and social media outlets, i.e. Facebook and Twitter.m: con has also recently created an information stand (InfoQuelle) were m:con’s Global Compact certificate with be displayed along with an energy efficient water cooler. The goal here is to call attention to our participation and support of the UN Global Compact initiative, and also to the importance of clean water. Furthermore, m:con will also provide information about its cooperation with an upcoming water project. m:con continuously strives to increase the energy efficiency and the reduction of waste at the congress center venue. As of May 2014 m:con will reaffirm its commitment to advocating green meeting in the congress and event industry with an online advertisement in the sustainability publication titled ForumNachhaltig Wirtschaften. The advertisement will underline m:con’s capabilities in this area and also draw attention to its UN Global Compact membership and commitment to its principles. Since January 2014 m:con is also listed in the “Green Meetings 2.0” data base, which lists all event and congress organizers that offer green meetings: http://www.greenmeeting20.de/location/26-m-con-congresse-tagungen-events-mannheim In 2008 and 2009 extensive measure were taken to improve the energy efficiency of the m: con congress center (see 2010 report). The following measures have been undertaken since the last reporting: Update of the lighting system and the increase in green powered electricity Fall 2013 50w halogen lamps have been replaced with 10w LED lamps in the four main stairwells of the older building (which has been declared a national monument) of the congress center. Thus reducing CO2 emissions by 159 kg per year iv Summer 2014 – Renovation of the Sheddach In August 2014 m: con congress centre will begin with the renovation of the Sheddach roof and improvement of the lighting system. An investment of Euros 665,000 has been planned for these renovations. The renovation work will begin in August 2014. This measure will allow for optimal thermal insulation and more energy efficient lighting therefore resulting in the further reduction of energy consumption and costs. Fall 2014 m: con’s green powered electricity consumption is currently at 33, 5%. Plans are in the making to increase the use of green powered electricity up to 50%. Our Claim: Sustainability in Cooperation with Specialized Partnerships As in past years, m:con still maintains its partnership with the facility management company WISAG Service Holding and the energy provider MVV Public Holding Company. Both corporations are vital to m:con’s infrastructure. WISAG and MVV provide m: con with the following services: Energy (electricity, heating, water) and electrical utility maintenance Documentation, reporting and consultation in regard to the optimization of these processes Technical building engineering management Maintenance of the facility and its premises Seating Housekeeping m :con maintains the following ecologically friendly measures for disposal of waste products and housekeeping: Utilization of bio-degradable cleaning products Leftover foodstuff is collected and processed into biogas by an organic waste contractor Sanitary facilities that utilize a “lotus effect” (water repellent) system In-house separation of waste materials The Dorint Congress Hotel is the catering partner of m: con and works in close cooperation with the company to provide sustainable catering options to clients. Our catering partner provides the following: Dorint Hotel has implemented a user-friendly Co2 calculator for guests Locally grown produce from the Palatinate region is utilized, which minimizes transport, thus reducing CO2 emissions Organic food catering services and Fair Trade coffee and tea upon request The utilization of energy saving of dishwashers that have reduced water consumption by more than 35% Reusable flatware is used for all events m:con Congress Center Surroundings: Superb Location and Climate Friendly Infrastructure The m:con congress center Mannheim has a superb location in the low emissions zone of the city center and is seven minutes away (by foot) or 900 meters from the main station Mannheim’s main station is the second most important railway junction in the ICE high speed inter-city train system. Thirty minutes by train from Frankfurt International Airport makes arriving in Mannheim easy and as of January 20014climate neutral, since the German National Railway now utilizes 100% green electricity. m:con congress center also cooperates with the German National Railway and provides visitors with a rail/travel event entrance ticket. In addition, m:con cooperates with the local transportation network (ÖPNV) of the Rhine-Neckar metropolitan region and provides congress and cultural event visitors with a combined public transportation and entrance ticket. Rental bicycles are offered free of charge to m:con guests and visitors during their stay in Mannheim Electric cars are used by the m:con congress center for shuttle services to and from Mannheim’s main station and the city center. A public recharging station for electric vehicles has been implemented and is currently in use. m:con has also given much thought to the reduction of print products and the use of promotional items that conserve natural resources. On 29 February 2012 m: con introduced its mobile congress app for smart phones and an online questionnaire for customers to rate the agency’s performance and service. The introduction of these eco-friendly products has further reduced the need for printed congress guides and questionnaires. In regard to eco-friendly promotional items, m:con utilizes branded pencils, notebooks from FSC sources and textile-based key chains and refrains from products (i.e. plastic) that further tax natural resources and the environment. Fight Against Corruption Principle 10 Enterprises shall take action against all forms of corruption, and especially against blackmail and bribes. Pledge to Make Public Announcements: m:con is a 100% subsidiary of the city of Mannheim’s Investment Company (LLC) and as a contractor of public services we appoint all delivery, construction or service contracts according to policies stipulated by tendering laws against restrictions on competition( GEB). We ensure fair competition in conformity with the market for all contracts by making public announcements for all tenders. For more detailed information on this subject and general procedures, please see our website: http://www.mcon-mannheim.de/de/Bekanntgabe-Auftragsvergaben.htm Compliance to the Pharamceutical Code: As a Professional Congress Organizer, the planning and hosting of scientific and medical conferences is one of our main activities. These conferences take place in collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry and members of this business sector. m: con always strictly respects the regulations of the pharmaceutical code (FSA-Code) as stipulated by the Union of “Voluntary Self-Regulation Controls for the Pharmaceutical Industry e.V.”) when planning and hosting an event so that such may be carried out according to the wishes of our clients and free of dishonest influences. To ensure that all endeavors are transparent and adhere to these regulations, several m:con employees have attended workshops and received additional training so that they are informed about the contents, regulations and interpretations of the pharmaceutical codes that need to be considered while planning events that deal with or concentrate on this topic. Measure to Prevent Partiality As in the past, all invitations to m:con-mannheim congress events contain an explicit notification that anyone who receives an invitation to an event must ensure that her/his participation in the event has been authorized by the responsible authorities. Our invitations contain the following passage: “This invitation is being sent to you under the conditions that you have obtained the necessary approval from the responsible authorities to attend this event. If this has not been granted, then please disregard this invitation”. This progress report and the measures described within will also be made available in German, thus making it accessible to all our stakeholders. The report shall be posted on our Green Meetings website as of 1 June 2014. Please see: http:// http://www.rosengarten-mannheim.de/en/organiser/benefits/ Furthermore, we continuously make reference to m: con’s membership in the UN Global Compact Network in order to foster more public awareness of the UN Global Compact and its principles. Johann W. Wagner Chief Executive Officer M:con-mannheim:congress LLC Rosengartenplatz 2 68161 Mannheim, Germany i Hereafter referred to as m: con. ii LGBTIQ – is the acronym for Lesbian, Gay Bisexual, Transgender/Transsexual/Intersex/ Queer iii Kompetenzzentrum zu sexuelle übertragbaren Infektionen. Mannheim (Competence Center for Sexually Transmitted Infections. Mannheim) iv Scheddach is the German term for the roof construction known as the Saw Tooth Roof.
