2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Table of Contents 1.0 About this Report 5.0 Society 1.0 About this Report 4 5.1 Management Approach 114 1.1 Message from the Chairman and CEO 6 5.2 Social Products, Services and Offers 116 1.2 OTE Group 7 5.3 Enabling Entrepreneurship 120 1.3 OTE and COSMOTE 11 5.4 Social Contribution 122 5.5 Contributing to Local Communities’ Well–being and Sustainability 128 5.6 Employee Volunteering 133 2.0 CR Strategy and Management 2.1 Management Approach 15 2.2 CR Governance and Management Structure 18 2.3 Corporate Governance 21 6.0 Environment 2.4 Risk and Compliance Management 6.1 Management Approach 136 and Policies 23 6.2 Telecommunications for the Environment 142 2.5 Stakeholder Engagement 30 6.3 Managing Energy Use and 2.6 Materiality Analysis 36 Addressing Climate Change 143 2.7 Memberships, Ratings and Awards 38 6.4 Resource Use and Waste Management 158 2.8 2013 CR Performance 41 6.5 Electromagnetic Fields 171 2.9 2013 & 2014 Goals 44 6.6 Other Environmental Aspects of OTE and COSMOTE Operation 174 6.7 Environmental Awareness Initiatives 180 3.0 Marketplace 3.1 Management Approach 54 3.2 Responsible Competition 56 7.0 OTE Group Subsidiaries 3.3 Expanding Broadband and 7.0 OTE Group Subsidiaries 184 Mobile Internet in Greece 59 7.1 Romania 185 3.4 Internet Safety and Public Awareness 62 7.2 Albania 190 3.5 Responsible Products and Services 66 3.6 Responsible Marketing 71 3.7 Customer Service and Satisfaction 74 3.8 Data Security and Privacy 78 8.0 Indexes 3.9 Business Continuity Management 80 8.1 Accountability Principles Standard 3.10 Responsible Procurement and Supply AA1000 Index 195 Chain Management 82 8.2 United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress 196 8.3 Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Index 199 4.0 Employees 8.4 Independent Assurance Report 225 4.1 Management Approach 87 4.2 Employment 89 4.3 Health and Safety 97 4.4 Employee Development 102 4.5 Employee Benefits 106 4.6 Internal Communications 109 4.7 Employee Engagement and Satisfaction 111 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries 1.0 About this Report About this Report CR Strategy and Management 1.0 About this Report Marketplace The 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report is the second common CR Report of OTE and COSMOTE, following the 2012 common CR report and the separate ones published from 2005 to 2011. The Employees companies publish a joint CR Report, within the framework of their operational integration, as explained in the ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE and COSMOTE section. This year, the CR Report is presented entirely online as an eco–friendly initiative on a reporting platform, common for OTE and COSMOTE. Report Scope and Boundary Report Content Definition Society The CR Report covers the period 01 January 2013 – The content of the Report is defined according to the 31 December 2013 (unless otherwise indicated in following principles, guidelines and directives: specific items). l The Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability l The Report covers the operations and activities in Reporting Guidelines(GRI G3.1) Greece of OTE S.A. and COSMOTE Greece. The two l The AccountAbility AA1000 Principles on Inclusivity, companies have their headquarters in Athens. Environment Materiality and Responsiveness l In addition, summary information on OTE Group l The United Nation’s Global Compact Principles. of companies is included in the ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE Group section, so as to provide The index tables for each of these standards are the reader a complete picture of OTE Group. provided in the INDEXES / Accountability Principles Moreover, summary information on how the Standard AA1000 Index, INDEXES / United Nations major telecommunications subsidiaries of the two Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) OTE Group companies in SouthEastern Europe approach and INDEXES / Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Index sections. Subsidiaries sustainability is presented in the OTE GROUP SUBSIDIARIES section. In addition, the companies took into consideration l This approach represents a continuation and their CR framework (presented in the CR STRATEGY integration of the scope and boundary approach AND MANAGEMENT section, the outcomes of followed in previous years by OTE and COSMOTE, the stakeholder engagement (presented in the and at the same time the initiation of a process to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Stakeholder Indexes gradually provide more information on the Group Engagement section and sustainability issues wide approach to sustainability. materiality analysis presented in the CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Materiality Analysis section. About this Report 4 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Working towards the preparation of reporting The environmental data are calculated according to About this Report according to GRI G4, the companies have invested internationally accepted methods, on the basis of additional resources in the analysis of their material information provided by OTE and COSMOTE Technology sustainability issues. and Operations Divisions. More details on measurement techniques and the bases of calculations are provided The stakeholders for whom the Report is prepared within the Report, where applicable. are the employees, the investors, the customers, the public and regulatory bodies, the media In collecting and presenting data OTE and COSMOTE CR Strategy and suppliers, local communities and Non–Governmental have been guided by the definitions and parameters of Organizations. The issues raised by the Stakeholders, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Management and the companies’ responsiveness, are outlined in the CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Stakeholder In certain sections, where the two companies have not Engagement section. yet harmonized their operations, policies, initiatives and actions, the information is presented separately The CR Report is subject to external assurance, for each company. covering the AA1000 Principles Standard, and specific Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE performance indicators. In addition, On some issues, separate policies are maintained and the Report’s GRI Application Level has been reviewed reported, due to the diverse nature of issues for fixed by the Global Reporting Initiative. and mobile telephony. Report Data No major re–statement of information provided in earlier reports has been included, except for those The data in the Report comprise the following record related to the economic performance of OTE Group and systems provided by OTE and COSMOTE: aggregated companies, which have been indicated in the respective Employees financial and personnel data, aggregated data on tables along with the reasons of modification. customer service, summary data on regulatory actions. GRI Application Level The GRI Application Level for the 2013 CR Report of OTE and COSMOTE is indicated below. The A+ Application Level has been reviewed by GRI Application Level Check. Society Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Level B 1.1 Level C plus: Profile OUTPUT 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1 – 3.8, 3.10 – 3.32 3.9 – 3.13 4.1 – 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 Environment Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures on Disclosures for each Disclosures for each OUTPUT Management Indicator Category Indicator Category Approach Report fully on a minimum of Report fully on a minimum of any Respond on each core and Sector Performance Indicators any 10 Performance Indicators, 20 Performance Indicators, at Supplement* indicator with due OUTPUT & Sector Supplement including at least one from least one from each of: economic, regard to the materiality Principle OTE Group by either: Performance Indicators each of: social, economic and environment, human rights, labour, environment.** society, product responsibility*** a) reporting on the indicator or 3 Subsidiaries b) explaining the reason for its omission * Sector supplement in final version. ** Performance Indicators may be selected from any finalised Sector Supplement, but 7 of the 10 must be from the original GRI Guidelines. *** Performance Indicators may be selected from any finalised Sector Supplement, but 14 of the 20 must be from the original GRI Guidelines. Full information on the fulfilment of GRI G3.1 requirements is provided in the INDEXES / Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Index. Report Feedback Indexes Readers’ opinions and comments regarding the CR Report are welcome. Please send your feedback to the e–mail address: OTE-COSMOTE.cr@ote.gr. About this Report 5 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 1.1 CR Strategy and Management Message from the Chairman and CEO Marketplace Αlong with strength comes responsibility. At OTE Group we are equally concerned with our economic, social Employees and environmental scale and impact. Success is not sustainable if one of these ingredients is missing. To remain strong, we constantly evolve. Sustainability is also about evolving, especially in the telecommunications industry that is truly transforming the world. Society 2013 was a very productive year in that respect. We continued our transformation into a modern, dynamic, high performing company and we took significant steps to improve customer satisfaction. To this end, we cemented our financial stability, reduced our costs, and improved our topline performance, opening the way for Environment investments. We remained by far the biggest investor in new technologies in Greece, further expanding our New social and environmental responsibilities and hold on Generation Networks at a fast pace. to our commitment to be present in the communities we operate in. Furthermore, with our technology we We further focused on our employees. We renewed our will help businesses to grow, and national economies workforce in a socially responsible manner; through to develop and prosper. At OTE, we can and we will successful Voluntary Exit Schemes (VES) and new enable people to improve their quality of life. OTE Group recruits offering much–needed job opportunities. With Subsidiaries our people being our most valuable asset, last year we At the end of the day we want to give our customers invested heavily in their development and provided fair the best possible digital communications experience opportunities for personal growth. through our technology and expertise, and develop an even stronger, more sustainable business that will Going forward, Corporate Responsibility will remain an create new opportunities for all. essential part of our operations and continue to drive our actions. Indexes We have a concrete strategy: Despite the tough economic conditions, we will continue to meet our Michael Tsamaz Chairman and CEO of OTE Group About this Report 6 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 1.2 OTE Group Marketplace OTE Group is Greece’s leading telecommunications organization and one of the pre–eminent companies in South-Eastern Europe, providing top–quality products and services to its customers. Employees Its organizational structure is presented in outline form below. OTE Group Structure 2013 Fixed–Line Telephony Mobile Telephony Other Operations OTE SA Society Greece 100% 54% Environment COSMOTE Rom Telecom OTE GLOBE Greece Romania 100% Greece AMC Cosmote OTE Sat – Maritel Albania 97% 70% Romania 30% 94% Greece Zapp 100% 100% Germanos 100% OTE Estate OTE Group Subsidiaries Romania S.E. Europe Greece Other Operations Greece Indexes About this Report 7 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Also available on OTE website: https://www.ote. For the OTE Group, 2013 was a year of significant About this Report gr/web/guest/corporate/ir/business-overview/ achievements. Over 1,800 OTE employees in Greece organizational-structure opted to accept an early retirement plan offered in 2013 bringing total departures in the Greek and More information on the OTE Group structure is Romania fixed–line operations to nearly 8,000 since available in the OTE Annual Report 2013 at: https:// the end of 2009, reducing substantially the cost base www.ote.gr/web/guest/corporate/ir/publications/ and enhancing competitiveness. Through strong cash annual-reports. The Group comprises the parent flow generation and well–executed asset disposals, OTE CR Strategy and company OTE S.A. and its subsidiaries, offering fixed– Group continued to build a robust financial structure line (voice, broadband, data and leased lines), TV and while, at the same time, continuing to invest in the Management mobile telephony services in Greece and Romania, future of its operations, notably in Greece. 2013 was as well as mobile telephony services in Albania. The also a year of improvement in operating performances. Group is also involved in a range of activities in Greece, Group revenue declines shrank quarter by quarter, notably in real–estate and professional training. ending with a slight rebound in the 4th quarter, the first quarterly sales increase the Group has achieved in At present, companies in which OTE Group has an Marketplace five years. Reflecting the continuing cost–containment equity interest, employ more than 22,600 people. efforts, the EBITDA margin improved sharply in the 4th The group’s revenue for the year ending on the 31st quarter and for the full year. And most importantly, of December 2013, was €4,054.1mn, while its market OTE Group further enhanced its service offerings and capitalization stood at €4.7bn. invested in solutions aimed at creating a flawless customer experience across its operations. Employees OTE Group Financial Performance (€mn) 20121 2013 Total Revenues 4,330.3 4,054.1 Payroll and Employee Benefits (914.5) (821.5) (123.0) (272.4) Society Cost of Early Retirement Program Interconnections and Roaming Cost (510.5) (468.2) Depreciation, Amortization and Impairment (818.4) (842.5) Device Costs (254.2) (276.4) Other Operating Expenses (1,164.5) (1,080.0) Environment Total Operating Expenses (3,785.1) (3,761.0) Operating Profit (EBIT) 574.5 335.4 EBITDA 1,392.9 1,177.9 as % of Revenues 32.2% 29.1% Pro forma2 EBITDA 1,515.9 1,456.3 as % of Revenues 35.0% 35.9% OTE Group Notes Subsidiaries 1 Figures adjusted to reflect only continuing operations (Bulgarian operations treated as discontinued operations) and accounting reclassifications of revenues. 2 Excluding the impact of Voluntary Retirement Programs and Restructuring Plans. Indexes About this Report 8 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 OTE Group Economic Contribution About this Report (€mn) 20121 2013 Salaries and Benefits (914.5) (821.5) Income Taxes Paid (108.0) (121.3) Interconnections and Roaming Cost (510.5) (468.2) (254.2) (276.4) CR Strategy and Device Costs Fees and Commissions Due to 3rd Parties (233.8) (195.9) Management (incl. taxes other than income taxes and regulatory charges) Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent 471.9 316.7 Financial Sponsorships, Donations and Fund–raising Directed 2.92 2.9 to Community Causes Notes Marketplace 1 Figures adjusted to reflect only continuing operations (Bulgarian operations treated as discontinued operations) and accounting reclassifications of revenues. 2 Data do not include Romtelecom. Breakdown of OTE Group Revenues (€mn) 2012* 2013 Change Employees Fixed Line Operations, Greece 1,704.0 1,557.2 –8.6% Fixed Line Operations, Romania 619.6 609.5 –1.6% Mobile Operations, Greece 1,524.7 1,336.5 –12.3% Mobile Operations, International 551.4 544.7 –1.2% Others 462.1 448.0 –3.1% Society Intragroup Eliminations (531.5) (441.8) –16.9% Total 4,330.3 4,054.1 –6.4% Other Income / (expense), Net 29.3 42.3 44.4% Notes * Figures adjusted to reflect only continuing operations (Bulgarian operations treated as discontinued operations) and accounting reclassifications of revenues. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes About this Report 9 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Significant Developments / Events in 2013 Main Products and Services About this Report On January 7, 2013 OTE announced the completion OTE Group provides integrated products of its Voluntary Exit Program, launched in November and services, covering the demanding 2012. The Scheme’s initial target was significantly communications needs of both business and exceeded, as 1,516 employees accepted the incentives individuals, namely: offered by the company, mainly from the tranche that l Fixed telephony and broadband, with high met the prerequisites for retirement within the period CR Strategy and 2013–2015. VDSL speeds up to 50 Mbps (OTE and Romtelecom). Management On January 16, 2013 OTE’s subsidiary, OTE plc l Mobile telephony through COSMOTE in concluded under the Global Medium Term Note Greece and Romania, and AMC in Albania. (GMTN) Program a private bond exchange agreement Products and services include pre– and by which it exchanged €187mn of the August 2013 post–paid services, as well as mobile Notes (ISIN XS0173549659) with a further issue of Internet (the first company in Greece to €187.7 mn Notes maturing in February 2015. Marketplace offer 4G services), value added and On April 3, 2013, OTE announced that it completed roaming services, as well as a wide range the sale of its 99.05% stake in Hellas Sat to Arabsat. of mobile devices (smartphones, tablets) OTE received total proceeds of €208mn and dividends and accessories. of €7mn, pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement l Television services, via satellite or signed in February 2013. broadband connection, offering wide channel bouquet, at the most competitive Employees On April 26, 2013, the Group announced the signing of an agreement to sell its 100.00% stake in Globul and prices (OTE and Romtelecom). in Germanos Telecom Bulgaria A.D. to Telenor Mobile l B2B Electronic transactions (CosmoOne). Communications AS, the Norwegian telecom operator. The agreed consideration for the sale amounted to l International telecommunications €717 mn (enterprise value). The transaction was wholesale services to high–capacity carriers completed in July 31, 2013. and multi–site organizations in the broader South East European region (OTEGlobe). Society On July 24, 2013 COSMOTE Romania, subsidiary of the l Wireless and satellite communications, OTE Group, secured a €225 mn loan arranged by the including maritime services European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (OTESAT–MARITEL). (EBRD) in order to finance the strategic growth of its broadband infrastructure. COSMOTE Romania intends l Consultancy services (OTEPlus). to use the resources for the expansion of its 4G Real estate assets management and Environment l network and the renewal of its spectrum licenses. development (OTE Estate). The loan matures in April 2018. l Professional development choices that On November 14, 2013 OTE announced the launching cater to the training needs of OTE Group of Voluntary Exit Schemes, addressed primarily to employees, as well as to those of the wider employees near retirement, in the context of the public and private sector (OTEAcademy). company’s transformation through socially responsible OTE Group solutions. 1,827 employees chose to take advantage of these Schemes. At the same time, in the context of enhancing customer experience through quality Subsidiaries technical and commercial service, OTE Group has announced 500 new job openings for technical support and salespeople in addition to a similar number already hired in the course of 2013. Indexes Additional information concerning key events in 2013 is available in the OTE Annual Report 2013 at https://www.ote.gr/web/guest/corporate/ir/ publications/annual-reports About this Report 10 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 1.3 OTE and COSMOTE Marketplace OTE S.A. is the parent company of OTE Group and the fixed line incumbent operator in Greece, offering broadband, fixed–line, TV, data and leased line services. In 2013, the company recorded Employees revenues of €1,557.2mn and on December 31st, employed 6,878 people on permanent contracts. OTE Shareholder Structure (31/12/2013) Deutsche Telekom Society 40.0% Hellenic State* 10.0% Own Shares 0.2% Private Investors Environment 7.9% Institutional Investors 41.8% OTE Group Subsidiaries * Including voting rights attached to 4% of shares owned by State Pension Fund. COSMOTE S.A., OTE’s fully–owned subsidiary, is the leading provider of mobile telephony services in Greece, focusing on innovation, quality and customer care. In 2013, COSMOTE had revenues of €1,281mn and on December 31st, the company had 2,045 employees. OTE, COSMOTE and their subsidiaries do not receive any government financial subsidies, state aid, Indexes special tax relief or other government financial payments. About this Report 11 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Operational Integration About this Report Aiming at becoming more competitive and efficient, competitiveness (through exploitation of commercial OTE and COSMOTE have decided to move to a common opportunities, better customer experience, optimum organisational structure. This means in practice network design etc.) and improving the companies’ that instead of having different units for fixed and internal functioning (by adopting common planning mobile telecommunication, operations are integrated and harmonizing procedures, exploiting economies of under the same organisational structure. In this way, scale, establishing best practices etc.). synergies are maximized, increasing the companies’ CR Strategy and Management Financial Performance OTE and COSMOTE Financial Performance (€mn) OTE S.A. COSMOTE S.A. Total Revenues 1,557.2 1,281.0 Marketplace Payroll and Employee Benefits (444.5) (98.1) Cost of Early Retirement Program (250.9) (4.2) Interconnection and Roaming Cost (140.2) (69.0) Depreciation, Amortization and Impairment (322.5) (212.8) (30.0) (155.0) Employees Device Costs Other Operating Expenses (384.8) (474.0) Economic Contribution OTE and COSMOTE Economic Contribution Society (€mn) OTE S.A. COSMOTE S.A. Revenues 1,557.2 1,281.0 Operating Costs (ex. depreciation and VES) (999.5) (796.0) Employee Wages and Benefits (444.5) (98.1) Environment Payments to Providers of Capital (159.5) (144.8) Payments to the Greek Government (9.7) (88.9) Community Investments (2.8) (1.6) Economic Value Retained (58.8) 151.6 OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes About this Report 12 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Products and Services About this Report OTE offers fixed telephony and broadband services, In 2013 COSMOTE welcomed Spotify, the most popular with high VDSL speeds up to 50 Mbps, and television music service in the world and offered its subscribers services, via satellite or broadband connection. Full Spotify Premium in preferential prices and with free details of all OTE products and services are available data streaming. With access to more than 20 million on the OTE website. songs, COSMOTE users can create their own music world, whatever they do, wherever they are. In 2013 OTE expanded its VDSL network with more CR Strategy and than 1,100 new outdoor cabinets, offering speeds up to Another Highlight In COSMOTE’S Portfolio, 50 Mbps in 170,000 additional phone lines. New ultra– Cosmotebooks, The Largest Online Bookstore In Management fast speeds by OTE can be accessed by households and Greece, Was Further Enriched, Now Counting More businesses in different regions of Attica, such as Alimos, Than 1,000,000 Books, Magazines, Digital Books (E– Argiroupolis, Vrillisia, Voula, Vouliagmeni, Glyfada, Books), And With Purchase Of Toys, Stationery And Elliniko, Ilioupoli, Kalamaki, Melissia, N. Faliro, Penteli, Children’s Movies Being One Click Away. Cosmotebooks Terpsithea, Philothei and Psychico. Is Available Via The Internet And Via Special Marketplace Applications For Smartphones And Tablets. Also within the year, OTE TV posted impressive growth, doubling its subscriber base that reached 255,000, OTE is the Greek Universal Service Provider and boosted significantly its content portfolio. In 2013, OTE TV’s platform exceeded 75 thematic channels, of which 18 in high definition, providing over 50 live sports Universal Service, in the Electronic Communications events per week, more than 1,000 movie premieres, Sector, is the provision of a fixed set of basic Employees high quality documentaries, rich juvenile and family Electronic Communications services that are content, at the market’s most competitive tariffs. available to all citizens of Greece, regardless of their geographic location and at affordable prices. COSMOTE offers mobile communications services, OTE is the designated Universal Service Provider including pre– and post–paid services, mobile internet for Greece. This is an important responsibility that (the first company in Greece to offer 4G services), value OTE takes very seriously and more so in these added and roaming services, as well as a wide range of challenging times for the Greek society. mobile devices (smartphones, tablets) and accessories. Full details of all COSMOTE products and services are Society available on the COSMOTE website. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes About this Report 13 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries 2.0 CR Strategy and Management About this Report CR Strategy and Management 2.1 Management Approach Marketplace OTE’s and COSMOTE’s strategic goal is to become a modern, dynamic, unified, customer–centric company. The companies aim to be the leaders in all their main activities (i.e. fixed, mobile, Employees broadband, TV and B2B services), offering the best quality of services, the best network and the best working environment. OTE and COSMOTE strive at all times to further develop a sustainable business, while cultivating an ongoing stakeholder dialogue. OTE and COSMOTE CR strategy is embedded in the companies’ core business strategy with its CR initiatives linked to business objectives. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 15 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Their integrated CR framework, over the past six impacts on sustainability, mainly through being About this Report years, focuses on the most material issues, namely in attuned to stakeholder views, as well as to the key Marketplace, Employees, Environment and Society, issues mentioned by them. underpinned by stakeholder engagement, materiality analysis and cross–company goal setting. Both companies’ goal, in applying these guidelines, is to ensure that their CR strategy and program remain The OTE and COSMOTE CR strategy and program are focused on the most material CR issues, i.e. the founded on the core values of both companies and on issues that are most influential for the success of the CR Strategy and the application of CR methodology and management day–to–day business and, at the same time, are most systems that are guided by international standards, important to the companies’ stakeholders. Management such as the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the AccountAbility As members of DT Group, the companies have aligned AA1000 Principles on Inclusivity, Materiality and their CR framework to DT’s three CR action areas, i.e. Responsiveness. Both companies aim to apply a connected life and work, connecting the unconnected precautionary approach to managing their operational and a low carbon society. OTE Group Values Marketplace Quality · Transparency · Responsibility · Social Awareness · Consistency · Continuity OTE and COSMOTE define Corporate Responsibility as their commitment to contribute to sustainable development, by pro–actively managing the companies’ economic, social and environmental impacts, engaging their stakeholders effectively and ensuring the long–term success of the two companies. Employees Marketplace Employees Society Environment l Responsible Competition l Health and Safety l Social Products and Services l Energy Efficiency l Expanding Broadband and l Fair Employment l Social Contributions l Road Transport Mobile Internet l Employee Development l Employee Volunteerism l Greenhouse Gases l Responsible Procurement l Employee Benefits l Business Enterprising l Water l Public Awareness Internal Communication Materials and Waste Society l l of Technology l Employee Satisfaction l EMF l Customer Satisfaction and Service l Visual Impact l Data Security and Privacy l Noise l Public Awareness Connected Life and Work Connect the Low–Carbon Society Environment Unconnected OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 16 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 In 2013, a year of continued economic stress and services development, continuing the organizations’ About this Report hardship in Greece, both companies focused on restructuring by enhancing a common culture, shielding their organizations, transforming them, supporting new entrepreneurship and vulnerable social optimizing operations and creating prospects for groups, and enhancing environmental management further growth in the future. OTE and COSMOTE processes and actions. Most of the CR goals OTE and maintained a strong focus on improving their CR COSMOTE set for 2013 have been achieved. For 2014, performance, by strengthening the companies’ the companies are considering setting integrated and approach to risk management and business well defined goals. CR Strategy and continuity, investing on responsible products and Management Key Achievements in 2013 l Appointment of the Chairman and CEO of OTE Group by the Boards of Directors, of the respective companies, as responsible for the supervision of Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility issues. Marketplace l Further enhancement of OTE Group CR strategy. l Strengthening of the companies’ Integrated Management System, which is now overseen by the newly constituted Management Systems’ Steering Committee. l Reinforcement of OTE Group’s enterprise risk and compliance management approach. l Consideration of CR aspects in the performance evaluation process of all employees. Employees l Strengthening of the materiality analysis process for sustainability issues, by involving the OTE and COSMOTE Management team and stakeholders. l Improved communication of the OTE and COSMOTE CR performance to their stakeholders by adopting a fresh on–line presentation of this year’s CR Report. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 17 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 2.2 CR Strategy and Management CR Governance and Management Structure Marketplace The Chairman and CEO of OTE Group, by decision of the Boards of Directors of the respective companies, has been appointed as responsible for the supervision of OTE S.A. And COSMOTE S.A. Employees Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility issues. The OTE Group Corporate Communications Division is responsible for the development and implementation of the companies’ CR strategy, with its Director reporting directly to the Chairman and CEO of OTE Group. The OTE Group Corporate Communications Director co–operates with the Chairman and CEO of OTE Group, on CR strategy issues and initiatives, and briefs, at least once annually the OTE and COSMOTE Management Team. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 18 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The OTE Group Corporate Communications Division encouraged Romtelecom to publish its first annual About this Report works on developing the CR strategy, coordinating and CR report, in cooperation with COSMOTE Romania. managing CR activities throughout the companies, More information on the OTE Group international collecting and collating CR data, monitoring the subsidiaries’ CR performance is provided in the OTE implementation of the CR measures and targets, GROUP SUBSIDIARIES section. and communicating internally and externally the companies’ CR performance. For the management of CR issues, appropriate management systems have been developed to CR Strategy and The Division also cooperates with DT in its address quality, health and safety, and environment International CR Managers Network, sharing issues. These systems form the Integrated Management experience, practices and goals on approaching the Management System, which is overseen by the CR agenda. In this context, OTE and COSMOTE hosted Management Systems’ Steering Committee. the Network’s meeting in November 2013, where DT More details are provided in the ENVIRONMENT / Group companies had the opportunity to share their Environmental Management section. CR activities and discuss on specific CR issues that DT Part of the OTE Group Corporate Communications Marketplace focuses its efforts. Division is the Corporate Responsibility Department, At the same time, the OTE Group Corporate Fixed and Mobile, which coordinates the companies’ Communications Division provides the CR strategy, social and environmental activities through its framework and guidelines for OTE Group international Corporate Responsibility and Environmental subsidiaries, which bear responsibility for deciding Management Sections. To be informed on CR trends on their own CR organization structures, developing and developments, the employees of these Sections, Employees and performing their local CR activities, and reporting in 2013, have attended a number of events and on their performance. Aiming towards further training sessions on current and forthcoming enhancement of OTE Group CR strategy within OTE CR issues, such as GRI G4 and integrated reporting. subsidiaries, the OTE Group Corporate Communications An overview of the organisation structure is given in Division worked closely with Romtelecom on the figure below. identifying CR KPIs and measuring methods, and Society Organisation Structure Boards of Directors of OTE & COSMOTE Environment Management Systems Chairman & CEO Steering Committee Corporate Communications Division OTE Corporate Responsibility Team Group OTE Group Subsidiaries Corporate Responsibility Department Fixed & Subsidiaries’ Corporate Responsibility Mobile Representatives OTE and COSMOTE Corporate Responsibility Environmental Environmental Management Section Management Section Team of OTE and COSMOTE Indexes CR Strategy and Management 19 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 To improve the dissemination of CR principles and Furthermore, they took part in major societal initiatives, About this Report actions with the companies’ different business such as the evaluation of the Scholarships Program units and enable the collection of CR performance applications and its awards ceremony, and the activities information, an integrated OTE and COSMOTE CR Team of the “Custom of Love” and “Christmas Campaign” has been formed, with 50 representatives from all the initiatives. Moreover, the OTE and COSMOTE CR Team companies’ operations, who act as ambassadors for CR contributed to the development of the first common in their departments. The CR Team is chaired by the OTE and COSMOTE CR Report issued in June 2013. OTE Group Corporate Communications Director. Finally, a number educational / entertaining events CR Strategy and were especially organized for the members of the CR All 50 CR Team members have contributed significantly Team, aiming to further enhance team binding. Management to mobilizing OTE and COSMOTE employees on CR issues, enhancing the visibility of CR within the two CR KPIs have been embedded in the personnel companies and to the achievement of corporate evaluation and individual operational targets, for objectives regarding CR and a common corporate OTE Group Corporate Communications Division and culture. In 2013, members of the CR Team participated CR Team members, while CR aspects are taken into Marketplace in focused training programs especially designed account in all employees’ performance evaluation for their needs, such as on new developments and process, as described in the EMPLOYEES / Performance trends in CR (strategy, reporting, and climate change). Management section. Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 20 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 2.3 Corporate Governance Marketplace Corporate governance refers to a number of principles adopted by a company, aiming to uphold its performance and the interests of all its shareholders and stakeholders. Recognizing the importance Employees of corporate governance principles and the benefits derived from their adoption, OTE, as a listed company, follows international practice and standards in this area and works for the systemic implementation of these principles throughout its operations. After the de-listing of COSMOTE from the Athens Stock Exchange, it was decided that COSMOTE will continue complying voluntarily with the same corporate governance standards. OTE, as a large capitalization company listed on the Society Athens and London Stock Exchanges, complies with The fundamental principles that underpin OTE’s applicable domestic and international corporate corporate governance, involve the following: governance legislation, incorporating regulations and compliance practices within its operations. At the l Two–way communication between same time, aiming to uphold transparency, efficient company stakeholders and company’s management and optimal operational performance, OTE Management Environment follows practices, which although not required by law, l Transparency and control over management allow for the company’s adherence to best practices. l Assurance of operational efficiency. All relevant provisions and practices are incorporated in the company’s Articles of Incorporation, Internal OTE applies corporate governance standards Operations Regulation, the OTE Group Code of and practices on the basis of three key priorities Conduct and other Policies adopted by the competent which are: OTE Group corporate bodies. l The definition of the role of the Members Subsidiaries OTE, pursuant to the law, complies with the Hellenic of the Board of Directors (Executive, Non– Corporate Governance Code (HCG Code) which has Executive and Independent Members) as well been issued by the Hellenic Corporate Governance as the procedures for the required audit of Council (a joint initiative of HELEX and the Hellenic the company’s operations, Federation of Enterprises) in October 2013, by l The protection of shareholder rights, and announcing and justifying any deviations through Indexes the Board of Directors’ Annual Corporate Governance l The enhancement of transparency and Statement (comply or explain principle), which is part information disclosure. of the Annual Report of the Board of Directors to the General Shareholders’ Meeting. CR Strategy and Management 21 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 For more information please visit: The OTE BoD is supported, in its operation, by the About this Report https://www.ote.gr/en/web/guest/corporate/ir/ OTE’s Audit Committee and Compensation and Human corporate–governance Resources Committee, while the COSMOTE BoD is supported by the respective Audit Committee and http://www.cosmote.gr/cosmoportal/ Remuneration and Nomination Committee. OTE’s cosmote.portal?_nfpb=true&_ Compensation and Human Resources Committee, pageLabel=T13_20&catName=Corporate_ among other competences, is responsible for setting Governance&cat=Corporate_Governance&loc=en_US the principles of Corporate Responsibility practices. CR Strategy and In 2013, there were no formal procedures for the Boards of Directors evaluation of OTE and COSMOTE Boards and their Management The Boards of Directors (BoD) of OTE and COSMOTE Committees; however the companies are examining constitute the top administrative bodies of the means to comply with this requirement as prescribed in companies. Their aim is to safeguard the general Part A, paragraph 3.4 and paragraph 7 of the HCG Code. interests of the companies and ensure their operational efficiency. The Boards’ responsibilities include, among Compensation of all Members of the Board of Directors Marketplace others, convening General Assemblies of Shareholders, is approved by the Shareholders’ General Assembly. preparing and submitting the Annual Report and The Executive Directors’ compensation, including financial statements to the Annual General Assembly of performance–related compensation procedures, is Shareholders and approving the companies’ strategy, covered by employment contracts which are approved while monitoring its execution. The OTE General by the Shareholders’ General Assembly. Assembly of Shareholders is also responsible for In accordance with the provisions of Article 9, appointing the Independent – Non Executive Members Employees paragraph 7 of OTE’s Articles of Incorporation, the of the Board of Directors and the Members of the Audit Executive Members of the Board (in 2013, the Chief Committee, according to the criteria set by the Law, Executive Officer and the OTE Group Chief Financial taking into account references to corporate governance Officer) receive no compensation for their participation and conflict of interest policies. in the Meetings of the Board of Directors Meetings or Both companies have the same Chairman of the BoD, its Committees. who is also the CEO. The OTE Articles of Incorporation On CR matters, in both companies, the Chairman Society (Article 10.1) provide that the offices of Chairman of and CEO seeks input from the two Boards as part of the BoD and CEO may be held by the same person. the annual review of strategic objectives. Currently, OTE’s Board of Directors, on 31st December 2013, the evaluation of the Chairman and CEO, as well as consisted of eleven (11) members, elected for a Boards’ performance does not include specific criteria three–year term. Out of the eleven (11) members related to Corporate Responsibility. Employees may bring issues to the attention of the Boards of Directors Environment of the Board of Directors, two (2) were Executive Directors, four (4) were Non–Executive Directors, and through the formal dialogue of the Management with five (5) were Independent Non–Executive Directors. the employee representatives. The gender composition of the Board was ten (10) Employees may bring issues to the attention of the men and one (1) woman. Boards of Directors through the formal dialogue of the COSMOTE’s Board of Directors, on 31st December Management with the employee representatives. OTE Group 2013, consisted of nine (9) members, elected for a three–year term. The gender composition of the Board was nine (9) men. Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 22 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 2.4 CR Strategy and Management Risk and Compliance Management and Policies Marketplace Business activities are subject to uncertainty. This uncertainty may originate outside the company or result from the company’s own actions. Normally, uncertainty is synonymous with the definition Employees of risk. By systematically tracking uncertainty, it is possible to derive appropriate measures early on, reduce risks and make systematic use of opportunities. For this reason, a functioning risk and compliance management system is a core element of value–based corporate management in that it supports efforts to secure the company’s success in a sustainable way. As part of a comprehensive compliance, risk and insurance management process, OTE Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate supports the Board of Directors and Management in Society the performance of their tasks in managing the Group and meeting their obligations. The OTE Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate is responsible for the continuous development of the risk management system and for the Group–wide insurance strategy. To that extent, OTE Group has put in place: OTE Compliance, Enterprise Risks and Corporate The Risk and Insurance Management Governance Committee (OTE GRC Committee)1. Environment l System (RIMS) that supports Management in The Committee was initially established in 2010 (OTE its strategic and operational decisions, through CEO’s Resolution No 15/D.253/22.02.2010) under the the identification, evaluation and prioritization name of “Compliance Committee”. In March 2013, after of risks, followed by coordinated and cost– the adoption of the Risk and Insurance Management effective application of resources to monitor, System which is operated by the OTE control, and minimize the probability and the OTE Group impact of adverse events. Group Enterprise Risk Management Department Subsidiaries l The Compliance Management System (CMS), to (of the OTE Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance ensure compliance with the legislation in force and Directorate), the responsibilities of the Committee internal policies, aiming at avoiding risks and other were expanded and assumed by the new OTE legal consequences for OTE Group companies and Compliance, Enterprise Risks and Corporate their personnel. Governance Committee established by OTE CEO’s Resolution No 26/28.03.2013 (according to which the Indexes The effectiveness and efficiency of the mentioned pre-existing Committee has been abolished and its Systems (RIMS and CMS) is monitored by the duties have been assumed by the newly established). 1 An equivalent GRC Committee with similar powers and duties has been established at COSMOTE as well (COSMOTE CEO’s Resolution No D25/28.03.2013). Both of the Committees manage CMS and RIMS issues for all OTE Group Companies which have adopted such systems. CR Strategy and Management 23 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The OTE GRC Committee comprises of the 2.4.1 About this Report following members: Enterprise Risk and Insurance l Chief Compliance, ERM and Insurance Officer, OTE Management System Group (who is the Committee’s Chairman), The Risk and Insurance Management System (RIMS) l General Counsel – Chief Legal and Regulatory at OTE Group comprises a continuous process for Officer, OTE Group, the early identification, assessment, management, l Chief Financial Officer, OTE Group, communication and control of risks. Its key goal is CR Strategy and to safeguard the OTE Group existence and maintain l Chief Human Resources Officer, OTE Group, corporate success. To do so, it extends risk and Management l Chief Internal Auditor, OTE Group, opportunity analysis beyond a purely financial view to cover all Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) l Head Of Business Security and Continuity Division, dimensions. The RIMS at OTE Group utilizes all the OTE Group, strategic, operational and organizational control and while extraordinarily other executives may be invited monitoring measures used to manage risks so as to: Marketplace to participate depending on the agenda items.2 l Ensure that existing risks are systematically The OTE GRC Committee defines the strategic issues identified, analysed and evaluated and that and oversees the development, implementation and information relevant to risks and opportunities maintenance of compliance and risk management is promptly communicated to the respective across all business units as follows: decision–makers. l Proposes risk policies and risk appetite. l Provide prompt risk information (reporting), that Employees could have a material bearing on business success l Monitors the adequacy of mitigation controls. (operations, financial position and cash flows). l Monitors compliance effectiveness and defines l Record OTE Group’s response to mitigate risk strategies. recognized, analysed and communicated risks. l Reviews, evaluates and assesses the compliance l Evaluate options for transferring risk to external and risk management reporting. risk takers. Delegates actions and measures when needed. Society l l Establish thresholds for each level of risk The OTE Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance evaluation, triggering a reporting requirement Directorate on a quarterly basis, submits its report when these are exceeded (a limit system). to the ΟΤΕ GRC Committee for its review, evaluation The OTE Group Enterprise Risk Management and submission to the competent corporate bodies, Department supports risk–related management namely the OTE Audit Committee and the Board of Environment decisions and is responsible for the continuous Directors.3 development of an early warning and risk management system. The department is also responsible for the group–wide insurance strategy and acts as the enterprise risk and insurance policy holder at group level. OTE Group Subsidiaries 2 The COSMOTE GRC Committee comprises of the same members. Indexes 3 Moreover, OTE Group Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate on a quarterly basis, submits its report to the COSMOTE GRC Committee for its review, evaluation and submission to the competent corporate bodies, namely the COSMOTE Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Hereinafter both committees referred to as “OTE / COSMOTE GRC Committees”. CR Strategy and Management 24 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.4.2 About this Report The main achievements of ERM in 2013 were as follows: Compliance Management System and Policies l Development of the OTE Group Enterprise Risk Management and Insurance Policy and Ensuring compliance is a priority of OTE’s and Risk Manual. COSMOTE’s Boards of Directors. Compliance stands for a solid commitment to the principles of integrity, l Compilation of the OTE Group Quarterly Risk transparency, justice, professionalism, team spirit, and CR Strategy and Report (outlining the risk portfolio and the respect of the rules and principles, which are essential mitigating measures for each quarter). in governing the functions of the companies. Management l Compilation of the OTE Group Risk Cockpit (an overall economic outlook, pointing out some To this purpose, the Management has adopted and highlights, competition and regulation issues implemented a Compliance Management System for each country where the Group operates). (CMS), which covers the compliance of all personnel and Management with the legislation in force, the l Compilation of the OTE Group Risk Register Marketplace (detailed inventory of all registered risks Code of Conduct and internal policies, aiming to avoid throughout the Group). risks and other legal consequences for the companies and their personnel. In doing so, all shareholders, the l Identification of internal and external companies per see, the employees, the customers, channels of risk information, such as media, the suppliers and the public, benefit. The effectiveness external risk surveys, company policies and of the Compliance Management System relies on the procedures, internal reports and established commitment and the support of both Management liaison with Business Continuity, Legal, Employees and employees. Internal Audit, Health and Safety and Environmental Departments. The key elements of the CMS are prevention of l Establishment of a PML (Probable misconduct and protection of the reputation of the Maximum Loss) methodology to identify companies and their personnel, through employee critical infrastructure in terms of property training, continuous communication, detection of damage and revenue loss, as a result compliance risks and violations, and structured of a major loss event (e.g. earthquake, response to them. explosion, flooding, etc.). Society The Risk Management Process Follows the Loop Shown in the Diagram Below: Environment 1 Communication of Guidelines Clarification of Company’s Expectations 2 Risk Analysis 4 Risk Control Information Identification Avoid Communication of Risks Risk Portfolio Reduce Monitoring OTE Group Subsidiaries Transfer Early Overall Risk Evaluation Identification Bear Residual Risk 3 Definition of Strategies to Manage Risks, Indexes e.g. Risk Countermeasures CR Strategy and Management 25 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 In order to provide the possibility of filing a tip–off donations or corporate gifts, must be handled following About this Report regarding violations of policies, regulations and of the specific rules applicable to all employees. legislation in force, OTE and COSMOTE have adopted a Whistle-blowing Policy and relevant communication The Compliance Management System (CMS) of OTE, channels. In the context of this Policy, employees and/ COSMOTE, Romtelecom and AMC were successfully or third parties may eponymously or anonymously reviewed by independent external auditors in report to the OTE Group Compliance, Reporting and 2013. The audit covered the procedures / controls Case Management Department (of the OTE Group implemented at the Compliance Department as well CR Strategy and Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate) a as anti–corruption controls implemented at other violation or express a concern or complaint regarding units (Internal Audit, Human Resources, Sales and Management potential violations of the companies’ Policies or Procurement) and confirmed the effectiveness of the the legislation. It is the OTE and COSMOTE policy to companies’ CMS (Compliance Management System protect from any and all retaliatory acts directly or Certification 2013). indirectly against any person, who reports in good faith or expresses concern or lodges a complaint with Achievements in 2013 Marketplace regards to potential violation of policies, procedures, OTE was ranked at the top in a survey by Transparency regulations or legal obligations. International–Greece on the level of disclosure of the anti–corruption programs implemented by the largest In the context of implementation of the Compliance companies in Greece (with revenues exceeding €1 Management System, the following OTE Group Policies billion). According to the survey results, OTE scored and Codes are in force: 100% with respect to the disclosure of the program for l Code of Conduct. combating corruption sources open to the public, such Employees as the internet, confirming the company’s commitment l Code of Conduct for the protection of the to transparency throughout its operations. Individual’s Right to Privacy in the handling of Personal Data within OTE Group. The Compliance Risk Assessment for 2013 has been l Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers. conducted for OTE and COSMOTE. The Compliance Risk Assessment process was initiated in June 2013 l Whistle-blowing Policy. and the relevant workshops, with the participation of Society l Policy on Avoiding Sexual Harassment within the representatives of the units involved, took place OTE Group. during September 2013. OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Business l Policy on Accepting and Granting of Benefits. Units were assessed regarding risks according to the compliance risk landscape (including the areas of l Policy on Donations and Sponsorships. active and passive corruption). In this context, 83.3% l Events Policy. of OTE and COSMOTE Business Units (i.e. 10 out of 12 Environment Business Units reporting directly to the Chairman and l Fraud Policy. CEO of OTE Group) participated in the assessment of l Policy on Insider Trading. corruption related risks. l Policy on Avoiding Corruption and other Conflicts The Compliance Risk Assessment for 2013 resulted of Interest. in the 2014 Compliance Program (Measure Plan) for l Policy on Employee Relations within OTE Group. OTE and COSMOTE. The results of the Compliance Risk OTE Group l Policy on Anti–Trust Law. Assessment 2013 as well as the Measure Plan for Subsidiaries 2014 were presented to the OTE and COSMOTE GRC l Policy on Pensions and Risk Benefits Programs. Committees, subsequently to the OTE and COSMOTE l Policy on Insurance and Risk Management. Audit Committees and were finally approved by the OTE Board of Directors in the fourth quarter of 2013. The OTE Group Code of Conduct and relevant policies, prohibit corporate donations or contributions to political organizations or persons, or the use of OTE funds or assets for political purposes. The organization of events, Indexes the acceptance or the rejection of sponsorships or CR Strategy and Management 26 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The following new / revised Compliance Policies In addition, investigations on possible About this Report were adopted by all OTE Group Companies in Greece compliance violations, requested bythe Human and internationally, and communicated to OTE and Resources Directorate OTE Group, are now conducted COSMOTE employees: by OTE Group Compliance, Reporting and Case l Policy on Pensions and Risk Benefits (new). Management Department. l Policy on Anti–Trust Law (revised). In 2013, an Anti–Corruption Training Program took l Policy on Avoiding Corruption and other Conflicts of place in OTE and COSMOTE, which included classroom CR Strategy and Interest (revised). training for the upper Management (General Directors, Directors) and e–learning training for management and Management l Events Policy (revised). non–management employees. The Anti–Corruption E– l Policy on Donations and Sponsorships (revised). Learning Training Program covered the areas of avoiding corruption and other conflicts of interest, accepting and l Policy on Insider Trading (revised). granting of benefits and eliminating fraud. In the framework of the proper implementation of All OTE and COSMOTE management employees at the Marketplace the CMS and in order to ensure the avoidance of Section level and above were required to attend the risks when working with suppliers, the OTE Group anti–corruption training in 2013. Of the 581 persons Prevention, Policies and Training Department (of the eligible to attend, 433, i.e. 74.53% did participate. of the Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate) has adopted an Integrity Check and Compliance In addition, out of 1,634 OTE and COSMOTE non– Business Assessment Procedure. The Integrity Check managerial employees in scope for participating is conducted taking into account both the anti– in the anti–corruption e–learning program, because Employees corruption practices and the internal regulations of the nature of their responsibility, 699 employees of OTE / COSMOTE when considering initiation of successfully completed the e–learning training collaboration with suppliers. (i.e. 42.78%). Details of the participation rates are given in the Table below. Anti–Corruption E–Learning Training Program Society Company Persons to be trained via Number of persons to Percentage of persons e–learning (level: non– be trained trained (%) managerial positions) OTE 1,261 458 36.32 Environment COSMOTE 373 241 64.61 Total 1,634 699 42.78 In addition, an Anti–Fraud and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers E–Learning Training Program addressed to the OTE Group financial officers took place. The participation rates are presented in the Table below. OTE Group Anti–Fraud and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers E–Learning Training Program Subsidiaries Company Persons to be trained via Number of persons to Percentage of persons e–learning (level: Head of be trained trained (%) Section and above) Indexes OTE 107 84 78.50 COSMOTE 35 31 88.57 Total 142 115 80.99 CR Strategy and Management 27 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Internal Communication of important messages to During 2013, the OTE Group Compliance, Reporting About this Report the Management and all the employees regarding and Case management Department received a total of compliance issues, such as the relations with business 632 tip–offs / complaints, of which, 34 were related partners when accepting and granting of benefits (for to compliance rules and principles. The 598 tip–offs instance, the relevant guidelines about Christmas gifts remaining are mainly customer complaints regarding and invitations to events) have been enhanced. technical/ commercial issues and are considered not related to compliance. As required by the Compliance On the 9th of December, a day designated as an Management System, an investigation is carried out CR Strategy and International Anti–Corruption Day by the United for every complaint related to compliance rules and Nations, a campaign was launched to the entire Group principles. It should be noted that once a corruption Management in co–operation with the Corporate Communications incident is identified, a number of actions may be taken Division OTE Group including a message signed by the (according to the “OTE Internal Employee Regulation”, Chairman and CEO of OTE Group, addressed by e–mail Internal Policies and management/Committee to all OTE and COSMOTE employees and a relevant decisions) depending on the nature of the incident. banner uploaded on the intranet. The message of the Marketplace Chairman and CEO underlined that at the OTE Group In 2013, all 34 cases were investigated. Twenty two “we implement the United Nations Global Compact (22) of those were found to be Not Valid while twelve Principles on human rights, labour standards, the (12) were found to be Valid and respective actions environment and anti–corruption”. were taken (strict warnings, exclusion of employee from procurement committee and from access Quarterly Compliance Reports were submitted by to related data, submission of Conflict of Interest the Chief Compliance, ERM and Insurance Officer Statement, repayment of debt, change of the working Employees OTE Group to the Management (OTE / COSMOTE GRC position, temporary suspension, termination of Committees, OTE / COSMOTE Audit Committees, and employee contract, implementation/establishment of the OTE BoD). The quarterly Compliance Reports cover new controls or modification of existing ones). all the activities of the Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate of OTE Group and OTE Group companies. Furthermore of the four (4) compliance tip–off cases carried over from 2012, three (3) were found In the framework of the implementation of the Code of to be Not Valid and one (1) Valid (the actions taken Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, bod members and involve the establishment of new controls and the Society Senior Financial Officers signed and submitted to the modification of existing ones). Similarly of the two OTE Group Compliance Office statements in which they (2) related to compliance cases carried over from declare that they are informed of the provisions of the 2011, one (1) case was closed in 2013 (following the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and that they withdrawal of the complaint), and the other is to be comply with its provisions, aiming for honest and ethical decided, whether to be archived or re-examined. business conduct. Environment In 2013, there were six (6) cases, in which OTE and The Annual Compliance Statement and the Conflicts COSMOTE employees were dismissed or disciplined of Interest Statement were signed by OTE, COSMOTE for corruption. There were no corruption related cases and their affiliated companies’ BoD members as well regarding contracts with business partners leading as by the Management team of OTE Group companies. to contract cancellation or non–renewal and no The Conflicts of Interest Statement is aligned with the corruption related charges filed by legal authorities requirements of the Policy on Avoiding Corruption and OTE Group against OTE and COSMOTE or their employees. other Conflicts of Interest. Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 28 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.4.3 About this Report Internal Audit and Audit Committee Internal Audit is an independent, objective assurance members of the Audit Committee are designated by the and consulting activity, designed to add value and General Assembly of OTE, according to Law 3693/2008 improve an organization’s operations. It supports an and at least one member of the Audit Committee is a organization to accomplish its objectives, by applying financial expert. CR Strategy and a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, Internal Audit Management control, and governance processes. The Internal Audit The Internal Audit’s Charter approved by the Board Directorate is headed by the OTE Group Chief Internal of Directors is in compliance with Greek Laws and Auditor and supervised by OTE Audit Committee in Capital Markets Regulations, as well as with “The order to maintain its independence. International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing”, which is the guidance framework Marketplace Audit Committee promulgated by “The Institute of Internal Auditors” The OTE Board of Directors established an Audit (IIA). The IIA is an international professional association, Committee more than a decade ago and adopted an which acts as a global body to provide internal audit Audit Committee Charter, in order to set out the main professionals worldwide, with authoritative guidance. functions, responsibilities and composition of the Furthermore, the company’s Code of Ethics principles Audit Committee. The primary purpose of the Audit govern the minimum requirements for the conduct and Committee is to assist the company Board of Directors, behaviour of, and expectations from auditors, in the Employees in the exercise of their supervisory role and the conduct of their duty. satisfaction of their obligations towards shareholders, investors and others, particularly with respect to the On an annual basis, OTE Group Internal Audit integrity of financial statements, the adequacy of Directorate assesses the risks and adequacy of internal control procedures and systems, the observance controls across all companies of the Group, in order and adequacy of accounting and financial reporting to develop the annual audit plan and determine the processes, the evaluation of the independence of the priorities of the Internal Audit activity. The results Society companies’ external auditors, as well as the supervision of the audit activity, in the form of audit reports, are of the Internal Audit. The Audit Committee consists of recommendations for improving the efficiency and three Independent and Non–Executive Directors. The effectiveness of operations. Environment Main Achievements in 2013 During 2013, the new integrated organization of OTE Group Internal Audit Directorate successfully completed more than 65 audit projects and agreed more than 225 new management actions in the companies of the Group strengthening controls and processes. Furthermore, it made sound contributions to company cost optimization by delivering direct cost savings. The internal audit activities focused on paperless audit work and harmonized internal process, tools and procedures that allow successful certifications by Compliance as well adherence to the effective DT ICS principles. The Directorate further increased DT Group synergies on OTE Group planning, and executing 4 audits common to the companies of the Group, thus fostering communication and Subsidiaries exchange of best practice. Indexes CR Strategy and Management 29 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 2.5 Stakeholder Engagement Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE, both identify their key stakeholders as those groups which have a direct impact or influence on the sustainable success of the two companies, such as the employees, the investors, Employees the customers, the public and regulatory bodies, the media and Non–Governmental Organizations (NGOs) that represent the public’s interest, on issues relevant to OTE and COSMOTE businesses and their role in society. It is a general principle of OTE and COSMOTE to regularly engage with representatives of all these stakeholder groups. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 30 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.5.1 About this Report Stakeholder Engagement Approach Both companies act in alignment with the principles Roundtable Workshops with NGOs of the “ΑΑ1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard” In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE met with 31 National – Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness and and International NGOs in roundtable workshops. conduct the companies’ stakeholder engagement and Two workshops were organized, the first with NGOs CR Strategy and dialogue accordingly, namely through: focusing on supporting vulnerable groups of people, like children, and the second with NGOs working on Management l A CR Stakeholder and opinion leader survey. environmental issues. l Systematic dialogue and meetings with various NGOs. l Ongoing contact with the common OTE and At these meetings OTE and COSMOTE employees COSMOTE CR Team of the various operational units discussed with the NGO representatives on the of the two companies to exchange views, promote challenges the NGOs meet and expect to meet in the Marketplace CR activities and provide training, as presented near future, ways that the business sector may support in the CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / CR them in achieving their mission, their view about OTE’s Governance and Management Structure section. and COSMOTE’s social and environmental performance and potential opportunities of co–operation between the companies and the NGOs. CR Stakeholder Survey Key Findings The purpose of the OTE and COSMOTE survey is to Accordingly, all these actions, along with the ones explore the stakeholders’ attitudes, opinions and Employees mentioned in the CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / perceptions on CR in general, as well as on specific Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue section, CR programs of OTE and COSMOTE. The survey is underpin the companies’ stakeholder engagement and performed every two years. The last stakeholder are the base for the evolution of OTE and COSMOTE’s survey ran in late 2012 and early 2013, while the next CR programs and goals, included in the Business survey is scheduled to run in late 2014 and early 2015. Plans of the two companies. Thus, heeding the NGOs concern for support of programs for children in need, In the last survey, the participating stakeholder groups for students and for business entrepreneurship, Society were the media, authorities, local communities, OTE and COSMOTE re–enforced their corresponding academia, NGOs, OTE and COSMOTE employees, mobile initiatives (e.g. “OTE and COSMOTE Scholarship and fixed telephony subscribers, suppliers, as well as Program”, Christmas campaigns for supporting children, other commercial networks. For practical reasons, the and “Your business.gr”) and launched new ones (e.g. qualitative research was conducted in Athens, with a “COSMOTE StartUp”). OTE and COSMOTE also enhanced combination of methodologies, which included group its corporate volunteering initiatives and initiated Environment discussions (focus groups) and personal in–depth additional. More details on these OTE and COSMOTE interviews (in–depth interviews). activities are presented in SOCIETY section. The results of this survey pointed to the companies’ employees and customers. The following findings: more companies act responsibly the better OTE Group l Stakeholders believe that Corporate consumers respond in terms of acknowledging Subsidiaries Responsibility begins from within a company. these efforts and staying loyal. In times of extraordinarily high unemployment l NGOs seek more corporate volunteering rates and difficult working conditions in Greece, initiatives as an alternative way of companies attention and priority should be given to supporting and facilitating their work. employees’ management initiatives. l Priority areas of immediate support mentioned In cases where socially responsible companies include better pricing, enhancement of Indexes l develop strong relationships with customers, social care initiatives targeted to specific companies tend to take more CR initiatives vulnerable groups like children, students, young and awareness is raised both among the entrepreneurs etc. CR Strategy and Management 31 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.5.2 About this Report Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue The following table provides an overview of OTE and COSMOTE stakeholder dialogue, the main topics raised, and the way the two companies respond to them. Stakeholder Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Group CR Strategy and Customers Management l Customer Satisfaction Annual l Activation of Products, MARKETPLACE Surveys Quality of Services (in ENVIRONMENT / l CR Surveys Annual relation to costs) Electromagnetic Fields l Tracking Studies Quarterly l Technical Support (e.g. web hosting, DNS services, l Call Centres Ongoing IPVPN) Marketplace l Customer Account Ongoing l Commercial and Billing Managers Issues l Social Media Ongoing l Mobile Telephony l Sales Network Ongoing Operations l Improving the way customer complaints are handled Employees l Safe use of Services l EMF l Responsible Marketing (e.g. consumer rights) l Introduction of new technologies l Data Security and Privacy Telecoms Society Providers / Commercial Network Environment l Customer Satisfaction Annual l Timely information on CR STRATEGY AND Surveys provided services and MANAGEMENT / l CR Surveys Annual progress of requests Corporate Governance l Dedicated Website (www. Ongoing l Resolution times for CR STRATEGY AND otewholesale.gr) Malfunctions and MANAGEMENT / Complaints Risk and Compliance l Key Account Managers Ongoing Management and Policies l Regulatory Requirements l Presentations on OTE Ongoing for Providers MARKETPLACE OTE Group Systems l Transparency Subsidiaries l Special Mailbox Ongoing (otewholesale@ote.gr) l Governance l Press Releases Ongoing l Economic Growth l Corporate Announcements Ongoing l Improving the Digital Gap Indexes CR Strategy and Management 32 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.5.2 About this Report Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue (Cont’d) Stakeholder Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Group Investors CR Strategy and l Investor Relations Ongoing l Group Strategy CR Report (all sections) Department and Results Management Communication l Outlook on labour l Annual General Annual relations, regulatory Shareholders Meeting decisions, Eurozone l Corporate Governance Annual crisis and adverse Report and CR Report economic situation l CR Surveys Annual l Climate Change Policy Marketplace l Participation in Corporate Ongoing Responsibility ratings l Private Meetings Ongoing l Conference Calls Quarterly l Meetings of Executives Ongoing l Adoption and Ongoing Employees Implementation of Policies and Principles l Daily Collabouration Ongoing Employees l OTE and COSMOTE Ongoing l Rationalization and CR STRATEGY AND Intranets reduction of labour costs MANAGEMENT in agreement, to the Society l Circulars on all important Ongoing MARKETPLACE / Company Decisions greatest extent possible, Data Security and Privacy with OME–OTE l Meetings with Employees Ongoing EMPLOYEES l Fair Work (diversity, work– l Negotiations with Periodic life balance) Labour Unions l Planning and Conduct of l Emails from the Periodic Training Programs Environment Chairman and CEO & General Directors l Professional Development l Employee Satisfaction Biennial l Health and Safety Surveys l Protection of l Pulse Surveys Biannual Personal Data l CR Surveys Annual Organization of Events Periodic OTE Group l l Appraisal System Annual Subsidiaries l Trainings Ongoing Indexes CR Strategy and Management 33 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.5.2 About this Report Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue (Cont’d) Stakeholder Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Group Communities and NGOs CR Strategy and l Systematic Liaison Ongoing l Importance of Adopting CR CR STRATEGY AND Management with Local Authorities l Internet Safety Public MANAGEMENT (mostly regional) Education SOCIETY l Meetings with NGOs Biannual l Support for Vulnerable ENVIRONMENT l CR Surveys Annual Groups and Charities l Social Contribution Marketplace l Meetings and Electronic Communication preferred l EMF, Biodiversity l Environmental Performance Media Employees l Corporate announcements Ongoing l Timely Response is Valued CR Report (all sections) (Press releases) and l Management, Commercial, systematic contacts Technology, Financial, l Press Conferences, Ongoing Environment and Labour Advertorials / issues continue to be of Entries on CR Issues most interest to the Media l Events Ongoing Informative Contacts with Ongoing Society l Media Representatives l CR Surveys Annual Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 34 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.5.2 About this Report Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue (Cont’d) Stakeholder Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Group Suppliers CR Strategy and l Consultation and Ongoing l Tender Criteria and ABOUT THIS REPORT / Dialogue on Procurement Competitions OTE Group Management Procedure Issues l Communication on ABOUT THIS REPORT / (relevant laws, telecom Supplies Issues OTE and COSMOTE market issues etc.) Ongoing l Transparency MARKETPLACE / l Attendance in Management Approach Sector–based Unions l Market Policy Ongoing MARKETPLACE / l Meetings l Economic Growth Annual Responsible Procurement Marketplace l CR Surveys l Inserting CR Criteria, and Supply Chain Ongoing including Environmental l Suppliers’ Evaluation Management Criteria State / Government l Consultations on Ongoing l Implementation of CR STRATEGY AND Employees Proposed Laws and Regulatory Measures MANAGEMENT / Regulatory Frameworks applying to OTE Corporate Governance for Telecommunication l Issues of Effective CR STRATEGY AND Markets Regulatory Adjustment MANAGEMENT / l Written or Verbal Ongoing l Specialized National Compliance Management Communication with Goals for European Digital System and Policies Regulatory and Public Agenda Strategy MARKETPLACE / Sector Bodies Responsible Competition Transparency Society l l Dialogue with Ongoing MARKETPLACE / representatives of l Governance Expanding Broadband and national and local l Economic Growth Mobile Internet in Greece authorities MARKETPLACE / l CR Surveys Annual Responsible Marketing l Attendance in Ongoing Environment Associations and Unions OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 35 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 2.6 Materiality Analysis Marketplace In 2013 the CR Department, in an attempt to take OTE / COSMOTE approach to materiality analysis one step further, ran a materiality analysis process, which took into consideration the Enterprise Risk Employees Management principles used by OTE Group. The process was organized and initiated in 2013, was completed in early 2014 and included the following 2 phases: l Analysis of material issues by the OTE and COSMOTE Government, customers etc.), Participated in a Management team: Twenty four (24) members workshop, where they were asked to discuss OTE of OTE and COSMOTE Management team, from and COSMOTE CR performance and CR report, different business units, participated in prioritizing and subsequently to identify and prioritize the Society OTE and COSMOTE material issues for sustainable material issues for the companies’ sustainable development. The participants were asked to use operation. The stakeholders were asked to use the the rating scale developed and used by the OTE same rating scale used by the OTE and COSMOTE Group Enterprise Risk Management Department. Management team. l Analysis of material issues by the OTE and This process enabled the CR Department, for the first COSMOTE stakeholders: In an event, organized Environment time, to compare internal and external views of the by an independent organization, nine (9) companies’ material sustainability issues. The results stakeholders, coming from different stakeholder are presented in the following graph. groups (e.g. the media, NGOs, employees, the OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 36 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report Significance of Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts to Stakeholders CR Strategy and Management Marketplace Employees Significance of Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts to OTE and COSMOTE Society 1 Corporate governance 15 Employee satisfaction 2 Economic contribution 16 Social products and services 3 Responsible competition 17 Social contribution 4 Expanding broadband and mobile Internet 18 Employee volunteerism 5 Responsible marketing 19 Enabling entrepreneurship 6 Responsible procurement 20 Energy efficiency 7 Public awareness of technology 21 Road transport 8 Customer satisfaction and service 22 Greenhouse gases 9 Data security and privacy 23 Water Environment 10 Health and safety 24 Materials and waste 11 Fair employment 25 EMF 12 Employee development 26 Visual impact 13 Employee benefits 27 Noise 14 Internal communication 28 Public awareness An examination of the graph shows remarkable OTE and COSMOTE consider that their materiality OTE Group agreement between the stakeholders and the analysis process is crucial to their planning process; Subsidiaries companies’ Management judgment of the importance therefore more effort will be put in 2014 to strengthen of the issues. The issues related to health and safety of their approach to materiality analysis and assessment. employees are shown to be at the top of the concern of both, while for a few issues, namely visual impact, as well as economic contribution, energy efficiency and road transport, their opinions diverge. Indexes CR Strategy and Management 37 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 2.7 CR Strategy and Management Memberships, Ratings and Awards Marketplace 2.7.1 Memberships Employees Both companies are fully engaged in and remain informed about multilateral trends and developments on Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE maintained voluntary participation in a number of national and international bodies, as they consider these organizations to be strategic for commercial and societal reasons. An indicative list of organizations and initiatives in which OTE and / or COSMOTE are active members, is given in the Society following table. Organization / Initiative Company Participation Type National level Association of ICT Companies in Greece OTE and COSMOTE Members. OTE is a member since 1998 and COSMOTE since Environment (SEPE) 1997. Association of Mobile Telephony COSMOTE Founding member since 2008. The association aims to Companies (EEKT) strengthen collaboration and promote issues of common interest, among mobile telephony providers in Greece. Corporate Responsibility Institute, Greece OTE Member since 2008. Global Sustain OTE and COSMOTE Members since 2007. OTE Group Hellenic Network for Corporate OTE and COSMOTE Members. OTE is a member since 2001 and COSMOTE since Social Responsibility 2005. Hellenic branch of UN Global OTE and COSMOTE Members since 2008. OTE and COSMOTE have committed, Subsidiaries Compact (UNGC) through their CEO, to implement, and promote the 10 universal principles of UNGC and to release a Communication on Progress (COP) report annually. Greek self–regulatory body for the OTE Founding member since 1999. Internet content “SafeNet” Indexes Road Safety Institute “Panos Mylonas” COSMOTE Member and sponsor since 2009. “Roads to the Future” Alliance for COSMOTE Member and sponsor since 2009. A Memorandum of safety and courtesy on the road Cooperation has been signed CR Strategy and Management 38 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Organization / Initiative Company Participation Type About this Report European Level ETNO Sustainability Working Group OTE Founding member since 1992. OTE has signed the Sustainability Charter. In 2013, OTE provided information to ETNO, on selected sustainability indicators referring to its 2011–2012 performance, to be incorporated in ETNO Corporate Responsibility Report, used for benchmarking CR Strategy and purposes within ETNO. European Telecommunications COSMOTE Member since 1998. Management Standards Institute (ETSI) Global Level GeSI (Global e–Sustainability Initiative) OTE Member since 2010. Global Reporting Initiative OTE Member and Organizational Stakeholder since 2007. Marketplace GSM Association (GSM) COSMOTE Member of the World Association of Mobile Communications Services since 1997. COSMOTE actively participates in many of its workgroups. International Telecommunication OTE Associated member, since the beginning of the 90’s. Union (ITU) Employees 2.7.2 Ratings OTE and COSMOTE operations focus on generating OTE has satisfied the requirements to become a sustainable added value. In this context, the constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, since companies respond to investor analysts’ requests 2008. The FTSE4Good equity index series, created by and participate in sustainability–oriented ratings. the FTSE Group global index affiliate, is designed to OTE Group Corporate Communication Division, facilitate investment in companies that meet globally through its Corporate Responsibility Department, recognized Corporate Responsibility standards. Society is responsible for coordinating, prioritizing and consolidating all inquiries from corporate responsibility OTE participates, since 2008, in Greece’s Corporate rating agencies. It works closely with the Investor Responsibility Index (CRI), organized by Corporate Relations Department as well as on an issue–by–issue Responsibility Institute in cooperation with BITC (Business in the Community). OTE received the Environment basis with all other Departments to address external requests for information. “Silver” distinction award in 2008 and 2009, the “Gold” distinction award in 2010 and 2011, and In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE responded to requests the “Platinum” distinction award in 2012. In 2013, for sent by EIRIS, a leading global provider of research the first time, OTE and COSMOTE jointly participated into corporate environmental, social and governance in this index and received the “Platinum” distinction (ESG) performance, and Vigeo, a leading European award, as well as the “Best Award Marketplace”. OTE Group expert institution in the assessment of companies and organizations with regard to their practices and ESG performance issues. Subsidiaries Since 2010, OTE participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Index on climate change, by completing the respective questionnaire and making the required information available on the CDP platform. CDP is the Indexes world’s largest investment–focused reporting and collaboration platform on climate change. CR Strategy and Management 39 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.7.3 About this Report Awards During 2013, OTE and COSMOTE received a number l At the Tech Excellence Awards, organized by of awards and recognitions for their CR commitments the technology magazine “PC Magazine”: and actions, as follows: > OTE was named the “Internet Service Provider l At the Environmental Awards 2014, organized by (ISP) of the Year”. Boussias Communications and Plant Management, CR Strategy and > COSMOTE was named the “Mobile Phone OTE’s and COSMOTE’s performance was recognized Company of the Year”. Management in three different categories: l At the National Customer Service Awards 2013, > “Waste Management”: Grand Award. organized by the Greek Customer Service Institute: > “Sustainable Built Environment–Energy > OTE won the award for the “Best Training Group Building”: Gold Award. on Customer Care”. > “Climate Protection–GHG Offset”: Silver Award. > COSMOTE won the award for the “Best Marketplace l At the 10th Enterprise Awards MONEY–George Customer Service Centre of the Year”. Ouzounis, OTE was ranked 2nd in two categories: l At the Survey of Transparency International in > “Best Company – 2013”. Greece, on the level of disclosure of the anti– > “Investment Relations – 2013”. corruption program implemented by the largest companies in Greece OTE was ranked first. l At the CR Reports Awards, organized by the Employees University of the Aegean, which rated all the CR Reports published in Greece, the OTE – COSMOTE 2012 CR Report was awarded 3rd place. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 40 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 2.8 2013 CR Performance Marketplace The key 2013 financial, environmental and social performance indicators for OTE and COSMOTE in 2012 are presented in the table below. More information can be found in the relevant sections Employees of the Report, as to the performance analysis, computation assumptions or clarifications of the presented data. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 41 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2013 CR Performance OTE COSMOTE About this Report Financial Performance Total Revenues (mn €) 1,557.2 1,281.0 Payroll and Employee Benefits (mn €) 444.5 98.1 Total Operating Expenses (mn €) 1,572.9 1,013.1 EBITDA (mn €) 317.4 482.5 CR Strategy and Pro forma EBITDA1 (mn €) 568.3 486.7 Management Income Taxes Paid (mn €) 9.7 88.9 Fees and Commissions to third parties 122.2 42.2 (incl. taxes other than income taxes and regulatory charges) (mn €) Marketplace Marketplace Fixed–line Subscribers 2,899,142 – Mobile Telephony Subscribers – 7,476,980 Broadband Subscribers 1,286,228 – TV Subscribers 255,912 – Loyalty Index (TRIM) 70 66 Employees Total CAPEX (incl. spectrum payments) (mn €) 179.8 134.0 Evaluation of Suppliers (% of the procurement volume) 73% 94% Number of Complaints received from Customers 193,368 131,629 Percentage of Complaints received from Customers that 56% 74% were Resolved within 2 days Employees Society Number of Employees on Permanent Contract 6,878 2,045 Percentage of Female Employees 31% 51% Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (%) 99% 92% Environment Employee Turnover as a Percentage of Total Employees 21% 5% Work–related Fatal Accidents (number of employees) 0 0 Work–related Non–fatal Accidents (number of employees) 31 14 Work–related Non–fatal Accidents (lost days) 1,9082 2073 OTE Group Health and Safety Training (hours/employee) 0.43 1.7 Subsidiaries Training Hours (hours/employee) 10.53 31.86 Number of Complaints received regarding Discrimination 0 0 requiring corrective actions Notes: 1 Excluding impact of Voluntary Retirement Programs and restructuring charges. Indexes CR Strategy and Management 42 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2013 CR Performance OTE COSMOTE About this Report Society Sponsorships – Donations (incl. in–kind) (€) 1,052,129 1,559,517 Number of Volunteering Projects 5 Working Hours Invested to Organize and Run Volunteering Initiatives 457 211 CR Strategy and Employee Volunteering (number of employees) 2,994 1,911 Management People Supported (estimated) 28,050 Environment Electricity Consumption (GWh) 251.80 156.21 District Heating and Fuel Consumption in Buildings and Installations (GWh) 12.36 16.60 Marketplace Fuel Consumption in Vehicles Fleet (GWh) 27.67 7.98 Direct (scope 1) CO2 Emissions (t) 9,777.41 6,379.13 Indirect (scope 2) CO2 Emissions (t) 181,295.47 112,472.12 Hazardous Waste (t) 270.60 69.53 Employees Non–hazardous Technical Waste from Telecom Operations (t) 4,009.10 103.08 Recycling of Phone Devices (mobile and fixed) and Accessories (t) 14.63 7.90 Number of Measurements on EMF Conducted by Specialized Scientific – 86 Personnel of the Company and Independent Institutions Notes: 2 Lost days are measured as calendar days. Society 3 Lost days are measured as scheduled work days. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 43 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.9 44 2013 and 2014 Goals CR Strategy and Management 2.9.1 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 2013 Goals 2013 Performance Reporting and Stakeholder Engagement OTE and COSMOTE: Maintain GRI B+ and start preparing F Refer to ABOUT THIS REPORT for GRI G4 CR Strategy and OTE and COSMOTE: Common online F Refer to ABOUT THIS REPORT Management CR Reporting platform OTE and COSMOTE: Further standardization of the F Refer to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Stakeholder Dialogue approach via a 4 step approach: CR Governance and Management Structure a) Stakeholder focused survey (every 2 years) and CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / b) Annual NGO’s meeting Stakeholder Engagement Approach Marketplace c) Materiality analysis d) Tactical meetings and dialogue with CR Team OTE: Maintain existing CR ratings F Refer to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Ratings COSMOTE: Publish CR Reports for all subsidiaries abroad F Refer to OTE GROUP SUBSIDIARIES OTE and COSMOTE: Further focused CR Training F Refer to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / of the CR Team Stakeholder Engagement Approach Employees OTE and COSMOTE: Maintain CR Leadership in Greek F Refer to MARKETPLACE / Customer Surveys Telecom Sector OTE and COSMOTE: F Refer to ABOUT THIS REPORT and a) Publish one common CR Report CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / b) No printed version (eco–friendly approach) 2013 and 2014 Goals c) Set fewer, more quantitative goals from 2014 onwards CR-Related Policies and Systems OTE and COSMOTE: Crisis Management system F Refer to MARKETPLACE / Society integrated with the OTE Group Business Business Continuity Management Continuity Management System OTE Group: Further enhancement (or alignment) F Refer to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / of the Group CR Strategy across all pillars CR Governance and Management and OTE GROUP SUBSIDIARIES Environment OTE and COSMOTE: Adoption of new OTE Group Policies F Refer to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / and amending of current Compliance Policies Compliance Management System and Policies OTE and COSMOTE: Certification of the Compliance F Refer to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Management System (CMS) in OTE, COSMOTE Compliance Management System and Policies and Romtelecom OTE and COSMOTE: Annual Compliance Risk Assessment F Refer to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / OTE Group Compliance Management System and Policies Subsidiaries OTE and COSMOTE: Further trainings on issues about: F Refer to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Anti–Corruption, Accepting and granting of benefits, Compliance Management System and Policies Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and anti–fraud Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Achieved Indexes CR Strategy and Management 45 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.9.1 About this Report CR Strategy and Management (Cont’d) 2014 Goals CR Strategy and Management OTE and COSMOTE: Strengthening further the materiality analysis process by involving more parties in the procedure OTE and COSMOTE: Development of CR Policy CR Strategy and OTE and COSMOTE: Annual reporting based on GRI G4 guidelines Management OTE and COSMOTE: Enhanced use of digital media to communicate CR performance / reporting Risk and Compliance Management OTE and COSMOTE: Establishment of a common risk methodology and enhancement of the cooperation between group companies to develop the Group risk landscape OTE and COSMOTE: Development of a risk management system and methodology as part of day–to–day work to all business units. Marketplace OTE Group: ERM Certification regarding ISO 31000 by Q4 2014 OTE and COSMOTE: Certification regarding the effectiveness of Anti–Trust Compliance Program OTE and COSMOTE: Process of initiation, adoption and implementation of BS 10500 (British Standard “Anti–Bribery Management System”) Internal Audit OTE and COSMOTE: Internal Audit Department to execute about 50 audits planned for 2014 with priority given to processes that affect Employees customers, new revenue streams and the operating model Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 46 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.9.2 About this Report Marketplace 2013 Goals 2013 Performance Internet Safety OTE and COSMOTE: Maintain the “In the Internet fairyland, we F Refer to MARKETPLACE / want no villains” campaign, concerning the public awareness for the Raising Public Awareness CR Strategy and safe use of the Internet Management OTE and COSMOTE: Enhance initiatives concerning the safe use of F Refer to MARKETPLACE / the Internet, in the framework of the “CEO Coalition to make the Internet Safety and Public Awareness Internet a better place for kids” COSMOTE: Complete the “Surfing the World” program in 16 F Refer to SOCIETY / schools at remote mainland areas Programs in the Periphery OTE and COSMOTE: Facilitate the reporting of online Marketplace F Refer to MARKETPLACE / illegal content Raising Public Awareness Suppliers OTE and COSMOTE: Assess Suppliers corresponding to F Refer to MARKETPLACE / 30% of OTE’s monetary acquisitions and 70% of Supplier Evaluation COSMOTE’s monetary acquisitions Responsible Products and Services Employees OTE: Launching of Smart Metering solutions (i.e. energy F Refer to MARKETPLACE / management), Information Security services, as well as further Sustainable Products and Services development of ICT and Cloud services Information security services were launched and offered to clients in 2013. Data Security OTE and COSMOTE: Execution of more than 60 security F Refer to MARKETPLACE / Society audits / risk assessments Data Security and Privacy OTE and COSMOTE: Security awareness activities for F Refer to MARKETPLACE / specific groups Data Security and Privacy OTE and COSMOTE: Regular audits of access to customer F Refer to MARKETPLACE / communication data Data Security and Privacy Environment Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Achieved OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 47 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.9.2 About this Report Marketplace (Cont’d) 2014 Goals Internet Safety COSMOTE: Focus on the safe and controlled use of smartphones and tablets by children OTE and COSMOTE: Enhancement of initiatives concerning the safe use of the Internet, in the framework of the “ICT Coalition” for the CR Strategy and Safer Use of Connected Devices and Online Services by Children and Young People in the EU Management Data Security and Privacy OTE and COSMOTE: Implementation of a new IdM (Identity Management) system OTE: Implementation of a DLP (Data Loss Prevention) system OTE and COSMOTE: 20 critical sites security hardening improvements including electronic systems installation Marketplace Business Continuity Management OTE: Certification of its Business Continuity Management System Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management OTE and COSMOTE: Evaluation of suppliers corresponding to 30% of the procurement volume for OTE and 70% for COSMOTE Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 48 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.9.3 About this Report Employees 2013 Goals 2013 Performance Employee Engagement and Satisfaction OTE and COSMOTE: Communicate results of employee survey F Refer to EMPLOYEES / (ESS) to employees and develop action plans to further Employee Engagement And Satisfaction CR Strategy and enhance employee engagement and satisfaction Management OTE and COSMOTE: Conduct “Pulse Survey” to all employees F Refer to EMPLOYEES / Employee Satisfaction of OTE Group (including OTE Fixed subsidiaries) and OTE GROUP SUBSIDIARIES OTE and COSMOTE: Effectively utilize the available internal Refer to EMPLOYEES / Internal Communications communication channels (e.g. Intranets, direct e–mails), One of the 2013 CR initiatives was the “Giving is to inform the employees about CR initiatives the best medicine” program, involving OTE and Marketplace COSMOTE employee gathering of medical supplies. The implementation of this CR program was communicated through a motivational digital campaign, a newsletter, an informational poster, reminder e–mails, promotional activities and a closing thank you campaign OTE and COSMOTE: Enhance strategy and targets alignment F Refer to EMPLOYEES / and information sharing across the organization Employee Engagement OTE and COSMOTE: Gym facilities in the new building to F Refer to EMPLOYEES / Employees enhance physical health Health and Safety Prevention and Awareness HR Policies and Systems OTE: Implement further automation / F OTE continued to invest in electronic applications to self–service HRM systems further improve HR services to employees, simplify internal processes and contribute to a paperless organization. In 2013, OTE introduced (via the Human Capital Management system) the following Society applications: management and organization of time and labour, on line pay slip information, and end-to-end Self Service for leaves of absence and training sessions. In the Pulse survey held in November 2013, 64% of OTE employees agreed that “HR process automation – “Self Service” improves and makes their daily business easier” OTE: Post–VES (Voluntary Exit Scheme), targeted hiring Environment F EMPLOYEES / of young people in critical areas, supporting Greek Workforce communities during high unemployment and bringing youth into OTE workforce Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Achieved OTE Group 2014 Goals Employees Subsidiaries OTE and COSMOTE: Rationalization and Harmonization of HR policies OTE and COSMOTE: Introduction of talent management programs OTE and COSMOTE: Enhancement of people development Indexes CR Strategy and Management 49 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.9.4 About this Report Society 2013 Goals 2013 Performance Employee Volunteering OTE and COSMOTE: Continue Employee Volunteer F Refer to SOCIETY / COSMOTE Blood Donation program Employee Volunteering CR Strategy and OTE and COSMOTE: Develop a new employee F Refer to SOCIETY / Management volunteer program Employee Volunteering OTE and COSMOTE: Further align the Volunteering F Refer to SOCIETY / Initiatives of the two companies Employee Volunteering NGO Support and Collaborations COSMOTE: Continue “Our World Is You” program Marketplace F Refer to SOCIETY / Social Contribution and Society / Enabling Entrepreneurship OTE and COSMOTE: Continue Scholarship program F Refer to SOCIETY / Supporting Young People OTE and COSMOTE: Maintain Christmas initiatives F Refer to SOCIETY / for children in need Supporting Children OTE and COSMOTE: Continue PC Donation program Employees F Refer to SOCIETY / Students Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Achieved 2014 Goals Society Society OTE and COSMOTE: Maintaining major CR initiatives for supporting children and students OTE and COSMOTE: Realization of a new CR initiative aiming to address a current significant need of the society OTE and COSMOTE: Further actions to support local communities nationwide OTE and COSMOTE: Maintaining the level of corporate volunteering initiatives to support fellow citizens in need Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes CR Strategy and Management 50 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.9.5 About this Report Environment 2013 Goals 2013 Performance Environmental Management OTE: Receive ISO 14001:2004 certification for OTE EMS F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / Management Approach and ENVIRONMENT / CR Strategy and Key Achievements in 2013 Management COSMOTE: Renewal of ISO 14001:2004 for AMC F Refer to OTE GROUP SUBSIDIARIES and COSMOTE Romania OTE and COSMOTE: Develop a fully operational IT system F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / for the OTE and COSMOTE environmental data collection Key Achievements in 2013 COSMOTE: Renewal of ISO 14001:2004 F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / Marketplace Key Achievements in 2013 COSMOTE: Streamline EMF Policy of COSMOTE, P The final text of EMF Policy has been agreed by OTE AMC and COSMOTE Romania with the DT Policy on EMF and COSMOTE and is in process of electronic approval. All terms of EMF Policy have been implemented. Refer to OTE GROUP SUBSIDIARIES Climate Change OTE and COSMOTE: Announcement of a long term F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / Employees (2020) CO2 Emissions reduction target against Key Achievements in 2013 a 2008/2009 baseline OTE: Reduce CO2 Emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / by 5% compared to 2008 levels Direct GHG and Non–GHG Emissions and ENVIRONMENT / Indirect GHG Emissions CO2 Emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) in 2013 were by Society 6.8% lower than 2008 levels COSMOTE: Prevent emission of over F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / 5,500 tn CO2 due to programs implemented Direct GHG and Non–GHG Emissions and ENVIRONMENT / Indirect GHG Emissions Emissions avoided due to the programs implemented Environment were about 7,300 t CO2 Energy OTE and COSMOTE: Monitoring electricity efficiency Not Electricity intensity (specified as electricity (OTE: 141 MWh/mn€; consumption divided by revenues) amounted to COSMOTE: 130 MWh/mn€) 162 MWh/mn€, exceeding both the 2012 figure and the target set for the year. The increased electricity intensity metric is a result of OTE’s declining revenue OTE Group in 2013 compared to 2012 (8.6%) amid economic Subsidiaries recession in Greece F Electricity intensity (for COSMOTE Group Greece) was 122 MWh/mn€ (i.e. lower than the target value of 130 MWh/mn€) OTE: Improved energy performance of service vehicles by 5% F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / Energy Consumption COSMOTE: Prevent energy use by 5% per base station F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / Indexes Improving Energy Efficiency and Reducing Emissions Avoided energy use was about 7% Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Achieved CR Strategy and Management 51 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 2.9.5 About this Report Environment (Cont’d) 2013 Goals 2013 Performance Waste OTE and COSMOTE: Establishment of an integrated F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / recycling program for packaging materials in the Key Achievements in 2013 and CR Strategy and Central Administration building and in the new office ENVIRONMENT / complex in Paiania Recycling Packaging Materials Management OTE and COSMOTE: Streamline recycling programs F Refer to ENVIRONMENT / for phones and accessories in OTE, COSMOTE and Key Achievements in 2013 and GERMANOS retail network ENVIRONMENT / Phones and Accessories OTE and COSMOTE: Recycle 100% of technical waste withdrawn P Refer to ENVIRONMENT / Hazardous Waste Management and Marketplace ENVIRONMENT / Technical Waste Management EMF COSMOTE: Install 15 additional measurement stations in 2013 F In 2013 10 measurement stations were installed (instead of 15) as the National Technical University of Athens was on strike during the last 5 months of 2013. The rest 5 units will be installed in the first quarter of 2014 Employees Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Achieved 2014 Goals Environmental Management OTE and COSMOTE: Successful completion of the 2014 round of ISO 14001:2004 audit surveillance OTE and COSMOTE: Full implementation of the IT system developed for environmental data collection at OTE Group level Society Climate Change OTE and COSMOTE: A long term (2020) CO2 Emissions reduction target against a 2008/2009 baseline is to be elaborated, in line with the DT climate change strategy Environment OTE: Reduction of CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) by 10% compared to 2008 levels COSMOTE: Prevention of over 5,000 t CO2 Emission due to programs implemented Energy – Transport OTE: Maintenance of electricity intensity (electricity consumption per revenues) at around 165 MWh/mn€ COSMOTE: Maintenance of electricity intensity (electricity consumption per revenues) at around 130 MWh/mn€ (valid for COSMOTE Group Greece) OTE: Improvement of energy performance of service vehicles by 5% OTE Group Subsidiaries COSMOTE: Maintenance of energy performance of vehicles fleet at 2013 levels COSMOTE: Reduction of energy use by 5% per base station Waste OTE and COSMOTE: Expansion of the integrated recycling program for packaging materials in 4 key regional buildings OTE and COSMOTE: Recycling of 100% of hazardous and technical waste withdrawn EMF Indexes COSMOTE: Installation of 10 additional measurement stations CR Strategy and Management 52 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries 3.0 Marketplace About this Report CR Strategy and Management 3.1 Management Approach Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE put the highest priority on ethics, transparency and responsible business conduct. They aim to succeed in the marketplace, by being customer–centric, innovative and competitive, and by Employees playing a leading role in building Digital Greece. Strategy and policy coordination on marketplace issues is managed across Divisions and Directorates within the companies, through the Business Plan mechanisms, overseen by the CEO and the Management Committee. The Business Plan process includes assessments of market, regulatory and commercial risks and opportunities. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 54 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 OTE and COSMOTE intend to offer responsible products and advocate the safe use of Internet. Marketing About this Report and services, well labelled and communicated, communication is conducted in accordance with keeping their customers safe throughout the products existing laws and regulations and the companies and services life cycle and securing the customers’ continually work on processes and tools to secure the private data. In this context, all equipment sold, customers’ private data. accompanying products, and services has been certified and bear mandatory markings required under Finally, OTE and COSMOTE are aware of the risks EU legislation, in compliance with all directives and arising within there supply chain and work on the CR Strategy and regulations regarding safe use instructions, restriction development of responsible social (covering labour of hazardous substances and electronic waste. Both and human rights issues) and environmental practices. Management companies enable the reuse and recycle of materials Key Achievements in 2013: Marketplace l OTE and COSMOTE, fully aware of the ICT enabling role in environmental protection, society’s support and economic growth, invested in developing sustainable products and services (e.g. OTE Business Cloud, Fleet Management service, M2M solutions in collaboration with the Hellenic Electricity Distribution Network Operator etc.), and enabling research and innovation activities in the field. l Both companies provided information to over 65,000 citizens on topics such as safe use of the Internet and mobile telephony services. Employees l OTE and COSMOTE harmonized their complaints management methods leading to the decrease of OTE response time, while keeping customer satisfaction and customers’ loyalty at high levels. l OTE and COSMOTE continued to be recognized as leaders between socially responsible Greek companies, having achieved the 5th and 1st place respectively in the 2013 Awareness and Social Behaviour Index. l COSMOTE resolved 74% and OTE 56% of complaints within 2 days. l The new common Policy for the Protection of Communications Privacy (aiming at ensuring the privacy Society of communications and the protection of the respective data, through the implementation of security controls in specific areas) was implemented. l OTE’s Supplier Code, which describes the criteria that OTE uses to evaluate its suppliers on Labour, Health and Safety, Environmental and Ethical issues, was approved and put into force. l OTE and COSMOTE conducted evaluations of suppliers, who account for 73% and 94% respectively of the Environment procurement volume. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 55 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 3.2 Responsible Competition Marketplace 3.2.1 Competition and Regulation Employees OTE and COSMOTE are firmly committed to abiding by national and European regulations of the telecommunications marketplace, in Greece and the countries in which their subsidiaries operate. In addition, they are committed to working with government, business and society stakeholders, to ensure a regulatory framework that affords unbiased treatment of all telecommunications services providers and contributes to broader community prosperity. Society COSMOTE, since 2006, and OTE, since 2011, have formed internal relevant policies to inform employees on the importance of complying with competition regulations and to systemize the rules of conduct. The OTE Group Policy on Antitrust Law, which sets the operational framework in the context of antitrust law for the activities of OTE Group companies and its employees, entered into force in 2013. Regulatory Framework Environment The provision of telecommunications services in reflect the current level of competition and can be Greece is subject to regulation based on EU legislation, burdensome, particularly regarding the conditions for competition law and sector–specific regulation, relating approval of the OTE rates. to various issues, such as: numbering, licensing, tariffs, local loop unbundling, interconnection, leased lines, EETT imposes on OTE and COSMOTE “ex–ante” universal service and privacy issues. regulatory obligations, which often have a serious impact on their business policy. By them, both OTE Group Telecommunications Directives and Regulations, adopted companies are subject to pricing constraints, while Subsidiaries in the EU, were implemented in national legislation by OTE’s competitors do not have such an obligation means of Law 4070/2012. Furthermore, in 2013, the since, according to EETT estimations, they do not have Hellenic Telecommunications and Post Commission significant market power (SMP), in the relevant market. (henceforth “EETT”) published individual Decisions (i.e. During 2014, the EETT is expected to issue individual General Authorization Regulation) based on the main regulatory Decisions, in accordance with the provisions provisions of Law 4070/2012 and amended the Regulation of Law 4070/2012 and carry out reviews of market for Number Portability. In addition, EETT has conducted analyses and consultations in order to decide whether Indexes market analyses and published relevant Decisions. any provider has SMP in the relevant market. Where OTE and COSMOTE are found to have SMP, EETT will impose In the regulatory environment, secondary legislation regulatory remedies in the relevant markets. and regulatory remedies, in many cases, do not Marketplace 56 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Regulatory Actions in 2013 About this Report In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE were involved in a number COSMOTE, regarding competition and regulatory issues. of regulatory and administrative disputes with EETT. The most important pending regulatory issues are These relate to fourteen (14) actions (hearings) reported in the OTE Annual Report 2013 at https:// against OTE, regarding: discount programs, response in www.ote.gr/en/web/guest/corporate/ir. consumer complaints, charges for local loop unbundling services, delays in delivering and repairing unbundled During 2013, EETT imposed fines with monetary value local loops, refusals of requests for local loops and of €2,851,300 on OTE. No monetary fine was imposed CR Strategy and related services, spectrum interference caused by VDSL by EETT on COSMOTE. OTE has lodged 11 appeals before the competent courts seeking annulment of Management activation, issue date of invoices, providers’ obligation to submit letters of guarantee interconnection and these penalties. phone directory issues and one (1) action against Regulatory Litigations in 2013 Marketplace Actions OTE COSMOTE Number of Fines 11 0 Number of Appeals 11 0 Number of Non–pecuniary Penalties 1 0 Employees Value of Fines EUR 2,851,300 – 3.2.2 Advocacy for a Responsible Marketplace Given that new technologies are decisive for future to report harmful content and contact, age– economic growth, social inclusion and sustainability, appropriate privacy settings, wider use of content Society OTE and COSMOTE play an active role in sectoral and classification, wider availability and use of parental multi–stakeholder fora, associations and initiatives, at controls, effective removal of child abuse material. national and EU level, in order to promote responsible These actions are presented in the MARKETPLACE / competition, self–regulation and collaboration on Internet Safety and Public awareness section. ICT Coalition for the Safer Use of Connected Environment societal issues. l During 2013, the main forums/associations/initiatives, Devices and Online Services by Children and in which OTE and COSMOTE participated, are: Young People in the EU OTE and COSMOTE participate, as members of l ETNO Deutsche Telekom Group, in this broad alliance, OTE is one of the 50 members and observers of made up of 22 companies from across the the Association of European Telecommunications information and communications technology OTE Group Network Operators. (ICT) sector. The aim of the ICT Coalition is to help Subsidiaries l CEO Coalition to make the Internet a better younger internet users across Europe to make place for kids the most of the online world and deal with any OTE and COSMOTE participated, as a member potential challenges and risks. To this purpose, of Deutsche Telekom Group, in this cooperative in 2012, members of the ICT Coalition signed up voluntary intervention for the Safe Navigation to a set of guiding principles to ensure that the of Children and Young People in the Internet. safety of younger internet users is integral to the Indexes Companies which are signatories to the Coalition, products and services they develop. committed to take positive action throughout 2012 and 2013 in 5 areas: simple tools for users Marketplace 57 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 l European Memorandum on safe use of mobile l Association of Mobile Telephony Companies phones by children and teenagers About this Report COSMOTE participates in the non–profit COSMOTE actively participated in the consultations, organization “Association of Mobile Telephony under the auspices of the European Commission, Companies”. The Association, aims to be an for the establishment of a European Memorandum, advisory board in regulatory processes, to addressing the safe use of mobile phones, by participate in the decision–making processes children and teenagers. COSMOTE, was the first of legislative or technical committees (at an Greek company among 15 other European mobile international, European and national level), as well CR Strategy and telephony and content provider companies to sign as to collaborate with institutions and associations the Memorandum, in February 2007. in other countries, within the scope of bilateral Management l The National Common Code of Conduct on or multilateral collaborations. Its objective is the mobile phones and protection of users collective modernization and development of the COSMOTE collaborated with other mobile telephony mobile telephony sector. providers in Greece, in order to develop a “Common Code of Conduct for added value services, via Marketplace mobile phones and protection of minor users”. The objective of this mobile telephony sector self– regulation process is for minor users to be offered a common level of protection, in line with those as in other European countries. Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 58 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 3.3 CR Strategy and Management Expanding Broadband and Mobile Internet in Greece Marketplace Although the availability of broadband, for fixed line and mobile services, is almost 100% in Greece, Employees the penetration rate is an ongoing challenge for the country, which has been lagging behind the EU average rate, mainly in fixed line broadband. At the end of 2013, fixed broadband connections reached 2,913,191 compared to 2,689,428, at the end of 2012, registering an increase of 8.3%. Fixed broadband penetration amounted to 25.8% compared to 23.8% in 2012 resulting in, keeping Greece in the 19th place among the EU member states, according to EETT statistics. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 59 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Evolution of Broadband Connections About this Report Increase of broadband connections per semester Broadband connections (total) 2,913 2,797 400 3,200 2,689 CR Strategy and 2,560 Number of broadband connections (thousands) 2,464 2,352 2,800 Increase of broadband connections (thousands) 2,253 Management 2,105 1,917 300 2,400 2,000 200 1,600 Marketplace 1,200 100 800 400 0 0 Dec 2009 June 2010 Dec 2010 June 2011 Dec 2011 June 2012 Dec 2012 June 2013 Dec 2013 Employees Source: EETT, based on data from licensed carriers Key Investments in 2013 Society OTE and COSMOTE have the capacity, know–how and financial base to continue investing towards upgrading the telecommunications infrastructure of Greece and will contribute to achieving the objectives of the 2020 Digital Agenda and the country’s transition to the new digital era for its society and people. Investments by OTE and COSMOTE are based on the companies’ assessments of the market, customer and community needs, and are mainly undertaken by the Commercial and the Technology Directorates. Environment OTE Group investments in Greece, exceeded €2 bn in the past five years. ADSL is available to 91% of the population. At the same time, OTE invests systematically in the development of the FTTC–VDSL network with fibre–optic cables gradually reaching neighbourhoods. Speeds of up to 50 Mbps have already been made available to 1 mn households. In mobile telephony, COSMOTE was the first mobile company in Greece to offer 4G services in 2012 and expanding at a fast pace, provided population coverage exceeding 55% by the end of 2013. OTE Group has announced plans to invest a further €1.2 billion in the next 4 years, a significant part of which on New OTE Group Generation Networks (NGN) for both fixed and mobile telephony. Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 60 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 OTE Access Lines and Traffic Statistics About this Report Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Change (%) PSTN Connections 2,734,260 2,532,008 –7.4% ISDN Connections(BRA and PRA) 392,012 358,446 –8.6% Other (MSAN) 0 8,688 – Total OTE Access Line Connections 3,126,272 2,899,142 –7.3% CR Strategy and Of which wholesale line rental (WLR) connections 63,964 47,082 –26.4% Management Total OTE Broadband Active Subscribers 1,204,980 1,286,228 +6.7% OTE Broadband Active Retail Subscribers 1,179,174 1,261,590 +7.0% OTE TV Subscribers (IPTV and Satellite) 119,771 255,912 +113.7% Unbundled Local Loops (active) 1,794,558 1,907,303 +6.3% Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 61 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 3.4 CR Strategy and Management Internet Safety and Public Awareness Marketplace The companies’ role is not restricted to producing safe products and offering top quality services, it extends to informing customers and the wider public about the safe use of technology, their products Employees and services. In this context, for the second consecutive year, under the slogan “In the internet fairyland, we want no villains” OTE and COSMOTE informed parents, children and the public in general about the safe use of the internet and the mobile telephony services. Also, in 2013, OTE and COSMOTE enhanced their initiatives concerning the safe use of the Internet, in the framework of the “CEO Coalition to make the Internet a better place for kids”, via actions – described below– that they implemented for the availability and use of parental controls, as well as for the facilitation of reporting online illegal content. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 62 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 3.4.1 3.4.2 About this Report Products and Services Raising Public Awareness ΟΤΕ offers “OTE Secure”, which consists of online Acknowledging the rapid development of new security services like Anti–virus, Anti–spam, Firewall, technologies and interactive media, such as the Browsing protection, as well as an enriched Parental Internet and the mobile phones, and driven by the Control functionality that allows parents to monitor, conviction that prevention and proper information can filter and block access to websites with inappropriate ensure the appropriate use of those means, OTE and CR Strategy and content (e.g. violence, adult content, guns, drugs COSMOTE, acting as responsible corporate citizens, etc.) by adjusting the level of protection according to have developed a series of actions and initiatives. Management the age of the children. Also, OTE TV offers Parental In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE issued the informative Control Services in both iptv and satellite platform, brochure “Safe Use of the Internet and the Mobile through which, the subscribers have the choice to set Telephony Services”, which was addressed to parents. the Parental Control level that they prefer and to lock The brochure is available at the points of contact with out specific programs, based on the Parental Control customers both in Athens and the rest of Greece as Marketplace rating level that all programs in the service carries. well as at the official website of OTE and COSMOTE. Additionally, in satellite service, the subscriber can lock out the channel(s) of his choice. Furthermore, Moreover, in the context of the educational activities concerning the Adult Pack (3 additional channels with of the OTE Telecommunications Museum, awareness adult content), a customer to subscribe to this pack sessions have been carried out since 2010, with regards must visit a retail shop or affiliate shop of OTE and to safe Internet navigation. The sessions are delivered by apply in person. Finally, in order to rent a movie with specialized scientific partners of the Adolescent Health Employees adult content, from video on demand service, the Unit of the Second Department of Paediatrics of the subscriber needs to enter his personal PIN number University of Athens “P. & A. Kyriakou Children’s Hospital” that was given to him when he bought the service and are aimed at students of all grades. Their content is (and was advised to keep it away from children). All adjusted depending on the age and knowledge level of the above instructions are given also on the service the students and according to their interests. manual and in help screens on the portal service. Furthermore, through a systematic and comprehensive At the same time, COSMOTE enables parents to control targeted communication action plan, OTE and their children’s access to mobile telephony services COSMOTE inform and sensitize parents, teachers, Society that are addressed only to adults, through a series of children and the wider public, as well as their user–friendly parental control services, developed and employees, on issues regarding the safe use of / or provided by the company to its subscribers, free of Internet and the mobile telephony services. Points of charge. Specifically, COSMOTE pre–installs the security contact with their customers, constitute major means of informing the companies’ customers. It is indicative Environment and antivirus program “Lookout” in all the Android devices that it distributes, offers parents the option to that more than 700,000 brochures on the safe use of block the erotic category, available through “COSMOTE mobile telephony services and the Internet have been my view”, which offers services addressed only to distributed over the past six years. adults, as well as to block “Multimedia Information Both companies offer advice on safe use of the Internet Services”, by calling COSMOTE Customer Service. and the mobile telephony services through their official websites (www.ote.gr and www.cosmote.gr). OTE Group Subsidiaries Moreover, OTE and COSMOTE facilitate the reporting of online illegal content through their official websites, by including a direct link to the report form of the Greek hotline website “SafeLine.gr” and access to download the Safeline’s application for Androids, which may be used to report illegal content from practically Indexes anywhere via a smartphone. Safeline is an official member of INHOPE and operates under the umbrella of Safer Internet Program of the European Community. Marketplace 63 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Action/ Means Company Target Impact in 2013 About this Report People informed about the safe use OTE and COSMOTE Parents, children, teenagers, teachers, Over 65,000 people of the Internet and mobile phones students, wider public Awareness Sessions on using OTE School groups, teenagers and adults 317 people technology safely at OTE being informed on children protection Telecommunications Museum Safer Internet Day Research results and actions by the CR Strategy and Management Campaign 2013 Adolescent Health Unit On the occasion of the 2013 Safe Internet Day and The two companies participated in a press conference driven by the conviction that prevention and proper held by the Adolescent Health Unit of the Second information can ensure the safe use of the Internet Department of Paediatrics of the University of Athens and of the mobile, OTE and COSMOTE implemented “P. & A. Kyriakou Children’s Hospital”, in February Marketplace for yet another year an awareness campaign. With 2013. Considerable evidence from recent surveys the message “In the Internet fairyland, we want no was presented, as well as specific actions related to villains”, and through a series of targeted initiatives Internet safety. One of the results of this year’s survey and awareness actions, OTE and COSMOTE are showed that only 28.8% of adolescents say they informing both the wider public and the thousands of have been informed about Internet safety (Source: OTE Group’s employees. Adolescent Health Unit (M.E.Y), Research Results December 2012–January 2013). Safer Internet event at the Athens Mall – February 2013 2nd Congress for Safer Employees In the framework of OTE and COSMOTE’s joint Internet Navigation campaign and the Safer Internet Day 2013, for OTE and COSMOTE jointly supported the 2nd Conference the second consecutive year, OTE and COSMOTE on Safer Internet Navigation organized by the Cyber carried out a special event for parents, adolescents Crime Unit, where, distinguished scientists who and children at the Athens Mall. Specialists from specialize on issues related to safe navigation on the Society the Adolescent Health Unit (A.H.U.) of the Second Internet scientists from Greece and abroad, participated. Department of Paediatrics of the University of Athens “P.&A. Kyriakou Children’s Hospital”, informed more Theatre performances at OTE than 1,200 parents and children about the safe use of Telecommunications Museum the internet, potential risks as well as young people’s The OTE Telecommunications Museum hosted in addiction through interesting interactive activities. February 2013, the theatrical play “The Internet Farm” Environment addressed to school groups and the public. The play presented the process of safe Internet navigation in a pleasant way. More than 340 parents and children, as well as, 400 students attended the play, in 2013. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 64 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 3.4.3 About this Report Collaboration with Recognized Bodies Since 2010, OTE and COSMOTE have been cooperating Internet Centre, which operates under the auspices with the Adolescent Health Unit of the Second of the European Commission. The line is addressed to Department of Paediatrics of the University of Athens adolescents and their families, providing support and “P. & A. Kyriakou Children’s Hospital”, supporting their advice on issues related to the use of Internet, mobile CR Strategy and work regarding safety on the Internet, via both the phones and electronic games. Research Department, as well as its awareness actions, Management taking place all over Greece. Furthermore, since 2011, OTE and COSMOTE have actively supported the workshops organized by the Since 2009, via the support of OTE and COSMOTE, Police Cyber Crime Unit in Greece, which are designed the Adolescent Health Unit manages the Helpline to raise the awareness of parents and students on “YpoSTIRIZO 800 11 800 15” of the Greek Safer Internet safety. Collaboration with Acknowledged Bodies Actions and Impact in 2013 Marketplace Adolescent Health Unit of the Second Department of l More than 300 cases involving children and teenagers were Paediatrics of the University of Athens “P. & A. Kyriakou communicated to the Unit, on a monthly basis, for issues such Children’s Hospital”. as cyber bullying, inappropriate content and excessive use of the Internet Employees l Awareness sessions were conducted in 80 schools l Satellite event “6th State of the Art Adolescent Medicine Course”, with more than 700 participants Helpline “YpoSTIRIZO 800 11 800 15” for adolescents l 2,000 calls and emails and their families, providing support and advice on Awareness campaign (television, radio and cinemas) for the Society l issues related to the use of the Internet, the mobile operation of the Helpline, in February and May 2013 phone and electronic games. Cyber Crime Unit workshops, designed to raise l 51 workshops held in 2013 awareness of parents and students on safe use l 17,000 people attended in the workshops of the Internet More than 40,000 people, in Greece and internationally, Environment l watched the conferences via live streaming l More than 10,000 informative leaflets of OTE – COSMOTE were distributed 3.4.4 Participation in Self–Regulatory Initiatives OTE Group Of particular importance is OTE and COSMOTE’s At the same time, COSMOTE, along with all mobile Subsidiaries participation, via Deutsche Telekom, in the cooperative telephony operators, has undertaken self–regulatory voluntary intervention “CEO Coalition to make the initiatives at the European and national level, as Internet a better place for kids” for the Safe Navigation mentioned in the MARKETPLACE / Advocacy for a of Children and Young People on the Internet and Responsible Marketplace section. Indexes in the ICT Coalition for the Safer Use of Connected Devices and Online Services by Children and Young People in the EU. Marketplace 65 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 3.5 CR Strategy and Management Responsible Products and Services Marketplace Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) have and will continue to play a significant role in global economic growth through the development and application of innovative services that increase Employees productivity in all sectors of economy. The increased use of ICT services has undoubtedly an environmental and social impact, while it is also widely acknowledged that ICT services can enable a more sustainable performance in all sectors of economy. OTE and COSMOTE are fully aware of the ICT enabling role in environmental protection, society’s support Society and economic growth, the contribution of the sector in achieving sustainable development and the opportunities it offers for the advancement of the companies. Hence, the companies have invested in developing sustainable products and services, and enabling research and innovation activities in the field. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 66 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 3.5.1 About this Report Sustainable Products and Services As the leading telecommunications operator in souththat could result in a reduction of paper consumption eastern Europe, OTE and COSMOTE are providing voice, and improved management of resources. mobile and broadband services of high quality and More information on the “yourbusiness.gr” service transmission rates, enabling their customers through is presented in the SOCIETY / Enabling CR Strategy and specific products and services to take full advantage Entrepreneurship section. of the broadband services towards direct and indirect Management improvement of their operations, well–being and OTE modernized its electronic services by establishing environmental performance. Such products and the e–bill service, which offers registered customers activities, available in 2013, include: the opportunity to: conveniently receive their bill directly on their OTE Business Cloud l e–mail in digital format, Marketplace OTE Business Cloud is based on server visualization, l access useful statistics and data regarding their calls, which not only minimizes the traditionally high cost of acquiring and maintaining material–technical l easily pay their bill using the payment code infrastructure but also allows for significant reductions received via SMS, in a company’s energy consumption. Essentially, OTE l avoid keeping an archive of printed bills, Business Cloud offers on–line services, with safe and l enhance their personal information security by continuous provision of ΙΤ infrastructures, providing Employees using credentials of their choice, and the users with the ability to have immediate access via easy to use tools, in order to monitor and manage the l actively contribute to reduce paper waist by going resources granted to their needs. paperless and turning off their paper bill. Teleconference E–services in Health OTE offers improved teleconference infrastructure to OTE and COSMOTE offer e–services used by the health its business customers, who made extensive use of sector. The services, already offered to Papageorgiou Society its capabilities. New up–graded video conferencing Hospital in Thessaloniki and Rea Maternity Hospital services (based on cloud computing technology) in Athens, concern telemedicine, management of offer enterprises the opportunity for immediate hospital infrastructure and access to the hospital teleconferencing practically from everywhere, through information systems. The e–services provided also aim smartphones, tablets or laptops that are equipped at the improvement of services to patients and visitors (e.g. patients’ admission and hospitalization) as well Environment with the necessary software. In 2013, only within OTE Group, 2,056 teleconferences were conducted. as of administrative procedures (e.g. human resources management) and can result in the reduction of Fleet Management Service operational expenses. They also enable patients to The Fleet Management service (provided by COSMOTE) receive health care assistance remotely, and reduce is based on monitoring the location of vehicles with the the environmental impact of engaging parties, as it use of a GPS satellite system, transmitting information minimizes travelling. E–services in Tourism OTE Group via COSMOTE 2G/3G network to the customer’s control Subsidiaries centre and monitoring the information on a digital map. The aim is the optimization of vehicles’ routes and OTE and COSMOTE services enable the tourism sector the corresponding reduction of fuel consumption and to improve its operation. E–services are used for carbon dioxide emissions. hotel infrastructure energy management, network management and maintenance, digital signage, Development of e–applications value added services to the visitors during their Indexes OTE and COSMOTE invest in the development of stay in the hotel premises, teleconferences, etc. All e–applications for their customers (e.g. e–billing, services contribute to the upgrading of hotel facilities e–payment, online submission of applications by and services and hence, hotels operate in a more wholesale customers, the “yourbussiness.gr” service) sustainable way. Marketplace 67 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Smart Grids 3.5.2 About this Report Smart grid represents a significant ICT–enabled GHG Research and Innovation emissions abatement option. According to the Smarter 2020 study, about 45% of the abatement potential The development of innovative products and services, identified in the power sector is attributed to smart represents a key priority for OTE and COSMOTE. To grids. A smart grid is an electrical grid that uses this end, both companies are engaged in collaboration information and communications technology with an international network of partnerships from (Machine to Machine communication, M2M) to industry and academia in a large number of successful CR Strategy and gather and act on information, such as data on EU and Nationally funded research and development the behaviours of suppliers and consumers, in an projects (namely LiveCity, E3NETWORK, WHERE2, Management automated fashion to improve the efficiency, reliability, WiSE–PON, PANDA, SECCRIT, SAT4NET, DuCoNet, economics, and sustainability of the production and NextGenMilliWave, UNIFY, SPIRIT, GERYON, OpenLAB, distribution of electricity. NEMESYS, FLEX, VIMSEN, CONFES, NextGenAntennas, WikiZEN, Fasmetrics E/M Products and Services) COSMOTE is active in the development of M2M dealing with various research topics. Marketplace solutions, and in 2013 expanded its collaboration with the Hellenic Electricity Distribution Network Operator Contributing to the improvement of the operating (HEDNO) by establishing 65,500 M2M additional environmental performance, represents a high (to the existing 13,000) connections, of which priority for OTE and COSMOTE. Thus, both companies 9,000 came operative in 2013. COSMOTE provides participate in research activities, aiming at developing an integrated management application for all M2M climate and environmentally friendly products and connected devices through which HEDNO is able to services, included in the 7th Framework Program for manage them via Internet for the daily data collection Research and Technology Development (Research Employees and analysis. These M2M connections are gradually theme: Information and Communication Technologies) installed in customers’ premises (ranging from high as well as within national initiatives announced to low voltage electricity users) and are scattered and funded through the Greek General Secretariat throughout Greece. The services to HEDNO include, for Research and Technology and, occasionally, among others, real time monitoring of every installed within other potential funding agencies such as M2M connection, alert warning (received via SMS ESA (European Space Agency). The most indicative or e–mail) in case of any status change, reporting of research projects are presented below. ECOGEM (Cooperative Advanced Driver Society the energy consumption of every M2M connection, notification generating in case the usage exceeds a predetermined limit, etc. Assistance System for Green Cars) The objective of the project was to design and develop E–energy a smart and innovative in–vehicle system for “green” cars (Fully Electric Vehicles, FEVs) that –based on Α new service, currently under development, is being Environment real–time monitoring and information management designed specifically aiming at energy conservation capabilities while on the move– would recommend in the business sector. The EDM (Energy Data the most energy efficient and environmentally friendly Management) solution is the result of an extensive routes and provide information on the FEV’s autonomy research of the Greek market’s needs and international and the nearest recharging points/stations. market’s trends. The solution provides real–time information of energy consumption (with access In the framework of ECOGEM, COSMOTE contributed OTE Group from anywhere) and control of energy spending. By to the technical specifications for the secure and adopting this service, an enterprise may reduce its Subsidiaries efficient communication of vehicles with the central energy consumption, carbon footprint and operational system platform, as well as to the dissemination and cost (energy expenses). commercialization actions of the project results. The ECOGEM system was validated, tested and Specific information on social products and services evaluated by means of both simulation trials and field offered to clients is presented in SOCIETY / Social tests, using three FEV types. System functionalities Products, Services and Offers section. were verified and energy savings of 15% or more Indexes and 2 times better prediction accuracy in energy Details on products and services aiming at promoting consumption were demonstrated. For more business enterprising are presented in SOCIETY / information, see http://www.ecogem.eu. Enabling Entrepreneurship section. Marketplace 68 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 EMERALD (Energy Management LiveCity (Live Video–to–Video and Recharging for Efficient Supporting Interactive City About this Report Electric Car Driving) Infrastructures) Extending further the results of ECOGEM, EMERALD The aim of LiveCity is to empower the citizens of a focuses on energy use optimization and on the city to interact with each other in a more productive, seamless integration of FEVs into the transport and efficient and socially useful way by using high quality energy infrastructure, by delivering clear advances over video–to–video (V2V) over the Internet in a great the state–of–the–art integrated in–vehicle energy variety of pilot applications / uses within modern CR Strategy and management, as well as for effective integration “smart cities” in urban environments, covering city Management with the grid, cooperative transport infrastructures municipal services, city e–Health, city emergency, city and fleet management and planning systems. In the education and learning and city experiences. framework of EMERALD, COSMOTE contributes to the use case scenarios, user and system requirements, Apart from improving citizens’ living standards, V2V technical specifications, system architecture, testing may offer significant environmental benefits via and evaluation phases, dissemination activities and the reduction of fuel costs and carbon footprint, as Marketplace investigation of commercial exploitation. it reduces travel within cities. LiveCity becomes a technology integration trial which offers advanced EMERALD started in October 2012 and will run for services to approximately 2,750 users in the 45 months under the coordination of SOFTECO SISMAT participating European Cities. (IT). The project budget is €5 mn, while COSMOTE’s budget is € 0.3 mn and the EU contribution is of LiveCity started in April 2012 and will be completed the order of 50%. For more information, see by the end of 2014. OTE participates as coordinator of Employees www.fp7–emerald.eu. this innovative project which comprises 18 partners from 7 EU member states, having a budget of € TEAM (Tomorrow’s Elastic 4.5 mn, while the OTE budget is €0.5 mn and the Adaptive Mobility) EU contribution is of the order of 50%. For more information, see http://livecity–psp.eu. The scope of the project is to make travellers and CONSERN (Cooperative and Self– infrastructure act as a team, adapting to each other growing Energy aware Networks) and to the situation, creating optimized mobility conditions in real time, thus increasing road safety The aim of CONSERN was to develop and validate Society and transport efficiency with direct environmental impacts on the roads. In the framework of TEAM, a paradigm for dedicated, purpose–driven small COSMOTE contributes to the technical specifications, scale wireless networks and systems characterized system architecture, identification of the applications by an “energy–aware self–growing network”, which to be developed, testing and overall assessment constitutes a service–centric evolutionary approach. Environment of the system, as well as to the project’s results CONSERN started in June 2010 and was officially dissemination and exploitation. completed in early 2013. CONSERN was a collaborative TEAM is funded by the EU under the 7th Framework effort of 10 partners from 5 EU member states. The Program in the context of the European Green Vehicles project’s budget was €3.3 mn. OTE’s budget was €0.04 PPP Initiative (www.egvi.eu). It started in November mn with the EU contribution of the order of 50%. For 2012 and will run until October 2016 under the more information, see www.ict–consern.eu. coordination of Fraunhofer–Institut FOKUS. OTE Group Subsidiaries The project budget is €17.9 million, while COSMOTE’s budget is €0.2 mn and the EU contribution is of the order of 50%. For more information, see http://www.cooperative–team.eu/. Indexes Marketplace 69 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 E3NETWORK (Energy Efficient E–Band transceiver for backhaul of the future About this Report networks) E3NETWORK aims at the design of an energy–efficient, high–capacity transceiver fulfilling the backhaul requirements set by future networks, while speeding– up the roll–out of high speed wireless internet and reaping the benefits of a digital market for households CR Strategy and and firms. The backhaul technology to be developed Management will facilitate the transition to smaller and more energy efficient base stations, which are key for the novel network topologies needed to address the new patterns of usage of citizens. E3NETWORK started in December 2012 and will Marketplace be completed in December 2015. E3NETWORK is a collaborative effort of 9 partners from 6 EU member states, having a budget of €5 mn. OTE’s budget is €0.3 mn and the EU contribution is of the order of 50%. For more information, see http://www.ict–e3network.eu Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 70 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 3.6 Responsible Marketing Marketplace 3.6.1 Responsible Marketing Practices Employees OTE and COSMOTE comply with laws and regulations in marketing communications and the Marketing Communications Strategy Division, Fixed and Mobile controls and reviews all marketing materials, prior to public release. In particular, OTE and COSMOTE ensure that their communication material is in compliance with law, appropriate, fair, sincere and respectful of diversity. The companies follow the SEE (Committee of Communication Control) Code of Responsible Marketing. Society OTE and COSMOTE apply the Greek Code of Conduct for advertisement and communication, in line with guidelines from the Committee of Communication Control (SEE). In 2013, OTE was cited 6 times and COSMOTE 5 times for incidents of non–compliance with these guidelines, however no fines were imposed. 3.6.2 Transparency on Pricing Environment OTE and COSMOTE are dedicated to clear, simple and solutions (see table Cost Control Services below) transparent communication on pricing, in accordance have responded to increased customer need, in these with all legal requirements and in order to provide their difficult economic times, for economizing. customers with high quality service levels. They set their prices, at such levels so as to cover the In this vein, OTE, in 2013, increased by up to 5 times cost of service provided and to respond to market the “fixed to mobile minutes” embedded in the popular OTE Group demands for lower prices, without creating obstacles Single and Double Play residential rate plans and added new features at no or very reduced cost. COSMOTE Subsidiaries to healthy competition. subscription customers were given offers, which Pricing transparency policies consist of making provided a monthly fixed fee discount of up to €20. information on pricing readily available within the deadlines set by the regulatory framework. Pricing In addition, OTE provided the opportunity through information is available on both companies’ websites its initiative “Your business.gr” to more than 15,000 as well as through the companies’ client service lines small and medium–sized enterprises, to promote Indexes and information brochures, and provided to the press. their business on the Internet, easily, quickly and Customers are also informed, through their bills, on completely free of charge for a full year. At the end pricing details and changes, while various cost–control of the 12 months these customers may continue to Marketplace 71 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 use the “Your business.gr” services at very low prices. additional 10% reduction has been offered to any new About this Report More details are provided in the SOCIETY / Enabling connections. Moreover, several commercial offers were Entrepreneurship section. made, i.e. free data (August), 3 gifts to 3 friends – (certain number of SMS), MBs and minutes of airtime At the same period, COSMOTE gave the opportunity to (Xmas offer), free SMS, MBs and minutes of airtime its customers to choose either a mobile device subsidy, during the weekends (November). More information or reductions on their tariff plans which reached the on special offers provided to people of specific 30% of their primary cost. The existing tariff plans demographic groups and needs is presented in the CR Strategy and were enriched with more features at no additional SOCIETY / Social Products, Services and Offers section. cost, or had their prices reduced by up to 20%. An Management Cost Control Services OTE COSMOTE “My OTE” Service: OTE modernized its electronic “COSMOTE Internet On The Go” application: Users of Marketplace l l services by enhancing online bill presentation, which personal computers with Mobile Internet access via USB allows registered customers to be informed on their bills, modems can be informed about their data usage and set free of charge, and to check their statistical information maximum usage limits. Customers can also see records of on their usage, in order to select the best services their data usage. package for them on offer. l “Cost Control” Service: Automatically updates subscribers l SMS notification: e bill customers are provided with an with free SMS, when they have consumed 80% of their SMS notification service regarding the issue and the due free embedded use of their program (free talk time, Employees date of their bill in order to better budget their expenses messages or ΜΒ). and receive reminders when payments are due. l “Check of remaining free usage” service: Informs l OTE informs consumers, with a sound message before subscribers with free SMS whenever they choose to, about the end of calls, with high prices and applies the policy of the remaining free units in their program. maximum call duration for these numbers. l Online check of the subscriber’s remaining free talk time, l Customer bills: OTE informs bills with all the pricing SMS and MB through the new My COSMOTE / COSMOTE changes of the same period. Bills were reformed to Application channels. provide more information on usage. For every new or l Additional real time check of the subscriber’s remaining Society renewed 12 month services, customers are informed in balance through a dedicated IVR channel for COSMOTE Cost their bill. Control and prepaid rate plans. l OTE examines cases of customers with exceptionally l Packages with additional MB for more internet usage high charges and compensates them when fraud is being when needed. detected, while it offers customers the possibility to bar non authorized usage of their phones. l Roaming Services: Roaming network expansion, reduced prices, and data limit program. Record keeping of all numbers requested by Environment Multimedia Information Services: Blocking access l customers as “not wanted numbers”. l to Multimedia Information Services Numbers from the l There has been an early warning billing subscribers is efficient, since in certain categories of those acknowledgment to the users of “Your business.gr” numbers, the subscriber can choose to block per single service, after the one–year free of charge period destination and per direction (for Premium SMS Services). OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 72 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 3.6.3 About this Report Equipment Safety Labelling All equipment accompanying products and services, All equipment accompanying OTE products (ADSL/ offered by OTE and COSMOTE, has been certified and VDSL and decoders) carries all the necessary labelling, bears mandatory markings required under EU legislation which are obligatory by the EU (CE sticker, RoHS and complies with all directives and regulations indication and the indication for recycling of electric regarding safe use instructions, restriction of hazardous and electronic waste, as well as an indication for CR Strategy and substances and electronic waste. OTE Group does not paper recycling of the box). They also comply with EU market or sell any products or services that are subject Directives WEEE, RoHS, ICNIRP and all the Presidential Management of product bans in its markets or that key stakeholders Decrees, transposing these Directives into the or the public have called to be banned. Greek legislature, as well as the Directive 2005/32/ EC of the European Commission and Council on the In 2013, EETT examined a non–compliance incident environmental–friendly design requirements, related regarding equipment safety regulations, concerning to the electric power consumption of the electric Marketplace COSMOTE, which has been raised in 2012, and involved and electronic home office equipment in standby and CE marking in part of one device stock, that was switched–off mode. Products are always accompanied immediately addressed. The Regulator decided to by detailed instructions for safe use. OTE’s website also issue a warning to COSMOTE for this issue but no fine offers a variety of manuals in Greek and English. was imposed. In 2013, there was no non–compliance inquiry regarding equipment safety regulations, Furthermore, OTE requires its suppliers to guarantee concerning COSMOTE. that under the equipment, one can find: a label Employees with the CE indication, a RoHS indication, recycling COSMOTE places increased importance on indication, as well as indication that the equipment procurement of products that are safe and meet complies with the Greek Joint Ministerial Decision international conventions and standards. All handsets on protection from radiation. Suppliers have the in COSMOTE’s portfolio are in line with EU legislation. obligation to reimburse OTE for any damage occurring Materials of electronic and electrical equipment sold in from non–compliance with the above Directives COSMOTE stores, carry all the necessary labelling (e.g. of procured equipment. Furthermore suppliers are CE) and satisfy all the regulations on electrical and required to deposit the certification of the procured electronic equipment. COSMOTE asks its suppliers for equipment, related to the above Directives, to the Society the data concerning the SAR indicator for appliances, Retail Marketing, Commercial Purchasing and Supply which are available for customers. Mobile phone Division/Fixed and Mobile of OTE. appliances sold in the company’s Retail Network, carry special CE labelling, (certifying that all necessary evaluation processes for the equipment have been Environment completed) and are found to be within the limits of safe exposure to electromagnetic fields, that is the Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) not to exceed 2 w/kgr locally, as defined in the Presidential Decree 44/2002 and in the EU Directive 1999/5/EC. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 73 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 3.7 CR Strategy and Management Customer Service and Satisfaction Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE have built a strong reputation of offering high quality customer services in the Greek telecoms market. Reliable customer service constitutes one of the companies’ advantages and is an area Employees of continuous business focus of the OTE and COSMOTE Customer Service teams to ensure a close and constructive relationship with customers. As a result, in 2013, the COSMOTE Customer Service Department was awarded first place in the category “Customer Services Centre of the Year (Large Team over 40 people)”, and OTE first price in the category “Team of the Year: Training on Customer Service” by the Hellenic Institute of Customer Service. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 74 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace 3.7.1 Complaints Management OTE and COSMOTE, aiming to improve OTE Group’s COSMOTE, carried out the following actions: customers’ experience, harmonized their complaints Development and implementation of new Employees l management methods of fixed and mobile telephony, performance measurement reports and expansion of leading to the decrease of OTE response time, while quality indices to all existing management procedures. keeping customer satisfaction and customers’ loyalty at high levels. l Harmonization of the OTE and COSMOTE customer management and communication methods at the During 2013, the Complaints Management Department, companies’ contact points with clients. Fixed and Mobile, of Residential and SME Customers l Adoption of new and flexible complaints Service Division, Fixed and Mobile, having as its daily Society management process and establishment of practice target of “Zero Dissatisfied Customer”, in systematic feedback of all parties involved. cooperation with other operating Divisions of OTE – Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 75 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 3.7.1 About this Report Complaints Management (Cont’d) 2011 – 2013 Data / Information on Complaints Management Number of % Solved % Solved within Issues Raised by Complaints Complaints within 2 days 20 days* 2013 CR Strategy and OTE 193,368 56% 97% Clarifications on Telephone Bills Management l l Activation of Products / Services l Resolution of Technical Issues COSMOTE 131,624 in total 74% 98% l Billing Related Complaints (33,611 were (avg. 2,5 days) l Commercial Policy Issues Marketplace written complaints l Services (provisioning and and extrajudicial) technical malfunction) l Coverage Related Complaints 2012 OTE 113,645 54% 86% l Clarifications on Telephone Bills l Activation of Products / Services Employees l Resolution of Technical Issues COSMOTE 29,168 written 92% 98% l Billing Related Complaints complaints and l Commercial Policy Issues extrajudicial l Services (provisioning and technical malfunction) l Coverage Related Complaints 2011 OTE 166,319 59% 89% l Clarifications on Telephone Bills Society l Activation of Products / Services l Technical Issues COSMOTE 33,422 written 61% 98% l Billing Related Complaints Environment complaints and l Commercial Policy Issues extrajudicial l Services (provisioning and technical malfunction) l Coverage Related Complaints *National Regulatory Authority’s Code of Conduct defines the threshold of 20 days. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 76 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 3.7.2 About this Report Customer Surveys A number of customer surveys are conducted throughout the year, measuring OTE and COSMOTE customer satisfaction, as well as other attributes, such as perception of the companies’ social role and ratings of customer services. The results are shown in the following table. Ranking OTE COSMOTE CR Strategy and Awareness and Social Behaviour Index1 Management Recognition of companies with social profile, 2013 score: 7.5% (5th place) 2013 score: 16.5% (1st place) by the public 2012 score: 4.5% (9th place) 2012 score: 13.3 % (2nd place) Loyalty Index (TRI*M)2 2013 score: 70 2013 score: 66 Marketplace 2012 score: 72 2012 score: 66 2011 score: 69 2011 score: 66 Tracking Survey3 With regard to Social Sensitivity 2013 score:31% 2013 score: 42% 2012 score: 28% 2012 score: 46% 2011 score: 28% 2011 score: 33% Employees Good Call Service3 2013 score: 43% 2013 score: 45% 2012 score: 44% 2012 score: 54% 2011 score: 46% Good Service in Shops3 2013 score: 36% 2013 score: 42% Society 2012 score: 37% 2012 score: 53% 2011 score: 47% Notes 1 Awareness and Social Behaviour Index (A.S.B.I.): Quantitative Tracking study through personal interviews (face to face) at respondents’ households in Greece. The ASBI index Environment expresses the social responsibility of Greek companies and it is run by third party organizations. 2 TRI*M Retention Loyalty Survey, a harmonized study in all 12 European T–Mobile countries and all 7 European T–Com/T–Home countries. Range of measurement: from minus sixty six to one hundred thirty four (–66 to +134). This survey is commissioned by DT and run by third party organizations. OTE calculation of TRI*M Residential and Business customers scores is based on revenue share ratio. 3 This survey is commissioned by OTE and COSMOTE and run by third party organizations through telephone interviews. The survey for OTE is nation–wide. For COSMOTE, in 2013 the survey covered Greece in its entirety, while in 2012 and 2011 the survey covered only Athens and Thessaloniki. Both OTE and COSMOTE were ranked among the top OTE and COSMOTE also maintained satisfactory scores OTE Group 5 companies in the Awareness and Social Behavior in the TRI*M loyalty results, which continued virtually Subsidiaries Index in 2013, improving their performance in unchanged for the last 3 years. comparison to 2012, and receiving testimonials that the companies’ corporate responsibility performance is well recognized by the Greek society. Indexes Marketplace 77 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 3.8 Data Security and Privacy Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE’s customers, shareholders and employees must be able to rely on OTE Group, to conscientiously assure the security of the services and products provided and must be confident that all Employees data and information, entrusted to the companies, are processed purely for their intended purpose and are protected from misuse. OTE and COSMOTE are committed to a value–oriented security and data protection culture. Ensuring comprehensive security and extensive data protection is more than just an obligation to meet statutory and regulatory requirements; it is also an explicit mark of quality for the services provided. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 78 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 In 2013, the new Policy for the Protection of l Security awareness sessions to OTE and COSMOTE About this Report Communications Privacy, covering both companies and Customer Care. approved by the Hellenic Authority for Communication l Security awareness sessions to OTE and COSMOTE Security and Privacy in the fourth quarter of 2012, was Building Incident Controller employees. implemented. The purpose of this Policy is to ensure the privacy of communications and the protection l Security awareness sessions in Business Continuity of the respective data (i.e. call data), through the Management Awareness Week. implementation of security controls in specific areas CR Strategy and Finally, the current security measures in systems (e.g. logical access controls, logging and auditing, with customer communication data have been re– acceptable use, physical security controls, etc.). Management evaluated, and for systems going into production, The OTE Group Information Security and Fraud security requirements and their implementation Prevention Division increased considerably in control have been redesigned. headcount and budget, the main OTE and COSMOTE security policies and procedures have been Physical Security Marketplace streamlined and consolidated, honeypots were Regarding physical security, in 2013, OTE Group inserted in order to fight unauthorized access to Security Control Room commenced full operation; systems and DT security standards were incorporated physical security controls enhancements were made in OTE and COSMOTE policies. in OTE and COSMOTE Headquarters (consolidation of access control systems, access control mechanisms During 2013, OTE received 288 customer complaints, installation at Top Management premises and critical regarding communication privacy/customer data areas, revision and streamlining of the guests and Employees security; COSMOTE received 80 complaints for the merchandise access control systems) and physical same matters. The average response time to these security assessments have been performed for more complaints was 5 days for OTE and 2.5 days for than 566 buildings throughout Greece. COSMOTE. OTE also received 23 complaints from the Hellenic Authority for Communication Security and In addition, physical security awareness programs Privacy; COSMOTE received 8 complaints from the for specific employee groups (shop employees, field same Authority. In none of the above cases a breach technicians and security guards) were implemented; was identified. physical security policies and procedures were updated and relevant audits regarding policies/ Society In 2012, a number of goals were set on the execution procedures application were executed; physical of audits and the raising of awareness within OTE security improvements were carried out at several and COSMOTE for 2013. In 2013, these goals have critical sites and at 37 OTE and COSMOTE–Germanos been achieved in full. More specifically, 106 security shops. Furthermore, 524 mobile fire extinguishers audits and security risk assessments were performed Environment were purchased and 17,500 fire extinguishers in on critical systems or processes, in order to verify 2,000 facilities were checked and recharged. Site compliance with the corporate security policies and access equipment was obtained for more than 1,200 procedures. At the same time, 97,403 log audits COSMOTE base stations. Special security equipment have been performed for user access to customer (i.e. explosives detectors, bulletproof vests) was communication data. acquired. Finally, equipment and facilities services were bought for the effective security communications Security and data privacy awareness training was OTE Group coverage of the Paiania building using the OTE Tetra provided to specific groups, namely: Subsidiaries Services network. l “Communications Privacy and Data Protection” e– learning for all OTE and COSMOTE employees. l “Information Security and Data Privacy in a Shop” e–learning for all OTE and COSMOTE shops managers. Indexes l Security awareness sessions to OTE and COSMOTE Information Technology Management. Marketplace 79 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 3.9 CR Strategy and Management Business Continuity Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE, as the leading Greek telecommunications companies, consider it their obligation to both maintain their stable growth and ensure the continuous supply of quality telecommunication Employees services, including under exceptional external conditions. OTE and COSMOTE aim to protect their value and reputation. In 2012, COSMOTE’s Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) was certified to ISO 22301 standard, by the British Standards Institution. COSMOTE was the first company in Greece and among very few companies in the world to be certified to this standard. OTE has also started in May 2012 to develop a BCMS, aiming at having it certified in 2014. Noteworthy BCM related activities in 2013 include: reaction to possible critical incidents at national Society level have been established. l Following the annual external audit held in June 2013, COSMOTE maintained its l Corresponding channels for continuous ISO 22301 certification. cooperation with international bodies, such as UNISDR, UNISEF, RED CROSS, General Secretariat of Environment l COSMOTE was accredited by the Business Civil Protection have also been established. Continuity Institute and the British Computer Society to provide Business Continuity special BCM is considered critical at OTE Group level; therefore training courses. COSMOTE is one of the few a number of actions and initiatives have been taken to companies globally to achieve this accreditation. extend coverage to the whole Group, namely: l Risk assessments and business impact analysis l BCM processes, procedures, System Policy and studies were conducted at OTE – COSMOTE critical Framework were upgraded and / or developed, at OTE Group buildings and processes. OTE Group level, building a common BCMS culture Subsidiaries to be followed by all OTE Group companies. Crisis l Incident management team composition was management system has been an integral part of specified at OTE – COSMOTE critical buildings and the OTE Group BCMS. their members appointed. Necessary equipment has been procured and supplied to the teams and l Kick–off meetings regarding BCM have been held appropriate training including evacuation drills have with OTE Group Greek affiliates, to start developing their own BCMSs. Indexes been conducted in selected OTE critical buildings. l Channels for continuous cooperation with Greek l Similarly, implementation of BCMSs is in progress at National Authorities and Ministries, regarding Romtelecom, COSMOTE Romania and AMC Albania. Marketplace 80 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 l The OTE Group Situation Centre started its official alert reports to OTE Group’s Top Management About this Report operation, as the formal single point, within OTE aiming at reducing OTE Group’s response time to Group, to receive notification of all situations or an incident), and 50 as outbound notifications incidents leading or having the potential to lead to DT Situation Centre (providing travel security to serious business disruptions or crises. More information notifications). than 230 incidents were evaluated by the OTE l A Business Continuity employee awareness survey Group Situation Centre in 2013. Of these, 55 was launched on 16th October 2013. More than were classified as business continuity incidents 7,000 OTE Group employees in Greece, Romania CR Strategy and according to the BCM Framework, 126 as potential and Albania participated in the survey. incidents (followed by the submission of relevant Management Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 81 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 3.10 CR Strategy and Management Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Marketplace Management Employees Supply chain management is nowadays equally critical for the viability of all business entities regardless of their location or products / services procured. A variety of suppliers are involved in the procurement process forming a model through which materials, products, services, systems and information flow leading to the provision of a final product to the customer. With the increased pressure from current economic, environmental, financial and social Society conditions in the global market, it is imperative to formulate a supply chain management strategy that will lead to a dynamic and flexible model ensuring effectiveness in producing a competitive quality final product for the customer but also efficiency, in terms of enhancing customer value. A very successful supply chain management strategy constitutes a competitive advantage. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 82 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 These same global conditions become more the “Sustainability in Procurement” project which was About this Report challenging in the case of Greece, as there is devised by DT and launched in the second semester increasing pressure for cost reductions, a decrease of 2013. This project involves all of the European in the number of employees handling an increasing National Companies in DT Group and is scheduled to be workload, downsizing or even closing of supplier completed at the end of the 1st semester of 2014. companies, an effort from international suppliers to impose harsh terms so as to minimize risk, all 3.10.1 connected to the financial and political conditions. Procurement Policy CR Strategy and OTE Group is well aware of these aspects and is OTE and COSMOTE recognize that upholding Management formulating its supply chain management strategy in a core values and standards in the supply chain is way which will allow the Group to: an important element of responsible business l avoid risks related to cooperating with suppliers conduct. For both companies, this includes using who engage in unethical or unlawful behaviour, and their influence in the supply chain to promote ethics, / or do not respect human rights, environmental protection and prevention of child Marketplace labour, and eliminate corruption. l maximize quality and value delivered to the final customers, at the minimum possible cost, Since December 2013, the two companies have l optimize terms and conditions of the cooperation a common Procurement Policy, which specifies to enhance performance, all the terms and regulations according to which, procurement is conducted. The key objectives of Policy l cooperate closely with the suppliers network so as consist of: to monitor, plan for and adapt quickly to changes Employees in technology and economy, l Optimizing the added value in terms of cost, quality and time. l ensure trade and environmental standards through examining relevant certification held by l Ensuring Transparency the suppliers, l Complying with Deutsche Telekom “Global l maintain a dynamic communication network Procurement Policy” with all the components of its supply chains The process of suppliers bids’ evaluation and supplier’s Society with the goal of acting pro-actively to potential selection, through a tender process, is based on the market threats. following key criteria: In Deutsche Telekom, the Supply Chain Management l Technical Specifications is evaluated by rating agencies (e.g. SAM) with very l Price positive results (Supply Chain Management has Environment achieved the rating of “Best in Class”). However, l Commercial Terms the tendency of rating agencies to increase their l Contractual Issues requirements regarding sustainability, necessitates a more focused and detailed concept for Supply Chain l Regular Auditing Management implementation. Obviously ratings are l CR–related Criteria (e.g. quality, environmental important for corporate value and for attracting and and health and safety management certification, / or maintaining investors, but the tendency of the Supplier Code of Conduct etc). OTE Group majority of global consumers to switch to brands Subsidiaries which are associated with a good cause in addition to CR specific requirements may be added to any their competitive pricing and quality characteristics, tender call, following requests of the department actively seek companies that operate responsibly initiating the procurement procedure. All bidding beyond the minimum standards required by law, as suppliers by submitting their proposals are required to regards social and environmental issues, needs to be declare that they explicitly agree to adhere to the OTE taken into account. Group Code of Conduct, which codifies OTE Group’s Indexes will to work with environmentally friendly and socially Moreover, risk, productivity and cost are all factored responsible suppliers. in to produce a critical basket of issues, addressed in Marketplace 83 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The contract that successful bidders are called to were selected based on the total purchase orders / About this Report sign includes specific clauses on health and safety, invoices issued in the period 1/10/2011 – 30/9/2012 anti–corruption, security policy and confidentiality. It by OTE, COSMOTE, Germanos S.A., Germanos Telecom should be noted that all OTE and COSMOTE Divisions Romania S.A., e–Value S.A., e–Value Ltd, AMC, are examining the introduction of additional clauses, COSMOTE Romania and ZAPP. Thus, all suppliers who related to corporate responsibility performance issues, had received orders above €2mn, and all suppliers of to the contract. important commodities (as defined by OTE Group, i.e. products / services which may have a strong impact CR Strategy and The two companies’ Procurement Policy does not on products and services offered to clients) with make a distinction between local and non–local orders above €500,000 were evaluated. In addition, all Management suppliers. However, the companies operate in the suppliers that their products / services were related Greek market and it is their common practice to to OTE and COSMOTE certified management systems support the local suppliers. This is evident from the (i.e. management systems according to ISO 9001, fact that 88% of OTE and 89% of COSMOTE ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 etc.) were evaluated, along invoiced procurement volume involved Greek with some suppliers, not meeting the above selection Marketplace registered companies. criteria, that were identified by OTE Group Directors. OTE and COSMOTE, despite the trying economic times All suppliers selected, were evaluated by the OTE in Greece, have maintained high standards for timely Group Directorates and Departments involved payment of their suppliers as specified in the contracts (e.g. the Purchasing, Legal, Financial, Logistics entered into. The average payment time for suppliers, Departments, the Department that had requested for 2013, was 90 days for OTE and 90–120 days for the orders etc.). Through this process, the OTE and Employees COSMOTE, and in full accordance with the schedule in COSMOTE Management team receives assessments the respective contracts. of each supplier’ performance based on their overall performance, the quality of their offered products / 3.10.2 services, their efficiency in delivering their products / Supplier Evaluation services and the companies’ relations with them. OTE and COSMOTE active suppliers are evaluated on Additionally, the suppliers are requested to sign and an annual basis. This process is coordinated by Process return to OTE and COSMOTE the OTE and / or COSMOTE Improvement and International Process Management Supplier Code of Conduct Acceptance Declaration. Society Coordination Department, OTE Group. OTE and COSMOTE Supplier Codes of Conduct describe the criteria that OTE and COSMOTE use to evaluate The suppliers to be evaluated are selected on the suppliers on Labour, Health and Safety, Environmental basis of mainly the purchase orders issued within a and Ethical issues. Furthermore, suppliers are 12 months period. In 2013 the suppliers evaluated Environment committed to take all necessary actions, so that their OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Marketplace 84 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 sub–contractors comply with the obligations stated filled self–assessment questionnaire to be reviewed About this Report in these Supplier Codes of Conduct. OTE’s Supplier for the next evaluation cycle. Code was approved and put into force in 2013, while COSMOTE’s Supplier Code has been in force since 2008. The assessment ratings provided by the OTE and COSMOTE Departments involved and the suppliers’ A detailed section on labour is included in both sustainability performance self–assessment answers companies’ Supplier Codes of Conduct, whereby are fed into the OTE Group Supplier Evaluation System suppliers are committed to uphold the human rights to compute quantitative assessment evaluations. CR Strategy and of their employees and to treat them with dignity Corporate responsibility issues account for 10% of and respect, as understood by the international each supplier’s performance score. Management community. Specifically, clauses are included on freely chosen employment, prohibition of any form of forced OTE and COSMOTE acknowledge that companies labour, child labour, young employee protection, offering high risk products (e.g. mobile headsets, among others. Additional clauses on working hours, IT hardware etc.) operating and based in high risk wages, fair and reasonable terms of employment are countries (e.g. least developed countries), are more exposed to supply chain labour and human rights risks. Marketplace also included, as is a clause on humane treatment, non–discrimination and freedom of association. OTE’s and COSMOTE’s international suppliers are large corporations, which are also DT’s suppliers. Therefore, For more information please refer to COSMOTE Supplier OTE and COSMOTE take into account DT suppliers’ Code of Conduct and OTE Supplier Code of Conduct. assessments and audits results for any common international supplier. In case DT declares a supplier Furthermore, the suppliers under evaluation are not in compliance with DT Group and international requested to fill in a self–assessment sustainability Employees standards, and ceases transactions with that supplier, performance questionnaire, which is intended to OTE and COSMOTE, when so informed exclude that promote suppliers’ awareness on social and corporate supplier from their approved supplier lists. In 2013, responsibility and to enable suppliers to provide OTE and COSMOTE following DT’s suppliers’ screening information regarding their management systems did not exclude any international suppliers. and practices. This questionnaire includes questions on the following areas: corporate responsibility / At the end of 2013, the next evaluation cycle, based sustainability, labour / ethics, environment, health and on the purchase orders issued in the period 1/10/2012 Society safety, quality, and business continuity management. – 30/9/2013 by OTE Group companies commenced Since the OTE Supplier Code was put into force in and it is expected to be completed in early 2014. 2013, OTE suppliers have been asked to submit the 2013 Procurement Evaluation Environment OTE COSMOTE Number of Suppliers 97 155 % Of the Procurement Volume Evaluated 73%1 94%2 Notes 1 Computed as the value of invoices evaluated, over the total value of invoices issued in the period 1/10/2011 – 30/9/2012 (includes high value procurements and OTE Group procurements of products and services that are affecting the end products and services offered to customers, as well as procurements on risky commodities as identified internally). Subsidiaries 2 Computed as the value of purchase orders evaluated over the total value of purchase orders issued in the period 1/10/2011 – 30/9/2012 (includes high value procurements and procurements of products and services that are affecting the end products and services offered to customers, as well as procurements on risky commodities as identified internally). Indexes Marketplace 85 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries 4.0 Employees About this Report CR Strategy and Management 4.1 Management Approach Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE are among the largest companies in Greece in terms of financial volumes, activities and number of employees. Despite their size, the companies are not impersonal Employees organizations. Their goal is to create and maintain a sustainable work environment by giving their employees opportunities for personal and professional development as well as to provide a healthy and safe workplace for all. The companies’ Management believes that business results are fully dependent on their employees and makes every effort so that OTE and COSMOTE employees recognize the companies as an attractive, high-profile employer and an ideal place for them to perform and grow. The companies Society expect their employees to be prepared and skilled to face external and internal challenges of the telecommunications industry. To that end, they invest in the personal and professional development of their employees and management, in employee engagement and satisfaction and support the new organizational structure by promoting a corporate culture in everyday working life, which is characterized by team spirit, effectiveness and high performance. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 87 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The companies’ Employment Policies framework is Competency Centres, HR Business Partners and HR About this Report based on the principles of full respect for human rights, Shared Services. This model enables to make the HR fair employment, non–discrimination, equal treatment more efficient. for women and men, and prevention of child labour or forced labour. The employees are also covered by The Chief Human Resources Officer of OTE Group, collective bargaining agreements. with overall ownership and responsibility for HR Management, is a member of the Management Team. Human Resources Directorate OTE Group is structured CR Strategy and and operates based on the three-role model of HR Management Key Achievements in 2013: Enhancement of a Common Corporate Culture Motivating OTE and COSMOTE employees to become aware and apply in practice the Corporate Guiding Marketplace Principles, that is: 1. Customer delight and simplicity drive our action 2. Respect and integrity guide our behaviour. 3. Team together – Team apart 4. Best place to perform and grow Employees 5. I am OTE / COSMOTE – count on me, as the basis of the companies’ common corporate culture, was a strategic priority in 2013. The integration of the corporate values into HR systems and processes associated with daily tasks and roles of employees was part of the year’s action plan. The 2013 Pulse Surveys results have demonstrated strong progress toward making the Guiding Principles an integral element of the companies’ corporate culture. More specifically, in the Pulse Survey performed in June, 68% of the respondents claimed that “I can recall the five Guiding Principles of our company”, and in the Pulse Survey of November, 85% of the employees declared that “I experience the Society application of the Guiding Principles in my day–to–day work”. The performance and development process was redesigned in 2013, by including the 5 basic principles with detailed descriptions at the core competency model. In 2013, the assimilation and application of the Guiding Principles have been incorporated in the core competency training, as well as in leadership training, employees’ workshops, team building activities, and employees’ induction programs. Environment Socially Responsible Rightsizing Programs In the context of the companies’ transformation process through socially responsible solutions, OTE completed successfully its Voluntary Exit Schemes, addressed primarily to employees near retirement. The implementation of the programs allows OTE to proceed with its transformation plan, strengthen its competitiveness and reduce its operating costs, while opens up job opportunities for the employment of OTE Group young people. Subsidiaries Organizational Restructuring and Effectiveness In 2013, the company–wide fixed and mobile operations integration was advanced further completed enhancing effectiveness and simplicity for increased customer experience. Major restructuring was completed in the areas of IT, Finance, Commercial (with the implementation of the B2B and B2C functional model) and Technology (with the introduction of a new business model). Indexes Operational integration of fixed and mobile business units has reached 90 % for the Directorate layer and 60% for the Division and Department layer, providing improved clarity, harmonization and alignment of frameworks and processes between fixed and mobile for staff and managers. Employees 88 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 4.2 Employment Marketplace 4.2.1 Workforce Employees In the context of the companies’ transformation process, in the current difficult national economic environment, a socially acceptable workforce downsizing program was realized to increase competitiveness, reduce personnel costs and improve performance through new hires. OTE and COSMOTE total workforce on 31 December 2013 was 9,089 employees. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 89 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Workforce Diversity at OTE and COSMOTE, 2013 About this Report OTE COSMOTE Total Workforce: 7,044 Total Workforce: 2,045 Employment Type Employment Type Permanent full–time: 97% (6,817) Permanent full–time: 100% (2,044) Permanent part–time: 1% (61) Permanent part–time: 0% (1) Temporary (fixed term) contracts: 2% (166) Temporary (fixed term) contracts: (0) CR Strategy and Gender Gender Men: 69% (4,877) Men: 49% (998) Management Women: 31% (2,167) Women: 51% (1,047) Age Age Under 30: 1% (80) Under 30: 2% (48) Age 30–50: 73% (5,131) Age 30–50: 96% (2,025) Over 50: 26% (1,833) Over 50: 2% (42) Region Region Marketplace Aegean Islands: 4% (308) Attica: 89% (1,819) Attica: 59% (4,146) Crete: 1.5% (31) Central Greece and Evia: 5% (334) Epirus: 0.4% (8) Crete: 4% (302) Macedonia: 7% (139) Epirus: 2% (126) Peloponnese: 1.5% (31) Ionian Islands: 1% (96) Thessaly: 0.7% (14) Macedonia: 12% (828) International: 0.1% Peloponnese: 7% (515) (3; 1 is based in Romania Thessaly: 3% (196) and 2 in Albania) Thrace: 3% (194) Employees Total Permanent Workforce: 6,878 Total Permanent Workforce: 2,045 Employment Type Employment Type Full–time: 99% (6,817) Full–time: 100% (2,044) Part–time: 1% (61) Part–time: 0% (1) Gender Gender Men: 69% (4,774) Men: 49% (998) Women: 31% (2,104) Women: 51% (1,047) Society Type of Work Type of Work Office: 56% (3,860) Office: 82% (1,673) Retail: 12% (805) Retail 7% (145) Fieldwork/Other: 32% (2,213) Fieldwork/Other: 11% (227) People with Special Needs 361 (5%) People with Special Needs 17* (1%) Permanent Full–time: 6,817 Permanent Full–time: 2,044 Environment Gender Gender Men: 70% (4,774) Men: 49% (997) Women: 30% (2,043) Women: 51% (1,047) Permanent Part–time: 61 Permanent Part–time: 1 Gender Gender Men: (0) Men: 100% (1) Women: 100% (61) Women: (0) Temporary (fixed term) Contracts: 166 Temporary (fixed term) Contracts: 0 OTE Group Gender Gender Subsidiaries Men: 62% (103) N.A. Women: 38% (63) Board of Directors Members: 11 Board of Directors Members: 9 Age Age Indexes Under 30: 0% (0) Under 30: 0% (0) Age 30–50: 45.5% (5) Age 30–50: 44.4% (4); Over 50: 54.5% (6) Over 50: 55.6% (5) Note: Counting based on headcount, on 31 December 2013. *In addition, 7 employees are in the process of renewing their disability certificate Employees 90 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace Employees OTE completed successfully its Voluntary Exit To support employees interested in the VES programs, Schemes (VES) addressed primarily to employees near the Human Resources Directorate OTE Group designed retirement. 1,827 employees accepted the incentives and implemented a communication platform offered by OTE, exceeding substantially the initial (Information Office, HR Help Desk) to provide pertinent Society target. Net annual cost savings for OTE are estimated information and support during the application to about €94 mn. It should be noted that the Voluntary process. HR personnel also provided personalized Exit Schemes entail no burden for Greek state pension support through face to face meetings with potential funds, as OTE covers the entire cost of €73.5 mn for applicants to the programs. participating employees’ self–insurance. In addition, OTE offered a special private insurance scheme and In the same context of functional integration, Environment special offers for OTE Group Telecommunications COSMOTE launched a VES scheme in April 2013, products and services. giving employees with more than 4 years of service the option to exit the company. Taking advantage of specific incentives package, 96 employees departed voluntarily in 2013. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 91 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Recruitment and Departures in 2013 About this Report Departures Recruitment (includes VES departures) OTE COSMOTE OTE COSMOTE Age Group No. % No. % No. % No. % CR Strategy and < 30 years 0 0% 3 13% 3 0% 1 1% 30–50 years 8 89% 20 83% 479 26% 98 96% Management >50 years 1 11% 1 4% 1,399 74% 3 3% Gender No. % No. % No. % No. % Male 6 77% 20 83% 1,340 71% 44 43% Female 3 33% 4 17% 541 29% 58 57% Marketplace Region No. % No. % No. % No. % Aegean Islands 70 4% 86 84% Attica 7 78% 20 83% 1,035 55% Central Greece and Evia 99 5% 1 1% Crete 2 8% 89 5% Epirus 1 4% 33 2% Employees Ionian Islands 36 2% Macedonia 1 11% 1 4% 213 11% 11 11% Peloponnese 1 11% 208 11% 2 2% Thessaly 53 3% 1 1% Thrace Abroad 45 2% 1 1% Total 9 241 1,8812 102 3 Society Departures as a % of Total Permanent Workforce4 27% 5% Note: 1 Including 6 internal hires from within OTE Group. 2 Including 1,827 VES departures. Environment 3 Including 96 VES departures. 4. Calculated based on the permanent workforce on 31 December 2013. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 92 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Following the VES, OTE Group in Greece, through OTE plus, proceeded to recruit 753 new employees, thus lowering About this Report the average age of the OTE Group workforce. For the recruitment of new employees, the companies followed a hiring process based on meritocracy and transparency. OTEplus Recruitment in 2013 Field of Work No. % CR Strategy and Technicians 344 46% Call Centre Agents 254 34% Management Retail 67 9% IT 9 1% Other 79 10% Region No. % Marketplace Attica 355 47% Greece (excluding Attica) 398 53% Age Group No. % Under 31 479 64% Age 31–50 273 36% Over 50 1 0% Employees Total 753 OTE and COSMOTE operate throughout Greece and, although there is no formal policy in place on hiring people from local communities, it is common practice to take domicile location into account, in an effort to further support local communities and advance employees wellbeing. It should be noted that almost 100% of the companies’ General Directors and Heads of Divisions are Greek citizens. Society Investing in Young People OTE and COSMOTE are considered to be an exceptional companies’ recruitment process. Some of the events employment opportunity for students to start their are presented below: career. In 2013, COSMOTE was considered by young l “Job Fair Athens 2013”, which is coordinated graduates and students as one of the 10 most Environment by a students’ organization of the National and desirable employers, according to a survey conducted Technical University of Athens and is designed by Athens University of Economics and Business. for students and graduates from engineering, OTE and COSMOTE offer to a lot of students, mainly technological and economics universities. through internship programs, to a lot of students l “ALBA Graduate Business School Career Forum the opportunity to apply their knowledge in the real 2013”, where OTE and COSMOTE HR representatives world environment, gain work experience, be trained had the opportunity to meet graduates from various OTE Group on–the–job and develop skills which will help them academic fields taught at ALBA. Subsidiaries perform better at their jobs. See also the SOCIETY / l “Career Day Opportunities” of the German School Supporting Young People section. of Athens, where large enterprises participated, During 2013, OTE and COSMOTE participated in mainly, ones with ties to German companies. a number of Career Events most of which were l “AIT Career Days 2013”, of the Athens Information organized by universities. In these events, the HR Technology (AIT) Centre. AIT is a non–profit, Indexes representatives discussed with the prospective independent technology institute that combines employees the possible employment opportunities talented faculty, industry links and partnerships within the OTE Group, inviting them to express their to foster high quality education and research in interest to work at OTE and COSMOTE through the innovative technologies. Employees 93 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 l “Career Days 2013”, at the University of Piraeus, OTE and COSMOTE, when it comes to significant About this Report where graduates from several different academic operational changes (e.g. restructuring, outsourcing fields were interviewed by HR Representatives. of operations, closures, expansions, new openings, l “Career Days 2013”, a widely known event – takeovers, sale of all or part of the organization, organized by Kariera S.A. OTE and COSMOTE had or mergers), inform the Union representatives or the opportunity to meet graduates, students as undertake consultation, according to the provisions well as professionals. of the current legislation. Although no official time frame for advance notice is specified in collective CR Strategy and agreement with the Management always makes 4.2.2 efforts to provide a reasonable time for Union Management Fair Employment review and deliberations. Policy Framework Maintaining a workplace based on non–discrimination, 4.2.3 fairness and integrity is of utmost importance to OTE Freedom of Association and and COSMOTE. The companies’ Employment Policies Collective Agreements Marketplace framework is based on full respect for human rights, in accordance with: Due to the national regulatory framework, direct operations in Greece are at very low risk for violation l The national and EU regulatory framework which of rights to freedom of association and collective prohibits the use of child labour, forced labour and bargaining, or for incidents of child labour or forced the involvement of youths in hazardous work. labour (refer also to the MARKETPLACE / Supplier l The United Nations Global Compact, to which OTE Evaluation section for the companies’ supply chain Employees and COSMOTE became signatories in 2008. standards and screening on these issues). l OTE Group Employee Relations Policy and OTE The percentage of employees covered by collective Group Code of Conduct, which expressly recognize bargaining agreements is approximately 99% at OTE the basic right of freedom of association and the and approximately 92% at COSMOTE. right to engage in collective bargaining, within the framework of national laws, and expressly In May of 2013 Collective Labour Agreements (CLA) prohibit unlawful discrimination or harassment, on were reached between OTE and OTE Employees the grounds of age, gender, religion, aptitude or in Federation (OME–OTE), and between COSMOTE and Society ancestry or sexual orientation. the Employee Union of COSMOTE Greece, which stipulate that all regulatory terms of CLAs that had It should be noted that OTE and COSMOTE operate been signed between the above mentioned parties will in accordance with the Code of Conduct for the remain in force until 31/12/2014. Protection of the Individual’s Rights to Privacy in Environment the handling of Personal Data within OTE Group, which has been developed taking into account the existing national legal framework. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 94 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The disciplinary procedure and the personnel transfer As stated in the OTE Group Code of Conduct, non– About this Report regulation were amended by the above mentioned discrimination covers gender, age, religion, aptitude, CLA between OTE and OME–OTE. Payroll issues ancestry and sexual orientation. Both companies were regulated by the CLA between COSMOTE and maintain “Ask Me” and “Tell Me” procedures and Employee Union of COSMOTE Greece. communication channels for employees, to seek advice or report concerns on discrimination issues. During 2013, mainly in the context of the general economic situation in Greece and the proposed The “Ask me” process provides answers to inquiries CR Strategy and changes to national social policies, there were six regarding the OTE Group Code of Conduct, internal strikes (each lasting one day) and three stoppages, policies and regulations. The “Tell Me” process Management involving OTE and COSMOTE personnel. handles confidentially complaints regarding the violations of legislation, the OTE Group policies and 4.2.4 the internal procedures. Non–Discrimination, Equal In 2013, the OTE Group Prevention, Policies and Opportunity and Diversity Training Department (of the OTE Group Compliance, Marketplace All HR processes of OTE and COSMOTE, including ERM and Insurance Directorate) received 649 internal and external recruitment, remuneration, employee queries through the “Ask Me” process, employee development and contract termination, several of which referred to sponsorships approvals. are based on non–discrimination, meritocracy and None of these queries concerned discrimination issues. transparency principles. Additionally, the OTE Group Compliance, Reporting By promoting diversity in all of the companies’ and Case Management Department (of the OTE Group Employees actions, a creative, flexible and efficient workforce is Compliance, ERM and Insurance Directorate) received ensured as a key factor to the companies’ success and 24 complaints through the “Tell Me” process, as acceptance within the society. presented in the following table. Communication Channel: Tell Me!, 2013 Society OTE COSMOTE Total Employee Complaints 21 3 Complaints Regarding Discrimination 0 1* * One (1) case related to gender discrimination. The case has been investigated and proven Not Valid Environment Non–Discriminatory Remunerations leave, which is considered and paid as working time, is There is no gender discrimination or distinction available to working mothers or fathers, immediately regarding salary remuneration in OTE and COSMOTE. after the end of maternity leave, who can choose one At OTE, due to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, of the following types: the employees’ salary is based on their education level l OTE OTE Group and years of employment, and at COSMOTE, on the Working two hours per day less for two years and Subsidiaries salary scale of the pay category to which they belong, one hour per day less for the following two years, as defined by the Collective Agreement. Accordingly, or alternatively taking a nine month full time male and female basic salary is equal and the lowest parental leave. COSMOTE wage level in 2013 was 76.42% higher at OTE and l 57.84% higher at COSMOTE, in relation to the Greek Working one hour per day less for three years national minimum wage. or two hours per day less for 18 months, when Parental Leave Indexes allowed by the business needs or otherwise, Six months full time childcare leave, or one day of Maternity leave for childbirth and parental leave for leave per week for eighteen months. childcare are provided by both companies. Parental Employees 95 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Men are also entitled to take the above mentioned Gender Diversity About this Report parental leave, provided that their spouses have In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE maintained the diversity not taken advantage of the specific leave from their of their workforce, particularly on the representation employer. No men working at OTE or COSMOTE chose of women in the staff and in Management positions. to take parental leave in 2013. Women comprise approximately one–third of the OTE workforce and half of the COSMOTE workforce. In the All women who were entitled to parental leave, i.e. 641 combined OTE and COSMOTE Management structure, women working at OTE and 105 women working at women comprise 30% of all management positions, CR Strategy and COSMOTE, took advantage of this leave. With the sole 25% of the General Directors and 33% of the OTE and exception of one COSMOTE employee who resigned Management COSMOTE Management Committee. during her parental leave, all employees returned to work after the end of their leave and are still employed at OTE and COSMOTE. Board and Management Diversity, 2013 Marketplace Male Female Total No. % No. % No. OTE Board of Directors 10 91% 1 9% 11 COSMOTE Board of Directors 9 100% 0 0% 9 Employees CEO 1 100% 0 0% 1 OTE and COSMOTE Management Committee 8 67% 4 33% 12 Direct Reporting to OTE and COSMOTE CEO 9 75% 3 25% 12 Total 22 81.5% 5 18.5% 27 Board and Management Diversity, 2013 Society Male Female Total Management Team No. % No. % No. 15 75% 5 25% 20 Environment General Directors Heads of Divisions 63 80% 16 20% 79 Heads of Sub–Divisions 204 82% 44 18% 248 Heads of Sections 534 66% 280 34% 814 Total 816 70% 345 30% 1,161 OTE Group Note Subsidiaries All OTE and COSMOTE executives included in levels from General Directors to Heads of Sections are counted only once. Assistant General Managers are included in General Directors’ category. Indexes 1 This number refers to employees that took advantage of parental leave since March 2013. Employees 96 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 4.3 Health and Safety Marketplace 4.3.1 Health and Safety Policy An Essential Priority Employees Ensuring a safe and healthy working environment for employees, partners and customers is a key priority for OTE and COSMOTE. Furthermore, Health and Safety (H&S) are perceived as being essential for a successful and sustainable company future and have a direct impact on aspects like employee satisfaction, well–being, quality of work and corporate culture. Therefore, the companies act pro-actively taking into account the relevant provisions of Greek law and relevant standards as minimum requirements, often going the extra step. Society OTE and COSMOTE H&S policy, which is based on national and EU legislation, as well as the risk assessments, conducted by the H&S groups, is applicable to 100% of the workforce in Greece. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 97 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 H&S Committees comprising employee representatives, l Comprehensive Health and Safety About this Report elected by company–wide vote, meet quarterly with Committee system, including management– Management representatives, at Director’s level, to employee consultations. discuss all H&S related issues and relevant procedures. l Comprehensive Accident–Incident Reporting H&S issues are not covered in the formal agreements system, maintained by the OTE Internal with OTE and COSMOTE trade unions. Protection and Prevention Services and the Health issues are also evaluated by employees via the COSMOTE Occupational H&S Team, covering event investigation, recommendations and CR Strategy and Employee Survey, which takes place every two years and focuses on health related factors, like mental / statutory reporting. Management physical well-being and work / life balance. Survey l Systematic training for all employees in results and findings are used as a basis for corrective Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) principles actions within the companies. and practices, with additional specialist training for potentially hazardous work related to installation. Health and Safety Policies l Specific supervisory requirements for sub– Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE Health and Safety Policies for the contractors in installation works. fixed line and mobile businesses, which play a vital l Provision of medical care in five OTE buildings and role in operations in the areas of prevention, risk five COSMOTE buildings, to assure trained first aid assessment, management–employee consultation, and health support services. training and performance tracking, are based on the following principles and systems: l Scheduled medical check–ups for a wide range of employees across the country every month, in Compliance with all legislative requirements. Employees l order to develop the individual health files l Certification of all OTE and COSMOTE operations per employee. according to OHSAS 18001. l Regular building evacuation and safety drills. l Updating of Occupational Risk Assessments at l Provision of workshops, newsletters and Intranet least every three years and additionally, when articles on important health and well-being topics, conditions change with significant risk implications, throughout the year. or when new activities or services are introduced. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 98 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 4.3.2 About this Report Health and Safety Performance in 2013 During 2013, the strong emphasis on Health and Safety prevention and training was maintained, with continued levels of inspections, as well as with regular and new training sessions. The following table presents the H&S KPIs for 2013. 2013 H&S Performance OTE COSMOTE Fatalities CR Strategy and Employee Fatalities None None Management Contractor Fatalities Not Available None Work–Related Accidents (employees) Number of Employees Injured Marketplace Men 25 6 Women 6 8 Total 31 14 Injury rate1 Men 0.46 0.59 Women 0.25 0.75 Total 0.40 0.68 Employees Occupational Diseases Rate2 Men 0 0 Women 0 0 Total 0 0 Lost Day Rate3 Men 31.28 6.73 Women 7.06 13.11 Society Total 23.83 10.00 Occupational Diseases Rate4 543.67 615.45 Notes Environment 1 Injury rate = (Total number of injuries / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. The data do not include minor (first–aid level) injuries. 2 Occupational diseases rate = (Total number of occupational diseases cases / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. 3 Lost day rate = (Total number of lost days / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. Lost days for OTE are calculated as calendar days, while lost days are calculated as scheduled work days. Lost days count begins on the day of the injury or the next day, depending on the time of the day that the injury occurs. 4 Absentee rate = (Total number of missed absentee days / Total number of workforce days worked) x 25,000. The factor 25,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 5 days per 100 employees. This rate is not monitored per gender. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 99 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The 2013 rates of work–related accidents and lost days fell slightly, compared to 2012. In the same year, there were About this Report no fatalities at OTE and COSMOTE and in both companies lost days decreased slightly. Six Years H&S Performance 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 OTE CR Strategy and Employee Fatalities 1 0 0 0 1 0 Employee Injuries* 28 31 29 27 33 31 Management Work Days Lost (calendar days) 1,427 2,164 1,556 1,408 2,503 1,853 COSMOTE Employee Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 Marketplace Employee Injuries* 16 22 28 17 19 14 Work Days Lost (scheduled work days) 139 178 235 218 416 207 * The data do not include fatalities. 4.3.3 Health and Safety Prevention Employees and Awareness In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE continued to place emphasis Information and training is provided to all employees, and resources on preventive and awareness actions. to promote maintenance of Occupational H&S safe The development of the annual plan for H&S training is conditions. This includes basic training at the time of based on the general evaluation of the previous year’s recruitment and periodical training, when important actions, such as inspection result performed by the changes in duties occur. Training covers risks, medical and technician staff, records of occupational prevention and precautions to be taken. In addition, accidents, and success of training programs. employees working in difficult conditions, such as Society 2013 Key Activities – Workplace Health and Safety Activity OTE COSMOTE Environment First Aid (including blood pressure 1,678 cases 2,175 cases measurement, first aid treatments) Medical Exams including Physical 15,578 exams 2,362 exams Check–ups, Health Promotion Tests, 4,089 employees 706 employees Clinical Examinations Eye Sight Tests 3,064 employees 176 employees OTE Group Subsidiaries Occupational Hazard Studies 74 studies conducted 3 studies EMF Reports Conducted 3 EMF reports for 3 buildings 86 EMF reports for 28 Base Stations in urban areas and 58 Base Station in rural areas Workplace Safety Inspections 2,265 technical inspections 237 technical inspections 1,378 medical inspections 235 medical inspections H&S Training Hours 3,854 hours (total) 3,364 hours (total) Indexes 0.43 hours (average per employee) 1.62* hours (average per employee) * Average H&S training hours per employee have been calculated based on the average headcount. Employees 100 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 field service including elevated work, undertake yearly 936 hours of services were provided to employees, About this Report training on risks, prevention and control. Furthermore, including individual sessions, phone sessions and H&S seminars and information are provided collaborative sessions. The psychologists also engage in continuously on a range of issues. crisis management and work with teams and Managers, on work–related mental health issues. Health and Safety Training Sessions and Campaigns Amongst the issues dealt with, in the framework of the program, were: personal life related issues, work– Safety training includes topics based on the work field CR Strategy and related issues, health–related issues and conditions, per employee group, in accordance with the updated such as depression and severe anxiety. In the last years, instructions for safe work. Examples include the Management it is estimated that most likely due to the economic proper use of PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), crisis and its consequences, the number of employees work safety in allocators, on portable ladders, external requesting psychological services has increased. service workshops including places where liability does Special Focus: Employees with not lie with OTE etc. In addition, training was provided Chronic Illness on topics such as equipment safety marks, suitability Marketplace and safety, workplace safety and security, safe driving, safe climbing requirements and methods, emergency COSMOTE is committed to providing consistent, response and fire safety, avoiding excessive thermal responsible and practical support to colleagues with shock, safe climbing in extreme weather conditions health issues, and developing of suitable jobs for them. (ice and snow), earthquake safety and OSHAS 18001 The COSMOTE Health Team (Occupational Physician, standards training. COSMOTE conducted 2 safe Psychologist, Nurse and Health Visitors), in climbing sessions in extreme weather conditions with collaboration with the Health and Safety Team, employ the participation of 29 employees. Employees a holistic approach to achieve work rehabilitation and Health training included topics such as first aid, multilevel support for employees with chronic illness. working in adverse weather conditions, healthy diet for For their combined efforts and timely interventions, working people, workplace stress management and COSMOTE was honoured as “Partner of Excellence” at breast cancer prevention. the “Workplace Health Practices for Employees with Chronic Illness” conference, held in Brussels (22nd and Information campaigns via corporate intranets, articles 23rd of October) under the auspices of the “European and newsletter were launched on the occasion of Network for Workplace Health Promotion (ENWHP)” European Day of Melanoma: Greek Week against Skin and of the European Union. Society Cancer, Smoking and Health, Hepatitis B prevention and counselling, Your Eyes and PC, Stress Management Special Focus: Osteoporosis and Sleeping Problems, Avoiding Thermal Shock, OTE and COSMOTE, in collaboration with the “Support causes and symptoms of cardiovascular diseases, Osteoporosis Patient” Association, offered a free arthritis, mental health, COPD (Chronic Obstructive Environment measurement of bone density to their female Pulmonary Disease), seasonal flu and preventive employees. As the test takes only a few minutes, measures, prevention in conditions of heat wave, the results were reviewed on the spot by qualified protection from the “Nile” virus. physicians who are members of the Association and were immediately available to those who took Special Focus: OTE and COSMOTE them. In total, 142 OTE employees and 49 COSMOTE Gym Facilities in the New Building to employees, based at the Headquarters and Paiania Enhance Physical Health OTE Group building, took advantage of this initiative. A workplace gym provides employees with an incentive Special Focus: Hypertension Subsidiaries to commit to a healthy lifestyle. Regular exercise improves one’s overall health, can reduce weight, lower OTE, in collaboration with the Medical School of blood pressure and reduce symptoms of chronic illness. the University of Athens, implemented a non–drug The gym in Paiania Building opened in October 2013 program, for the first time, to address hypertension and has more than 130 members, already. and early hypertension symptoms in its employees. Special Focus: Mental Health The program, for which 82 OTE employees expressed their interest to participate, utilized stress management Indexes The COSMOTE’s Employee Assistance Program provides methods for lifestyle change and adoption of healthy 2 psychologists, 1 in Athens and 1 in Thessaloniki, who behaviour patterns. service all COSMOTE installations in Greece. In 2013, Employees 101 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 4.4 Employee Development Marketplace OTE’s and COSMOTE’s approach to HR development is based on the Guiding Principle “Best place to perform and grow”. The aim is to build a workplace, in which one can develop and grow both Employees personally and professionally. Employee development includes performance management, as a basis of transparency and meritocracy and performance development for enhancing career opportunities within the Group. It also includes a learning organization philosophy that focuses in re–skilling and up–skilling training programs, individual development plan and follow up process. As a member of the DT group, OTE and COSMOTE provide further opportunities for international mobility within the Group, knowledge and best practices sharing. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 102 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 4.4.1 organizational effectiveness. About this Report Performance Management In this context of organizational changes, several Both OTE and COSMOTE, run for all employee levels an HR tools are utilized and further improved, in order annual employee performance appraisal process. All to secure clarity and unification of frameworks and newly appointed Managers, with people management processes, as well as meritocracy when it comes to responsibilities, prior to the annual process career development. commencing, undertake a tailor-made training on how CR Strategy and to assess their employees’ performance and create The Job Families Model (JFM) and job evaluation an individual development plan, based on their needs. contribute to a thorough understanding of the role Management In 2013, a total of 112 new Managers attended this content and of the profile of the suitable incumbent, training course. All (i.e. 100%) of OTE and COSMOTE thus leading to efficient internal recruiting and career permanent employees, as per the guidelines, were path. New Fixed and Mobile roles in the JFM are appraised in 2013. The gender ratio for performance analysed and described, taking into consideration the evaluation is thus the same as the overall gender ratio common functionality framework. The initial alignment of OTE and COSMOTE role levels and job families Marketplace of the companies. has been completed. Full and detailed alignment In addition, since 2012, OTE and COSMOTE and integration of the two JFM models is in process Management’s executives (in alignment with DT Group), and will be finalized with the completion of major also participate in the Performance and Potential restructuring in core functions. Review process, which, besides evaluating executives’ performance, ascertains the degree of readiness to In 2013, Executive positions (Top Management and Directors) were reviewed under the new perspective of Employees undertake more demanding duties in the future. Fixed and Mobile organizational design and their new In 2013, both OTE and COSMOTE Performance integrated accountabilities, using a global methodology. Appraisal and Development Systems were revised, The Executive Grading Project is a “vivid” process which so as to update the elements on which employees ensures clarity regarding each role’s contribution to are assessed. Professional Competencies, as well as the companies’ success, global alignment, objectivity, Performance Criteria were revised, in order to reflect transparency and harmonization with other executive OTE Group core values, the Code of Conduct (including roles locally and across the DT Group. the 5 Guiding Principles) and the industry’s current For both companies, the composition of different Society norms and corresponding expertise demanded. In abilities, opinions, talents and experiences of employees, this context, CR aspects are taken into account is essential to all levels. Recruitment process for in employees’ performance evaluation process, internal and external candidates is based on criteria of by rewarding the degree of both involvement and transparency and meritocracy. During 2013, 54.2 % contribution to companies’ effort for social responsible Environment of the positions, opened / filled in OTE and COSMOTE behaviour towards environment, society, employees Greece, were filled with internal candidates. Internal and market.. In addition, quantitative Targets were recruitment includes internal announcement, interview also introduced to OTE employee “groups” below and selection process. The process is reinforced by the Management levels (e.g. employee “groups” in Sales provision of assessment / development special tests by and Customer Care Service Units). an external consultant, where needed. In 2013, a total of 115 assessment centres were administered to OTE OTE Group 4.4.2 and COSMOTE candidates. Perfomance Development In addition, OTE and COSMOTE gave the opportunity Subsidiaries OTE and COSMOTE believe that employees need to 759 students to gain work experience through support and encouragement to stand out and develop, internship programs. both personally and professionally, in a continuously demanding and ever – changing working environment. In parallel, emphasis was given on the improvement of Employees Development Guide, a well structured tool Indexes The operational integration of OTE and COSMOTE for supporting managers’ coaching role (employees’ contributes to the optimization and centralization weaknesses & strengths, developmental goals, of functions and services, role clarity and developmental action plan, measures and resources). Employees 103 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Moreover, aiming at high performing employees with competitiveness, especially in times of crisis. About this Report potential to grow, a few employees participated in Accordingly, both companies continue their focus in numerous development programs (Talent Initiative this area. In 2013, 669 distinct training programs were Market Functions, Leadership Development and organized for OTE and 369 for COSMOTE. A significant Master Classes), organized and run by DT. number of these programs were held by OTE Academy, the companies’ main training provider, and were Employee Training created and / or adjusted with the aim of responding Training is essential to employee development, to the specific training needs of OTE and COSMOTE’s CR Strategy and employee satisfaction, customer service and business personnel and executives. Management Participations in OTE and COSMOTE Training Programs, 2013 OTE COSMOTE Total Participations: 6,1841 Total Participations: 4,3002 Marketplace Gender Gender Men: 76% (4,682) Men: 54% (2,343) Women: 24% (1,502) Women: 46% (1,957) Employee Category Employee Category3 Administration: 22% (1,544) Management: 0.6% (27) Experts: 5% (355) Sales: 11.2% (480) Technicians: 53% (3,813) Customer service: 13.5% (581) Employees Finance: 4% (319) Constructions, network / Support employees: 1% (67) IT operations and applications: 20.4% (875) Other: 1% (86) Network and IT applications design and development: 17.5% (754) Specialists: 2.5% (107) Product and services development and promotion: 5.2% (224) Business support: 29.1% (1,252) Notes 1 Additional 998 non–OTE employees (e.g. students, interns, OTE plus employees) participated in OTE training programs. Society 2 Additional 768 non–COSMOTE employees (e.g. subsidiaries and loaned employees) participated in COSMOTE training programs. 3 Based on job families’ model. Overall, it is estimated that each OTE and COSMOTE training program lasted, on average, 15 and 16 hours respectively. Environment Average training hours data show that COSMOTE employees have attended on average 23 hours of training, compared to 12 hours for OTE employees. This is mainly due to the very high COSMOTE employees attendance at the “Customer Experience Excellence” seminar, aiming at improving employees’ approach / reaction to internal and external customers. Average Training Hours, 2013 OTE COSMOTE OTE Group Male Employees 13.97 29.07 Subsidiaries Female Employees 9.10 17.50 All Employees 12.46 23.17 Note Indexes Training hours per employee have been calculated based on the average headcount. Employees 104 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Training Topics Special Focus: C2X® Customer EXperience EXcellence About this Report The companies’ training, skills and qualifications development programs, as a whole, cover many areas Customer Experience Strategy is at the heart of and topics. Some examples of successful training, COSMOTE organization. C2X® Customer EXperience started and/or completed in 2013, include: EXcellence is an innovative – for Greek and European l The training program aimed at supporting the standards – training program, aiming at promoting the Workforce Management (WFM) project (phase 3 idea of Customer Experience within the organization. The program, which was implemented in cooperation CR Strategy and and phase for the new users). The program was addressed to approximately 1,720 OTE with OTE Academy, was attended by all COSMOTE Management field technicians. employees. After the completion of the program, participants were given the opportunity to get a l The “Situation at the Shop” (in classroom certification from the Society of Consumer Affairs and e–Learning) training program aimed at Professionals Europe (SOCAP). communicating processes and procedures for physical security in OTE, COSMOTE and In 2014, the program is expected to be available for Marketplace Germanos stores. The program was addressed to OTE employees as well. approximately 1,520 employees (store managers and sales representatives). Special Focus: ACT2 l The “C2X® Customer EXperience EXcellence“ ACT2 (Advanced Certification in Telecommunications training program aimed at enhancing employees’ Technologies) is an up to date training program that understanding of customer needs and improving was designed especially for OTE field technicians. their experience. The program was attended by all The program contributes to the enhancement and Employees COSMOTE employees and led to certification. retraining of technicians, given the ever increasing l The “Shifting for Excellence in Compliance” demands for technological sophistication and (e–learning) training program aimed at giving customer experience. integrated information to the companies of OTE More than 430 employees from all over Greece Group in Greece and increasing awareness of Anti– attended the training at the OTEAcademy premises in Corruption issues. Approximately 971 OTE Group Athens and Thessaloniki. According to the plan, more Society employees (In Greece: 458 OTE and 241 COSMOTE than 1,800 technicians will participate in 2014. employees) attended this training program. l The ACT2 training program aimed at supporting field technicians developing their technical knowledge and skills. The program was attended by 436 OTE technicians in 2013, while 1,800 are Environment expected to participate in 2014. l The “Sales Retail System and Payment Process Control” training program on the new retail information system, was attended by 485 OTE employees. The training program aimed at supporting OTE Group l the new policy on performance appraisal (PA) Subsidiaries and target management processes and was attended by approximately 114 OTE and COSMOTE managers. Indexes Employees 105 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 4.5 Employee Benefits Marketplace Besides salary and other benefits provided by law, OTE and COSMOTE offer their employees a “package” of additional benefits, which are based on benefit plans, in the following basic domains: Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 106 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 OTE Benefits About this Report Insurance Group private health insurance for all employees and University degrees or foreign language diplomas (when their dependents, and Group private life insurance for tuition fees are paid by themselves), money awards all employees. to employees’ children for their high performance in secondary and higher education, wedding “gift”, Fixed & Mobile Telephony Products provision of economic support through the “Personnel Company mobile telephone, preferential “packages” Emergency Support Fund” to employees or their first– CR Strategy and for fixed telephony, Internet and OTE TV, company degree relatives for serious health problems which Management products available at special prices at a corporate require costly treatment. in–house sale, and privileges offered to company’s employees through COSMOTE Eurobank Visa. Team Spirit–Sports Participation of the OTE and COSMOTE’s basketball Purchases team in an external basketball championship. OTE provides, through prize draw, tickets to Marketplace special events. Stock Option Plan Until 2010, middle and senior managers in Greece, Family participated in the three–year Stock Option Plan Subsidization of specific baby care and day nursery (granting of rights in 2008, 2009, 2010). Currently the costs, special benefits to support employees with exercise of the options granted until 2010 is available. many children, implementation of special policies in favour of working mothers aiming to promote Miscellaneous Employees balance in professional and family life, flexible working Bus service for transportation of personnel, to and hours bands, reinforcement of saving for employees’ from underground and suburban railway stations children through the “Youth Fund” in which deposits (only for remote buildings), restaurant coupons, are made on a monthly basis from the date of their provision of Multi–ride Commuter Cards or e–pass birth until they reach 25, special policy for people with (only for remote buildings). special needs, money awards to employees acquiring Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 107 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 COSMΟΤΕ Benefits About this Report Insurance Family Group private health insurance for all employees and Subsidization of day nursery costs, special policies their dependents, group private life insurance for all for working mothers, flexible working hours bands, employees, a defined contribution private pension plan, personnel economic assistance, money awards to through which employees’ saving habits are enhanced. employees’ children for their high performance in secondary and higher education, special policy for COSMOTE offers its employees an attractive, employer– CR Strategy and people with special needs. financed optional pension plan. This is a defined Management contribution plan, which enables employees to augment Team Spirit–Sports their main retirement income and, if desired, to protect Organization of in–house sports events, to enhance themselves against occupational disability and / or the team spirit and participation of employees secure financial support for relatives in case of death. in sport events. Participation of the OTE and The participation rate reaches approximately 90%. COSMOTE’s basketball team in an external basketball championship. Marketplace Mobile Telephony Products Company mobile telephone and an extra 30% discount Stock Option Plan on the preferential charges for employees, preferential Until 2010, middle and senior managers in Greece, “packages” for fixed telephony, Internet and OTE participated in the three–year Stock Option Plan TV, discounts on company products purchased at (granting of rights in 2008, 2009, 2010). Currently the COSMOTE–owned stores, discount for the replacement exercise of the options granted until 2010 is available. of the old company mobile phone with a new set, Employees companies’ products available at special prices Miscellaneous at corporate in–house sale, privileges offered to Bus service for transportation of personnel, to and company’s employees (permanent discount on mobile from underground and suburban railway stations phone bill) through COSMOTE Eurobank Visa. (only for remote buildings), restaurant coupons, provision of Multi–ride Commuter Cards or e–pass Purchases (only for remote buildings). Gift cheques offered at Christmas and Easter, special Society contracts with companies aiming at the preferential treatment of employees when purchasing their products or services. Also provides, through prize draw, tickets to special events Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 108 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 4.6 Internal Communications Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE aim to maintain transparent and interactive communication with their employees, utilizing a number of channels to promote knowledge, team spirit, participation and Employees share feedback. Key tools used by the two companies are the OTE “U–link” intranet and the COSMOTE “Mikroscosmos” intranet, e–mail and SMS, eNewsletter OTE–COSMOTE leaflets and posters, face–to–face briefings, internal awareness campaigns, promotional activities on specific topics and satisfaction surveys. In fact, the companies’ goal to expand all internal communications programs throughout the country was achieved and all available tools were used. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 109 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 In 2013: Although human rights risks are considerably low in both About this Report l In total, about 3,000,000 visits were conducted to companies and in Greece, on the occasion of the Human the intranet sites by OTE and COSMOTE employees. Rights Day, on the 10th of December, OTE and COSMOTE informed all their employees, via the companies’ l On average, 81% of OTE and COSMOTE Intranets, about issues concerning the human rights. employees visit ED U–link and Mikrocosmos The companies provided information about OTE’s and on a monthly basis. COSMOTE’s support of the UN Global Compact, the l In comparison to 2012, publications (new largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative in the CR Strategy and documents and material) made available on the world and their abidance by its ten universal values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the Management Intranet portals, were increased by 10%. environment and anti–corruption. Moreover, in order to l 22 internal awareness campaigns were promoted inform and sensitize their employees about this issue, via the Intranet sites, including banners, thematic OTE and COSMOTE shared– with their employees– configuration of the home page elements and information concerning the International Labour campaign–related content. Organization, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Marketplace l 101 and 19 Corporate Responsibility related and the Constitution of Greece. topics were published in “U-link” and “Mikrocosmos”, respectively. OTE HR – Help Desk l The detailed results of both Pulse Surveys, The OTE HR–Help Desk – 1255 is a telephone helpline conducted in June and November 2013, for OTE personnel, regarding HR issues, processes were announced to all employees via U–link and procedures. Via this support mechanism, OTE and Mikrocosmos. continues to improve the services provided to its Employees employees and keeps an “open line” of communication In the second trimester of 2013, a new digital with them. During 2013, some of the issues dealt with, tool was introduced, in order to reinforce internal via the Helpline were as follows: communication channels of OTE and COSMOTE. This new internal communication channel aims to keep l Questions of OTE employees exiting the company, in employees updated on all significant corporate, the framework of the VES (overall 1,850 questions). commercial, technical, HR and CR news, events and l Questions of OTE employees regarding Society activities. The newsletter is sent every 2 weeks. In the implementation of HCM, i.e. automation of 2013, 16 issues were sent, covering more than 133 processes for the administration of holidays and topics (13% were CR related). A satisfaction survey, absences (approximately 5,000 questions). carried out at the end of 2013, showed that 73% of the participants rated the e–newsletter as a significant l Questions related to general HR issues, e.g. use way of staying updated. of employee performance appraisal system (1,000 questions). Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 110 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 4.7 CR Strategy and Management Employee Engagement and Satisfaction Marketplace 4.7.1 Employee Engagement Employees OTE and COSMOTE believe that employee engagement and loyalty are more vital than ever to an organization’s success. The companies’ aim is for the employees not only to think and speak positively about the organization, but to share a sense of belonging and desire to be a part of the organization. OTE and COSMOTE also try to keep employees informed about strategic, technological and organizational changes and to participate actively in these changes. Society Employees confirm their loyalty by giving OTE the highest score in engagement driver among the DT Group (2012 DT Group Employee Survey). Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Employees 111 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Employee engagement also includes communication. 4.7.2 About this Report OTE and COSMOTE aim to establish and sustain a working environment which is characterized by Employee Satisfaction open communication and feedback culture. OTE and COSMOTE recognize the benefit of conducting The companies encourage their employees to employee surveys on a regular basis. The Employee communicate openly, through various channels, such Survey held every two years and the six – monthly as meetings and presentations, workshops, internal Pulse Survey checks are considered to be important memos and satisfaction surveys. To encourage feedback tools within the organizations. CR Strategy and dialogue, comments or critique, a new feedback tool “changemanagementcomms@ote.gr” was Surveys are also a reliable diagnostic tool, among Management introduced in 2013. other inputs, for potential changes, improvements and action plans. To share the strategy and corporate targets among executives, a Management Team Meeting was held The next Employee Survey will be carried out in 2015. in 2013. In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE will carry out 2 Pulse Surveys (in May and November). Marketplace This philosophy drives a variety of actions and plans applying creative approaches that address Employee Survey Roll Out specific needs. OTE and COSMOTE participated in the Employee Survey which was conducted at the end of 2012. During Special Focus: “Welcome on board” 2013, the challenge was not only to communicate the Induction Program Employee Survey results to all employees, but also to Employees The challenge was to design an induction program that open a meaningful dialogue between all stakeholders. would go beyond the standard training programs and create an “experience” for new OTE Group employees. More than 300 presentations were given, in Athens and This 2–day workshop includes not only corporate Thessaloniki, and in other cities including Patras, Tripoli, presentations, but also interactive exercises, games, Ioannina ,Veroia , Kozani, Komotini and Heraklion. theatrical sessions and quizzes. In general, the results were encouraging for both Special Focus: “Stay tuned” companies and showed strong convergence of Engagement Tool Society employee opinions. Engagement and commitment with the companies scored very high with OTE and The goal was the introduction of a communication COSMOTE performing best among all DT Group platform supporting the transformation process companies. In addition, employees judge OTE and within the organization. Thus, OTE and COSMOTE COSMOTE as great places to work. However, the designed from scratch, an engagement workshop results showed that all processes would benefit from Environment (based on the model Discussion –> Interaction –> simplification, while work–outside life balance is one Feedback) with the name “Stay tuned”, especially of the areas for improvement. for mixed groups of OTE and COSMOTE employees, who have experienced functional integration. The Pulse Surveys tool was introduced and implemented as a pilot in 5 OTE and COSMOTE employees participated in 2 business units. The companies’ intention is to apply it Pulse Surveys, which were carried out in June and in more teams, during the roll out process of the next OTE Group November 2013. The results were announced on the Employee Survey. Subsidiaries corporate intranets. l The participation rate in June’s 2013 Pulse Survey was 52% for ΟΤΕ and 70% for COSMOTE. l The participation rate in November’s 2013 Pulse Survey was 50% for ΟΤΕ and 67% for COSMOTE. Indexes Employees 112 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries 5.0 Society About this Report CR Strategy and Management 5.1 Management Approach Marketplace During these challenging times for Greece’s economy and society, OTE and COSMOTE aspire to integrate in their business development, continuous support for the most vulnerable groups among Employees the population, as well as for those, most affected by the crisis. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 114 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Management mechanisms, in place to systemize the COSMOTE mainly focused on societal issues and About this Report companies’ efforts involving social contribution, are: especially on vulnerable social groups and children. l The feedback of the stakeholders to the Corporate l The clear direction from the Chairman and CEO of Responsibility Department, which provides the OTE Group and Senior Management on key support basis for new proposals, new initiatives or changes programs, which are designed and implemented in the current CR program. This Department by the Corporate Responsibility Department, Fixed is also responsible for collecting all data, and Mobile, within the Corporate Communications concerning the measurement of the programs’ CR Strategy and Division OTE Group. impact on the society. Management l The approval process for all sponsorships and l The full application of CR management approach, donations by the Chairman and CEO of OTE Group, regarding society programs and stakeholder after being reviewed by OTE Group Compliance, engagement on societal issues, to all (100%) of ERM and Insurance Directorate. In 2013, OTE and the operations of OTE and COSMOTE, in Greece. Key Achievements in 2013 Marketplace l OTE and COSMOTE contributed to society, by offering more than €2.6 mn, through financial and in–kind donations and sponsorships. l Raising of €550,000, to support children in need, through OTE’s “Christmas Campaign” and COSMOTE’s “Custom of Love” campaign. Employees l COSMOTE provided 8,834 telephone devices, designed for the elderly and for people with sight problems and OTE provided services to 21,305 people with special needs, as well as approximately €3 mn of discounts, for the elderly and people with special needs. l Both companies tried to support and promote entrepreneurship, through OTE’s “Your business.gr” initiative, COSMOTE’s “Share your Success” action and “COSMOTE StartUp” program, as well as by supporting the “egg – enter•grow•go” program. l 46 Scholarships and Honorary Distinctions were awarded, through the OTE and COSMOTE Society Scholarship Program. l OTE and COSMOTE offered work experience to 759 students. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 115 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 5.2 CR Strategy and Management Social Products, Services and Offers Marketplace 5.2.1 People with Special Needs, the Elderly and Socially Vulnerable Groups Employees OTE and COSMOTE pay great attention to facilitating equal opportunities and accessibility to people with special needs, through special technology, services and discounts. In 2013, ΟΤΕ provided €2,832,220.71 of discounts, for the elderly and people with special needs. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 116 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 5.2.1 About this Report People with Special Needs, the Elderly and Socially Vulnerable Groups (Cont’d) Focus Product / Service 2013 Reach Elderly People Mobile phones designed for the elderly and for 8,834 people people with sight problems CR Strategy and Discount for elderly (65+) on OTE services 24,000 people Management People with Special Needs Discount on OTE services 21,305 people OTE Instant Alert Service 700 people (includes elderly people) COSMOTE MobiTalk service– 417 active users offered free of charge 684 active users Marketplace COSMOTE Voice e–mail service– offered free of charge COSMOTE 50% discount on SMS charges and 412 people videocalls for customers with hearing problems OTE’s Phone cards and COSMOTE’s Top Phone cards and Top Up cards with total 7,335 phone cards and Up cards for NGO and Institutions value of €39,140, provided to NGO and Top Up cards Correctional Facilities Employees COSMOTE Services for People with Sight Disabilities l MobiTalk l Voice email COSMOTE offers MobiTalk service to individuals This service provides people with sight problems with sight problems, in collaboration with the with the ability to manage their electronic post “Institute for Language and Speech Processing easily. Via voice recognition technology, users are Society of the Secretariat General for Research and able to hear and answer their e–mails, by giving Development of Greece”. This service aims to make phonetic commands (free of charge), as well as mobile phone use easier for these individuals, by hearing out loud their inbox. At the same time, installing high–tech software, via which all screen they can forward, or erase, messages. information are transformed to voice, while the Environment user scrolls through menus. The service is offered free of charge. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 117 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 5.2.2 About this Report Students Student support continues to hold priority in OTE’s and stores, such as price discount to specific Telecom COSMOTE’s CR Programs. Both companies aim to help and non–Telecom products. More than 250 students the students to have access to the tools needed for won a €300 GERMANOS voucher and/or a €230 OTE their development: or COSMOTE voucher, giving them the opportunity OTE, in 2013, continued to offer broadband to buy anything they needed from specified product CR Strategy and l connections to students at attractive rates. In categories from OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS stores. More than 60,000 students won gifts, Management 2013, 17,732 students profited from this discount. through the instant win one to one promotion. l COSMOTE reduced communication expenses for students, with special offers and unique gifts. l For the 8th consecutive year, OTE and Depending on their needs, students could choose COSMOTE continued to promote nationally the among offers on What’s Up, all Cost Control plans reuse of computers and other technological equipment at schools and NGOs, through the Marketplace and Mobile Internet tariff plans. In 2013, more than 150,000 students benefited from these offers. “PC Donation Program”. In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE donated 115 PCs. l ΟΤΕ, COSMOTE and GERMANOS provided a range of special offers dedicated to students visiting their Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 118 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 5.2.3 About this Report Public Helplines, Services and Offers Free emergency calls through fixed and mobile telephony were provided, once more, in 2013. The European emergency number 112 operated by ΟΤΕ in Greece, received 2,866,794 calls, of which 36,011 were connected to emergency numbers (100, 199, 166 and 108). OTE continued providing telecom infrastructure and financial support, for the operation of the following helplines, for CR Strategy and vulnerable social groups and especially for children in need: Management Helplines Calls Received in 2013 SOS 1056, The Smile of the Child (14 years of support) 272,605 calls 116000 European Hotline for missing children, The Smile of the Child (6 years of support) 7,138 calls Marketplace 11525 Together for the Children Advice Helpline, Together for the Children (4 years of support) 6,078 calls 116111 European Helpline for support of Children and Youth (5 years of support) 2,921 calls 80011 80015 YpoSTIRIZO Helpline, Adolescence Health Unit (6 years of support) 2,000 calls and emails 1018 National Suicide Prevention Hotline, NGO “KLIMAKA” (5 years of support) 2,400 calls Flagship Initiatives Employees “I Offer” Service COSMOTE DEALS for YOU COSMOTE, for the 8th consecutive year, collaborated COSMOTE actively demonstrates that it is attentive with the other two mobile telephony companies to consumers’ needs, by adjusting appropriately its (VODAFONE and WIND HELLAS), in order to support services and creating innovative programs. Society social institutions and non– governmental organizations, by providing the “I Offer” Service. Through this service, With the aim of actively rewarding its customers, institutions can make use of short written messages in 2008, COSMOTE was the first operator in the (SMS), in order to conduct radio and tele–donation Greek market to launch “2FOR ONE”, an affordable programs. More specifically, the service is supported entertainment–based program. Since then, COSMOTE by 3 five–digit numbers and is exclusively activated for cooperates with leading companies across a range of charity purposes. The activation of this service requires Environment sectors, making leisure and fun activities affordable for a timely application, as well as a deposit of required all social groups. In 2012, aiming to further reward and supporting documentation, by the NGO requested the fulfil its customers’ needs, 2FOR ONE was expanded activation. The end user sends an SMS, charged with €1 and re–launched as COSMOTE DEALS for YOU, a unique (plus taxes), to the pre–defined five digit number and bundle of deals available exclusively to COSMOTE with a subject linked to the specific charitable cause, subscribers. In 2013, COSMOTE DEALS for YOU further and the total gross income from the service is given to addressed the needs and wishes of consumers via the charity organization, which made use of the service. two major advancements: first, COSMOTE DEALS for OTE Group In 2013, the “I Offer” service was activated more than YOU expanded to include even more exclusive offers Subsidiaries 15 times and the total sum COSMOTE received and in high interest consumer sectors such as travel, food forwarded to charities, was €152,481. and drink and culture; and second, the SMS cost for participation in the program was reduced by 50% Offer for Unemployed and Pensioners to only €0.50. It is worth noting, that in 2013, the COSMOTE, focusing on subscribers who belong to program participation increased by 37% over 2012. specific social groups that are heavily affected by Additionally, more than 360,000 unique users sent the economic crisis, supports the unemployed and Indexes more than 740,000 SMSs, while more than 315,000 pensioners, and as of 2010, has been providing unique users took advantage of the offers via 460,000 discount on their monthly fee. This service has been code redemptions. very well received by Greek society and as a result, it is further extended in 2014. Society 119 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 5.3 Enabling Entrepreneurship Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE, fully cognizant of the needs of contemporary enterprises, offer the most efficient and integrated solutions to satisfy their communication needs, through a well–organized network providing Employees personalized Customer Care Services. In this framework, OTE and COSMOTE try to constantly enrich their portfolio with new telecommunications solutions, based on the increasing number of specialized needs of enterprises and answer to challenging communication requests. In addition, both companies support and promote new entrepreneurship in a holistic way. They develop and initiate innovative programs, aiming to support creative individuals with original business ideas, participate in challenging upstart collaborations and provide significant support to initiatives focusing on Society new entrepreneurship. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 120 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 OTE: “Your business.gr” 4th Action “Our world is you”: Promotion of New Entrepreneurship About this Report OTE’s new ground breaking initiative “Your business. gr” successfully completed one year since its initiation. In 2013, the 4th action of the “Our world is During this period, OTE gave the opportunity to more you” program, was based on the idea of Iraklis than 15,000 small and medium–sized enterprises, Papadopoulos to support creative people and original from different business sectors, to promote business ideas. COSMOTE, in collaboration with the their business on the Internet, easily, quickly and Greek Management Association, the Entrepreneurial completely free of charge, for an entire year. It is Agency Foundation and OTEAcademy, initiated CR Strategy and worth mentioning that almost 50% of the participating COSMOTE StartUp, a program which aims to promote Management companies operate outside the greater Athens area. entrepreneurship, creation of opportunities and Furthermore, for a large number of these companies, development of original ideas. this was the first time that they obtained Internet presence (e.g. enterprises from the construction Under this action, any team with a vision and the will sector, vehicle services sector etc). Through this to work hard could submit an application to COSMOTE initiative, OTE also responds to the enterprises’ needs StartUp, for assistance to transform its idea into a Marketplace for development, by offering site building, web hosting, business. 10 teams were selected by a Committee to domain name and campaign manager services. This participate in the 3–month intensive training program service is still offered today at a special price. by COSMOTE StartUp. COSMOTE “Share your Success” COSMOTE provided the opportunity to the teams to get training on basic business issues, on how to COSMOTE supported and promoted Greek businesses start up a business, and on how develop a new idea. Employees through the “Share your Success” action. From November The teams have been trained by instructors from the 28th to December 31st 2012, COSMOTE offered small and Greek business market. At the end of the course, medium–sized businesses an opportunity to promote their the teams had the opportunity to present their fully own success story and win a complete advertising pack, developed business ideas to investors. All training worth €20,000. Any business could submit its own success sessions took place at OTEAcademy. story on COSMOTE’s official Facebook page, outlining the products and services that singles them out in the market OTE Supports the “egg” Program of their interest. As a result, 1,000 small and medium– Society OTE supports the innovative “egg – enter•grow•go” sized businesses presented their unique successful program, by offering services and equipment for business story online, whereas thousands of online users Internet access, web hosting and emails. The “egg had the opportunity to get acquainted with them. – enter•grow•go” program, is a Corporate Social In March 2013, the ten best “success stories” were Responsibility initiative by Eurobank, designed and selected by the public, while the three final winners implemented in cooperation with “Corallia”, which Environment were selected by a special COSMOTE committee. aims to boost young innovative entrepreneurship and The three companies that won the first places in the improve employment opportunities for young people COSMOTE “Share your Success” contest are active in Greece. “egg – enter•grow•go” is an integrated in tourism, innovative Greek products and career incubation, acceleration and co–working program. counselling for young people. OTE Group Full details on products and services offered to Subsidiaries business may be found on the companies’ website at the OTE Business Products and Services and COSMOTE Business Tariff Plans and Services web pages. Indexes Society 121 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 5.4 Social Contribution Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE engage in an array of social initiatives, in order to make a well–rounded contribution to the society in which they operate, through investing in the skill development of future generations, Employees helping children in need, supporting the cultural uniqueness of Greece’s regions, operating a Telecommunications Museum and spreading the knowledge and value of safe use of technology. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 122 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Financial data for these programs are presented in the table below. About this Report Type of Expenditure (€) OTE COSMOTE Total Sponsorships / Donations in kind 388,693 827,195 1,215,888 Financial support – via donations & sponsorships 632,795 579,841 1,212,636 Tele/Radio Fundraising OTE – “I Offer” Service COSMOTE 30,641 152,481 183,122 Employee Vacation Resorts 1,400,000 0 1,400,000 CR Strategy and Employee Cultural Centres 219,970 0 219,970 Management Choir 127,503 0 127,503 Total 2,799,602 1,559,517 4,359,119 It is a subsequent aim for both companies to try to measure, where possible, their impact, to be able to evaluate and review their contributions. Flagship Initiatives: Marketplace Employee Vacation Resorts In 2013, among others, the mixed Athens OTE Choir: OTE, in collaboration with OME OTE, provides, through l Participated in the Ceremony of the lighting of OPAKE OTE, opportunities for vacation for its employees the Olympic Flame for the Winter Olympics–Sochi and retirees at its vacation resorts facilities at low 2014, in Ancient Olympia, which was on worldwide Employees cost. These facilities include restaurants, playgrounds, live broadcast. etc. and provide a series of services such as medical care, fitness facilities, security and entertainment. In l Performed at the 29th International Choir Festival addition, OPAKE OTE provides hospitality services to in Thessaloniki. groups of employees from telecommunication sector l Held Christmas Charity Concerts for supporting various companies of other countries, such as Cyprus, Hungary, NGO. In 2013, a certain amount from these concerts Serbia, Romania, Portugal, etc. and offers to OTE Group was donated to Network for Children’s Rights, Society employees and pensioners vacation at selected hotels Girokomeio Athinon–Athens Elderly Care Home, etc. in Greece and abroad. COSMOTE “Our world is you” Initiative OTE Employee Cultural Centres In accordance with its corporate philosophy, in 2011, OTE has a nationwide network of 53 Employee Cultural COSMOTE created the “Our world is you” campaign, Centres, for its employees, retirees and their families, as whereby fellow citizens contributed their ideas on how Environment well as for the local communities in which they operate. to make the world a better place and have a direct Various activity programs are organized in these positive impact on their community. In the same year, Cultural Centres, including dancing, sports, painting, the first idea submitted through this initiative, which was sculpture, iconography, theatre, musical instruments to help the children of the Hatzikiriakeio Foundation, instruction, foreign languages and computer classes. was implemented with the support of COSMOTE. In In total, approximately 180 such programs are offered 2012, a second idea, to support families in need, was substantiated by creating the “Program of Solidarity with OTE Group across Greece, organized by either the Cultural Centres themselves or in conjunction with other cultural the Family”, in collaboration with K.Y.A.D.A. (Hospitality Subsidiaries agencies in their area. and Solidarity Centre of the Municipality of Athens). The program was continued in 2013 with COSMOTE’s support. Athens OTE Choir In 2013, COSMOTE continued the “Our world is you” The mixed Athens OTE Choir was formed in 1968. program. More details about the 3rd action “Support In its long course, the Choir has given hundreds of to the Border Areas” under this program are provided concerts both in Greece and abroad, carrying the Indexes in the SOCIETY / Programs in the Periphery section. Greek musical tradition. More details about the 4th action “Promotion of Over the years, the Choir has won many important New Entrepreneurship” are provided in the SOCIETY / awards in international choral competitions. Business Enterprising section. Society 123 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 5.4.1 About this Report Supporting Vulnerable Social Groups and People with Special Needs NGO / Organizations receiving financial and in kind support OTE COSMOTE Association “Together for Children”* Friends of Social Paediatrics “Anoixti Agalia” CR Strategy and MDA Greece – Muscular Dystrophy Association Cerebral Palsy Greece Management Athens Public Nursery Association of Social Responsibility for Children and Youngsters (SKEP) NGO “Ark of the World” NGO of the Holy Archdiocese of Athens “Apostoli” Network for Children’s Rights Make–A–Wish Greece Marketplace Association of OTE Employees and Pensioners with Children's hearts Association Disabled Children (SESOEP) Charities Fund of the Holy Archdiocese of Athens NGO “The Heart of the Child” Greek Red Cross “The right to life” Organization (“Dikaioma sti Zoi”) Society of Breast Diseases Pammakaristos Children’s Foundation Employees “The Smile of the Child” Association Association of Parents of Children with Cancer “Floga” Hellenic Society for Disabled Children (ELEPAP) “STROFI” Rehabilitation Community Family Association of the Therapy Centre for Dependent Individuals (KETHEA) Special Vocational Training Centre “Margarita” Society Elefsina Love Centre “Infirmary Penteli” APHCA (Association for the Psychosocial Health of Children and Adolescents) Environment Children's Hospital “Agia Sophia” Pediatric Trauma Care Hellenic Athletic Federation of the Deaf Attikon Hospital Adolescent Health Unit (AHU) of the Second Department of Paediatrics – University of Athens OTE Group “Ark of Love” Organisation Subsidiaries www.DISABLED.gr “DISABILITY NOW” magazine Indexes * Association “Together for Children”: Association of Charities in which 10 different associations take part: Cerebral Palsy Greece, Foundation “The Children’s Home”, Social Work Foundation – Hadzipaterion Rehabilitation Centre for Children with Cerebral Palsy, Centre for People with Special Needs “Hara”, Friends of “Merimna”, “Friends of the Child”, SOS Children’s Villages Greece, Panhellenic Juvenile Diabetes Union, PNOE – Friends of Children in Intensive Care, “Friends of Theotokos” Association. Society 124 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 5.4.2 About this Report Supporting Children OTE, through its “Christmas Campaign”, the Homes of “The Smile of the Child”, but also stood by children in need for yet another Christmas. for families that need support and face serious For the 11th consecutive year, under the banner survival problems. “The Children’s joy is our inspiration”, the company l Special Vocational Training Centre “Margarita” offered a significant part of its revenues, derived Margarita is a charity organization, licensed as a CR Strategy and from the calls made by its subscribers during the day care centre for disabled people and accredited 2013–2014 Christmas season, to the following charity Management as a specialized vocational training centre by the organizations for children: National Centre for Accreditation in Greece. The l “Together for Children” organization provides appropriate education, This consortium of 10 charitable Non–Profit vocational training and occupation to young people Organizations have been cooperating since 1996, with intellectual disability. aiming to help society’s most sensitive element, Marketplace The total amount donated, in the framework of the children, and especially children in need. The “Christmas Campaign” for 2013, was €230,000. Association’s efforts annually embrace and support more than 10,000 children with mental disabilities, For the 15th consecutive year, through the “Custom mobility impairments, family problems and serious of Love” campaign, COSMOTE offered a substantial diseases, by providing better living conditions and a part of its revenues, from New Year’s Day SMS and better future. MMS, to support twelve children institutions. The Employees l “MDA Hellas” (Association for the Care of People institutions supported in 2013, were: with Muscular Dystrophy Diseases) l Association of Parents of Children with Cancer Financial assistance for the creation of MDA Hellas’ “Floga”. “Youth Centre”, the Home of MDA Hellas, aiming to provide comprehensive services (in addition l Friends of Social Paediatrics “Anoixti Agalia”. to the services provided through the three MDA l Cerebral Palsy Greece. Units at hospitals), and improvements to the social l Hellenic Society for Disabled Children (ELEPAP). integration of patients, by attracting members and volunteers to the Centre’s premises. l Association of Social Responsibility for Children and Society Youngsters (SKEP). l “The Smile of the Child” The Association provides financial assistance to l Make–A–Wish Greece. the “Child and Family Support Centre” at Maroussi, l Pan–Hellenic Association for Protection, Athens, which has been operating since 2008 Information and Support of Children with Heart Environment and until 2013, has helped in total 4,129 children Diseases “Child’s Heart”. and 1,763 families. The Child and Family Support Centre is the place where goods are gathered for l Pediatric Trauma Care. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 125 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 l Charitable Association “Kivotos Agapis”. About this Report l Organization “Dikaioma sti Zoi” (The right to life). l Parent–teacher and friend’s association for children with heart diseases of Northern Greece “Children’s Hearts”. l Special Vocational Training Centre “Margarita”. CR Strategy and In 2013, COSMOTE, through the “Custom of Love” campaign, donated an overall amount of €320,000 to Management charitable organizations for children. In the same year, for the first time, the selection of the charitable organizations to be supported was carried out with the input of the OTE and COSMOTE employees Marketplace who had the opportunity to vote for their favourite association for children. The Special Vocational Training Centre “Margarita” was voted most popular. business partners, offered commensurate financial support to children’s care institutions. The beneficiaries Additional to the above initiatives, once more, OTE in 2013, were the Athens Municipal Crèche and the and COSMOTE instead of Christmas presents to their Institution for the Child “PAMMAKARISTOS”. Employees 5.4.3 Supporting Young People Educating young people in new technologies and skills development, in order to better prepare them for their future, is among the social contributions that is high in the OTE and COSMOTE’s priorities. In particular, during 2013, OTE and COSMOTE focused on the following initiatives: Scholarship Programs and Contests Society Program Company Impact OTE–COSMOTE Scholarship Program OTE and COSMOTE 46 grants For students with low income or disability (20 Scholarships– full support for the whole duration of their studies– and 26 Honorary Distinctions– Environment financial award, as a recognition of the students’ effort) Scholarship Program of the American Farm OTE 3 scholarships awarded School of Thessalonica Students from South–East Europe (Greece, Albania and Romania) to receive scholarships at the “Dimitris Perotis” College, in fields such as agro–tourism, the food industry and environmental protection. OTE Group Alba Graduate Business School at the American OTE and COSMOTE Contribution to ALBA’s scholarship program that covers College of Greece (ALBA) Subsidiaries the tuition fees of students, who have a high academic standing and limited financial means. Scholarships at Department of Banking OTE 2 scholarships awarded to post–graduate students and Financial Administration of the University with demonstrated exceptional academic performance of Piraeus Indexes Society 126 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE 2013 Work Experience Offered to Students Scholarship Program and Skills Development For the 12th consecutive year, in 2013, twenty l OTE and COSMOTE are considered to be an Scholarships and twenty-six Honorary Distinctions exceptional employment opportunity for students were awarded to 46 young men and women, worth in to start their career. The companies offer mainly total more than €345,000, in the framework of OTE– through internship programs to a lot of students Employees COSMOTE Scholarship Program. It is worth mentioning the opportunity to apply their knowledge in the that for the first time, since the initiation of the program, real world environment, gain work experience, be students from all over Greece, rather than from specific trained on–the–job and develop skills, which will geographical regions, were invited to participate. help them perform better at their jobs. In 2013, 759 students interned in various Directorates of More specifically, in 2013, twenty Scholarships, worth OTE and COSMOTE. €15,2801 each and twenty-six Honorary Distinctions, In the same spirit, COSMOTE continued its Student Society l worth €1,5282 each, were awarded to first-year University students enrolled at Higher Education Visit program, whereby 300 students from 6 high Institutions in Greece. Ever since the program was schools and Universities visited the company, established in 2002, 146 Scholarships and 283 to attend educational briefings on professional Honorary Distinctions have been awarded in total, orientation, technology and scientific issues, Base worth more than €2.4 million. More than 2,500 Stations technology and the company’s operations. Environment students have expressed interest and eventually more than 1,100 students submitted applications. In addition to the monetary prize, awarded to students for the year 2013–2014, a free OTE Double Play 24Mbps connection, mobile phones with COSMOTE Student Cost Control Plan free of monthly fees for the duration of their studies, free OTE TV services for a OTE Group year and a tablet, were also provided. Subsidiaries 1 The total gross value of each Scholarship amounts to twenty thousand Euros (€20,000). The net value following subtraction of the corresponding tax and stamp duty Indexes amounts to fifteen thousand two hundred eighty–five Euros (€15,280). This amount will be disbursed to every scholarship recipient in two (2) equal instalments. 2 The total gross value of each Honorary Distinction amounts to two thousand Euros (€2,000). The net value following subtraction of the corresponding tax and stamp duty amounts to one thousand five hundred twenty–eight Euros (€1,528). This amount was disbursed in a lump sum payment. Society 127 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 5.5 CR Strategy and Management Contributing to Local Communities’ Well–Being Marketplace and Sustainability Employees OTE and COSMOTE seek to improve the livelihood and sustainability of the local communities in which they operate. The approach of both companies is twofold: on the one hand they try to respond to calls for support of the local social character, integration and growth and on the other hand they try, as matter of high priority, to protect the communities from any potentially negative impact, generated from their business, mainly concerning environmental issues. To ensure their protection and assistance to the local communities, OTE and COSMOTE have put in place a program to measure, as much as possible, the Society impacts of their operation and support actions. All potential impact related to OTE’s and COSMOTE’s activities, are addressed in the relevant Environmental Impact Assessment studies, carried out and submitted for approval to the designated authorities. Public consultation is a required step in the permitting process and comments received, are taken into account as appropriate. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 128 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 OTE and COSMOTE work on the basis of engaging local In addition, in 2013, 4 units of the OTE Technical About this Report communities in all of their operations. In this context, Regional Divisions based in different geographical the Community Relations Section of the Corporate areas of Greece (i.e. Attiki, North Greece, South Communications Division, OTE Group is tasked with and West Greece, Crete and the Islands), had the maintaining and expanding OTE’s and COSMOTE’s responsibility to support the provision of fixed presence in local communities countrywide. In telecommunication services, at a local level, in their order to fulfil this responsibility role, the Community region. These units are in continuous communication Relations team analyses and evaluates local needs and with local communities, organizations, business and CR Strategy and designs, and implements special projects for the local residential customers. Through this communication, communities. Local sponsoring issues include support further needs of the local communities are identified Management to local associations, athletic clubs, festivals, cultural and taken into account in forming the companies’ activities etc. operation and CR programs. The Community Relations Section also organizes and Through this communication effort, OTE and provides training courses for secondary education and COSMOTE believe that almost 100% of the local Marketplace University students, associations, local communities and community development programs are based on local municipalities on mobile telephony, electromagnetic communities’ needs, while about 10% of their local fields (EMF), and the role of telecommunications in engagement is designed to address solely the needs modern life. So far, more than 5,000 people have of vulnerable groups. attended those sessions in 20 cities all over Greece. 5.5.1 Programs in the Periphery In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE, responding to increased requests from local communities for enhanced contributions Employees to the rural and sub–rural areas and to the sustainability of regional cultural identity, indicatively, supported the following initiatives in the various Greek regions: Organization – Event Description/Impact Company 56th Philippi / Thasos Festival OTE and COSMOTE supported the 56th cultural festival of OTE and COSMOTE Society Philippi– Thasos in Northeastern Greece. From July until September, the ancient Roman theatres of Philippi, Kavala and Thasos island hosted theatre and drama performances, music concerts, poetry nights and youth cultural activities. 100 years from the Liberation of Crete OTE and COSMOTE contributed to the 100 years OTE and COSMOTE commemoration of Crete’s liberation from the Ottoman Environment Empire. Events took place in all major cities of Crete, under the auspices of the President of the Hellenic Republic and the Eleftherios Venizelos Foundation. Xanthi Old Town Festival For more than 10 years, OTE supports the “Old Town Festival” OTE cultural activities of the Municipality of Xanthi. 5th Information Technology COSMOTE for the 4th time supported the “Information COSMOTE School Congress of the Central OTE Group technology school congress” of the Central Macedonia Macedonia region region. Students from more than 100 primary and Subsidiaries secondary education schools attended and presented their work on digital technology and innovation. Centennial Commemoration of the The year 2013 was the centennial commemoration of the COSMOTE 1st Mount Olympus Mountain first ascent to the top of Mount Olympus. The celebration took place in the area of Mount Olympus with an international gathering and photo exhibition of the history Indexes of early expeditions to the mythical mountain. International Archaeology Congress COSMOTE supported the International Archaeological COSMOTE on Rhodes island Congress on Rhodes island, on the archaeological fieldwork at the Aegean Islands. Society 129 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 3rd Action “Our world is you”: Support Citizens of Ilioupolis. More than 300 people have taken to the Border Areas About this Report part in this program until now, and more than 400 are In March 2013, the 3rd action of the program “Our expected to participate in 2014. world is you”was implemented by COSMOTE, focusing on suggestions, offered by Dimitra Koufidou from the 5.5.2 island of Samothrace and Sofia Charalambidou from Promoting Culture the Prespes lake region, whose desire was to enhance OTE and COSMOTE have consistently supported activities quality of life in border areas. CR Strategy and that contribute to sustaining the cultural heritage, In Prespes, the Local authorities made available to athletic spirit and improving of the quality of life. Both Management COSMOTE the existing buildings of the Patoulideio Stadium companies regard these activities as a vital part of and the Municipal Library of Lemos. COSMOTE restored progress and they place their technology in the service and renovated the buildings so they can accommodate of such activities that aim at benefiting all society. any sport, cultural or educational activity and installed In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE sponsored 93 cultural adequate heating and audiovisual equipment. activities. Major initiatives that the two companies Marketplace Similarly, in Samothrace, the Local authorities supported are presented below. made available the “Cultural Centre” building, which was renovated and fully equipped by The Antikythera Exhibition: “The COSMOTE to accommodate, any educational, cultural, Antikythera Shipwreck: the Ship, the Treasures, the Mechanism” National Archaeological Museum (April 2012– or other activities. August 2014) Employees Moreover, in both locations, COSMOTE organized a series of cultural and educational activities, as well as More than 190,000 visitors and 60,000 students from programs for preventive medicine, aimed at all citizens, Greece and abroad visited the exhibition, thereby thus making reality the vision of both Sonia and Dimitra. increasing overall visits to the National Archaeological Museum by more than 50% for the year 2013. Due to COSMOTE’s “Surfing the world” Program this great success and to the increased public demand, For the 4th consecutive year, COSMOTE supplied the exhibition has been extended till June 2014. Society equipment (monitors, PC units, Wi-Fi routers, web cameras) to schools on isolated islands and remote In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE continued to support mainland regions, and offered students and teachers the exhibition with a range of innovative actions free high-speed wireless Internet access. In 2013, that promote the cultural wealth and technological more than 500 students and tutors, at 18 schools, achievements of the Greek heritage. The companies benefited from this program, through donations of 80 have also enhanced the appreciation of these exhibits, Environment pieces of equipment. In total, from the beginning of through the provision of the following services: the program, COSMOTE has installed wireless Internet at l Exhibition tour guide application through the more than 130 schools with more than 4,000 students use of mobile telephony, for the first time in a and teachers in the remote mountain areas and islands, Greek museum. where fixed internet access has not been available. l Internet corner and wi–fi access is provided free– “Access to the Digital World” Initiative of–charge for all visitors of the museum. OTE Group l E–learning program for teenagers. Thousands of The “Access to the digital world” program has been Subsidiaries children, over the age of 15, are invited to log on to operating at the Municipality of Ilioupolis, under the the Internet and unlock the mysteries and functions auspices of the NGO “50 plus Hellas”, since March of the Mechanism, from the point of view of four 2012. This program offers free learning on the different disciplines / expeditions (archaeologist, basic use of computers and the Internet, aiming at epigraphist, engineer and science historian). diminishing the digital gap of the senior citizens of the Municipality. For the purpose of this program, OTE l Special limited publication dedicated to the Indexes and COSMOTE have supplied the necessary equipment technology of the Antikythera Ship, its Treasures, such as PC units, playstation consoles, smartphones and the Mechanism. and tablets, to the Protection Centre for Senior Society 130 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 l A specially designed education program for hosting events in the arts, including theatre, dance, About this Report schools. OTE and COSMOTE hosted a special music, literature and visual arts, with an emphasis on educational program, which was attended by: contemporary cultural expression, on supporting Greek > more than 20 schools and 1,100 school artists, on cultivating international collaborations and children from the wider Attica region, and on educating children and people of all ages, through life–long learning. > more than 50 students from the two isles of Symi and Kythera (whose forefathers played Summer Evening Concerts– Garden of the Athens Concert Hall CR Strategy and a leading role in salvaging the wreck), who were hosted by OTE and COSMOTE, for an Management OTE, in 2013, was the exclusive sponsor of the summer entire weekend in Athens and at the National evening concerts that took place at the luscious Garden Archeological Museum, to acquaint themselves of the Athens Concert Hall, starting in June, and with with these rare findings. the participation of popular Greek artists. Celebrating this very significant and world–renowned In addition to sponsorship of the Concerts, OTE offered exhibition, the two companies also conducted a series Marketplace its subscribers a 50% discount on the ticket price, for of events and private exhibition tours for groups of any concert they wished to attend. special focus, which included: l representatives (ambassadors and cultural OTE Telecommunications Museum attaches) from 20 foreign embassies, As in previous years, OTE and COSMOTE used the l 350 major corporate clients, OTE Telecommunications Museum to highlight and inform, mainly young groups, on the best use of new Employees l 50 journalists, technologies and to showcase the long history of l 200 OTE Group employees and visiting colleagues telecommunications and their impact. During the from DT, and period September 2012 – August 2013, the Museum l 35 members of the Astronomy and Space received 11,516 visitors. Organization (not–for–profit) of Volos. The Museum offers free of charge educational Europa Nostra 50th Anniversary programs, specialized by group category and age, and Congress and European Heritage Society carries out tours, events and exhibitions, including: Awards Ceremony, Athens 2013 l Guided tour programs: 8,292 people (including OTE and COSMOTE, in 2013, supported the Europa people with special needs, students and Nostra 50th Anniversary Congress and European visitors from organizations etc.) participated in Heritage Awards Ceremony that took place in Athens. these programs. Environment l “Arts Workshop on Telecommunications”, for More than 50 countries participate in Europa Nostra, children aged 5–10: 1,165 children participated in an organization dedicated to the protection of the these workshops. historical and natural monuments of Europe. In Greece, Europa Nostra is represented by the Society l “Experiments on the Telecommunications for the Environment and Cultural Heritage, organized Museum”, for children 10–14: 1,570 children and hosted the Annual Congress in Athens. participated in these workshops OTE Group l “Safer Internet Informative Meetings” for school The Award Ceremony took place in June 2013, at the Subsidiaries groups, teenagers and adults: 317 persons were Odeion of Herodes Atticus, under the Acropolis of Athens, informed at the Museum. under the auspices of the President of the Hellenic Republic, H.E. Karolos Papoulias and was hosted by the l International Museum Day activities: On the occasion President of the Europa Nostra, Maestro Placido Domingo. of the International Museum Day, the OTE Museum organized a 3 day educational program of events, 2013–2014 Events Program of the experiments, art workshops and special tours, Onassis Cultural Centre– Athens Indexes targeted at the whole family. The program, which has been designed as a pilot for similar activities in OTE and COSMOTE provided support to the Onassis the future, attracted an audience of 405 people. Cultural Centre in Athens, a leading cultural space, Society 131 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 l The theatrical play “The Internet Farm”, addressed l Bike parking, which concerns the installation About this Report to students and the public, educated them, in a fun and the operation of the first automated bike way, on safe online navigation, through the stories parking stations. To date, bike parking stations are of the little heroes of the farm. More than 550 available at the municipalities of Vrilissia and N. people attended the play at the Museum. Smyrni, as well as at major commercial centres in l Three mobile exhibitions –the OTE Attica (Maroussi, Glyfada, The Mall Athens, Golden Telecommunications Museum at the Hall Mall and Marina Floisvou). The bike parking “Communication and Technology Neighbourhood” stations operate digitally by sending an SMS –free CR Strategy and of Micropolis Festival (Technopolis –September of charge– to the bike centre call line (19515), thereby locking and/or unlocking the user’s bike. Management 2012), Electro–storm from magnets, sounds, cables and legends (National Hellenic Research Foundation l An automated bike sharing program has been – December 2012) and Telecommunications from implemented by OTE and COSMOTE for the first the Minoan period to the 20th century (Heraklion, time in Greece, in the municipalities of Karditsa, Crete – April 2013)– which were viewed by Ioannina, Kavala and Komotini. For the period of approximately 10,000 people. May to December 2013, more than 1,400 citizens Marketplace Although the majority of the Museum’s visitors are have subscribed to the bike sharing programs school groups, through special events and innovative (about 40,000 bike rentals and over 30,000 hours programs, the number of individual visitors increased of bike rentals). in 2013, by 22%. l In the past two years, more than 40,000 people, of all ages, were educated on the correct use and OTE Telecommunications Museum is a member of the benefits of using a bicycle through special Employees ICOM (International Council of Museums– Hellenic promotional activities, in more than 40 cities all National Committee), CECA (International Committee over Greece. In 2013, approximately 20,000 people for Education and Cultural Action) and CIMUSET participated and benefited from all the educational (International Committee for Museums and Collections activities of the “Podilatodraseis” program. of Science and Technology). l OTE and COSMOTE support organizations that contribute to the promotion of bicycle usage. 5.5.3 They were the title sponsor of Athens Bike Society Promoting Sports Festival for the third consecutive year. The festival OTE and COSMOTE aim to make the bicycle a constitutes the largest event of all, organizations part of citizens’ daily activities in the city centres. and individuals, who are interested in issues Thus, the companies implement (as of 2012) the concerning the bicycle in Greece. “Podilatodraseis” program (bike activities program), Environment which is an innovate program that includes: OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 132 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 5.6 Employee Volunteering Marketplace Corporate volunteerism has been embraced by OTE and COSMOTE employees to demonstrate their social sensitivity and to contribute to their local societies. In total, 4,905 OTE and COSMOTE employees Employees participated in five CR volunteer initiatives, in 2013. Employees Participating in Volunteer Initiatives of OTE and COSMOTE in the last 4 years 2010 2011 2012 2013 3,421 3,603 2,339 4,905 Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Society 133 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The companies invested 670 working hours to of medicines” for people in need, were developed About this Report organize and run volunteer initiatives, which provided jointly by the two companies. support to approximately 28,000 people. In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE volunteering activities were OTE and COSMOTE strive to provide the means, so that aligned and addressed to employees of both companies. the voluntary contributions of their employees are effective and well–targeted, as well as, of maximum OTE and COSMOTE Volunteer Blood assistance to the local society. Donation Program CR Strategy and The OTE and COSMOTE volunteer blood donation In this context, in 2013, OTE and COSMOTE continued program has run continuously since 1976 and has Management to organize the Employee Volunteer Blood Donation been received numerous state honorary recognition program, by conducting the 48th and 49th blood citations. In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE employees donation, also invited their employees to participate in gathered 3,136 units of blood. 1,075 units were the 31st Athens Classic Marathon and to actively join used to cover OTE and COSMOTE employees’ needs and participate in the “Earth Hour”. In addition, two throughout Greece and the remaining 2,061 were used new programs, the “collection of food supplies” for Marketplace to cover the Greek society’s needs. families facing financial problems and the “collection Units of Blood Donations in the last 4 Years by OTE and COSMOTE 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 3,214 3,189 2,845 3,136 12,384 Employees 31st Athens Classic Marathon Collection of Food Supplies OTE and COSMOTE employees participated in the 31st For the first time in 2013, OTE and COSMOTE Athens Classic Marathon. 601 employees, wearing OTE employees gathered food supplies for people and and COSMOTE colours participated voluntarily in all families in need, with the message “…we gather food Marathon races, including power walking and the 5K for people in need – for some people, these are the and 10K runs. For every kilometre each employee ran, ideal Santa Claus sacks,”. More than 5,000 canned and Society OTE and COSMOTE donated an amount to 3 charitable dry supplies items were collected at OTE and COSMOTE institutions: (Κethea–Strofi Family Society, Eleysina premises in four cities (Athens, Thessaloniki, Patra, Love Centre, and Penteli Sanitarium), which amounted and Heraklion). The collected food was distributed to approximately €28,000. at Athens and Thessaloniki in collaboration with the Environment institute “Food Bank” and in Patras and Heraklion in Collection of Medicines collaboration with the “Medecins sans Frontiers”. In the framework of the voluntary initiative entitled “Offering is the best medicine!”, in collaboration with the Medical Association of Athens of the Social Solidarity Clinic of Athens, the Doctors of the World, the Medical Association and the Social Pharmacy at Patra, more than OTE Group 6,000 medicine packages and 2,000 pieces of medical Subsidiaries supplies were gathered by employees of OTE and COSMOTE in Athens, Thessaloniki, Patra and Heraklion. Indexes Society 134 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries 6.0 Environment About this Report CR Strategy and Management 6.1 Management Approach Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE acknowledge that businesses with a leading role need to combine financial growth with environmental awareness in all aspects of their operations. Employees OTE and COSMOTE are fully aware that, though low, there are environmental impacts associated with Information and Communication Technologies activities. At the same time, OTE and COSMOTE are also aware that ICT offer a number of opportunities for supporting sustainable development and production in many activities and sectors. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 136 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The objective of OTE and COSMOTE environmental includes the Environmental Management Systems About this Report strategy is to reduce the environmental impacts (EMS) certified according to ISO 14001:2004 standard from their activities while providing products and at OTE and at COSMOTE. Utilizing the framework of services that enable increases in productivity and the Environmental Management System, OTE and environmental protection in other sectors of economic COSMOTE analyse all activities, products and services activity, and in parallel to raise awareness of fellow with reference to applicable legislative requirements citizens on acting more responsibly on the issue of and their impact on the environment, and try to environmental protection. improve environmental performance by setting goals, CR Strategy and quantifying appropriate key performance indicators To this end, an integrated environmental policy and (KPIs) and taking cost–effective actions. Management management scheme has been formulated that OTE and COSMOTE Environmental Strategy Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE Focus Area Reduce own Environmental Energy EMF Climate Change Biodiversity Footprint Raw Materials & Waste Visual Impact Water Noise Corporate Fleet Communication Issues Employees Customers Suppliers Employees Internal Communication Campaign X Recycling Programmes at OTE X X Raise Stakeholders’ and COSMOTE Retail Stores Environmental Awareness World Environment Day Campaign X X Society WWF’s Earth Hour Campaign X Promotion of Environmental Programmes through X X Sponsorships Supplier Evaluation Methodology X Environment Teleconferences to Business Customers OTE Business Cloud Enabling Role of ICT Products and Services Fleet Management E–applications for Customers OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 137 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.1.1 About this Report Environmental Policy The commitment of OTE and COSMOTE to protect the environment is stated in their integrated Quality, Health and Safety, and Environmental Policy, presented below and is realized through measures and initiatives already implemented, adopted or planned. CR Strategy and OTE Group Quality, Health & Safety and Environmental Policy Management We, at OTE Group, inspired by our VISΙON, MISSION and STRATEGIC PRIORITIES, strive to enhance our successful customer–oriented philosophy, our competitive positioning and the provision of technologically advanced products and services. As a responsible corporate citizen, we aim at delivering value to our stakeholders and believe that quality, health–safety and environment constitute crucial concerns embedded in our company’s culture. In this context, we expect our senior management to act as role models Marketplace Aiming at Business Excellence, we therefore commit ourselves to: l Continually improving our operations and performance by setting, monitoring and reviewing our objectives with the intent to meet and, where possible, to exceed the expectations of our stakeholders, l Acting with foresight and comply with the requirements laid down by applicable legislation, or even exceeding these, where we can, Employees l Require our personnel, and our contractors and suppliers, to actively participate in achieving our objectives, regarding the quality of our operations, occupational health & safety and environmental protection, by implementing all relevant regulations and programs adopted, l Strive to find innovative approaches for our operations, products and services, adopting preventive approaches to reduce our environmental impact & pollution, and avoid potential injury and ill health of our personnel, partners and the general public, l Keep the public, our personnel and our stakeholders informed on quality, environmental and occupational health & safety issues, Society l Voluntarily protect the public through the principles and recommendations laid down in the EMF policy, including transparency, information, participation and promotion of science, l Fully comply with the requirements of our Integrated Management System and continuously improve its effectiveness. Environment Michael Tsamaz Chairman and CEO of OTE Group OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 138 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.1.2 About this Report Environmental Management The management of environmental aspects is customers’ and employees’ feedback / complaints, overseen by the Chairman of the Board of Directors periodic reviews and follow up actions from and CEO. To assist him a high level Steering Committee previous management reviews of the EMS and has been established in the framework of the the improvements deemed necessary to enhance Integrated Management System in place (Quality, its effectiveness. Furthermore, the OTE Group CR Strategy and Health and Safety, and Environment). The Corporate Management Systems Steering Committee may Communications Director, OTE Group has been take decisions concerning companies (subsidiaries) Management appointed as the Environmental Management of the OTE and COSMOTE Group regarding the Officer. The Committee is supported the EMS Team Management Systems’ strategic guidelines. with members of relevant OTE and COSMOTE l The Environmental Management Representative Organizational Units. and the EMS Team members, among others, l The responsibilities of the Committee, with respect identify the environmental aspects of the Marketplace to the EMS, include, among others, the approval activities, products and services of OTE and of the EMS documentation including objectives, COSMOTE; identify the environmental programs; KPIs and targets set as well as the environmental monitor their effectiveness and propose remedial programs to achieve these objectives / targets, actions for improvement; and analyse the EMS audit results, EMS performance results, data needed to determine the environmental performance of OTE and COSMOTE. Employees Environmental Management System Chairman and CEO of OTE Group Management Systems Steering Committee Society • Chief Information Officer OTE Group • Chief Human Resources Officer OTE Group Corporate Communications Director OTE Group • Chief Technology & Operations Officer OTE Group Environmental Management Officer • Chief Financial Officer OTE Group • Corporate Communications Director OTE Group • Representatives of each Management System • Anyone deemed necessary (depending on the Environment Corporate Responsibility Senior Manager, Fixed & issue considered) Mobile Acting Environmental Management Officer Environmental Management Teams of OTE and COSMOTE Environmental Management Manager • Representatives from selected Organisational Units of OTE and COSMOTE OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 139 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 6.1.3 Key Achievements in 2013 Highlights of the environmental performance of OTE and COSMOTE in 2013 include the following: l OTE has passed successfully formal external audits and received an ISO 14001:2004 certification covering all of its activities (October 2013), while COSMOTE passed successfully in 2013 its ISO 14001:2004 audit surveillance. CR Strategy and l An integrated OTE and COSMOTE environmental data collection and reporting scheme was developed in Management 2013, and is expected to become fully operational in 2014. l OTE and COSMOTE participate in the DT group climate change strategy, recently adopted by the DT Board of Management. The decision adopted sets a reduction target for the DT group CO2 emissions of 20% by 2020. Company specific targets (with 2008 as the base year for OTE and 2009 for COSMOTE), taking into account corporate and national circumstances are to be defined. OTE and COSMOTE Group, despite Marketplace the significant network expansion (Network Modernization, New LTE implementation etc.), has set as a first priority target, the transition to a more energy efficient network leading to CO2 emissions reduction. Supporting the adopted target, specific actions are planned and implemented on a year to year basis. l OTE and COSMOTE have in place an integrated strategy for waste management, in line with the DT waste strategy. The strategy calls for the adoption of short term targets for waste disposal to be achieved through waste reduction and efficient management practices. Employees l OTE and COSMOTE participate (through their membership to European and international organizations) in public consultations regarding environment, sustainability, and the role the ICT sector can play in the context of sustainable development. l OTE and COSMOTE have secured from PPC S.A., their electricity provider for 2013, Guarantees of Origin (GOs), assuring that for the total electricity consumption of OTE and COSMOTE, from PPC S.A., an equivalent amount of energy has been produced from Renewable Energy. l The practices of the waste management entities / enterprises that are under contract – per source Society stream – to OTE and COSMOTE are being assessed to make sure they comply fully with the requirements set by legislation. l Environmental protection expenditures for 2013 amounted to €2.2 million and cover waste treatment, management and disposal, environmental impact assessment studies, external certification of environmental management systems and measurements on electromagnetic fields. Environment l Efforts to ensure that OTE and COSMOTE activities are in full compliance with environmental legislation and minimize any associated fines as well as the number of non-monetary sanctions imposed have continued. The fines (related to the environment) imposed in 2013 amounted to €76,000, while no non-monetary sanctions or cases were brought before dispute resolution mechanisms. The aforementioned amount of fines is expected to decrease, due to administrative discounts or other available judicial proceedings. l The decrease of total energy consumption of OTE and COSMOTE in 2013 by 1% compared to 2012. OTE Group l The decrease of direct GHG emissions from energy consumption in 2013 by 4% compared to 2012 Subsidiaries (620 t CO2 eq). l The decrease of indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) in 2013 by 1% compared to 2012 (2,000 t CO2 eq). l An internal recycling program for paper, packaging materials, ink cartridges, small electric and electronic appliances, home batteries and light bulbs in OTE and COSMOTE buildings has been established (since June 2013) in the Central Administration Building and in the new office complex in Paiania. Indexes l A common recycling program (replacing existing ones) for fixed and mobile phones and accessories, ink cartridges and home batteries has been established (since June 2013) in OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail stores. Environment 140 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Priorities in Addressing Environmental Impacts of OTE and COSMOTE Activities About this Report OTE and COSMOTE have established procedures for identifying the environmental aspects of their activities and assessing the associated environmental impact. The assessment takes into account the nature of the activity, the company, society and environmental vulnerability, and the frequency of occurrence and the probability for a given impact to occur in view of applicable legislative requirements and business concerns. Activity Environmental Aspect OTE and COSMOTE Response CR Strategy and Management Hazardous ENVIRONMENT / Hazardous Waste Telecom Infrastructure Waste Management EMF ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Marketplace Technical ENVIRONMENT / Technical Waste Waste Management Support of Telecom Operation Energy ENVIRONMENT / Improving Engergy Consumption Efficiency and Reducing Emissions Refrigerants ENVIRONMENT / Ozone Offices, Shops, Warehouses Office–related ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Waste Waste Management Employees Wastewater ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption Waste ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Vehicles Disposal Waste Management Water ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption Society Colour Code Risk Priority No relevant risk potential, no need for action Minor risk, longterm need for action Medium risk, midterm action needed High risk, immediate action needed Environment Immediate danger – STOP, immediate action needed OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 141 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 6.2 Telecommunications for Marketplace the Environment Employees Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) have played and will continue to play a significant role in global economic growth both for developed and developing economies. The fact that the increased use of ICT products has addition, European Commission presented in January undoubtedly an environmental impact is widely 2014 a new climate–energy policy framework which acknowledged, yet it is also widely acknowledged proposes an intra–EU target of 40% reduction of GHG Society that ICT products can enable a better environmental emissions by 2030, compared to 1990 levels. performance in all sectors of economy that would allow for a decoupling of emissions growth from OTE and COSMOTE are fully aware of the ICT enabling economic growth. The Smarter 2020 study by Global role in environmental protection and economic growth e–Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), estimated that: and its contribution in achieving the necessary GHG emissions reduction but also of the opportunities it l The own footprint of the ICT sector is projected to offers for the development of companies. In this, OTE Environment rise to 1.27 Gt CO2 eq by 2020; and COSMOTE are providing products and services l The abatement potential enabled through the that enable their customers to take full advantage use of ICT applications in different sectors of the of the high quality broadband services for direct and economy is 7 times higher (9.1 Gt CO2 eq); indirect improvement of both their operations and environmental performance. These products and l The exploitation of this potential could yield $1.9 activities cover a broad range of applications such as: trillion in savings for consumers and businesses; De-materialization that is substituting or OTE Group l l 29.5 million jobs would be created worldwide as eliminating the need for an emissions–intensive Subsidiaries a result. product, process, etc. Realizing this potential, enabled by ICT products and l Data collection and communication, that allow for services, becomes imperative. As the goal of keeping better decision–making through real–time data global temperature increase below 2°C compared to analysis, communication, feedback, and learning. pre–industrial levels, requires all countries to make l System integration that enables better use an additional effort, cuts of 80–95% by 2050 by Indexes of resources. developed countries have been agreed. The European Union (EU) has set as its target the reduction of GHG More related information is presented in MARKETPLACE emissions by 20% in 2020, with a view to move to / Sustainable Products and Services section. 30% decrease, as part of an agreed global effort. In Environment 142 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 6.3 CR Strategy and Management Managing Energy Use and Addressing Climate Change Marketplace The contribution of OTE and COSMOTE in mitigating the environmental problems associated with energy use (climate change, scarcity of energy sources, atmospheric pollution, etc.) consists Employees of adopting practices to monitor and then reduce energy consumption and the associated emissions, and of developing products and services that contribute to such reductions in various sectors of the economy. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 143 OTEOTE and/ COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.1 Greenhouse Gases and Other About this Report Gas Emissions OTE and COSMOTE recognize the importance of More information on climate change related risks Climate Change impacts. The associated risk for OTE identified can be found in the latest (2013) response and COSMOTE fall under three broad categories: of OTE to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Regulatory Risks CR Strategy and l OTE and COSMOTE implement a comprehensive Mainly related to changes (increase) of electricity program for inventorying greenhouse gases (GHG) and Management prices (and the subsequent increase of the other gas emissions on the basis of the principles and operational cost of OTE and COSMOTE) due to the methods described in the GHG Protocol developed fees / levies / burdens imposed to the electricity by the World Business Council for Sustainable generation sector in the context of the EU Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources emissions trading scheme. Institute (WRI). Physical Risks Marketplace 6.3.1.1 l Changes in the temperature (increased temperature) would result in additional cooling Direct GHG and Non–GHG Emissions needs and therefore increased electricity In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE total direct GHG emissions consumption, while extreme weather events from energy consumption (scope 1) were estimated (e.g. floods) and forest fires could affect the at 16,403 t CO2 eq. This corresponds to a decrease infrastructure of OTE and COSMOTE and may lead of about 4% compared to 2012. GHG emissions from Employees to network disruption. their electricity generators exhibit a larger decrease l Reputation Risks of about 16% compared to 2012, while emissions Financial implications are related to a potential from heating fuel decreased by 8%. As a result of loss of market share as a result of consumers’ the increased transportation activity for network behaviour reaction against companies with and market development, emissions from road inadequate policies as regards climate change. transportation increased by 5%. Society Direct GHG Emissions from Energy for OTE and COSMOTE 2008–2013 OTE COSMOTE GHG Emissions (in t CO2 eq) Environment 8,723 7,464 7,043 6,833 6,815 6,445 OTE Group Subsidiaries 15,481 15,010 12,827 12,161 10,210 9,959 Indexes 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment 144 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 COSMOTE Direct GHG Emissions 2013 About this Report Vehicles CR Strategy and 31% Management Network Buildings 65% 4% Marketplace OTE Direct GHG Emissions 2013 Employees Buildings 26% Vehicles Network 70% Society 4% Environment Note: (1) “Buildings” include fuel consumption for space heating and small quantities of diesel used for electricity generators. (2) The CO2 emission factors applied have been agreed within the DT group to facilitate harmonized reporting, and derive from the GHG protocol. (3) The non–CO2 (CH4 and N2O) emission factors derive from Tier 1 methods described in the 2006 IPCC guidelines. (4) As of 2013, energy consumption in buildings (space heating, office electric / electronic appliances, etc.) where joint occupancy of OTE and COSMOTE occurs, is allocated (after subtracting consumption items directly related to either company) between the two companies on the basis of their staff share at that location. This applies to the Central Administration building and the new office complex in Paiania. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 145 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 With respect to other air emissions (non–GHG) the > HAP emissions for OTE and COSMOTE are About this Report following are noted: related to lead emissions from the vehicles l Emissions of typical air pollutants (NOx, SO2, PM10 running on unleaded and leaded gasoline (the and VOCs) are mainly related to road transportation latter only for OTE). Lead emissions decreased (main source for OTE) and the use of electricity from 22.4 kg in 2008 to 10.5 kg in 2013 as a generators to support the operation of the telecom result of the gradual renewal of the vehicle network (main source for COSMOTE). stock and the reduced use of vehicles running on leaded gasoline. CR Strategy and l Emissions of Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) and Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) are of minor Management importance for OTE and COSMOTE as: > Transformers and capacitors which could have been a significant source of PCB (Polychlorinated biphenyls) emissions due to leakage, have been decommissioned and Marketplace / or disposed of, following the provisions of Directive 96/59/EC. Other Gas Emissions for OTE and COSMOTE in 2013 Employees OTE COSMOTE 1.847 932 Society 1.701 3.621 1.336 199 2.644 2.278 Environment NOX S02 PM10 VOC (*10kg) (kg) (kg) (*10kg) Note: OTE Group Subsidiaries (1) SO2 emission factors for oil products derive from national legislation (2) The emission factors for NOx, PM10 and VOC derive from the EMEP / EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook http://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/ emep-eea-emission-inventory-guidebook-2009 Indexes Environment 146 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.1.2 Indirect GHG Emissions About this Report OTE and COSMOTE indirect GHG emissions from Energy 2 GHG emissions depend on changes in electricity (scope 2 emissions due to electricity consumption and consumption but also reflect changes of the fuel mix district heating) for 2013 were estimated at 295,078 used for electricity generation in Greece. t CO2 eq (OTE: 182,146 t CO2 eq; COSMOTE: 112,932 t CO2 eq), presenting a decrease of 0.7% compared to 2012. The majority of OTE and COSMOTE scope CR Strategy and 2 GHG emissions are attributed to the operation of Management the fixed and mobile telecom network (about 88% of total emissions). To cover scope 2 emissions due to electricity consumption, OTE and COSMOTE have secured Guarantees of renewable Origin (GOs) which when taken into account reduce the effective scope 2 GHG emissions to about 60,200 t CO2 eq. Marketplace In total, if GOs are not taken into account, OTE and COSMOTE scope 2 emissions decreased by 1.6% from 2008 (OTE: –4.4%; COSMOTE: 3.3%). Changes in scope Indirect GHG Emissions from Energy (Scope 2) for OTE and COSMOTE without GOs Secured Fixed Telecom Base Stations Backbone Mobile Network OTE Buildings COSMOTE Buildings Employees GHG Emissions (kt CO2 eq) 11.9 Society 21.5 12.3 12.4 8.3 23.5 14.3 13.6 21.0 16.3 22.3 16.3 14.9 22.3 25.3 17.3 16.1 16.5 83.7 96.3 88.1 85.1 82.9 82.8 Environment 169.5 179.2 172.8 172.2 161.6 156.8 OTE Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Subsidiaries Note: (1) The term “Buildings” describes Offices including Data Centres, Warehouses and Stores. (2) For consistency reasons among the DT Group companies, CO2 emissions are estimated on the basis of the emission factors developed by the International Energy Agency. (3) The non–CO2 (i.e. CH4 and N2O) emission factors for electricity refer to 2012 and are also applied for 2013. These factors derive from the latest Greek National Indexes GHG emissions inventory submitted to the European Commission (March 2013) and EUROSTAT data on gross electricity generation. (4) As of 2013, energy consumption in buildings (space heating, office electric / electronic appliances, etc.) where joint occupancy of OTE and COSMOTE occurs, is allocated (after subtracting consumption items directly related to either company) between the two companies on the basis of their staff share at that location. This applies to the Central Administration building and the new office complex in Paiania. Environment 147 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.1.3 6.3.2 Other Indirect GHG Emissions About this Report Improving Energy Efficiency OTE and COSMOTE is striving to extend the scope of their and Reducing Emissions emissions inventory so as to include estimates for the major sources of indirect (scope 3) emissions associated 6.3.2.1 with their operation, and get a better understanding Energy Consumption of their overall emissions profile. At the moment, the Energy consumption covers operating needs of emission sources quantified are the following: telecommunication infrastructure (fixed and mobile), CR Strategy and l Business Air Travels buildings and vehicles (service and company). In Management For 2013, GHG emissions (1,575 t CO2) and 2013, total energy consumption of OTE and COSMOTE distance travelled (4,400*103 km) remained almost amounted to 473 GWh, presenting a decrease of 1% constant, compared to 2012 values. The utilization compared to 2012 (477 GWh in 2012). In terms of of teleconference infrastructure developed, to primary energy source used, this energy consumption is cover internal operational needs has contributed to equivalent to 64 GWh of direct energy consumption (or 231 TJ, all of which came from non–renewable primary Marketplace the declining trend recorded since 2009. sources) and 949 GWh of indirect (by allocating to OTE l Solid Waste Disposal and COSMOTE the energy consumption needed for the Treatment and disposal of municipal, industrial production of the electricity and the district heating and other solid waste is not only related to land consumed) energy consumption. The later is reduced availability but also produces significant amounts to 518 GWh if GOs are taken into account. of methane (CH4) due to the gradual decay of the degradable organic component of the waste Employees disposed. CH4 emissions from OTE and COSMOTE waste landfilled were estimated at 1,332 t CO2 eq. OTE and COSMOTE Energy Consumption In 2013 Energy Comsumption (in GWh) Society Environment 35.7 17.1 11.9 53.6 137.5 216.9 OTE Group Subsidiaries Road Electricity Space Electricity Electricity Electricity Transportation Generators Heating in Buildings for Mobile for Fixed Network Network Indexes Environment 148 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Direct Energy Consumption by Primary Source in 2013 About this Report Gasoline CR Strategy and 41% Diesel Management 55% Natural Gas Marketplace 4% Indirect Energy Consumption by Primary Source in 2013 Employees Diesel 2% Heavy Fuel Oil Lignite 7% 66% Society Natural Gas 18% Environment RES 7% Note: (1) Energy consumption is based on actual consumption data for the period up to September – November 2013, which are extrapolated to the end of the year due to data provision arrangements within the DT group. (2) Indirect energy consumption by primary source is estimated on the basis of 2012 values. OTE Group (3) Road transportation includes service and company vehicles. Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 149 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.2.1.1 About this Report Renewable Energy Sources Reduction of electricity consumption growth rate supported by PV systems and 4 base stations and its eventual transformation to a reduction of the were supported by wind turbine systems. electricity consumption to the extent that is technically > COSMOTE has installed Batteries Hybrid and economically feasible, as well as covering systems in order to support base stations electricity demand directly or indirectly by Renewable located in remote rural areas not connected to Energy Sources (RES) represent the key priorities of the grid and operating with diesel generators. CR Strategy and OTE and COSMOTE. In this context, OTE and COSMOTE: In 2013, 26 base stations were supported by Management l Have secured from PPC S.A., their electricity Batteries Hybrid systems. provider for 2013, Guarantees of Origin (GOs), > A program aiming at increasing the use of RES assuring that for the total electricity consumption at OTE installations is in progress since 2010. of OTE and COSMOTE, from PPC S.A., an equivalent In the context of the program, two roof–top amount of energy has been produced from PV systems of 223 kWp total capacity (173 Renewable Energy. kWp at the facilities of the central warehouse Marketplace l Are systematically investing in increasing their in Parnitha and 50 kWp at an OTE building RES capacity. in Ilioupoli, Athens) are in operation since February 2013. Electricity generation from > COSMOTE has installed PV and small wind these PV systems amounted to 336 MWh in turbine systems in order to support base 2013 (equivalent to avoiding CO2 emissions of stations located in remote rural areas not about 250 t). connected to the grid and operating with diesel Employees generators. In 2013, 16 base stations were Electricity Generation of the OTE Roof–Top PV Systems in 2013 Parnitha (173 kWp) Ilioupoli (50 kWp) Electricity Generation (in kWh) Society 40,000 30,000 20,000 Environment OTE Group 10,000 Subsidiaries March April May June July August September October November December Indexes Environment 150 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.2.1.2 About this Report OTE Energy Consumption In 2013, total energy consumption of OTE amounted due to the increased transportation activity for to 292 GWh, representing a decrease of 1% compared network and market development. As a result of to 2012 (295 GWh). In particular: initiatives in place, the energy performance of l The declining trend of energy consumption service vehicles (energy consumption per distance for space heating (heating diesel, natural gas driven) improved by 8% compared to 2012 (i.e. and district heating) continued in 2013. Energy overachieving the relevant target set). CR Strategy and consumption for space heating decreased by l Diesel oil consumption for stationary IC engines Management 10% compared to 2012 as a result of space decreased by 33% compared to 2012 levels, as consolidation and the favourable weather power disruptions were lower compared to 2012. conditions that prevailed in 2013. The introduction l Electricity consumption for network operations of natural gas (November 2013) in two OTE (217 GWh in 2013) makes up the largest part of buildings in Attica (Central Administration Building the total energy consumption of OTE. The total and YMA–NYMA building) is expected to contribute Marketplace electricity consumption of OTE decreased by 1.2% further to this declining trend. compared to 2012, and reached a value less than l Road transportation represents the largest the 2008 electricity consumption. As a result, the (non–electricity) fuel consuming activity of electricity intensity of data transferred including OTE. Fuel consumption for the OTE vehicle fleet collocation (i.e. electricity divided by data volume (28 GWh) increased by 9% compared to 2012, in bits) was reduced by 9% compared to 2012. OTE Energy Consumption 2008 – 2013 Employees Electricity for Fixed Network Electricity in Buildings Fuels for Space Heating & District Heating Electricity Generators Road Transportation Energy Consumption (in GWh) 24.3 28.4 Society 29.6 28.0 10.9 9.6 3.5 3.5 23.3 19.2 16.1 15.4 25.4 27.7 2.3 1.5 28.6 31.8 30.6 12.1 10.8 28.9 30.8 34.9 Environment OTE Group 232.8 238.1 235.4 237.4 224.0 216.9 Subsidiaries 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Note: (1) As of 2013, energy consumption in buildings (space heating, office electric / electronic appliances, etc.) where joint occupancy of OTE and COSMOTE occurs, is allocated (after subtracting consumption items directly related to either company) between the two companies on the basis of their staff share at that location. Indexes This applies to the Central Administration building and the new office complex in Paiania. (2) Data for diesel fuel consumption of stationary engines refer to planned tenders for supplies for 2008 – 2009 and actual consumption after 2010. Environment 151 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.2.1.3 About this Report COSMOTE Energy Consumption In 2013, total energy consumption of COSMOTE l Energy consumption for road transportation amounted to 181 GWh, representing a decrease of 1% increased by 12% compared to 2012, in order to compared to 2012 (183 GWh). cover increased needs for network and market l The energy consumption of the network operation development. In total, the energy performance of (base stations and backbone network) and of COSMOTE vehicles’ fleet improved by about 11%. electricity generators (used as the main electricity CR Strategy and supply in isolated areas where grid connection is Management difficult or impossible and / or as back–up units in cases power disruptions), which are the main energy consuming activities for COSMOTE, remained close to 2012 levels. Monitoring and control of these key activities and the subsequent implementation of targeted measures have contributed to avoiding Marketplace an increase. l Electricity consumption in buildings decreased by about 5% compared to 2012 (from 20 GWh in 2012 to 19 GWh in 2013), while energy consumption for space heating (contributing to less than 1% to total energy consumption) increased from 0.6 GWh Employees in 2012 to 1.0 GWh in 2013. COSMOTE Energy Consumption 2008 – 2013 Electricity for Backbone Mobile Network Electricity in Base Stations Electricity in Buildings Fuels for Space Heating Electricity Generators Road Transportation Energy Consumption (in GWh) Society 6.7 7.2 7.1 6.8 6.7 8.0 22.5 19.1 18.0 22.6 18.0 15.6 15.8 Environment 16.8 17.1 19.8 18.7 11.4 OTE Group 115.0 128.0 120.0 117.4 114.9 114.6 Subsidiaries 23.8 21.6 22.2 20.5 22.3 22.9 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indexes Note: As of 2013, energy consumption in buildings (space heating, office electric / electronic appliances, etc.) where joint occupancy of OTE and COSMOTE occurs, is allocated (after subtracting consumption items directly related to either company) between the two companies on the basis of their staff share at that location. This applies to the Central Administration building and the new office complex in Paiania. Environment 152 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.2.2 Energy Conservation About this Report Energy conservation and rational use of energy As a result of the measures implemented by OTE and represent key options for economically feasible COSMOTE in 2013, electricity conservation reached improvement of the environmental performance of 15.9 GWh; diesel oil conservation (for electricity OTE and COSMOTE. Interventions can be grouped in generators and space heating) amounted to 4.1 GWh, to the following three broad categories: while energy conservation in road transportation reached 4.0 GWh. The avoided GHG emissions CR Strategy and l Energy conservation in Telecom Networks. associated with the energy conservation achieved is Energy conservation in Buildings and Stores. Management l estimated at 13,800 t CO2 eq (about 4% of scope 1 l Energy conservation in Transport. and 2 GHG emissions of OTE and COSMOTE in 2013). The overall economic effect (benefit) of the measures which are further analysed below. implemented on the operational cost of OTE and The effect of measures designed and implemented is COSMOTE is estimated at €3.4 million. evident (given that services provided did not decrease Marketplace Indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) avoided are in 2013 compared to 2012) in the performance of OTE estimated at 4,200 t CO2 eq. This reduction was and COSMOTE, as: estimated taking into account paper recycling, l Direct GHG emissions from energy consumption reduction of paper use and teleconferences for the (scope 1) in 2013 decreased by 649 t CO2 eq operational needs of OTE and COSMOTE. compared to 2012 (a reduction of 3.7% compared to 2012 scope 1 emissions). Flagship Initiative Employees l Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) in 2013 2013 is the first year of full occupancy for the new decreased by about 2,000 t CO2 eq compared to office complex in Paiania. Energy performance 2012 (a reduction of 0.7% compared to 2012 results were more than encouraging as total energy scope 2 emissions). Given the developments in consumption decreased by 25% compared to 2012, the ICT sector (4G mobile network, VDSL lines, TV when five buildings were in use instead. services, etc) this result is quite significant. Society Energy Conservation Results and GHG Emissions Avoided in 2013 OTE COSMOTE Environment 11,501 t CO2 eq 4,131 Mwh 3,998 Mwh OTE Group Subsidiaries 7,108 MWh 1,227 t CO2 eq 8,800 MWh 1,070 t CO2 eq Electricity Space Heating Generators Indexes & Transport Environment 153 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.2.2.1 About this Report Energy Conservation in the Telecom Network Activity growth in the ICT sector is expected to further energy consumption through the increase of increase the associated electricity consumption as internal temperature of Base Station (set point new base stations and additional telecom equipment from 26oC to 30oC). The total number of systems are installed. Therefore, reduction of energy installed at the end of 2013 was 177. consumption in the telecom network is a challenging l The transformation of the fixed network to goal, for any telecommunications company. VDSL and the removal of PSTN ports and the CR Strategy and deactivation of associated equipment including Monitoring the energy consumption of each site in AC units is ongoing. Although the switch to VDSL Management a telecom network is also very challenging (large will increase electricity consumption, a positive number of sites with wide geographical dispersion). In net benefit is expected. The switch to full VDSL 2013 COSMOTE has started the installation of smart program is expected to be completed by 2020. metering systems in complex base station sites with large energy consumption. Approximately 500 systems l OTE and COSMOTE have started a consolidation will be installed by the end of 2014. (geographical and spatial) of the hardware Marketplace necessary for network management together with In order to reduce, to the extent feasible (both in a re–sizing of the data centres’ capacity leading to technical and economic terms), the electricity intensity a reduction of air–conditioned space. of OTE and COSMOTE activities the following set of measures is currently implemented and / or adopted: With a view to reduce energy consumption of electricity generators that represent a significant l COSMOTE continues the installation of free cooling component in the operation of telecom network Employees systems, adding in 2013, 8 air–conditioning (mobile and fixed): units with free cooling option, which brings their total number to 1,590. In addition COSMOTE has l COSMOTE is applying a maintenance program for installed direct free cooling systems (separate 707 generators (for both 24–hour and emergency systems with fans) mainly in base stations with operation), aiming to ensure their proper operation. air–conditioning units without free cooling option. Improved performance of conventional generators The total number of such systems installed in the and the operation of PV systems resulted in an last three years was 224. energy conservation of about 4,000 MWh. l OTE and COSMOTE continue the replacement of old l OTE is implementing a program for the replacement Society rectifier units and in 2013 replaced 197 (of various of electricity generators with new “clean” technology nominal power from 30A to 3600A) and 253 units ones that achieve reduced carbon monoxide and respectively. On average, efficiency improved from dioxide, and micro particles emissions and less noise. 75% to 93%. The program, launched in 2007, has resulted in the replacement of 91 generation sets and will continue Environment l COSMOTE is implementing a program for the until all of the remaining generating sets are replaced installation of indoor Power Supply Units (PSU) with newer units. with A/C direct to battery cabinet, aiming to reduce OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 154 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.2.2.2 About this Report Energy Conservation in Buildings and Stores Energy consumption in buildings represent about l Upgrades were implemented for both OTE and 15% of total energy consumption of OTE and COSMOTE. COSMOTE buildings. Efficient space utilization represents a high priority l Remodelling of the OTE retail stores is in progress. (especially for OTE that makes use of about 2000 buildings all over Greece), as most of the energy uses l In 2013 OTE replaced 4 existing central heating (lighting, cooling and space heating) in a building depend and air–conditioning installations with new CR Strategy and on the space occupied. In 2013, the building area used split or VRV systems (with non ozone depleting by OTE was reduced by about 6% compared to 2012. refrigerant), that achieve a large reduction of Management energy consumption and operational expenses (oil Specific energy conservation measures / programs and water expenses). implemented and / or adopted in 2013 include: l Installation of a Building Management System l As of November 2013, the Central Administration (BMS) in the network operation OTE building was Building of OTE and the YMA–NYMA building were completed in 2013. Marketplace connected to the natural gas distribution network. They are the first OTE buildings connected to It should be noted that given the large number and the natural gas network in Attica. As these are geographic dispersion of buildings currently utilized among the largest OTE buildings and consume by OTE and COSMOTE, full implementation of some commensurate amounts of energy for space measures may be delayed. heating notable reductions in fuel consumption are expected. Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 155 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The New Office Complex in Paiania About this Report Within the context of the integration of OTE and COSMOTE operations, over 1500 employees were relocated to a new facility at Paiania in the greater Athens area. The building became operational in the second semester of 2012. 2013 is the first year of full occupancy. CR Strategy and Management Marketplace One of the key concerns was to make sure that the facility would meet the highest environmental Employees sustainability standards. To assure this, OTE and COSMOTE has been involved from the start in the design of building setting high requirements and ambitious specifications. The primary concerns of the design were flexibility, adaptability to climatic conditions, and the creation of a ‘’building intelligence’’ through automation and control of all natural and technical means to manage the microclimate and reduce energy and water Society consumption, aiming at the best possible environmental performance. l The building has been awarded a Class “A” energy efficiency status according to the Greek Building Energy Accreditation Scheme (while legislative requirement for new buildings is Class “B”). l It is the first building in Greece that has been awarded LEED® (Leadership Environment in Energy and Environmental Design) certification at gold level. 2013 results were more than encouraging as total energy consumption was about 4.5 GWh, representing a decrease of about 25% compared to 2012, when COSMOTE was using five buildings of a total office surface of almost 23,500 m2 (compared to the 29,000 m2 of the new building) to house the same activity. A more reliable assessment, regarding energy and environmental benefits, would be possible after a period of at least two years in use, to both collect more data and optimize its operation. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 156 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.3.2.2.3 About this Report Energy Conservation in Transport The maintenance / development of the replacement of aged gasoline vehicles by more telecommunication network, the distribution of efficient diesel ones, increased by about 7%. products to all of OTE and COSMOTE sales points and the widespread customer service are the main drivers l OTE transportation needs reduction through the for a high transportation activity demand on the operation of HELP–DESK and Call Centres aiming OTE and COSMOTE vehicles fleet (both service and at fault correction through telephone directions. CR Strategy and company vehicles). At national level, about 33% of calls for fault correction (ADSL, fixed telephony and Land Loop Management l OTE operates a service fleet of 2,231 vehicles Unbundling connections) were resolved by phone, (unleaded gasoline: 1,613; leaded gasoline: 4; resulting in a reduction of transportation activity diesel: 614) and likewise COSMOTE a fleet of 256 corresponding to 17% of total 2013 service vehicles (unleaded gasoline: 184; diesel: 72). transportation activity and in avoided emissions of l OTE and COSMOTE operate a company fleet of 452 about 1,000 t CO2 eq. Marketplace vehicle (OTE: 311 of which 3 are diesel powered; l Business travel represents a significant transportation COSMOTE: 141 of which 14 are diesel powered). activity for OTE and COSMOTE. With a view to reduce Company vehicles are, mainly, leased vehicles. the relevant activity and the associated emissions, Measures in place for the reduction of the OTE teleconference facilities are utilized to the environmental impacts associated with transportation extent possible. The service is available at 110 aim at the improvement of the efficiency of the fleet as points at national level. In 2013 there were 1,600 audio–conferences and about 15,000 sessions of Employees well as at the reduction of direct (network maintenance, fault correction, etc.) and / or indirect (e.g. business video–conferences (totalling about 8,200 hours), travels) transportation needs. They include: resulting in the avoidance of GHG emissions corresponding to 14% of the GHG emissions from l Renewal of the ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE service the OTE and COSMOTE vehicles fleet in 2013. vehicle fleet is in progress. In 2013, the share of new technology diesel vehicles i.e. through the Society OTE and COSMOTE Vehicles Fleet OTE COSMOTE Diesel Fuel Economy Gasoline Fuel Economy Distance (in million km) Environment 50 Fuel Economy (It/100 km) 20 40 16 10.0 5.6 7.5 7.1 30 7.9 OTE Group 12 5.5 20 Subsidiaries 8 10 28.7 4 22.5 27.1 28.0 24.9 28.7 Indexes 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment 157 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 6.4 CR Strategy and Management Resource Use and Waste Management Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE recognize the scarcity of natural resources and considers a more efficient use of these resources a priority for sustainable development. In order to achieve this, the principle Employees “Reduce – Reuse – Recycle” is followed, aiming to reduce the production of solid waste that inevitably emanate from any corporate activity. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 158 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 In this context, the key principles of OTE and COSMOTE l Special treatment of waste that contaminate the About this Report policy regarding resource use and waste environment (e.g. electronic equipment, lead management are: batteries, and materials that contain substances l Monitoring of materials used and waste generated. detrimental to the environment). l Reduced use of materials whose production has an l Enhancement of public awareness to increase impact on the environment. participation in recycling practices. l Recycling of used material (e.g. paper). It should be noted that since OTE and COSMOTE are CR Strategy and l Reuse of materials either internally or not actually manufacturing any products but provide Management through collaboration with authorized waste telecommunications services, use of materials is management entities. restricted to packaging (for the products placed in the market). Monitor Material Used Marketplace Reduce Materials Used + Recycle Materials Reuse Materials + = Proper Material Disposal Reduce Environmental Footprint Employees Total solid waste generated in 2013 amounted companies, represents the major management to 6,394 t. The significant increase of the waste practice employed by OTE and COSMOTE. Existing generated (almost doubled compared to 2012) recycling programs cover the whole of hazardous is attributed to the removal / replacement of and technical waste and about 64% of office paper underground copper cables in the context of upgrading consumption. Solid waste disposed accounts for about fixed–line telecommunications network. Recycling, 23% of the total waste generated. Society through authorized (for waste management) Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 159 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Flagship initiatives: About this Report l Joint take-back program of OTE and COSMOTE: l The new recycling program in buildings: A common recycling program (replacing existing Internal recycling program focusing on recycling ones) for fixed and mobile phones and accessories, packaging materials and paper in buildings, ink cartridges and home batteries established in currently implemented in the Central Administration OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail stores. Building and in the new office complex in Paiania. OTE and COSMOTE Solid Waste Generation 2008 – 2013 CR Strategy and Technical Hazardous Non Technical Hazardous Technical (Non Hazardous) Management Paper Residual Other Quantities (in t) Marketplace 74 817 1,051 4 1,238 1,107 10 Employees 1,159 113 917 674 1,240 1,399 4,112 1,439 1,016 851 1,488 1,478 1,157 1,258 1,395 31 23 Society 21 25 651 662 5 37 95 340 484 335 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 160 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 OTE Solid Waste Generated in 2013 About this Report (5,835 t) Paper 14.5% Residual Other 10.9% 1.3% CR Strategy and Technical Hazardous 4.5% Management Non Technical Hazardous 0.1% Technical (Non Hazardous) 68.7% Marketplace COSMOTE Solid Waste Generated in 2013 (559 t) Employees Technical (Non Paper Hazardous) 37.0% Non Technical Hazardous 18.4% Society 0.1% Technical Hazardous 12.3% Residual 32.2% Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 161 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.4.1 About this Report Hazardous Waste Management 6.4.1.1 Lead Batteries In order to continuously provide telecommunication In 2013, 335 t of lead batteries, that is 100% of services to customers, lead batteries are utilized in all batteries withdrawn from service, were collected COSMOTE Base Stations and telecom installations, and and forwarded with zero spills to licensed facilities CR Strategy and in OTE telecommunication centres, which are put to for recycling. Management use when problems with grid electricity supply occur. Recycling of Lead Batteries from Base Stations and Fixed Telecom Centres Marketplace OTE COSMOTE Quantities (in t) 227.1 Employees 208.9 275.6 69.1 179.0 469.0 96.4 Society 93.5 243.9 434.8 265.6 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment Note: (1) Data for OTE are not available for 2008. (2) OTE and COSMOTE are in the process of signing a new, common contractual agreement with an authorized recycling entity. As a result, quantities of waste are temporarily stored in storage facilities. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 162 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.4.1.2 6.4.1.3 Lubricant Oils Other Hazardous Waste About this Report The use of lubricant oils is associated with the This category includes waste streams that do not operation of the electricity generators (in base appear on a regular basis (e.g. material and products stations and telecommunication centres) as well that do not meet specifications) but also office related as with the maintenance of fleet vehicles (waste waste such as light bulbs. lubricant oils from vehicles are usually collected and managed by the associated car service companies). OTE and COSMOTE initiated, in 2010, a recycling CR Strategy and For the management of waste lubricant oils: program for light bulbs in buildings. The total amount gathered reached 0.75 t for OTE and 0.42 t Management l COSMOTE has installed special collection buckets for COSMOTE. in all BTS with 24–hour use or backup operating generators, to collect used oil lubricants and maintenance waste. 6.4.2 l Oil-lubricants at COSMOTE installations are collected Technical Waste Management Marketplace annually for 24 hour operating generators and every Technical waste includes: material and equipment two years for back up generators. used for the provision of telecommunication services and products (e.g. cables, metals, electronic and l OTE and COSMOTE co–operate with licensed telecommunication equipment); IT equipment for companies, for the collection and appropriate office operation; used products (e.g. phones and disposal of the full amount of used related accessories, portable batteries, etc.) collected lubricants replaced. at OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network as Employees In 2013, 4.2 t of lubricant oils have been collected with well as obsolete merchandise. 6.4.2.1 zero spills and forwarded for recycling. It should be Metals and Cables noted that as the process of signing a new, common (for OTE and COSMOTE) contractual agreement with an authorized recycling entity is in progress, quantities With a view to ensuring the responsible disposal of of used lubricant oil are temporarily stored in the used metals and cables (and their potential reuse), OTE special collection buckets. has in place a program for the alternative management Society of the quantities withdrawn. In 2013, an amount It should also be noted that the amount of lubricant of 3,942 t of metals and cables was forwarded to oils purchased and replaced, do not necessarily match authorized management entities. It should be noted in a calendar year. that the quantities forwarded vary with the lifetime and replacement schedules of the associated equipment. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 163 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 OTE Program For Recycling Of Metals And Cables About this Report Category description 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Iron and Steel (in kg) 224,110 305,190 368,039 128,933 126,005 57,345 Copper, Bronze, Brass (in kg) 875 342 176 6,960 0 0 Aluminum (in kg) 12,708 11,740 10,751 1,566 13,775 1,420 CR Strategy and Lead (in kg) 1,582 1,784 937 2,823 0 0 Management Mixed Metals (in kg) 30,408 29,678 103,488 132,326 85,040 18,765 Cables (in kg) 931,323 880,393 774,055 681,687 884,810 3,865,085 Note: (1) The 2013 value for cables includes 2,160 kg of optical fiber cables. (2) OTE is in the process of signing a new, common contractual agreement with an authorized recycling entity. As a result, some small quantities of waste are temporarily stored in storage facilities. Marketplace (3) The high amount of cables replaced in 2013 is related to the upgrading of the fixed–line telecommunications network and the decommissioning of underground copper cables. 6.4.2.2 Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Employees Electrical and electronic equipment deemed that the quantities forwarded vary with the lifetime and inadequate or outdated is forwarded to authorized replacement schedules of the particular equipment. companies for further processing (dismantling, recycling and disposal, according to the nature of the In addition to the above–mentioned quantities, material). In 2013, 100% of the OTE and COSMOTE 4.7 t of obsolete merchandise returned from OTE retail electrical and electronic equipment withdrawn from network were forwarded for recycling through the service (97 t of waste that includes telecommunication central OTE Warehouse. and IT equipment) were recycled. It should be noted Society Recycling of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment OTE COSMOTE Quantites (in t) Environment 105 104 84 69 66 OTE Group Subsidiaries 52 42 45 32 24 18 18 Indexes 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment 164 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.4.3 About this Report Paper Waste Management Efforts to reduce the amount of paper used in offices > 1.4 million applications by telecommunication and stores are ongoing in OTE and COSMOTE for a Operators were submitted to and handled number of years. They include: by OTE electronically resulting in an avoided l Application of electronic paper management tools paper consumption of 7 t; Another 24.6 t of for intra OTE and COSMOTE operations (e.g. human paper consumption were avoided through the CR Strategy and resources issues, e–learning, job applications, implementation of the program “Work Force Management (WFM)” concerning Technical Field Management employees’ payment procedures etc.) as well as for services provided to customers, namely: Operations, the scope of which was expanded in 2013 to include all of OTE technical filed teams. > Electronic billing and electronic payment services for OTE customers. The number of OTE > Use of customers’ electronic signature at customers that choose to make use of these COSMOTE shops and GERMANOS retail network (for contract renewals, address changes, Marketplace services is continuously increasing since 2009, when the services were first made available, deactivations etc.), where available. with 38,500 registered users and about > COSMOTE offers pre–paid customers the option 70,000 electronic payments (registered and to renew their air time by using e–voucher, unregistered users are included) in 2013. At the which results in saving 78.66 t of paper. end of 2013, OTE announced that subscribers l The two–side printing is set as the default option, making use of the e–bill service would receive in COSMOTE printers. Employees their bills via e–mail and printed bills will no longer be delivered through postal service. l Use of recycled photocopy paper, to cover office needs. > Paper savings achieved from COSMOTE customers who receive only electronic bills, In 2013, office paper consumption amounted to 350.4 t since July 1st 2013, is approximately 1,000,000 (OTE: 281.5 t; COSMOTE: 68.9 t), while paper recycling pages (about 5 t). reached 228.0 t (OTE: 198.6 t; COSMOTE: 29.4 t). Society Office Paper Consumption and Recycling OTE Recycling COSMOTE Recycling COSMOTE Consumption per employee OTE Consumption per employee Environment 400 Office Paper Recycled (in t) Office Paper Consumption (in kg) per employee 35 42.3 33.3 41.8 31 300 46.7 29.1 27.6 7.5 28.3 67.5 27 OTE Group 29.4 Subsidiaries 200 5.5 24.0 23.8 22.7 23 22.2 21.7 22.3 100 20.2 273.9 258.6 317.8 298.8 225.2 198.6 19 17.1 15 Indexes 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment 165 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.4.4 About this Report Residual and Other Waste Management Residual waste (as defined in the context of the bought were refills (of the 4,043 new ink current report) includes packaging material, typical cartridges bought, 1,618 were refills). In 2013, household waste from buildings (estimated on the 1,438 pieces were sent for recycling. basis of typical composition of waste generated > In 2013, 3,397 spent ink cartridges were CR Strategy and in offices and stores) and waste related to office collected from OTE offices and forwarded operation (e.g. ink cartridges) excluding waste Management for recycling. As of the end of 2013, OTE has electrical and electronic equipment. established a program (similar to the one already l At the moment, no specific management practice in place for COSMOTE) that encourages and sets is in place for typical household waste. Quantities targets for the use of refilled ink cartridges. generated (700 t in 2013. OTE: 560 t; COSMOTE: 140 t) are directed to the Municipal Solid Waste For OTE, Other waste refers to tires and Marketplace Landfills for disposal. scrapped vehicles. l Environmental impacts of ink cartridges disposal are l In 2013, 73.8 t of scrapped vehicles were forwarded related to the potential hazardous substances that to authorized end–of–life management entities. they may contain and to the slow decomposition l With a view to reduce the environmental impacts rate of their constitutive parts. In this context. related to the operation of the OTE vehicle fleet > COSMOTE has put in place a practice that calls and recognizing the negative environmental Employees for yearly targets for refilled ink cartridges. The consequences of unmanaged disposal a program target for 2013 was for refilled cartridges to for the management of end–of–life tires was put account for 30% of ink cartridges bought. The in place in 2010. target was surpassed, as 40% of the cartridges Ink Cartridges from OTE and COSMOTE Buildings Society Recycled Cartridges OTE Recycled Cartridges COSMOTE Cartridges recycled or reused (in hundreds of pieces) Reused Cartridges for COSMOTE Reused to bought for COSMOTE 47.18% Environment 40% OTE Group Subsidiaries 35.56 33.97 14.53 14.38 16.79 16.18 2012 2013 Indexes Environment 166 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.4.5 About this Report Phones and Accessories OTE and COSMOTE have implemented recycling through the OTE program. It is noted that this programs for mobile phones, fixed phones, accessories quantity includes not only devices collected from and batteries in OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail stores / buildings (i.e. direct take–back from network and OTE and COSMOTE buildings. As of June customers and employees), but also (and mainly) 2013, the existing recycling programs (take–back devices gathered by the OTE technical staff during CR Strategy and schemes) of both companies were redesigned and on–site visits to customers (indirect take–back). merged into a common program in all OTE, COSMOTE Management and GERMANOS retail network. It is worth mentioning that the trend of the quantities forwarded depends to a great extent on the In total, during 2013: customers’ participation to the recycling program in l 7.9 t of phone devices and mobile telephony the OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network. accessories were gathered through the In addition, quantities collected (and forwarded Marketplace COSMOTE shops and GERMANOS retail network for recycling) are not limited to OTE and COSMOTE (corresponding to 20.2 kg per collection products, while OTE and COSMOTE products are also point), which represents an increase of 1.8%, collected in collection points established within compared to 2012. other retail outlets, and therefore it is not possible to estimate the percentage of products sold that are l 15.1 t of phone devices (mainly fixed but also actually reclaimed. mobile) and telephony accessories were gathered Employees Recycling of Phones, Batteries and Accessories OTE COSMOTE / GERMANOS Quantities (in t) Society 13.58 12.02 8.28 Environment 9.42 7.76 13.15 32.42 24.57 26.31 16.10 15.13 7.90 OTE Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 167 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The New Take–Back Program of OTE and COSMOTE About this Report Joining forces, OTE and COSMOTE are running, since June 2013, a joint and expanded recycling program for batteries, ink cartridges and phone devices (mobile and landlines phones with their accessories). The program is implemented at the OTE, COSMOTE CR Strategy and Management and GERMANOS retail network, which operated about 520 retail outlets countrywide in 2013. With the message “We recycle – Small effort, big impact”, both companies urge public to recycle Marketplace noting that even a small action such as battery recycling, acts cumulatively contributing to environmental protection. In this, communication material highlighting the benefits of recycling have been produced and uploaded on the web–sites of both companies, etc. Employees OTE and COSMOTE will provide €1,000 to the environmental organizations “Philodassiki Enossi Athinon” (Union for the Protection of Forests in Athens) and “Callisto” for every ton of mobile and fixed phone devices with their accessories, which will be collected until 31/05/2014. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 168 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.4.6 About this Report Management of Packaging Materials 6.4.6.1 6.4.6.2 Monitoring Consumption of Recycling Packaging Materials Packaging Materials During 2013, the program for the alternative OTE and COSMOTE are implementing a product management of packaging materials entering the CR Strategy and packaging monitoring program for their products OTE and COSMOTE warehouse in Parnitha continued Management distributed in the market, and participate in systems to operate with substantial results. In total, 49 t of for the management of packaging materials waste packaging material were delivered for recycling (14.2 as foreseen by national and European legislation. t cardboards, 3.7 t plastic and 31.1 t wood), while 16.7 Therefore, it is not possible for OTE and COSMOTE t were forwarded for energy recovery and 43.2 t of to know the actual quantities of their packaging non–recyclable materials were directed to disposal. materials reclaimed and recycled, as it is the Marketplace responsibility of these systems to do so. l Paper and cardboard represent the main packaging materials used by OTE (116,735 kg), while the use of plastic is limited (2,916 kg). The average weight of OTE packaging (for routers, decoders, etc.) is about 30 g per unit (for a total of 4.0 million units). Employees l Paper and cardboard, and plastic are the packaging materials used by COSMOTE (33,060 kg and 19,072 kg respectively). The average weight of COSMOTE packaging has been further reduced to 3.1 g per unit (for a total of 17.1 million units). In addition, OTE and COSMOTE purchased 13.4 t Society of degradable bags, to cover the needs of their retail network. Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 169 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The New Recycling Program in Buildings About this Report In June 2013 OTE and COSMOTE launched a new Equipment installed, include: 63 recycling points recycling program at their central administrative for 5 waste streams with appropriate recycle bins; offices (the Headquarters and the Paiania 2 demonstration recycling points for 5 waste buildings). The program, which encourages streams; 1600 paper bins in offices; and Containers the recycling of packaging materials (plastic, for the temporary storage of collected quantities CR Strategy and aluminium, tetrapack), paper, ink cartridges (but (paper, aluminium, plastic). also light bulbs, small electric and electronic Management appliances, portable batteries and phone devices, The program is expected to generate reliable mobile and landlines, with their accessories), is data on waste generation and recycling in buildings based on the sorting–at–source principle, with and to enhance the environmental awareness of centralized waste collection and management. OTE and COSMOTE employees. Plans to expand the program at four additional main buildings are Project development started with a study to get an currently under development. Marketplace overview of waste generated and its composition. Then the waste streams to be covered were defined, During the first six months of the implementation followed by decisions on all relevant technical issues of the program in the two buildings 31.5 t of (e.g. number, location and kind of collection bins). paper and packaging materials were collected Finally, roles and responsibilities were designated, and recycled, of which paper amounted to training sessions for OTE and COSMOTE employees 28.4 t, plastic amounted to 2.2 t and the rest 0.9 t were held, detailed work instructions were were tetrapack material. Employees developed and contracts with authorised waste management entities were signed. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 170 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 6.5 Electromagnetic Fields Marketplace Potential health effects of man–made electromagnetic fields (EMF) have received particular attention during the last 30 years. In this context, international scientific organizations have issued Employees guidelines regarding exposure to EMF and a relevant legislative framework has been developed. 6.5.1 Following by Design the Precautionary Principle OTE and COSMOTE recognize public concerns about scientific community), in all points with free Society potential consequences of electromagnetic radiation public access. on health issues. Even though: l For every OTE wireless telecommunication station l Relative research, conducted and assessed by the and COSMOTE Base Station a radio emission study World Health Organization did not indicate any such and an electromagnetic background study (in correlation for telecommunications equipment; some cases) is conducted by specialized OTE and COSMOTE personnel, for an area of up to a radius Environment l Certified measurements estimate the percentage of EMF intensity attributed to mobile telephony of 50 meters and 300 meters respectively to Base Stations to be less than 30% of the total EMF ensure that all OTE and COSMOTE Stations operate background in populated areas; within legal limits. The corresponding studies form part of environmental impact assessment It is the policy of OTE and COSMOTE (based on studies conducted and submitted to responsible Transparency, Information, Participation and Promotion authorities (where needed). OTE Group of Science) to respect and adopt the precautionary The amount COSMOTE spent on programs concerning Subsidiaries principle and apply it in a number of practices. Thus: EMF in 2013 was about €300,000. l The levels of electromagnetic fields, in all Base Stations, comply with the suggested limits of the In addition, all products placed in OTE and COSMOTE World Health Organization and the International retail network bear all necessary labels foreseen Commission on Non–Ionizing Radiation Protection by national and EU legislation while all phones sold (ICNIRP), as well as with the latest national limits operate within electromagnetic field safety limits Indexes set by Law 4070/2012 which are 60–70% of (expressed in Specific Absorption Rate – SAP units). A ICNIRP limits (which are already approximately 50 list of SAR values for all handsets is available in printed times stricter than the levels recommended by the version at all network stores. Environment 171 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.5.2 About this Report Monitoring the Levels of EMF Radiation 6.5.2.1 COSMOTE Initiatives COSMOTE has established and operates an EMF radio transmitters, televisions, radars and other measurement program, called “Pedion24” (initiated telecommunication applications. CR Strategy and at the end of 2005, fully operational since 2006), Management developed in association with the Laboratory of Mobile The program utilizes a full set of measurement Radio Communications at the National Technical equipment and leading edge technology measurement University of Athens, the Radio Communications stations (with suitable detectors for electromagnetic Laboratory at the Aristotle University in Thessalonica fields) covering all Greece. and the ICT Laboratory at the University of the Aegean, The measurement stations operate on a 24 hour coordinated by the company EMF Manager who is Marketplace basis. Measurements are obtained and stored on–line the head of COSMOTE EMF Control and Measurement and are accessible to the public at the program’s Section. The program aims to continuously and openly website (www.pedion24.gr). The public’s interest in inform the public about the levels of electromagnetic these measurements is high as evidenced by the high fields in the vicinity of mobile telephony Base visitation rates of the “Pedion24” program (200 visits Stations, including all other EMF sources such as per day on average). “PEDION 24” Program Employees Measurement Stations (number) Measurements in Excess of the Limit (%) Ad Hoc Measurements (number) 188 Society 10.0 106 Environment 80 86 82 73 77 49 107 155 165 190 210 22 58 200 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 172 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The number of stations has increased every year since 6.5.3 About this Report 2006, with 10 new stations added in 2013 bringing the total to 210. Of the nearly 27 million measurements Informing Society taken to date, none has been found to exceed legal and Employees limits. In 2013, 82 further ad hoc measurements According to the pan–european Eurobarometer 2010 were conducted by specialized scientific personnel survey regarding perceptions of citizens in relation of COSMOTE (scientific personnel of Environmental to EMF, 81% of Greek citizens are concerned about Electromagnetic Fields Measurements Labouratory) mobile telephony radiation effects on their health, as CR Strategy and because of licensing application procedures compared to the European Union average of 46%. Also requirements or public sensitivities regarding OTE 54% of Greeks state “not satisfied” by the information Management and COSMOTE antennae, and 4 more by independent provided to them on the likely repercussions on health institutions (Universities, Greek Atomic Energy from mobile telephony use as against 40% for Europe Commission) at COSMOTE request. Public exposure on average. safety limits were not found to be exceeded (in points of free public access), in any of these measurements. To address this concern, COSMOTE issued and Marketplace distributes through its commercial network and its The COSMOTE Environmental Electromagnetic Fields information activities, awareness campaigns, etc. the Measurement Labouratory, a part of EMF Control and following leaflets: Measurement Section, has been accredited according l “Pedion 24 – Continuous Measurements of to EN ISO / IEC 17025 standards since February 2012. Electromagnetic Radiation Programme”, where the way the respective measurement and assurance 6.5.2.2 program functions are described. The leaflet was OTE Initiatives Employees distributed to over 800 citizens. OTE’s EMF Measurement Labouratory has been l “How mobile telephony works”, distributed to over established in 2008 to carry out EMF measurements in 1000 citizens. accordance with national and international guidelines and standards so as to ensure that OTE operations Briefings and presentations were also conducted are in compliance with suggested limits of the World by staff employees to students from schools and Health Organization and ICNIRP, as well as with the Universities. In 2013 such briefings were conducted to Society latest national limits set by Law 4070/2012. Since 300 students from 6 schools and Universities. June 2010 the labouratory is certified according to the EN ISO 9001:2008 standard. In October 2012 OTE’ s Overall more than 2000 leaflets were distributed labouratory was also accredited according to EN ISO / at information events to students, NGO’s, local IEC 17025 standards. communities, customers, etc. Environment In 2013, OTE developed an Antenna Anechoic Chamber To improve outreach, an e–mail address, for questions booth in its labouratories to analyze the impact of regarding electromagnetic fields information, is electromagnetic fields of the Broadband CPEs’ wireless available in the COSMOTE’s corporate website. (WiFi) interface provided to the customers, and also to evaluate the resilience of the above terminals to EMF Information regarding mobile telephony, especially radiation interference. OTE intends to ensure that its issues regarding EMF, is also routinely disseminated customers are supplied with optimized terminals in to OTE and COSMOTE employees so that they are fully OTE Group terms of EMF radiation safety and performance. The aware of the issues and take them into consideration Subsidiaries full potential of the Anechoic Chamber is expected to in the performance of their duties and in contacts with be utilized within 2014. the customers the general public. Indexes Environment 173 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 6.6 CR Strategy and Management Other Environmental Aspects of OTE and Marketplace COSMOTE Operation 6.6.1 Employees Ozone OTE and COSMOTE are gradually replacing old cooling systems operating with ozone depleting substance (ODS) as refrigerants. Fire suppression systems already use suppressants with zero ozone depleting potential (ODP). The ODS (i.e. R22) quantity being replenished in the existing cooling systems for 2013 Society amounted to 991 kg. In total, the quantity of R22 replenished, decreased by 7% compared to 2012. Currently, hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) blends are utilized either for substituting ODS or for installation in new cooling systems. The quantity replenished for 2013 was about 8.5 t of refrigerants, which is equivalent to GHG emissions of about 14.7 kt CO2 eq (i.e. remained at 2012 levels). These emissions account for about 5% of the GHG emissions from energy use (both scope 1 and scope 2) and Environment therefore measures to minimize leakages need to be in place. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 174 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Quantities of Refrigerants Replenished About this Report 2010 2011 2012 2013 A. OTE R22 (kg) 3,516.40 2,981.33 731.00 718.00 R407C (kg) 2,173.50 3,077.50 3,990.00 4,197.80 95.00 258.00 515.00 596.50 CR Strategy and R410A (kg) R134a (kg) 14.00 22.60 211.00 21.00 Management R417A (kg) 799.00 2,590.00 2,346.00 2801.00 R422 (kg) 209.50 416.00 R404 (kg) 367.00 20.00 B. COSMOTE Marketplace R22 (kg) 172.30 266.00 337.00 273.00 R407C (kg) 462.00 681.00 471.60 362.00 R410A (kg) 159.00 433.00 191.00 122.00 R134a (kg) 24.00 0.00 Employees R417A (kg) 6.00 R422 (kg) 48.00 Notes (1) Ozone depleting potential (ODP) is measured as R11 (CFC–11) equivalent. The ODP value for R22 is 0.055. (2) Quantities replenished in 2010 for OTE include the regions of Attica, Northern Greece and Southern and Western Greece. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 175 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.6.2 About this Report Water Consumption Since telecommunications operations have no specific Water consumption in 2013 was 173,228 m3, which need for water use, OTE and COSMOTE consume water corresponds to a 2% increase compared to 2012 (acquired solely from public water companies which (169,442 m3). This increase is mainly attributed to are responsible not only for water supply but also for the increased irrigation needs in the new office the sustainable uptake of water from the available complex in Paiania. CR Strategy and water resource systems) exclusively for employees’ hygiene, plant irrigation and office / stores cleaning. Waste water from OTE and COSMOTE operations Management Thus, water sources are not significantly affected by refers to domestic wastewater, which is directed to OTE and COSMOTE activities. At the same time, OTE and the available wastewater networks and is treated COSMOTE seek to raise awareness of their employees according to area–specific processes in the municipal for the rational use of this significant resource. wastewater facilities. No planned or unplanned water discharges to the environment as well as no significant Marketplace spills occurred during 2013. Water Consumption OTE COSMOTE COSMOTE Consumption per employee OTE Consumption per employee Employees 200 Water Consumption (in thousands m3) Water Consumption (in m3) per employee 18 16.30 24.8 24.5 21.8 150 20.0 15.00 21.3 28.3 15 7.5 14.21 13.58 13.64 13.67 Society 100 5.5 11.85 12 11.08 10.53 10.26 9.94 9 50 8.86 Environment 142.9 154.4 163.9 144.1 147.6 144.9 6 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Note: Recalculation of the OTE water consumption time–series, as cases of double–counting were identified (for 2012) and corrected. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 176 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.6.3 About this Report Biodiversity OTE and COSMOTE are aware of the high value of l All potential impacts are addressed in the biodiversity for Greece and recognize the close Environmental Impact Assessment studies relationship between biodiversity, sustainable carried out and submitted for approval to the development and human well–being. At the same designated authorities as foreseen by national time, the provision of high quality telecommunication legislation in force (Law 4070/2012 on CR Strategy and services everywhere and at any time necessitates the electronic communications). In these studies operation of a geographically extensive network of special reference is made to protected areas Management telecommunication installations (base stations and (NATURA, SPA, RAMSAR, CORINE, IBA) and areas wireless communication stations) including, inevitably, of high biodiversity value that are near to OTE in Natura 2000 sites. In 2013, there were 475 and COSMOTE activities. The contents of these COSMOTE base stations installed in 185 Natura sites, studies and the approval process, that includes covering a total area of 2.4 Ha. More information on a public consultation phase, are specified in the Marketplace the Greek Natura 2000 sites (e.g. location, maps, area, relevant legislative acts. These studies, on the protected species, etc) can be found in the website basis of current scientific knowledge, conclude of the Ministry of Environment, Energy and Climate that impacts on biodiversity are not material, and Change1. All stations operating in Natura sites are fully therefore there are no protected and / or restored licensed by the Hellenic Telecommunications and habitat areas that are affected by the operation, of Posting Committee for OTE and COSMOTE and listed in OTE and COSMOTE. its website2. All buildings / installations / telecom lines l The majority of the installations are small, Employees that are currently in use and / or installed by OTE and without permanent personnel and with limited COSMOTE are also registered and relevant information transportation activities at the operational stage. can be found at DG Technology and Operations offices. It should be noted that the legislative framework In this context, OTE and COSMOTE are committed to regarding the permitting process, including minimize any potential impact that their activities environmental issues, has changed as of 2012 (Law (fixed and mobile telecommunication installations and 4070/2012). Telecommunications stations are offices) could have on biodiversity. In this vein: Society classified into two categories: Nodal stations as well l Potential impacts are mainly related to as stations that require road construction works or are the operation of installations on isolated located on Natura 2000 sites should be accompanied areas necessary for the reliable provision of with an Environmental Impact Assessment Study telecommunication services (energy consumption, (submitted for approval to the designated authorities); EMF emissions) and infrastructure works for for the rest telecom stations the so–called Standard Environment upgrading / maintaining telecommunication Environmental Commitments need to be submitted. network (waste generation). OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes 1 http://www.ypeka.gr/Default.aspx?tabid=432&language=el–GR 2 http://www.eett.gr/opencms/opencms/EETT/EETT/EETT_Decs/Antennas/showM.html?cat=keraies Environment 177 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Environment Sterea Ellada Paloponnese Southern Aegean Crete Central Macedonia Ionian Islands Thessalia 178 Epirus Western Macedonia Western Greece Northern Aegean Attica Number of COSMOTE Base Stations in Natura Sites per Administrative Region East. Macedonia & Thrace OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Indexes OTE Group Environment Society Employees Marketplace CR Strategy and About this Report Subsidiaries Management 6.6.4 About this Report Visual Impact Telecommunications companies have relatively l For the installation of new telecommunication small visual impact on the environment. However, to infrastructure necessary for the provision of minimize whatever impact may exist: communication services, all efforts are made, to the l The size of new Base Stations being built now has extent that is technically feasible, to minimize the been decreased. visual intrusion produced, especially in urban areas CR Strategy and by appropriate arrangements and constructions that l Efforts are made to collocate Base Stations in blend well with the surrounding environment. Management common installations with the other two mobile telephony companies so as to reduce overall visual l Appropriate modifications are also applied to impact of mobile Base. existing telecommunication infrastructure. Number of 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Marketplace New Base Stations1 70 150 233 323 119 107 New Base Stations Collocations 4 2 10 25 0 2 Special Constructions OTE 18 8 6 2 2 42 COSMOTE 40 50 110 147 82 70 Employees Note: 1 Information for licensed COSMOTE Base Stations in Greece is available at the EETT website http://www.eett.gr/opencms/opencms/EETT/EETT/EETT_Decs/Antennas/showM. html?cat=keraies 2 Concrete foundation for satellite antennas 6.6.5 Noise The noise impact of OTE and COSMOTE is insignificant, legislation. In special cases, where sound levels Society as it is restricted to the operation of stationary from generators should be reduced, OTE and generators that are necessary only when there is no COSMOTE put in place noise suppression devices or reliable electricity supply available usually in remote install hybrid systems, to reduce the time duration site away from dwellings and the outdoor airgenerators operate. Environment conditioning units. l Air conditioning units are housed in soundproof l The operation of electricity generators in urban constructions in order to be in line with areas is in line with all provisions foreseen by national legislation. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 179 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 6.7 CR Strategy and Management Environmental Awareness Initiatives Marketplace 6.7.1 Initiatives to Enhance OTE and COSMOTE Employees’ Awareness Employees OTE and COSMOTE, as part of their Environmental strategy, aim to enhance awareness and increase engagement of their employees in initiatives toward the common objective of environmental protection and sustainable development. Examples of such initiatives in 2013 include: > Employees and the public participated in a l Celebrating the World Environment Day. series of environmental activities organized by Society 38 employee cultural centres of OTE in various > The pilot implementation of the joint internal areas of Greece, for the 4th consecutive year, recycling program for OTE and COSMOTE which included a diversity of actions building ENVIRONMENT / Management of Packaging public awareness of environmental issues, such Material at the Central Administration Building as cleaning beaches, lakes, forests, etc., as well and the Building of Paiania commenced in June. as bike rides, races, tree–planting, collecting Environment > In the context of the campaign for the and sorting waste into recyclable and non– World Environment Day, the results of the recyclable categories for further action. Environmental Programs in place were l Participation in WWF’s “Earth Hour”. announced in OTE and COSMOTE Intranets and in the OTE website (Microsite). l Continuation of the recycling program for home electric and electronic devices of employees, in ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE buildings (OTE: 71 kg and OTE Group COSMOTE: 713 kg). Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 180 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 6.7.2 About this Report Initiatives to Enhance Public Awareness An important objective of the OTE and COSMOTE l The ”Podilatodraseis” program (a Bike actions environmental strategy is to increase customers’ Program). With the aim to make the bicycle part of awareness on ways to reduce their own environmental citizens’ daily activities in the city centres, OTE and footprint, through their active participation. To this end: COSMOTE systematically implement (as of 2012) CR Strategy and l A number of e–services are offered to customers the “Podilatodraseis” program. It is an innovative program which includes infrastructure for the Management (e.g. OTE Video Conference, OTE Business Cloud, “yourbusiness.gr” service for website development) advancement of bicycle usage (Bike Parking that result in reductions in paper consumption, and Bike Sharing), educational activities, and transportation activity, etc. providing support to significant bicycle–oriented organizations (Bike Festival). For more information l Customers are offered the option to buy on–line see SOCIETY / Promoting Sports section. Marketplace services and devices, through the internet e– shops, which are available in OTE and COSMOTE l In order to increase schoolchildren awareness corporate websites. of environmental protection, OTE and COSMOTE supported, in 2013, educational initiatives through l OTE and COSMOTE designed and are implementing the continuation of strategic partnerships with (since June 2013), through the OTE, COSMOTE and two NGOs (The Athens Union for the Protection GERMANOS retail network, a joint recycling program of Forests–Philodassiki Enossi Athinon and for batteries, ink cartridges and phone devices Callisto–Environmental Organization for Wildlife Employees ENVIRONMENT / Phones and Accessories. and Nature), which are active in organizing At the same time, OTE and COSMOTE actively environmental educational programs for school participate in events addressing and enhancing communities, regarding in particular forest and wild environmental responsibility such as: life protection. Recycling Initiatives at OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS Retail Network Home Appliances Batteries – OTE (kg) Society Home Appliances Batteries COSMOTE & GERMANOS (*10 kg) Ink Cartridges (pieces) Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries 5,564 6,175 6,031 5,450 2,588 1,944 6,407 5,953 5,306 4,474 3,893 4,292 2,064 2,827 1,524 1,066 1,771 1,246 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indexes Note: (1) As of 2013, the initiative for ink cartridges recycling concerns OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network. (2) Home batteries collected from customers at OTE, COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network are included in the category “Technical waste” following reporting arrangements within the DT group. Environment 181 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Schoolchildren Awareness on Environmental Protection About this Report NGO Type of sponsorship Athens Union for Forests' Protection In 2013, (Philodassiki Enossi Athinon) l 1210 schoolchildren with their teachers participated in the educational program of Philodassiki Enossi Athinon in the Aesthetic Forest of Hymettus. The ongoing program included tours and visits to botanical gardens and nurseries to familiarize the children with the different types CR Strategy and of plants and trees. Management l Letters were sent to 600 schools in the surrounding areas of the Aesthetic Forest of Hymettus, informing about the educational programs of Philodassiki Enossi Athinon, for the school year 2013–2014. l An educational visit of OTE and COSMOTE employees and their families in the Aesthetic Forest of Hymettus took place in March 2013. l 850 people participated in voluntary reforestation, in the cleaning of Marketplace paths and forest roads, in educational tours and maintenance of the Aesthetic Forest. Callisto–Environmental Organization for In 2013, the environmental education programs: Wildlife and Nature l “Exploring and Protecting the suburban forest of Sheikh Sou” was attended by nine schools, 25 classes, 559 students. The program was implemented either through school visits in the suburban forest of Sheikh Sou (6 schools) or through presentations at schools (3 schools). Employees l “We and our forest” and “The forest animals go to school” was attended by 11 schools, 28 classes, 472 students. The program was implemented, in collaboration with the Children’s Libraries Division of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, through school visits to the children’s libraries, as well as through independent school visits of the Environmental Education Group of Callisto. 6.7.3 Society Initiatives Related to Suppliers In 2013, OTE and COSMOTE assessed their suppliers, according to the companies’ supplier evaluation methodology, which includes, among other, corporate Environment responsibility – environmental evaluation criteria. For more information, see MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation section. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Environment 182 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries 7.0 OTE Group Subsidiaries About this Report CR Strategy and Management 7.0 OTE Group Subsidiaries Marketplace OTE Group Corporate Communications Division works on building and implementing the OTE Group CR strategy and framework for all OTE Group companies active in fixed–line and mobile telephony Employees operations, as put forth in the CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT section. In this context, OTE Group fixed–line and mobile telephony subsidiaries are tasked with implementing OTE Group–wide CR strategy and goals. They bear responsibility for deciding on their own CR organization structures, developing and performing their local CR activities, and reporting on their performance. Society OTE Group international operations are focused in Romania and Albania. In Romania, OTE Group offers fixed–line and mobile telephony services mainly through Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania. Full details on the companies’ performance are available on their websites. In Albania, OTE Group offers mobile telephony services through AMC. Full details on the company’s Environment performance are available on its website. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 184 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 7.1 Romania Marketplace In Romania, OTE Group is represented mainly by Romtelecom, offering a wide range of telecommunications and entertainment services such as TV, Internet and voice, and Employees COSMOTE Romania, offering mobile voice and data products and services, both for residential and business customers. The two companies are currently working on the preparation of their first joint annual CR Report, to be published in 2014. CR Strategy and Management Society Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania have aligned Employees of both companies act in accordance with their CR strategies with that of the OTE Group. the Compliance Management System and the Code The companies are in contact with OTE Group of Conduct of the OTE Group. In 2013, Romtelecom Corporate Communications Division to further received a certification for its Compliance Management streamline actions, facilitate a homogeneous System, which was also acknowledged, within OTE understanding by all OTE Group employees and offer Group, as a best practice on integrity checking. Environment high value services to stakeholders. The companies have identified the following five CR pillars: Strategy The companies aim to integrate principles of and Management, Marketplace, Human Resources, responsible operation in their management Society, and Environment. practices, in order to ensure that they are taken into consideration in their decision making process, within Romtelecom’s and COSMOTE Romania’s objective is the spirit of “business as usual”. Both companies hold to operate in a responsible way, to be accountable for the several management system certifications in the area OTE Group potential impact of their operations and at the same time of quality, environment, health and safety, information Subsidiaries improve their competitiveness and ensure their growth. security etc. Corporate Responsibility, from an organizational Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania have identified perspective, lies within Corporate Communication their groups of stakeholders and monitor closely their Romania Division, which reports directly to the opinion through internal and external research. companies’ CEO. The team handling CR activities is Indexes composed of 2 employees. OTE Group Subsidiaries 185 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 In recognition of their CR performance, the companies received the following four awards, in 2013: About this Report l 2nd prize at CSR Awards with last year’s campaign “Sports is Good”, in the Health category. l 3rd prize for the campaign “Words hurt, don’t they?” at the Civil Society Gala. l 3rd place in the Supporting Community category at the National CSR Awards 2013 for the “Custom of Love” campaign. CR Strategy and l Excellence Diploma for CSR reporting granted by ARC, a national NGO. The key CR performance indicators of the companies’ performance, in 2013 are presented in the following table. Management Romtelecom COSMOTE Romania Financial Performance Marketplace Total Revenues (mn €) 609.5 458.5 Payroll and Employee Benefits (mn €) (110.9) Non Disclosable Total Operating Expenses (mn €) (620.7) Non Disclosable EBITDA (mn €) 147.7 115.2 159.3 118.9 Employees Pro forma EBITDA (mn €) Marketplace Fixed–line Subscribers 2,252,563 – Mobile Telephony Subscribers – 6,091,455 Broadband Subscribers 1,249,987 – TV Subscribers 1,353,421 – Employees Society Number of Employees on Permanent Contract 6,796 1,283 Percentage of Female Employees 36% 50% Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (%) 100% 0% Environment Employee Turnover as a Percentage of Total Employees (%) 4% 26% Work–related Fatal Accidents (number of employees) 0 0 Work–related Non–fatal Accidents (number of employees) 3 1 Work–related Non–fatal Accidents (lost days)* 266 5 Health and Safety Training (hours/employee) 15.98 9.47 Training Hours (hours/employee) 13.39 52.01 OTE Group Society Subsidiaries Sponsorships – Donations (incl. in–kind) (€) 108,501 79,302 Number of Volunteering Projects 4 2 Working Hours Invested to Organize and Run Volunteering Initiatives 65 470 179 34 Indexes Employee Volunteering (number of employees) People Supported (estimated) 1,370 200 OTE Group Subsidiaries 186 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Romtelecom COSMOTE Romania About this Report Environment Electricity Consumption (GWh) 139.20 82.01 District Heating and Fuel Consumption in Buildings and Installations (GWh) 32.40 1.29 Fuel Consumption in Vehicles Fleet (GWh) 41.77 6.10 Direct (scope 1) CO2 Emissions (t) 14,130.65 1,787.24 CR Strategy and Indirect (scope 2) CO2 Emissions (t) 72,659.33 40,920.84 Management Hazardous Waste (t) 30.31 0.42 Non–hazardous Technical Waste from Telecom Operations (t) 1,499.63 15.89 Recycling of Phone Devices (mobile and fixed) and Accessories (t) 144.61 0.53 Number of Measurements on EMF Conducted by Specialized Scientific – 24 Marketplace Personnel of the Company and Independent Institutions * Lost days are counted as calendar days. Marketplace The companies’ objective is to follow a management To ensure that the companies’ communication approach based on the principles of transparency material is consistent with legal requirements, Employees and ethics, while at the same time contribute to appropriate, fair and sincere, accurate and respecting the responsible operation of the marketplaces people’s diversity, in terms of age, gender, race, where they conduct business. They focus on the religion and physical or mental status, the Brand following Marketplace areas: Corporate Governance, and Communication Division Romania controls all Responsible Competition, Responsible Marketing, advertising messages and campaigns, before releasing Responsible Procurement, Public Awareness, Customer them to the public. Satisfaction, and Data Security and Privacy. Society Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania are two of The Boards of Directors are responsible for taking any the largest companies in the Romanian market decision regarding the administration, management, and, therefore, they can significantly influence their resource utilization and any other issue, which may suppliers’ responsible operations. For this reason, they assist in achieving the companies’ corporate objectives. strive to deploy CR principles, having aligned their The Boards of Directors oversee the organizations’ Suppliers’ Codes of Conduct to OTE and COSMOTE Environment activities on economic, environmental and social guidelines respectively, in the frame of which they performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, expect their partners and suppliers to be socially adherence or compliance with internationally agreed and environmentally sensitive, operate according standards, codes of conduct and principles. to respective legislation and internationally agreed regulations and respect the principles and aspects of Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania adhere to the their Codes. Conformity to the Codes is a criterion of OTE strategy in offering information to assure a safer the vendor selection and evaluation process. OTE Group internet for children. Therefore, companies realise Subsidiaries communication campaigns for internal and external The companies seek to be the preferred choice audiences and participate in events to promote the of customers, by cultivating a mutual, sincere and safer use of internet. In addition, both companies trustful relationship with them. For this reason, they participate in the “CEO Coalition to make the internet closely monitor their performance on satisfying a better place for kids”, as members of the Deutsche their customers, through a series of surveys, which Telekom Group and strive to implement protective are carried out via telephone interviews on a Indexes measures for children. representative sample of the public. OTE Group Subsidiaries 187 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Employees Society About this Report The companies’ objective is to create a workplace, In society, the companies’ objective is to combine their which is safe, fair and facilitates the professional and business success with the prosperity and the quality personal development of their employees. They focus of life for all citizens in Romania as their presence is on the following Human Resources areas: Health and country–wide. They focus on the following Society Safety, Fair Employment, Labour Rights, Employee areas: Social Products and Services, Social Contribution, Development and Workforce’s Benefits. Economic Development, Volunteering, Business Enterprising and Digital Divide. CR Strategy and Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania directly occupy 8,079 employees, while through their business Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania recognize Management activity they have indirectly leveraged the creation of the need to financially support social organizations, a significant number of job positions in Romania, an which support people in need, by focusing important aspect for economic growth. on education, children’s rights, communities’ development and sports. The total spending in 2013 Having as a priority to offer their employees a safe reached the amount of almost €188,000. Marketplace workplace, the companies focus on ensuring suitable work conditions and follow health and safety rules. The companies try to involve their employees, Hence, they identify labour risks via documented customers, suppliers and business partners in various Occupational Risk Assessments. These studies allow initiatives and programs that respond to the Romanian the companies to eliminate or to limit the respective social needs. Aiming to mobilize and make their risks, by taking suitable actions, such as training employees aware, to develop responsible and active employees and providing suitable corrective actions. It citizenship, they cultivate volunteerism, through Employees is worth mentioning that, during the last year, no fatal various actions, such as planting of trees, sports and only four non–fatal (which resulted in 271 lost events, blood donations and volunteering for children’s days) work–related accidents occurred. In 2013, the hospitals. In 2013, 213 employees volunteered for participants in health and safety trainings were 9,101, such events. totaling 149,556 of training hours. The companies also offer support to Romanian NGOs To create a homogeneous corporate culture, for fundraising, through the operation of SMS and Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania have established telephone lines, where customers can text or call to a systematic dialogue with their employees through offer monetary support for humanitarian causes, thus Society internal communication processes, utilizing various facilitating relief for thousands of people in need. means, such as the intranet, e–mails, weekly electronic newsletters, SMS messages, informative Romtelecom and COSMOTE Romania, in view of their leaflets and posters. In 2013, both companies took legal obligations and corporate responsibility, make all efforts to ensure their business continuity, so as Environment part in the “Pulse Survey”, an employee satisfaction survey that was conducted within the OTE Group. to be able to provide services at an acceptable level, even when facing unanticipated events. To this end, the companies have implemented Business Continuity Management Systems, aligned with the ISO 22301 international standard requirements. OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 188 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Environment About this Report Safeguarding the quality of the environment is Within this framework, the companies analyse their a major concern of Romtelecom and COSMOTE main activities and operations with regard to their Romania. In that respect, they strive to minimize impact on the environment and try to improve the environmental impact of their operations and their environmental performance by setting goals, to raise awareness of their employees and fellow specifying indicators and implementing respective citizens, on acting more responsibly on the issue of the programs. Additionally, the companies collect various environmental protection. Environment areas of focus materials for recycling, such as paper, plastic, lubricant CR Strategy and include: Energy Use and Climate Change, Resource Use oils, IT and telecommunication equipment, mobile Management and Waste Management, Ozone, Water, Environmental phones, accessories, batteries, cables, ink cartridges, Awareness, Biodiversity, EMF, Visual impact and Noise. etc. In parallel, the companies implemented actions to encourage stakeholders to reduce, reuse and recycle Romtelecom’s and COSMOTE Romania’s commitment resources. Finally, they have implemented programs to protect the environment is also expressed in their for monitoring the levels of EMF in the network, Environmental Policies and is put into action through and reducing the electricity and water consumption. Marketplace the development of environmental programs and COSMOTE Romania is in the process of streamlining its campaigns, as well as through the application of EMF Policy with the DT EMF Policy. environmental management systems certified according to ISO 14001 (on key business areas). Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 189 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Management 7.2 Albania Marketplace OTE Group operates in Albania through AMC, offering mobile telephony operations. Employees AMC is in the process of developing its annual 2013 CR Report, to be published in 2014. CR Strategy and Management In line with OTE Group CR strategy, AMC structures everyday operations. All business actions abide by the its CR activities around the same 5 pillars (Strategy compliance system rules and the Code of Conduct. and Management, Marketplace, Employees, Society, The latter has been highlighted during 2013, through Environment), which are also used in reporting its internal awareness sessions and campaigns. Society CR performance. The Corporate Affairs Office, which reports directly to the CEO, has responsibility for CR The certification of the Environmental Management and sustainability in the company. The Corporate Affairs System (ISO 14001) awarded in 2012, posed added Office oversees the company’s Environment Committee challenges in the last year, but joint efforts and an ever– and plays an active role in the Environment Team. increasing level of awareness among employees led to a success renewal. Environment AMC tries to integrate the principles of corporate responsibility with the objectives of the company’s In recognition of its CR performance, AMC received the following TWO awards in 2013: The 2013 Philanthropy Prize, for its contribution to support people in need. The Prize is awarded by OTE Group l Partners Albania and the Rockefeller Fund to individuals / organizations that contribute to society. l The CSR Prize, as the most socially responsible telecom operator of the year, awarded during the 5th Subsidiaries Infocom Conference in Tirana, Albania. Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 190 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 The key CR performance indicators of the company’s performance, in 2013 are presented in the following table. About this Report AMC Financial Performance Total Revenues (mn €) 86.2 Payroll and Employee Benefits (mn €) Non Disclosable Total Operating Expenses (mn €) Non Disclosable CR Strategy and EBITDA (mn €) 33.7 Management Pro forma EBITDA (mn €) 33.7 Marketplace Fixed–line Subscribers – Mobile Telephony Subscribers 2,058,407 Marketplace Broadband Subscribers – TV Subscribers – Employees Number of Employees on Permanent Contract 471 Percentage of Female Employees 59% Employees Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (%) 0% Employee Turnover as a Percentage of Total Employees (%) 10% Work–related Fatal Accidents (number of employees) 0 Work–related Non–fatal Accidents (number of employees) 0 Work–related Non–fatal Accidents (lost days)* 0 Health and Safety Training (hours/employee) 2.74 Society Training Hours (hours/employee) 8.30 Society Sponsorships – Donations (incl. in–kind) (€) 78,500 Environment Number of Volunteering Projects 3 Working Hours Invested to Organize and Run Volunteering Initiatives 3,300 Employee Volunteering (number of employees) 255 People Supported (estimated) 1,485 OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 191 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 AMC About this Report Environment Electricity Consumption (GWh) 17.98 District Heating and Fuel Consumption in Buildings and Installations (GWh) 8.58 Fuel Consumption in Vehicles Fleet (GWh) 1.76 Direct (scope 1) CO2 Emissions (t) 2,722.21 CR Strategy and Indirect (scope 2) CO2 Emissions (t) 125.88 Management Hazardous Waste (t) 121 Non–hazardous Technical Waste from Telecom Operations (t) 0.77 Recycling of Phone Devices (mobile and fixed) and Accessories (t) 0 Number of Measurements on EMF Conducted by Specialized Scientific Personnel of the Company and 4 Marketplace Independent Institutions * Lost days are counted as calendar days. Marketplace Employees The company operates according to its ISO 9001 AMC considers its employees as the core of the certified Quality Management System, offering high company. In view of that it provides its employees Employees quality services to its customers. training and focused instruction to obtain and retain all necessary qualifications required to assure In the light of AMC’s commitment to make ICT available quality service. to everybody, the company, in 2013, offered a special model of handsets for the elderly. This model is a The “Pulse Survey”, which is regularly conducted, simple phone, with big keypad, which is easy to read continued to indicate a positive picture of employee and comes at an affordable prize. satisfaction. Employees participate in corporate Society volunteer actions and contribute to institutions that During 2013, AMC became part of a nation-wide support various vulnerable social groups. initiative of the central authorities to make the internet better for every user. AMC has published a Following the certification of the Occupational Health leaflet, focusing on the potential risks of internet and Safety System, according to OHSAS 18001, the navigation and on the ways to protect children while importance of health and safety precautions was Environment being online. The leaflet was distributed at all AMC emphasized during 2013, via promotional materials. network Shops and is also available online. Internal awareness sessions were organized to inform AMC employees on how to stay safe on the internet. AMC, having aligned its Suppliers’ Code of Conduct to COSMOTE guidelines, requires all its business partners OTE Group and vendors to operate responsibly and comply with the best standards in the field. In this respect, Subsidiaries AMC expects its partners and suppliers to be socially and environmentally sensitive, operate according to applicable legislation and internationally agreed regulations, and respect the principles and rules of the AMC Code of Conduct. Conformity to the Code is a criterion in the vendor evaluation and selection. Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 192 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Society Environment About this Report Corporate volunteerism, which includes home visits to Following the certification of its Environmental assist the elderly and the infirm, as well as collection Management System (EMS), according to ISO 14001, of funds for the people in need, is becoming the in 2012, AMC continues to enhance efforts every year norm at AMC, thus providing a good example for the to improve the company’s environmental performance. market and the country. A noteworthy example is the In 2013 an external independent certification body AMC “2013 Build a Dream” project, through which, performed a “surveillance audit” to ensure that the employees spent their spare time on weekends to EMS works correctly and no major reasons have arisen CR Strategy and orphanages, nurseries and elderly centres, to improve that might jeopardize the certification renewal in 2014. Management the infrastructure of these institutions and show to the people in need that there is somebody who The company is in the process of expanding its cares for them. recycling program and streamlining its EMF Policy with the DT EMF Policy. The Business Continuity Management idea and the responsibility of each employee to keep the Marketplace operations running smoothly and to quickly recover, in case of unexpected events, has been introduced and disseminated widely. Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes OTE Group Subsidiaries 193 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 194 8.0 Indexes Indexes About this Report 8.1 CR Strategy and Management Accountability Principles Standard AA1000 Index Marketplace Coverage Principle Applied Methods Report Location Level Employees Inclusivity Identification of key CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Fully stakeholders and dialogue CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / to understand key issues Materiality Analysis CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Society Identification of issues CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Fully which are important to CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / the company and its Materiality Analysis stakeholders Environment CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Stakeholder Engagement Responsiveness Responsiveness to key CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Fully issues and transparency on CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / performance Materiality Analysis OTE Group CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Stakeholder Engagement Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 195 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 8.2 CR Strategy and Management United Nations Global Compact – Marketplace Communication On Progress (COP) Employees “The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact are a compass for the internal operations of OTE and COSMOTE as well as our relations with external stakeholders. We will continue to abide by these principles and actively promote their wider acceptance by enterprises in our broader Society circle of activity.” Michael Tsamaz Chairman and CEO of OTE Group Since 2008, both OTE and COSMOTE support the technologies and infrastructure. The companies’ UN Global Compact, the largest voluntary corporate milestone goals for broadband development Environment citizenship initiative in the world and abide by its ten in the whole country remains a key priority, universal values in the areas of human rights, labour while maintaining special emphasis on bridging standards, the environment and anti–corruption. the digital gap in remote areas of the country and facilitating access to new technologies for The 2013 CR Report of OTE and COSMOTE includes vulnerable social groups. a detailed presentation of the companies’ priorities, activities, goals and outcomes, structured in a four l Continuing long–term commitment to children, young people and students, as well as the elderly OTE Group pillar approach, concerning the employees, the and people with disabilities, through forming Subsidiaries market, the environment, and the society. partnerships and supporting NGOs that are During 2013, OTE and COSMOTE achievements, relevant dedicated to helping these social groups. to upholding Global Compact principles include: l Enhancing policies and practices that secure l Extending further and systematising efforts employees’ well–being and development, while to record, measure and gradually reduce the respecting and implementing equal opportunity and human rights policies. Indexes “ecological footprints” of OTE and COSMOTE. l As the economically most challenging period l Upholding strong ethics and anti–corruption for Greece continues, OTE and COSMOTE remain policy and supporting mechanisms that promote key drivers for growth and investment in new transparent and responsible business conduct. Indexes 196 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 UN Global Compact 10 Principles: actions recorded in 2013 CR Report About this Report Coverage Issue Principle Report Location Level Human Rights 1. Support and respect EMPLOYEES / Fully protection of internationally Fair Employment Policy Framework proclaimed human rights CR Strategy and 2. Ensure not to be complicit EMPLOYEES / Fully Management in human rights abuses Fair Employment Policy Framework MARKETPLACE / Procurement Policy MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation Labour Standards Marketplace 3. Uphold freedom of MARKETPLACE / Fully association and effective Supplier Evaluation recognition of right to EMPLOYEES / collective bargaining Fair Employment Policy Framework EMPLOYEES / Freedom of Association and Employees Collective Agreements 4. Elimination of all forms of MARKETPLACE / Fully forced and compulsory labour Supplier Evaluation EMPLOYEES / Fair Employment Policy Framework EMPLOYEES / Freedom of Association and Society Collective Agreements 5. Effective abolition of MARKETPLACE / Fully child labour Procurement Policy MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation Environment EMPLOYEES / Fair Employment Policy Framework EMPLOYEES / Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements 6. Elimination of discrimination in EMPLOYEES / Fully employment and occupation Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity OTE Group and Diversity Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 197 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 UN Global Compact 10 Principles: actions recorded in 2013 CR Report (Cont’d) About this Report Coverage Issue Principle Report Location Level Environment 7. Support a precautionary ENVIRONMENT / Fully approach to environmental Environmental Policy challenges ENVIRONMENT / CR Strategy and Managing Energy Use and Addressing Climate Change Management ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Waste Management ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields ENVIRONMENT / Marketplace Other Environmental Aspects of OTE and COSMOTE Operation 8. Undertake initiatives to ENVIRONMENT / Fully promote greater Management Approach environmental responsibility ENVIRONMENT / Telecommunications for the Environment ENVIRONMENT / Managing Energy Use and Addressing Employees Climate Change ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use And Waste Management ENVIRONMENT / Environmental Awareness Initiatives 9. Encourage development and MARKETPLACE / Fully diffusion of environmentally Responsible Products and Services Society friendly technologies ENVIRONMENT / Telecommunications for the Environment ENVIRONMENT / Improving Energy Efficiency and Reducing Emissions Anti–Corruption Environment 10. Work against corruption in CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Fully all its forms including Compliance Management System extortion and bribery and Policies Contribute to Broader Development Goals MARKETPLACE / Fully OTE Group Expanding Broadband And Mobile Internet in Greece Subsidiaries MARKETPLACE / Internet Safety and Public Awareness MARKETPLACE / Responsible Products and Services SOCIETY / Social Products, Services and Offers Indexes SOCIETY / Enabling Entrepreneurship SOCIETY / Social Contribution Indexes 198 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report 8.3 CR Strategy and Management Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Index Marketplace OTE and COSMOTE CR reporting is based on the requirements defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The OTE / COSMOTE CR Report 2013 fully complies with the GRI guidelines G3.1. Employees Conformance with GRI requirements was checked by GRI, which issued the highest application level A+ for it. Additional indicators that have been taken into account in the CR Report 2013, but whose coverage is not compulsory for level A+, are printed in grey. Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 199 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.1 About this Report Profile GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Most Senior Decision–Maker Statement F ABOUT THIS REPORT / Message of the Chairman and CEO CR Strategy and 1.2 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities F ABOUT THIS REPORT / Management Message of the Chairman and CEO CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Management Approach CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / CR Governance and Management Structure Marketplace CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Risk and Compliance Management and Policies CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Enterprise Risk and Insurance Management System CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Materiality Analysis CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Employees 2013 CR Performance CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / 2013 and 2014 Goals ENVIRONMENT / Management Approach ENVIRONMENT / Telecommunications for the Environment ENVIRONMENT / Society Greenhouse Gases and Other Gas Emissions Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 200 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.1 About this Report Profile (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Organization Profile 2.1 Name of Organization F ABOUT THIS REPORT CR Strategy and 2.2 Brands, Products and/or Services F ABOUT THIS REPORT / Management OTE and COSMOTE 2.3 Operational Structure of Organization F ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE Group 2.4 Headquarters Location F ABOUT THIS REPORT Marketplace 2.5 Countries of Operation F ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE Group 2.6 Ownership and Legal Form F ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE Group ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE and COSMOTE Employees 2.7 Markets Served F ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE Group CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / 2013 CR Performance 2.8 Scale of the Reporting Organization F ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE Group ABOUT THIS REPORT / Society OTE and COSMOTE CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / 2013 CR Performance 2.9 Significant Changes in Reporting Period F ABOUT THIS REPORT / Environment OTE Group 2.10 Awards Received in Reporting Period F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Awards Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 201 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.1 About this Report Profile (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period F ABOUT THIS REPORT CR Strategy and 3.2 Date of most Recent Report F ABOUT THIS REPORT Management 3.3 Reporting Cycle F ABOUT THIS REPORT 3.4 Contact Point About the Report F ABOUT THIS REPORT 3.5 Process for Defining F ABOUT THIS REPORT Report Content CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Marketplace Management Approach CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Materiality Analysis 3.6 Boundary of the Report F ABOUT THIS REPORT 3.7 Limitations on Boundary or F ABOUT THIS REPORT Scope of Report Employees 3.8 Joint Ventures, Subsidiaries F ABOUT THIS REPORT and Outsourcing 3.9 Data Measurement Techniques F ABOUT THIS REPORT 3. 0 Effects and Reasons of F ABOUT THIS REPORT Society Restated Information 3.11 Significant Changes in Report Scope, F ABOUT THIS REPORT Boundary, Methods 3.12 GRI Content Index F INDEXES / Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Index Environment 3.13 External Assurance Policy F INDEXES / Independent Assurance Report Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 202 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.1 About this Report Profile (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance Structure F EMPLOYEES / Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity CR Strategy and CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Management Corporate Governance 4.2 Whether BoD Chair is also CEO F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Corporate Governance 4.3 Defining Independent Board Members F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Corporate Governance Marketplace 4.4 Mechanisms for Shareholders and F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Employees to Communicate with Corporate Governance the Board EMPLOYEES / Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity 4.5 Linkage Between Executive F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Compensation and Organization Corporate Governance Employees Performance EMPLOYEES / Performance Management 4.6 Board Processes to Prevent Conflicts F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / of Interest Corporate Governance CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Compliance Management System and Policies 4.7 Procedures for Determining Board F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Society Members Expertise Corporate Governance https://www.ote.gr/en/web/guest/corporate/ir/ corporate-governance/board-of-directors 4.8 Internal Statements of Mission, F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Environment Codes and Principles Management Approach CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Compliance Management System and Policies SOCIETY / Management Approach ENVIRONMENT / Management Approach 4.9 Board Governance of OTE Group Subsidiaries F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Sustainability Performance CR Governance and Management Structure CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Corporate Governance 4.10 Evaluation of Board’s F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Sustainability Performance Corporate Governance Indexes Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 203 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.1 About this Report Profile (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.11 Precautionary Approach F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Memberships 4.12 External Charters, Codes and Principles F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / CR Strategy and Management Memberships MARKETPLACE / Advocacy for a Responsible Marketplace 4.13 Memberships in Associations and F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Advocacy Bodies Stakeholder Engagement Marketplace CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Stakeholder Engagement Approach CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue 4.14 Stakeholder Groups Engaged F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Corporate Governance Employees EMPLOYEES / Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity 4.15 Stakeholder Identification and Selection F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / for Engagement Stakeholder Engagement CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Stakeholder Engagement Approach 4.16 Approaches to Stakeholder Engagement Society F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Stakeholder Engagement Approach CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue 4.17 Topics And Concerns Raised F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / by Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Approach Environment CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 204 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.2 About this Report Economic Performance Indicators Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Economic Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and Economic Performance F ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE and COSMOTE Management CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / 2013 CR Performance MARKETPLACE / Management Approach MARKETPLACE / Marketplace Business Continuity Management Market Presence F ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE and COSMOTE CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / 2013 CR Performance MARKETPLACE / Management Approach Employees MARKETPLACE / Business Continuity Management Indirect Economic Impacts F ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE and COSMOTE CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Management Approach Society CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / 2013 CR Performance MARKETPLACE / Management Approach MARKETPLACE / Business Continuity Management Environment Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 205 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.2 About this Report Economic Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Economic Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated F ABOUT THIS REPORT / and Distributed OTE and COSMOTE Management EC2 Financial Implications due to F MARKETPLACE / Climate Change Responsible Products and Services ENVIRONMENT / Telecommunications for the Environment Marketplace ENVIRONMENT / Greenhouse Gases and other Gas Emissions EC3 Coverage of Organization’s Defined F EMPLOYEES / Benefit Plan Employee Benefits See also Provisions for Pensions, Staff Retirement Indemnities and other Employee Benefits in OTE Annual Financial Report 2013. Employees EC4 Government Financial Assistance F ABOUT THIS REPORT / OTE and COSMOTE EC5 Entry Level Wage Compared to F EMPLOYEES / Minimum Wage Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity EC6 Locally Based Suppliers F MARKETPLACE / Procurement Policy EC7 Local Hiring F EMPLOYEES / Society Workforce EC8 Infrastructure Investments and F MARKETPLACE / Services Benefiting the Public Expanding Broadband and Mobile Internet In Greece Environment MARKETPLACE / Responsible Products and Services SOCIETY / Social Products, Services and Offers SOCIETY / Enabling Entrepreneurship SOCIETY / OTE Group Social Contribution SOCIETY / Subsidiaries Contributing to Local Communities’ Well–Being and Sustainability ENVIRONMENT / Telecommunications for the Environment ENVIRONMENT / Biodiversity Indexes ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 206 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.2 About this Report Economic Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Economic Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and EC9 Indirect Economic Impacts F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Enterprise Risk and Insurance Management System Management MARKETPLACE / Expanding Broadband and Mobile Internet In Greece MARKETPLACE / Responsible Products and Services SOCIETY / Marketplace Social Products, Services and Offers SOCIETY / Enabling Entrepreneurship SOCIETY / Social Contribution SOCIETY / Contributing to Local Communities’ Well–Being and Sustainability Employees Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 207 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.3 About this Report Environmental Performance Indicators Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Environmental Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and Materials F ENVIRONMENT / Management Approach Management ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Waste Management Energy F ENVIRONMENT / Management Approach ENVIRONMENT / Marketplace Improving Energy Efficiency and Reducing Emissions Water F ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption Biodiversity F ENVIRONMENT / Biodiversity Employees Emissions, Effluents and Waste F ENVIRONMENT / Management Approach ENVIRONMENT / Greenhouse Gases and other Gas Emissions ENVIRONMENT / Energy Conservation ENVIRONMENT / Society Resource Use and Waste Management ENVIRONMENT / Ozone ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption Products and Services F ENVIRONMENT / Environment Management Approach ENVIRONMENT / Energy Conservation ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use And Waste Management ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields ENVIRONMENT / OTE Group Subsidiaries Other Environmental Aspects of OTE and COSMOTE Operation Compliance F ENVIRONMENT / Management Approach ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes Indexes 208 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.3 About this Report Environmental Performance Indicators (Cont’d) Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Environmental Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and Transport F ENVIRONMENT / Management Approach Management ENVIRONMENT / Greenhouse Gases and other Gas Emissions ENVIRONMENT / Energy Consumption ENVIRONMENT / Marketplace Energy Conservation in Transport Overall F ENVIRONMENT / Management Approach ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 209 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.3 About this Report Environmental Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Environmental Disclosures on Management Approach EN1 Volume of Materials Used CR Strategy and F ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Waste Management Management EN2 Recycled Materials F ENVIRONMENT / Management of Packaging Material EN3 Direct Primary Energy Consumption F ENVIRONMENT / Energy Consumption Marketplace EN4 Indirect Primary Energy Consumption F ENVIRONMENT / Energy Consumption EN5 Energy Conservation F ENVIRONMENT / Energy Conservation EN6 Initiatives for Energy Efficiency F ENVIRONMENT / and Renewables Telecommunications for the Environment Employees ENVIRONMENT / Energy Consumption ENVIRONMENT / Energy Conservation EN7 Initiatives for Reducing Indirect F ENVIRONMENT / Energy Consumption Other Indirect GHG Emissions Society ENVIRONMENT / Energy Conservation in Transport ENVIRONMENT / Paper Waste Management EN8 Total Water Withdrawal F ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption Environment EN9 Effect of Water Withdrawal F ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption EN10 Water Recycled and Reused F ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption EN11 Land Assets in or Adjacent to F ENVIRONMENT / OTE Group Protected Areas Biodiversity EN12 Impacts on Biodiversity F ENVIRONMENT / Subsidiaries Biodiversity ENVIRONMENT / Following by Design the Precautionary Principle ENVIRONMENT / Monitoring the Levels of EMF Radiation EN13 Habitats Protected or Restored F ENVIRONMENT / Indexes Biodiversity Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 210 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.3 About this Report Environmental Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Environmental Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and EN14 Strategy for Biodiversity F ENVIRONMENT / Biodiversity Management EN15 Endangered Species F ENVIRONMENT / Biodiversity EN16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions F ENVIRONMENT / Direct GHG and Non–GHG Emissions Marketplace ENVIRONMENT / Indirect GHG Emissions EN17 Other Greenhouse Gas Emissions F ENVIRONMENT / Other Indirect GHG Emissions EN18 Initiatives to Reduce Greenhouse F ENVIRONMENT / Gas Emissions Energy Conservation Employees EN19 Emissions of Ozone–Depleting Substances F ENVIRONMENT / Ozone EN20 Nox Sox and other Air Emissions F ENVIRONMENT / Direct GHG and Non–GHG Emissions EN21 Water Discharge F ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption EN22 Waste by Type and Disposal Method F ENVIRONMENT / Society Resource Use and Waste Management EN23 Significant Spills F ENVIRONMENT / Hazardous Waste Management Environment ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption EN24 Waste Deemed Hazardous Under Basel F ENVIRONMENT / Convention Hazardous Waste Management EN25 Impacts of Discharge and Runoff F ENVIRONMENT / on Biodiversity Water Consumption OTE Group Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 211 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.3 About this Report Environmental Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Environmental Disclosures on Management Approach EN26 Initiatives to Mitigate CR Strategy and F ENVIRONMENT / Environmental Impacts Energy Consumption Management ENVIRONMENT / Energy Conservation ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Waste Management ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Marketplace ENVIRONMENT / Ozone ENVIRONMENT / Water Consumption ENVIRONMENT / Biodiversity Employees ENVIRONMENT / Noise ENVIRONMENT / Visual impact EN27 Packaging Materials F ENVIRONMENT / Management of Packaging Material EN28 Non–Compliance with F ENVIRONMENT / Society Environmental Regulations Key Achievements in 2013 EN29 Environmental Impacts of Transport F ENVIRONMENT / Direct GHG and Non–GHG Emissions ENVIRONMENT / Other Indirect GHG Emissions Environment ENVIRONMENT / Energy Consumption ENVIRONMENT / Energy Conservation in Transport EN30 Environmental Protection Expenditures F ENVIRONMENT / Key Achievements in 2013 OTE Group ENVIRONMENT / Following by Design the Precautionary Principle Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 212 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Labour Practices Disclosures on Management Approach Employment CR Strategy and F EMPLOYEES / Management Approach Management EMPLOYEES / Workforce EMPLOYEES / Employee Benefits EMPLOYEES / Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity Marketplace Labour/Management Relations F EMPLOYEES / Management Approach EMPLOYEES / Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements Occupational Health and Safety F EMPLOYEES / Employees Management Approach EMPLOYEES / Health and Safety Policy EMPLOYEES / Health and Safety Performance in 2013 EMPLOYEES / Health and Safety Prevention and Awareness Society Training and Education F EMPLOYEES / Management Approach EMPLOYEES / Performance Development Diversity and Equal Opportunity F EMPLOYEES / Environment Management Approach EMPLOYEES / Workforce EMPLOYEES / Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity Equal Remuneration for F EMPLOYEES / Men and Women Management Approach OTE Group EMPLOYEES / Subsidiaries Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes Indexes 213 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Labour Practices Disclosures on Management Approach LA1 Workforce by Employment Type, CR Strategy and F EMPLOYEES / Region, Gender Workforce Management LA2 Employee Turnover F EMPLOYEES / Workforce LA3 Benefits for Full Time Employees F EMPLOYEES / Employee Benefits Marketplace LA4 Coverage of Collective F EMPLOYEES / Bargaining Agreements Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements LA5 Minimum Notice Periods on F EMPLOYEES / Operational Changes Fair Employment Policy Framework LA6 Workforce Represented in Joint F EMPLOYEES / H&S Committees Health and Safety Policy Employees LA7 Occupational Diseases, Lost Days F EMPLOYEES / and Fatalities Health and Safety Performance in 2013 LA8 Training on Serious Diseases F EMPLOYEES / Health and Safety Prevention and Awareness LA9 Trade Union Agreements on Health F EMPLOYEES / and Safety Society Health and Safety Policy LA10 Training per Employee by Gender F EMPLOYEES / and Category Performance Development LA11 Programs for Lifelong Learning P EMPLOYEES / Performance Development Environment See also Provisions for Pensions, Staff Retirement Indemnities and other Employee Benefits in OTE Annual Financial Report 2013 LA12 Performance and Development Reviews F EMPLOYEES / by Gender Performance Development LA13 Governance Bodies by Diversity Criteria F EMPLOYEES / OTE Group Workforce Subsidiaries EMPLOYEES / Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity Minority groups are not considered a material issue for OTE and COSMOTE operations in Greece. LA14 Basic Remuneration Ratio F EMPLOYEES / by Gender Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity LA15 Parental Leave Return and Retention F EMPLOYEES / Indexes Rates by Gender Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 214 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Human Rights Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and Investment and Procurement Practices F MARKETPLACE / Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management Management MARKETPLACE / Procurement Policy MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation Non–Discrimination F EMPLOYEES / Marketplace Management Approach EMPLOYEES / Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity Freedom of Association and F MARKETPLACE / Collective Bargaining Supplier Evaluation EMPLOYEES / Employees Management Approach EMPLOYEES / Fair Employment Policy Framework EMPLOYEES / Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements Child Labour F MARKETPLACE / Procurement Policy Society MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation EMPLOYEES / Management Approach EMPLOYEES / Fair Employment Policy Framework Environment EMPLOYEES / Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements Prevention of Forced and F MARKETPLACE / Compulsory Labour Supplier Evaluation EMPLOYEES / Management Approach OTE Group EMPLOYEES / Fair Employment Policy Framework EMPLOYEES / Subsidiaries Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements Security Practices F MARKETPLACE / Data Security and Privacy Indigenous Rights Indexes Not Not relevant Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 215 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Human Rights Disclosures on Management Approach Assessment CR Strategy and F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Compliance Management System and Policies Management EMPLOYEES / Fair Employment Policy Framework MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation Remediation F EMPLOYEES / Marketplace Fair Employment Policy Framework MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 216 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Human Rights Disclosures on Management Approach HR1 Investment Agreements and CR Strategy and F MARKETPLACE / Human Rights Screening Procurement Policy Management MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation The P.D. 178/2002 on employees’ right protection is taken into consideration in significant investment agreements. HR2 Supplier Screening on F MARKETPLACE / Marketplace Human Rights Procurement Policy MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation HR3 Employee Training on F EMPLOYEES / Human Rights Internal Communications HR4 Incidents of Discrimination F EMPLOYEES / Employees Non–Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity HR5 Freedom of Association and F MARKETPLACE / Collective Bargaining Supplier Evaluation EMPLOYEES / Fair Employment Policy Framework EMPLOYEES / Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements Society HR6 Child Labour in Operations and F MARKETPLACE / Supply Chain Procurement Policy MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation EMPLOYEES / Environment Fair Employment Policy Framework EMPLOYEES / Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements HR7 Forced Labour in Operations and F MARKETPLACE / Supply Chain Supplier Evaluation EMPLOYEES / OTE Group Fair Employment Policy Framework Subsidiaries EMPLOYEES / Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements HR8 Human Rights Training of F MARKETPLACE / Security Personnel Data Security and Privacy No training addressing specifically human right issues took place in 2013 HR9 Human Rights of Indigenous People Not Not relevant Indexes Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 217 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Human Rights Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and HR10 Human Rights Reviews or F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Risk Assessments Compliance Management System and Policies Management EMPLOYEES / Fair Employment Policy Framework MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation HR11 Grievances Filed on F EMPLOYEES / Marketplace Human Rights Issues Fair Employment Policy Framework MARKETPLACE / Supplier Evaluation Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Employees Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 218 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Society Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and Local Communities F SOCIETY / Management Approach Management SOCIETY / Contributing to Local Communities’ Well–Being and Sustainability ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Marketplace Corruption F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Compliance Management System and Policies Public Policy F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Management Approach CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Compliance Management System and Policies Employees MARKETPLACE / Management Approach MARKETPLACE / Advocacy for a Responsible Marketplace Anti–Competitive Behaviour F MARKETPLACE / Competition and Regulation MARKETPLACE / Society Advocacy for a Responsible Marketplace Compliance F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Compliance Management System and Policies Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 219 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Society Disclosures on Management Approach SO1 Local Communities Engagement and CR Strategy and F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Impact Programs Stakeholder Engagement Approach Management CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue EMPLOYEES / Health and Safety Policy SOCIETY / Management Approach Marketplace SOCIETY / Contributing to Local Communities’ Well–Being and Sustainability ENVIRONMENT / Biodiversity ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Employees SO2 Coverage of Corruption Risk Assessments F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Compliance Management System and Policies SO3 % Of Employees Receiving F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Anti–Corruption Training Compliance Management System and Policies SO4 Incidents of Corruption and F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Actions Taken Society Compliance Management System and Policies SO5 Public Policy and Lobbying Positions F MARKETPLACE / Advocacy for a Responsible Marketplace SO6 Political Donations and Contributions F CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT / Compliance Management System and Policies Environment SO7 Legal Actions for F MARKETPLACE / Anti–Competitive Conduct Competition and Regulation SO8 Fines and Sanctions for Regulatory F MARKETPLACE / Non–Compliance Competition and Regulation MARKETPLACE / Responsible Marketing Practices OTE Group MARKETPLACE / Subsidiaries Equipment Safety Labelling MARKETPLACE / Data Security and Privacy Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes Indexes 220 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Society Disclosures on Management Approach CR Strategy and SO9 Negative Impacts on Local Communities F SOCIETY / Contributing to Local Communities’ Well–Being Management and Sustainability ENVIRONMENT / Biodiversity ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Marketplace SO10 Prevention and Mitigation of F SOCIETY / Negative Impacts Contributing to Local Communities’ Well–Being and Sustainability ENVIRONMENT / Biodiversity ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Employees Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Society Environment OTE Group Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 221 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Product Responsibility Disclosures on Management Approach Customer Health and Safety CR Strategy and F MARKETPLACE / Management Approach Management MARKETPLACE / Equipment Safety Labelling ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Waste Management ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Marketplace Product and Service Labelling F MARKETPLACE / Management Approach MARKETPLACE / Equipment Safety Labelling ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields Employees Marketing Communications F MARKETPLACE / Management Approach MARKETPLACE / Responsible Marketing Practices MARKETPLACE / Equipment Safety Labelling Society Customer Privacy F MARKETPLACE / Management Approach MARKETPLACE / Data Security and Privacy Compliance F MARKETPLACE / Environment Management Approach MARKETPLACE / Responsible Marketing Practices MARKETPLACE / Equipment Safety Labelling MARKETPLACE / Data Security and Privacy OTE Group Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 222 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.4 About this Report Social Performance Indicators (Cont’d) GRI Summary Description Status Report Section / Notes Social: Product Responsibility Disclosures on Management Approach PR1 Health and Safety Impacts in CR Strategy and F MARKETPLACE / Products Life Cycles Equipment Safety Labelling Management ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Waste Management ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields PR2 Non–Compliance with H&S F MARKETPLACE / Marketplace Regulations for Products Equipment Safety Labelling ENVIRONMENT / Resource Use and Waste Management ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields PR3 Product Information F MARKETPLACE / Employees Equipment Safety Labelling ENVIRONMENT / Electromagnetic Fields PR4 Non–Compliance with Product F MARKETPLACE / Information Standards Equipment Safety Labelling PR5 Customer Satisfaction F MARKETPLACE / Complaints Management MARKETPLACE / Society Customer Surveys PR6 Marketing Standards F MARKETPLACE / Responsible Marketing Practices MARKETPLACE / Environment Equipment Safety Labelling PR7 Non–Compliance with F MARKETPLACE / Marketing Responsible Marketing Practices Standards MARKETPLACE / Equipment Safety Labelling PR8 Complaints Regarding Customer OTE Group F MARKETPLACE / Data Security Data Security and Privacy PR9 Fines for Non–Compliance with F MARKETPLACE / Subsidiaries Product Regulations Responsible Marketing Practices MARKETPLACE / Equipment Safety Labelling MARKETPLACE / Indexes Data Security and Privacy Index Key: F = Fully P = Partially Not = Not Reported Indexes 223 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 About this Report CR Strategy and Marketplace Employees Society Environment OTE Group Indexes Management Subsidiaries OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 8.3.5 224 GRI Application Level Check (Statement from GRI) Indexes About this Report 8.4 CR Strategy and Management Independent Assurance Report Marketplace Statement Independent assurance statement by Deloitte Hadjipavlou Sofianos & Cambanis S.A. (‘Deloitte’) to Employees the management of Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. (‘OTE’) and COSMOTE Mobile Telecommunications S.A. (‘COSMOTE’) on the 2013 common Corporate Responsibility Report (‘CR Report’) for the year ended 31 December 2013. Scope of our work and the assurance standards we used The Corporate CR team of OTE and COSMOTE engaged us to: Society 1. Provide Type 2 moderate (limited) assurance in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (‘AA1000AS’): – Inclusivity – how they identified and engaged with stakeholders to gain a full understanding of issues; – Materiality – how they assessed the relative importance of each issue; and Environment – Responsiveness – how they responded to stakeholder issues and how this is reflected in the common CR Report. 2. Provide limited assurance on the following selected key performance data – Number of complaints received from customers (fixed and mobile), Complaints Management – Percentage of complaints received from customers, that were resolved within 2 days, Complaints Management – Loyalty index (TRIM ), Customer Surveys OTE Group – Suppliers evaluated on the basis of sustainability criteria (% of the procurement volume), Supplier Evaluation Subsidiaries – Number of students supported in the framework of OTECOSMOTE Scholarship Program and total value of the financial support (€), Supporting Young People – CR expenditure for 2013, Social Contribution – Number of corporate employee volunteering activities, Employee Volunteering Indexes – Number of employees (FTE 31/12), Workforce Indexes 225 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 – Work-related non-fatal accidents (number of employees and lost days), Health and Safety Performance in 2013 About this Report – Work-related fatal accidents (number of employees), Health and Safety Performance in 2013 – Percentage of male and female employees, Workforce – Percentage of the employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (%), Freedom of Association and Collective Agreements CR Strategy and – Average number of training hours per employee and total number of the employees participated in training, Employee Training Management – Average number of training hours per employee for health and safety issues, Health and Safety Prevention and Awareness – Number of complaints regarding discrimination, that required corrective actions, Non Discrimination, Equal Opportunity and Diversity – Employee turnover (departures) as a percentage of the total number of employees, Workforce Marketplace – Electricity consumption (GWH), Energy Consumption – Fuel consumption in buildings and installations (GWH), Energy Consumption – Fuel consumption for vehicles fleet (GWH), Energy Consumption – Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions (t CO2 eq), Direct GHG and Non-GHG Emissions – Indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions (t CO2 eq), Indirect GHG Emissions Employees – Hazardous waste (lead batteries and lubricant oils) (t), Lead Batteries & Lubricant Oils – Recycling of non-hazardous technical waste from telecom operations (metals & cables and electrical & electronic equipment) (t), Metals and Cables & Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment – Recycling of phone devices (mobile & fixed) and accessories (t), Phones and Accessories – Number of measurements on EMF conducted by specialized scientific personnel of COSMOTE and Society independent institutions, Monitoring the levels of EMF radiation Our scope of work was limited to OTE’s and COSMOTE’s activities in Greece. We carried out a Type 2 moderate (i.e. limited) assurance in accordance with AA1000AS. A Type 2 engagement requires us to report on the nature and extent of adherence to AA1000 APS. To achieve moderate-level assurance we have used the criteria in AA1000AS to evaluate adherence to AA1000APS in combination with our robust evidence-based and quality-assured approach to Environment professional and independent assurance. We carried out limited assurance on the selected key performance indicators in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). To achieve limited assurance, the ISAE 3000 requires that we review the processes, systems and competencies used to compile the areas on which we provide assurance. This is designed to give a similar level of assurance to that obtained in the review of interim financial information. It does not include detailed testing of source data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls. OTE Group Our key assurance procedures Subsidiaries To form our conclusions, we undertook the following procedures: l Analysed and tested on a sample basis the processes related to stakeholder identification and engagement, including review of a sample of engagements and the outcomes of engagement; l Reviewed the process that OTE and COSMOTE used to identify and determine material issues to be included Indexes within the common CR Report. This included a review of external media coverage and peer reporting on CR in 2013 to corroborate issues identified by OTE and COSMOTE; Indexes 226 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 l Interviewed a selection of OTE and COSMOTE executives and senior management who have operational About this Report responsibility for CR issues, including the OTE and COSMOTE CR team, to understand the governance structures used for managing CR, engagement with stakeholders on CR issues, as well as implementation of CR related policies and initiatives in 2013 and the monitoring of these activities; l Analysed and reviewed on a sample basis the key structures, systems, processes, procedures and controlsrelating to the collation, aggregation, validation and reporting processes of the selected CR performance indicators; l Reviewed information and explanations about the CR Report’s assertions regarding CR performance in 2013; and CR Strategy and l Reviewed the content of the common CR Report against the findings of the aforementioned procedures and, as Management necessary, provided recommendations for improvement. Our independence and competencies in providing assurance to OTE and COSMOTE l We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies, which address and, in certain cases, exceed the requirements of the International Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants in their role as independent auditors, and in particular preclude us from taking financial, commercial, governance and ownership positions Marketplace which might affect, or be perceived to affect, our independence and impartiality, and from any involvement in the preparation of the report. We have confirmed to OTE and COSMOTE that we have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year and in particular that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair our independence and objectivity. l Our team consisted of a combination of qualified Accountants with professional assurance qualifications and professionals with a combination of environmental, CR and stakeholder engagement experience, including many Employees years’ experience in providing CR report assurance. Roles and Responsibilities The Corporate Responsibility team of OTE and COSMOTE has prepared the common CR Report for the intended audience of stakeholders, as outlined in the “Stakeholder Engagement”. The team, who collect and organize the CR report data, is also responsible for the preparation of the common CR Report and for the information and statements contained therein. The General Directors are responsible for approving the common CR report data, determining the Society CR targets and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived. Our responsibility is to independently express conclusions on the subject matters, as defined within the scope of work above, and in accordance with our letter of engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to OTE and COSMOTE those matters we are required to state to them in this statement and for no other purpose. Environment To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than OTE and COSMOTE for our work, for this statement, or for the conclusions we have formed. Our observations and recommendations OTE and COSMOTE have made the following key improvements in managing and reporting their CR performance during 2013: OTE Group l Proceeded with certifying the Environmental Management System of OTE. Subsidiaries l Participated in a workshop, organized by an independent organization, where various stakeholders coming from different groups discussed various CR issues with a Companies’ representative in a structured and balanced manner and rated these material issues using suitable CR criteria. l Developed a fully operational IT system for collecting environmental data. Indexes Indexes 227 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 To improve future management and reporting of CR in accordance with AA1000APS we make the following About this Report recommendations to OTE and COSMOTE: Inclusivity: l OTE and COSMOTE Management are engaged in a process of dialogue with the stakeholders for the development of an integrated and consistent CR related strategy. Incorporating gradually the dialogue process in the policies and procedures followed by OTE and COSMOTE, would promote a more structured engagement approach with the stakeholders. CR Strategy and Materiality: Management l OTE and COSMOTE have established a materiality determination process, which is applied across the organization on an ongoing basis. Validating the results of the materiality determination process with the key process owners would assist in developing a more comprehensive understanding of the stakeholders’ CR issues. Responsiveness: l The CR Report lists a number of targets, however, in order to strengthen the responsiveness to material issues, Marketplace we would recommend that OTE and COSMOTE Management set more quantitative and focused performance indicators in the framework of long and short-term targets. The observations and recommendations have been taken into account in forming our conclusions on the common CR Report, as set out in this statement. Our Conclusions Employees Based on the scope of our work and the assurance procedures we performed we conclude that: 1. OTE and COSMOTE have implemented the methods described in the “Accountability Principles Standard AA1000 Index”, that adhere with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as set out in the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 (‘AA1000APS’); and 2. Based on the assurance work we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the specific CR performance indicators defined above, are materially misstated. Society In the event of any inconsistency in translation between the English and Greek versions of the common CR Report, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the English version prevails. Athens, 27 May 2014 Environment Deloitte Hadjipavlou Sofianos & Cambanis S.A. Assurance & Advisory Services Paris Efthymiades OTE Group Partner Subsidiaries Indexes Indexes 228 OTE and COSMOTE CR Report 2013 Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. COSMOTE – Mobile Telecommunications S.A. 99, Kifissias Ave., 151 24 Maroussi, Athens, Greece www.ote.gr, www.cosmote.gr
