Bringing products to market TOP-TOY’s Performance Report 2013/2014 Table of contents Introduction 3 About this report 4 Message from our Joint Managing Directors 5 Performance highlights 2013/14 6 Our business Building a competitive company 7 Summary 8 Efficient organisation 9 Streamlined supply chain 10 Dedicated workforce Offering our customers the best possible products 11 Summary 12 Great product portfolio 14 Safe products 16 Excellent customer experience Contributing positively to society 17 Summary 18 Ethical factory conditions 20 Resourceful collaboration with industry 21 Partnerships with external stakeholders Global themes 22 Rights 23 Integrity 24 Environment Financial performance 25 Financial performance 2 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 About this report The TOP-TOY Performance Report 2013/14 is our fifth annual report, produced as part of our effort to give stakeholders a clear account of our business performance. Bringing products to market This year’s report also incorporates a number of global themes, Entitled ‘bringing products to market’, the report focuses reflecting UN Global Compact issues relevant to our business on the core elements of our business, which aims to supply and our stakeholders. The themes are: children in Northern Europe with great products. The report provides a holistic overview of our business, our progress in Rights – We acknowledge our responsibility to respect respect of commitments and goals, and initiatives underway human and labour rights through our business activities to unlock future growth. and operations. Our report is structured around three key focus areas vital to Integrity – We strive to conduct our business with high bringing products to market. These are: integrity, strong ethics and respect for the law, wherever and with whomever we operate. • To build a competitive company by maintaining an efficient organisation, streamlined supply chain and Environment – We aim to understand the impact of our dedicated workforce. operations on the environment and reduce our footprint. • To offer our customers a great portfolio of safe products and a pleasant experience overall. • To contribute positively to society by working proactively with key stakeholders. Contribute positively to society Through valuable collaborations with key stakeholders, such as our suppliers, we ensure that we make a positive impact on society by balancing the commercial and sustainable aspects of our business. Build a competitive company TOP-TOY sells products in an ever more changeable and competitive market, where flexibility and Offer the best possible responsiveness are key. We need products to our customers to keep on adjusting and preparing ourselves for future challenges. We work continuously to improve our product offering in order to meet and exceed customer expectations. Our success depends on our ability to sell products that are fun, safe and of high quality. The report is supported by further online information on www.top-toy.com TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 3 To capitalise on current market opportunities and maintain our leading position, we have taken a number of initiatives to streamline TOP-TOY and strengthen our ability to bring products faster to market. Message from our Joint Managing Directors During 2013/14, we have taken further steps to make our Financial performance company leaner and more agile. Today, we are looking Changes in shopper behaviour have softened demand ahead and pursuing new ways to unlock growth for throughout Europe. This was reflected in our weaker sales during TOP-TOY – now and in the future. the Christmas season, which largely explain why our financial performance was below expectation. In this light, we are positive TOP-TOY is one of the largest companies distributing and about developments in our sales overall and confident that we selling products to children in Northern Europe. Here, we are taking the right steps to support our future growth. operate in an ever-more competitive market, where constantly changing customer demands and emerging global concerns In 2013/14, our total revenue was 4.0 billion DKK. Despite a slight have become the norm. decline in our same-store sales, total revenue from our retail business remained stable due to the opening of new stores. To maintain our leading position, we need to evolve what However, revenue from our wholesale business fell. We expect to we do and how we do it. That is why we are working hard to deliver an improved financial performance in 2014/15. become even better at capitalising on the opportunities that our markets present. We have taken a number of actions Addressing global themes to streamline TOP-TOY, strengthening our ability to bring We are currently incorporating three global themes products faster to market. At the same time, our innovative – environment, labour and human rights, and anti-corruption approach is ensuring that we continue to offer products in – based on UN Global Compact principles in our day-to-day line with customer expectations and to develop successful operations. By embedding them in our decision-making, business collaborations. we will become more competitive and responsive to stakeholder needs, while ensuring we live up to our Current state of our business sustainability commitments. Thanks to our people and the high-quality products in our range, we have delivered positive financial results throughout Our plan is ambitious. However, we are in no doubt that our the financial crisis. In 2013/14, however, our financial employees and business partners will rise to the challenge and performance has fallen below target. In response, we have deliver whatever is required to strengthen our business and implemented a series of initiatives to combat rising operational unlock new growth. costs and restructure our organisation. Today, we are happy to see that our key initiatives are moving ahead as planned and have already made good progress throughout 2013/14. New initiatives within customer service include a self-service platform for wholesale customers and, during 2014/15, a click-and-collect service for retail customers. We continue to sharpen the BR brand in all stores as well as on our website. Wherever our customers meet us – both online and offline – we want them to experience us as consistent, transparent and easily accessible. This is the objective of our streamlined, multi-channel approach. Peter Gjørup and Lars Gjørup 4 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 Performance highlights 2013/14 5,156 product safety 43 million products sold through inspections BR & 14 TOYS”R”US million products sold through NORSTAR 4.0 billion DKK in total revenue, 122 million DKK Updated in profit of the year BR brand 38,000 15,800 products likes on BR Facebook in assortment Denmark & Sweden since launch self-service platform launched 19,000,000 customers served in BR & TOYS”R”US For a full picture of our financial performance, please turn to pages 25-26. TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 5 Our business TOP-TOY is an international company with a core focus on distributing and selling toys and other products for children. 2,258 full time employees We served approximately 19 million customers in 2013/14 through our two retail chains, BR and TOYS”R”US. For the TOYS”R”US chain, we hold an exclusive license to operate in 250 BR stores the Nordic region. Through our wholesale company NORSTAR, we serve more than 4,500 retail stores – including large retail chains and small local stores – across four countries. 52 TOYS”R”US stores Our retail and wholesale businesses make us one of the largest toy distributors in Northern Europe. In 2013/14, 4,500 retail stores served by NORSTAR we sold approximately 43 million products to retail customers and 14 million to wholesale customers across our markets. This generated approximately 4.0 billion DKK in total revenue and 122 million DKK in profit of the year. We employed 5,559 employees in 2013/14 (corresponding to 2,258 full-time positions) in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland, Germany and Hong Kong. Our main offices are located in Denmark and Hong Kong. 3 26 ICELAND FINLAND FAROE SWEDEN ISLANDS 5 NORWAY 27 1 16 177 Franchise store 12 65 45 491 Helsinki 318 Sandefjord 16 92 DENMARK Ängelholm 1,056 Aarhus Copenhagen 106 HONG KONG GERMANY 20 84 NORSTAR showroom and office Main offices 6 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 Building a competitive company Our goal is to build a resilient and agile company, with a focused set of priorities and the capability to respond rapidly to changes, challenges and opportunities – a company built on processes that facilitate flexibility and speed. We are building an efficient organisation where the innovation and excellent customer service provided by our skilled workforce and optimised logistics are helping us towards market leadership. Efficient organisation Streamlined supply chain Dedicated workforce We aim to ‘do things smarter’ by The right infrastructure is paramount People are behind every successful simplifying our organisational structure to improve the way we bring products and sustainable company. We will and optimising our internal processes. to market. For this reason, we are continue to develop a strong and In 2014, we initiated this process streamlining our supply chain through dedicated workforce. Through their by consolidating departments and smooth transportation, efficient storage skills and personality, we will foster strengthening our planning, and new distribution channels. a high performance, inclusive culture marketing and purchasing processes. Significant progress has been made, where differences are valued and These actions will continue into the including the implementation of a new opportunities equal. During 2013/14, next financial year. self-service platform for wholesale we conducted our annual employee customers and an innovative engagement programme, focusing on click-and-collect service, which is in our ambition to deliver the right quality the pipeline for retail customers. every day. Efficient organisation Streamlined Dedicated supply chain workforce TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 7 Efficient organisation We aim to do things smarter by simplifying our organisational structure and optimising our internal processes. Through a leaner organisation, we will bring our products faster and more efficiently to market. Executing faster and better We constantly improve our sophisticated systems that The profitability of TOP-TOY has been under pressure in track, analyse and process data in support of our recent years. Consequently, we have identified a need to decision-making and operational activities. Specifically, simplify our organisation for faster decision-making deeper insights into customer behaviour will give us a and implementation. better understanding of needs and expectations. These key learnings will help us orchestrate more effective In 2014, we took a major step in this direction with a campaigns and bring more value to customers by focusing reorganisation of our main office locations. Following the on the right sales and marketing activities. consolidation of our internal departments, our decision-making and approval processes have become leaner and cross-functional collaboration has increased, with fewer teams now operating with clearer roles and responsibilities. Adjusting workforce scheduling In order to manage seasonal impacts on our business, we make continuous efforts to manage and reduce our operating expenses in stores and distribution centres. To that In 2014, we took a end, we carry out workforce scheduling throughout the year, major step towards temporarily increasing our workforce during the Christmas simplifying our season. We experience that many of our seasonal shop assistants come back to work for us year after year. organisation for faster decision-making and To ensure our ongoing profitability, we also took the difficult implementation. decision to let 35 employees go at the main office locations in Tune, Brabrand and Hong Kong. During the redundancy process, our key priorities were to ensure open and transparent information and provide outplacement support for affected employees. Shaping up internal processes Other profit-optimising activities during 2013 and 2014 have focused on strengthening our internal processes. We want to be able to strengthen business planning and enable a faster response to market developments. As part of improving internal processes, we are investigating the introduction of a new ERP system to streamline our operations. With such an integrated control system in place, we expect to reap further rewards from a consolidation of our distribution centres, additional supply chain synergies, better business planning and improved data transparency. During the year, improved forecasting and approval processes and a reassessment of our management priorities have optimised our procurement activities and inventory level. Our intention is to ensure that purchasing levels consistently match customer demands, optimising the turnover of products in our stores. 8 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 Streamlined supply chain The right infrastructure is a prerequisite for improving the way we bring products to market and meeting customer needs. Streamlining our supply chain through improved planning, efficient storage and transportation and improved distribution channels remains core to our business. Moving products from factories to warehouses One of our key objectives has been to optimise the way we purchase products as well as transport them from factories to our warehouses. In 2013, we established a new consolidation point in China to enable better purchasing decisions through improved planning. The project was completed in 2014 and has resulted in significant inventory reduction and cost savings. We established a It has also increased our flexibility and optimised the use of consolidation point container space, thereby ensuring that we transport our products in China, resulting in more efficiently with reduced impact on the environment. significant inventory Ethical considerations also contributed when selecting the and cost reduction. partner to run our consolidation point. The choice of partner was based on an overall evaluation of price, performance, services and working conditions at the facility. The reduction in our inventory has also significantly reduced Reducing our environmental footprint our use of external storage in Denmark, beyond our Of course, when we move and handle goods, we have an own warehouses. impact on the environment. To address this, we continue our efforts to improve our environmental performance at our largest Moving products to customers site – our distribution centre near Copenhagen, Denmark. During the year, we have invested in making our products During 2013/14, our LED lighting project, which was more easily available to customers by streamlining and introduced last year, saved 710,000 kWh, corresponding to digitalising our distribution system. Our objective is to meet 400 tonnes of CO2 emissions. Part of this work also focuses our retail and wholesale customers where they are and when on changing employee behaviour. it is convenient for them. This involves introducing webshop solutions as a supplement to our traditional retail stores and Our waste management work remains a focus area, and we our wholesale business. continue to optimise this area in terms of sorting and volume. Since 2012/13, we have made efforts to improve packaging The roll-out of our new digital self-service platform in all our solutions when shipping from our distribution centre to our Nordic wholesale markets was completed in August 2014. stores and expect to reduce waste by introducing a thinner The platform eases and accelerates the ordering process, wrapping foil by the end of 2014. providing 24/7 access to the full NORSTAR product assortment. Initial results have been positive, and we expect the platform to become a cornerstone in our customer service. Inventory by the end of the financial year Million During 2014/15 we also aim to introduce a click-and-collect 1,000 service, which will enable our retail customers to buy items 950 online and collect them later in a BR or TOYS”R”US store. 900 The service will also help optimise the supply chain even 850 further through the integration of retail stores and online 800 customer satisfaction services. 750 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Environment – Supply chain optimisation has a direct Rights – We take human and labour rights issues into positive impact on our environmental footprint. By reducing account whenever selecting new business partners, our inventory, we minimise our use of storage space and such as the partner chosen to run our consolidation point. cut down on transportation. Further environmental improvements have been achieved in our distribution centre throughout 2013/14, resulting in reduced CO2 emissions. TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 9 Dedicated workforce A successful company is about people. We will continue to develop a strong workforce to foster a high performance and inclusive culture. Employing the right people The TOP-TOY Board of Directors comprises one woman and Our employees are the most valuable asset in our journey to five men – all of them members of the family that owns the drive the business forward. The majority of our staff, company. Two members of our three-man executive team many of them young, work in our retail stores. We aim are also family members. For this reason, we have not set to attract the right people to our stores and offices by targets to alter the gender balance of the board and executive offering them a motivating, engaging workplace with ample team, nor do we currently focus on setting targets in other opportunity to work with new challenges. A workforce aligned management levels in the organisation. At this point in time, with the TOP-TOY culture and core values, all sharing the we consider the balance of women and men in management same performance goals. positions to be fairly good, and we will continue to encourage diversity, while keeping our focus on hiring and promoting the Engaging our workforce people who are most competent and qualified. At TOP-TOY, we have always worked to preserve a strong family-oriented culture. Our core values – business sense, responsibility, family tree, top performance and toy fun – are engrained in the company and in each of our employees. Division of women and men in top management 2013/14 Women Men Launched in 2012, our Code of Conduct is based on our core values and provides a framework for guiding employees Board of Directors 17% 83% Executive Team 0% 100% with regard to ethical behaviour and shaping a culture Top Managers 20% 80% based on personal accountability. This includes guidance Middle Managers 24% 76% on how to balance our values and make the right decisions Store Managers 67% 33% as a TOP-TOY employee. Through our employee engagement programme, we work on improving our ability to deliver high performance. Each year we focus on a new theme, which is addressed at company and team level. All teams in the organisation define team goals, prepare action plans and follow up on agreed improvements. Following last year’s focus on relations, this year we turned our attention to quality, reflecting our ambition to deliver the Our core values – business right quality every day to strengthen customer loyalty. sense, responsibility, family tree, top performance and Encouraging diversity Being an international company that operates in many markets, toy fun – are engrained in diversity is naturally evident at all levels of our organisation. the company and in each Our workforce ranges from employees with a university of our employees. degree to unskilled workers and from employees recently employed at TOP-TOY to employees with more than 40 years of seniority – and with various cultural backgrounds. This is invaluable as it gives us a broad range of experiences, knowledge and perspectives and the ability to work across cultures and serve diverse consumers and customers. Goal By when Progress Develop a Code End 2014 Implementation of the Code of Conduct and of Conduct is complete, Integrity – We provide our employees with a workplace supporting but there is more to do based on mutual respect, trust, loyalty, fairness and free policies regarding the development from any type of harassment. of supporting policies Rights – As an equal opportunity employer, we do not accept unlawful discrimination of any kind and base our hiring decisions on an objective assessment of each candidate’s competences. 10 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 Offering our customers the best possible products Our ambition is to be a strong company with the ability to adapt our product offerings to constantly changing customer demands. We will continue to offer our customers products that are fun and of high quality, while also ensuring they are sold in line with the highest safety standards, marketed responsibly and accessible via a wider range of channels. Great product portfolio Safe products Excellent customer experience Understanding the children that enjoy Product safety is a top priority for Building customer loyalty towards our products is central to everything TOP-TOY. We want our products to BR, TOYS”R”US and NORSTAR is we do – our success depends entirely be trusted by our customers. paramount to our business success. on our ability to offer a strong mix of Embedding a strong product quality and We believe we can achieve this by classic toys and novelties that inspire safety process within TOP-TOY is a building stronger relations with our children to play, have fun and learn. prerequisite for our business. We focus retail and wholesale customers For this reason, we continuously on ensuring safety throughout a across all channels. At the same look for new ways to strengthen and product’s lifecycle, meeting or exceeding time, advertising to children needs maximise the value of our product EU and international legislation and to be conducted in an appropriate portfolio. During the autumn of 2014, standards within mechanical and way. Initiatives such as our new BR for example, we will launch a new BR chemical safety. In 2013/14, we carried Facebook page and the optimisation product line consisting of wooden toys. out 5,156 inspections with regard to of our BR website and stores were product safety. implemented throughout 2013/14 to improve the customer experience. TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 11 Great product portfolio It is critical to our success that we offer products in line with the rapidly changing demands of our customers. This is why we constantly seek new ways to strengthen and diversify our product portfolio. Continuing commitment in a changing environment Offering new BR products For more than 50 years, TOP-TOY's aim has been to make As part of revitalising the BR brand, over the past year, children happy and have a positive impact on their lives and we have invested in the development of a new own-brand development. Offering children fun and educational products, line of exciting BR products. Our new BR products are which they can enjoy at each stage of their childhood, designed to inspire and guide parents to make the best remains our core objective. This means we must continuously choices for their children, focusing on physical development, renew our approach to our portfolio. learning abilities and creative thinking for 0 to 4-year-olds. Our first line of products, scheduled for launch in autumn Today, our portfolio comprises 15,800 products, building on 2014, is made from FSC certified wood and will be the varying tastes and preferences of children at all ages and exclusively available in our BR stores. More product lines levels of development. The products are either selected from are in the pipeline for 2015 and onwards. our worldwide supplier base or developed in-house by our own product design and development team. Diversifying our product portfolio Back in 1963, our business began by selling classic toys and games. Today the concept of play is entering new areas as children’s playing patterns change. Increasingly, we need to take a more holistic approach, recognising that play can be many things at different occasions. At bedtime, for example, play may be sleeping in DISNEY FROZEN bed linen, while a BARBIE pencil case can give schoolwork a play-like feel. Play is also about practising the latest moves on a skate scooter or inviting your friends to a birthday party with fun invitation cards. We want our product portfolio to reflect this reality. In response, we offer many different types of product for children, including pools, bicycles, fancy dress costumes and everyday clothes, home textiles and lamps, as well as books and computer games. In addition, we continue to work with licensors in order to offer products that are popular among children, such as TURTLES and DOC MCSTUFFINS. Our choice of product offerings should also reflect an understanding of the potential impact they may have on children. In our ethical product offering policy, we define the types of products we do not wish to sell in our stores. We want to ensure our product portfolio has a positive influence on children and to avoid exposing children to products that may cause them emotional and physical harm. For example, we do not offer products which can be perceived to promote the use of tobacco or alcohol. Environment – We ensure that all new BR wooden Rights – We protect children by not exposing them products are made from FSC certified wood. to product offerings that may affect them in a negative manner. 12 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 The first line of FSC wooden products in our new BR brand is scheduled for launch in autumn 2014, focusing on physical development, learning abilities and creative thinking for children up to the age of four. TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 13 Safe products Safety always comes first. We will continue to work systematically and actively with safety to maintain the trust of parents and guarantee children’s safety when playing with our products. Creating safe playing experiences Selling products for children is a great responsibility. They are vulnerable consumers who need safety and protection. This is why toys are one of the most strictly regulated consumer goods in the EU through the EU Toy Safety Directive. Stricter rules apply to a plastic fork that a child uses to feed a doll than to a real plastic fork used by a child to eat with. Fancy dress costumes Every product we are also more heavily regulated than everyday children’s wear. If an orange were a toy, it would need to carry a safety warning offer is subject to a because of its fragrance. thorough quality and safety assurance In our product integrity policy, we set out our standards for ensuring that all the products we source worldwide meet relevant procedure to guarantee requirements – including those in the newest product categories. children's safety. Our approach is to make sure that every product we offer is subject to a thorough quality and safety assurance procedure, which is embedded throughout the product’s lifecycle. Embedding safety in a product’s development Managing safety after sales Safety considerations are integrated from the very first stages The safety process does not stop once products are of a product’s design. During the development phase, distributed for sale. We continue to monitor product product specifications are developed and concepts evaluated performance by collecting information such as claims from to ensure that relevant safety and quality standards are met. consumers, keeping up with new legal requirements and Often, the product goes through a number of changes and following relevant official safety notifications. improvements before its design and safety are finally approved. Despite all the precautions we take to ensure the quality For the majority of our products, we are not part of the and safety of the products we sell, there are still times when development process but buy finished products from a supplier. something goes wrong. If it appears that a product poses Here, we check that all relevant documentation is in place a risk or fails to comply with legislation, we initiate a recall. before they reach our customers. In this way, we ensure that At TOP-TOY, our objective is zero recalls. However, during these products have been through a comprehensive safety 2013/14, we decided to initiate a recall of two products – assessment process. the DISNEY PRINCESS shoes, because the white soles underneath the shoe contained the banned phthalate DEHP, Ensuring quality control during production and the RAPUNZEL wig, which did not meet the flammability During mass production, quality checks are performed at requirements of the Toy Safety Directive. critical points to ensure potential problems are identified and addressed as early as possible. All finished products are subject to a number of mechanical Progress and chemical tests performed by accredited third party Goal By when 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 laboratories and, in many cases, by TOP-TOY. This ensures Zero Ongoing 4 4 1 2 they comply with relevant international standards for recalls mechanical and chemical safety, functionality and durability. Rights – We respect the right of children to play safely. Our thorough product safety and quality assurance procedure aims to ensure the highest safety standards for children’s protection. 14 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 TOP-TOY’s safety process 204 inspections during production Production Process starts inspection Products Final accepted for product 5,156 production inspections of Testing of final products products by Supplier ODUCTION PR 3rd-party labs confirms Product Specification of inspection by requirements TOP-TOY VERIFICATION DEVELOPMENT Verification of documentation and In depth labelling 3,522 assessment of the verified product design new products 791 products assessed Final products are approved Supplier makes a sample Shipment An idea is born SALE Monitoring and collecting claims Evaluating and Feedback to registering supplier incidents 2 recalls TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 15 Excellent customer experiences Wherever our customers meet us – face-to-face or online – we want them to have a great shopping experience. A series of initiatives are easing accessibility, enhancing convenience and enabling responsible communication about our products. Strengthening our retail chains Creating value for our wholesale customers In our BR and TOYS”R”US stores, we meet our retail Our wholesale business NORSTAR serves more than 4,500 customers in person – children, parents, grandparents and retail stores across the Nordic countries, where it supplies and others shopping for children’s products. These stores remain promotes a number of well-known brands such as BARBIE core to our business and to our effort to build strong personal and TURTLES, which help bring traffic and demand to our relations with our customers. This is why we continuously customers’ stores. Throughout 2013/14, we trained all our optimise our store concepts in line with the BR and key account managers to ensure a continuous good business TOYS”R”US brands. relationship with our larger customers. We also implemented a digital self-service platform for easier accessibility We wish to make BR the customers’ favourite local store, and increased convenience, and a new trade marketing perceived as personal, trustworthy, inspiring and engaging. organisation has been introduced over the past two years. Over the past year, we have started a stepwise renovation of our BR stores as part of a programme to provide better Communicating responsibly to children in-store guidance that will improve the customer experience. Advertising demands a highly responsible approach. More BR stores will be upgraded during autumn 2014. Towards parents, we must communicate the right kind of During 2013/14, all German BR stores were also upgraded information to help them buy the right products. based on pilot tests performed in Germany. We think about the Product advertising aimed at children should be appropriate, environment when redoing our stores. We switch over to LED responsible and consider the sensitivity of this young light bulbs whenever we upgrade a BR store, cutting CO2 consumer group. emissions and costs at the same time. We will continue switching over to LED bulbs in our remaining BR and One particular focus of our marketing effort is to promote TOYS”R”US stores. equal play for both genders. Since 2012, we have changed the way we portray boys and girls in our printed BR We also re-opened our TOYS”R”US store in Kungens Kurva, and TOYS”R”US catalogues and other advertising and Stockholm as a new flagship store. The store has been communication. Our aim is to show boys and girls in real-life completely transformed providing customers with a new play situations, avoiding stereotypes. This has resulted in a shopping experience and many pleasant surprises that more gender-neutral approach in our marketing. encapsulate the TOYS”R”US concept: “It doesn’t get bigger Environment – We are introducing LED lighting in our than this”. upgraded BR stores, reducing our environmental footprint while saving costs. Increasing digital shopping possibilities for our retail customers Rights – We work systematically to protect children from The digital world is having a growing impact on our customers’ misleading, exploitative or aggressive marketing practices. shopping behaviour. We are responding with a number of initiatives to give customers a seamless and effortless online shopping experience. At the same time, we are making use of the many digital possibilities to inspire and guide parents in choosing the right products. During 2013/14, we re-launched our BR webshop, featuring a simplified navigation and guidance icons such as ‘Top 3’ and ‘Hot news’. Future online initiatives include further development of the BR wish list app and the BR and TOYS”R”US click-and-collect service, which will be launched during 2014/15. Our BR Facebook page, already implemented in Denmark and Sweden, will soon be launched in Norway and Finland and now has 38,000 likes. 16 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 Contributing positively to society Our wish to make a positive contribution to society includes our commitment to purchasing products that are manufactured under responsible working conditions, as well as our aim to respect children’s rights and well-being. These are not easy areas. For this reason, we collaborate with others to help us meet this goal. Ethical factory conditions Resourceful collaboration Partner with external stakeholders Over the years, we have worked with with industry At TOP-TOY, we acknowledge our suppliers to improve working conditions In addition to working directly with our role as a corporate citizen. We want on the factory floor. This remains an main suppliers, we acknowledge the to do it right and with the right impact. integrated part of our supply chain importance of improving standards This is why we share knowledge with management. Our approach is across the industry as a whole. We peers, partner with NGOs to obtain to build good, long-term supplier are, therefore, in dialogue with relevant their advice and make donations relationships, where we support industry associations and authorities to organisations that help people in factory improvements, ensure safe and in the Nordic countries and the EU in need. In 2013/14, we maintained our healthy working conditions and create order to share knowledge and stay commitment to the UN Global Compact an environment where the rights of up-to-date with industry developments. and initiated collaboration with Save the people working in the factories are In 2013/14, we have focused on the Children, Sweden to analyse our respected. During 2013/14, we have advocating strict and meaningful current activities in relation to children’s worked with 788 factories as part of product safety regulations and rights. We also started our search for a our factory compliance programme. continued our work with human and new community project to invest in by labour rights at factory level. the end of 2014. TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 17 Ethical factory conditions Collaborating with factories to improve working conditions remains an integrated element in our supply chain management. We will continue to build trusted supplier relationships to drive factory improvements. Managing our supply chain successfully With our factory compliance program, we aim at promoting responsible working conditions throughout our supply chain by sourcing only from suppliers who are willing and committed to working transparently with us to improve their social practices. At TOP-TOY, we do not own any of the 788 factories that Before we place an order, each factory undertakes a step-wise manufacture our products, so we do not have direct control approval process. over what takes place on the factory floor. These factories are either owned by or have a contract with one of our • Review of documentation 402 suppliers. This makes supplier collaboration vital to Suppliers must submit relevant factory documentation. successful supply chain management with a strong focus on Audit reports are requested for factories in high risk countries. high quality and ethical standards. • Factory audit Sourcing from Asia We monitor performance and progress during regular audits. Our key sourcing market is China and several other Asian Occasionally, we conduct the audits ourselves. In most countries. Some 70% of the volume of our products comes cases, we require factories to be audited in line with from these markets, which are also where the biggest toy internationally recognised auditing standards, such as the producers in the world are located. The toy industry is very ICTI Care Process, SA8000 Certification and the Business labour intensive, contributing to job creation and substantial Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). economic growth. At the same time, there are several challenges related to labour standards and human rights. • Re-audit if not acceptable By concentrating our efforts in Asia, we believe we can have If an audit reveals issues of high concern, factories are the biggest impact on driving factory improvements. asked to submit a corrective action plan. This must then be verified during a re-audit before an approval can be issued Driving factory improvements and an order placed. We set high standards for our supplier factories and regularly monitor their performance via social audits. As part of our Our factory approval depends not only on the content of the factory compliance program, we only allow production to audit report, but also on factories’ willingness to improve. take place if suppliers and factories commit to our Factory By strengthening their ability to take ownership of audit Compliance Standards. findings, we ensure factories are committed to making lasting change and continuous improvements. Of the 103 factories audited during 2013/14, we approved 60 and rejected 42. A final decision is still pending on one factory. Goal By when Progress To roll out a factory evaluation End 2013 Done programme Integrity – Our factory compliance programme helps drive factory improvement. However, challenges regarding standard audit procedures, faked records and bribery do, Status of factories audited by TOP-TOY unfortunately, occur in rare situations. We do not accept 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 any such practices and work systematically to prevent this. Total no. of factories audited 64 70 103 Environment – While we maintain a focus on labour No. of factories approved 39 58 60 and human rights, factory audits also look at general No. of factories not approved 23 11 42 environmental issues such as waste management, chemical handling and local official permits. This is an area No. of factories pending for final decision 2 1 1 that we will investigate more closely in the future. Rights – In our factory compliance programme, we work systematically to ensure the human and labour rights of people who work in the factories. 18 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 TOP-TOY’s factory compliance process Assessment of the Social audit documentation at factory Supplier submits Assess relevant factory audit report documentation to TOP-TOY Approval or Screening rejection of potential factory factories An idea is born Production starts Geographical distribution of factories 2013/14 Factory certification and audits 2013/14 5% 4% China 7% ICTI 9% Asia (excluding China) SA8000, BSCI and other 18% 3rd party audits Nordic countries 71% 53% TOP-TOY audits 24% 2% Europe (excluding Nordic countries) Low risk countries Other Not audited 7% TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 19 Resourceful collaboration with industry We acknowledge the importance of improving standards across the industry. In our own efforts to achieve this, we engage with relevant industry associations and authorities. Working together Promoting improved labour and human rights In a global context, TOP-TOY is a small player, accounting In China, TOP-TOY works closely with industry peers to for less than 1% of the international toy market. However, as address some of the key, factory-level labour and human one of the largest companies selling toys in Northern Europe, rights issues through the ICTI Care Process – a compliance we believe it is our responsibility to take part in developing an system promoting ethical manufacturing practices. Our active accountable industry that customers can trust. This is also the participation in the technical advisory committee contributes reason why TOP-TOY has, for many years, collaborated with to further development of the process. industry peers and relevant authorities in the Nordic countries and the EU. We also support the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) and Social Accountability International Standard (SA8000). We believe that, by working proactively with a variety of key industry stakeholders, we have a better chance to shape meaningful standards, tackle challenges and create a level playing field. Our continuous involvement also enables us to stay up-to-date with emerging issues and developments. Advocating strict and meaningful safety regulations Our support for the European Committee for the Standardisation of Toys (CEN TC 52) and the Danish Standardisation Agency reflects our commitment to taking an active role in improving and raising the bar for safety. Toys are one of the most regulated consumer products in Europe. Legislation and standards related to toys alone cover more than 2,000 pages. The regulations are continuously adjusted to ensure a high level of safety for children. Adjustments may apply to the mechanical and chemical safety of toys and correct labelling in accordance with EU standards. In 2013, the European Toy Safety Directive introduced even more stringent requirements for documentation and limits for chemical substances in toys. At TOP-TOY, we work hard to ensure that all our products comply with these new requirements. Through our training programme, we help our suppliers towards a stronger understanding of the latest toy safety standards, chemical safety assessments and so on. During 2013/14, we trained 75% of our new suppliers in Asia. We welcome strict and meaningful regulations and encourage the authorities to conduct market surveillance to ensure a level playing field and an accountable industry that customers can trust. Rights – Through resourceful collaboration with industry peers, we work to ensure high safety standards that protect the rights of children and promote improved labour and human rights for people who work in the factories. 20 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 Partnerships with external stakeholders At TOP-TOY, we acknowledge our role as a corporate citizen. To maximise our impact, we share knowledge with peers, partner with NGOs and make donations to organisations that help people in need. Continuing our commitment to the UN Global Compact As a family-owned company, we have always focused on being a good corporate citizen. That was also the reason why sustainability became one of TOP-TOY’s strategic priorities back in 2009, when Lars and Peter Gjørup were appointed Joint Managing Directors. As part of the commitment to work more systematically with sustainability, we became a signatory of the UN Global Compact during this same period. Five years later, our sustainability progress reflects our ongoing efforts to integrate the ten Global Compact principles in our daily work. We also continue our membership of the Global Compact Nordic Network, where we are part of the steering group. Initiating a child rights approach Our drive to work with children’s rights has its outset in the ten Children’s Rights and Business Principles. Developed by the UN Global Compact, Save the Children and Our drive to respect UNICEF, these principles provide companies with guidance on children's rights has how they can respect and support children’s rights in the its outset in the ten marketplace, workplace and community. This is highly important to us, as selling products to children is our core business. Children’s Rights and Business Principles. We are committed to respecting the rights of our consumers – the children – and having a positive influence in the countries where we operate. In order to determine how we should work with this area in the future, we want to improve our understanding of our role and impact. To that end, we have initiated collaboration with Save the Searching for a new community investment project Children, Sweden, as part of a broader human rights impact From 2009 to 2014, we have supported SOS Children’s assessment and policy development for TOP-TOY. Here, we Villages in Nanchang, China, primarily by selling plush dogs use the ten principles as a guide to promoting and supporting in our BR stores. We chose this project based on a wish to the children’s rights agenda through our core business focus on less fortunate children in an area where many of our activities and operations. This work is still in its early stages. suppliers are located. SOS Children’s Villages gives these children the opportunity to develop like other children through play and education. Goal By when Progress During this period, we have donated approximately 11.5 million To assess human rights impact During More work and develop a policy 2014/15 needs to be DKK. After four years of partnership with SOS Children’s done Villages, we are now looking into new ways to contribute to local development in the countries where we operate. This is New goal By when part of our upcoming social investment policy and strategy. To support a new community During investment project 2014/15 Rights – We collaborate with Save the Children, Sweden, to develop an approach where children’s rights are systematically integrated in our daily business operations. TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 21 Global theme – Rights We acknowledge our responsibility to respect human rights through our business activities and operations. Why are rights important? Today, we already respect and support human rights in many TOP-TOY is a signatory of the United Nations Global ways. In our product integrity policy, which was rolled out in Compact. The first six principles of the Compact are about 2014, we expressed our commitment to ensuring children rights. The endorsement of the UN Guiding Principles brings can play with safe products that have been produced under a new, far more explicit framework and guidelines on how responsible conditions. The policy is supported by our enterprises should work with the first six principles in the compliance program, which turns our commitment into actual UN Global Compact. processes through a set of standards and requirements. This helps us to identify and manage the risk of infringing This has required us to review our role and impact on human labour rights. rights. Throughout our value chain, we interact with many different stakeholders, such as the people who work in the Another example is our ethical product offering policy and our factories that manufacture our products, our employees marketing policy, which provides guidance and direction on who help sell our products, and the children who play with how to protect children from exposure to certain products in our products. Because children are among our main our BR and TOYS”R”US stores and from any marketing efforts stakeholders, it is only natural that we have a specific focus that may have a negative effect. on children’s rights. How we want to work with rights in the future Dealing with human rights is a complex area with many Moving forward, we will establish a framework for the dilemmas. This is why we need to develop our strategic systematic integration of human rights in our buying and approach. Our first step is an analysis of current activities selling processes. to identify human rights areas where we need to improve. During 2012/13, we began developing a human rights Where we work with rights approach, where an impact assessment of our value chain is We recognise that we have an impact on human rights through a key component. Our aim is to identify potential risks and our business activities. One of our aims is to integrate human opportunities and, based on that analysis, develop a new rights in the way we buy and sell our products. Through this, policy and strategy. Specifically, we want to identify we wish to become better at managing the risk of human opportunities to play a positive role in protecting children’s rights. rights infringement in our value chain. Our initial intention was to finalise this work by the end of 2013/14, but it has proven to be a more complex task. To make sure we do it right, we have moved our deadline to 2014/15. A first step will be to develop our human rights policy. This will reflect our commitment to the UN Global Compact, UN Guiding Principles and Children’s Rights and Business Principles and support the establishment of a human We have initiated a human rights due diligence process. rights impact assessment and policy development, We are also a member of the Danish Business Network for Human Rights where we play an active role in the steering group. which we aim to complete in 2014/15. Goal By when Progress To assess human rights During More work needs impact and develop a policy 2014/15 to be done 22 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 Global theme – Integrity We strive to conduct our business with high integrity, ethics and respect for the law, wherever and with whomever we operate. Why is integrity important? Everyone working at TOP-TOY is subject to the Code, Integrity is the backbone of our business – the foundation on which guides employees in the pursuit of ethical behaviour. which we have built the company. We believe that conducting Employees can refer to the Code for support when faced our business in a way that is honest, ethical and accountable with a difficult situation in their daily work. The Code focuses will ensure our continued growth, maintain our reputation on the eleven issues that are most critical to our business, as a responsible company, and help achieve our mission of for example misuse of company assets, breaches of enriching children’s lives. information firewalls between our wholesale and retail business units, bribery risks related to gifts and entertainment, Business sense, responsibility, family tree, top performance and inaccurate and misleading advertising towards children. and toy fun are TOP-TOY’s core values. They play a key role in shaping our business conduct and retaining our ethical Employee training, in the form of workshops and e-learning business culture. They continuously guide our actions as we programs, has focused on building knowledge of these eleven conduct our business. issues and avoiding non-compliance. The training sessions have been held for all employees in our main offices and in Our reputation is based on the relationships we have with our stores. our customers, colleagues, suppliers, business partners, regulators and other members of society. We continuously How we want to work with integrity in the future strive to meet our customers’ needs, make TOP-TOY a great To support the Code, we are launching a number of global place to work, and operate as good corporate citizens. policies that set our overall direction on key issues, such as Each TOP-TOY employee is an ambassador of our company’s product safety, responsible marketing and the environment. reputation. So, it is up to every one of us to preserve the trust During the autumn of 2014, employees will be informed of our stakeholders. about these policies and receive training from policy owners. All employees must follow the policies. Where we work with integrity While we strive to live up to our reputation in a competitive global environment, there will be times during our daily activities when dilemmas arise and our integrity is put to the test. The ethical and behavioural framework behind our Goal By when Progress operations is outlined in our Code of Conduct ‘The TOP-TOY Develop a Code of Conduct End 2014 Implementation of way – Promoting a culture of responsibility’. This helps us and supporting policies the Code of Conduct understand how we put our values into practice every day. is complete. More work remains to develop supporting The responsibilities and expectations expressed in policies Code-related policies are the backbone of our ethical culture. The Code embodies the TOP-TOY commitment to conducting business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. To support our Code of Conduct, we are launching a number of global policies that set our overall direction on key issues, such as product integrity, responsible marketing and the environment. TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 23 We will develop a new Global theme – Environment environmental policy by the end of 2014. This policy is We aim to understand the impact of our operations on the part of our objective to environment and reduce our footprint. assess and address our Why is the environment important? environmental impact The world is facing significant environmental challenges as throughout our value chain and a result of rising human activity and economic growth. Climate change, pollution, waste production and disposal, outline our commitment. water scarcity, chemical use and more are forcing societies and companies to find ways to sustain growth and development with fewer resources. In the past, our sustainability work has mainly focused on Throughout 2013/14, we have continued our efforts to reduce improving our social performance in our value chain. This has our environmental footprint at our distribution centre near ensured that our products are safe and produced under Copenhagen, Denmark – our largest site. Our initiatives focus responsible conditions. However, as an international company particularly on managing waste, recycling transportation that buys and sells products, we also recognise our impact on packaging and reducing CO2 emissions through the LED the environment. This is an area we must address and work lighting project. with by adopting an integrated strategy aimed at managing risks and improving our environmental performance. How we want to work with the environment in the future One of our future goals is to assess our environmental impact Where we work with the environment throughout our value chain. This will enable us to focus our During 2013/14, we have undertaken a number of initiatives efforts even more sharply on the areas where there is the to improve our environmental performance. highest potential to make a real difference. We have made progress on our goal to establish a baseline As a first step, during 2013/14 we have conducted an for energy consumption. So far, we have implemented an LED environmental analysis based on input and comments from lighting project in our distribution centre near Copenhagen, internal and external stakeholders, which we received during Denmark and have started to introduce LED in our upgraded a materiality assessment process in May 2013. Here, many BR stores and some TOYS”R”US stores in order to cut CO2 exciting proposals were put forward to drive environmental emissions. Going forward, we will ensure a more systematic performance. These include integrating sustainability in approach to the area by initiating measurement of our our own-brand products and reducing waste from toys, consumption of energy and setting targets for optimisation of plastic bag and batteries. During 2014/15, we will look into the use of energy in stores, warehouses and office premises. these suggestions in more detail and implement our new environmental policy, which will outline our commitment. In 2012/13, we set a goal to find more eco-friendly packaging options for some of our own-brand products to be initiated Another area for future investigation is how we can reduce during 2013/14. With the development of our new BR product the environmental footprint of our products’ manufacture line, we are currently looking at integrating environmental by broadening the scope of factory audits and working with considerations in the product packaging. This is an area that suppliers. Today, general environmental issues are included requires more work. For this reason, we have moved our in our auditing process. implementation deadline to 2014/15. Goals By when Progress Evaluate new direct-to-store concept 2013/14 Done Establish a baseline for energy consumption Ongoing LED lighting project in Greve distribution centre has been completed. We are also introducing LED lighting in our new upgraded BR stores and TOYS”R”US stores Find eco-friendly packaging options 2014/15 More work remains to be done New goal By when Develop and implement our End 2014 environmental policy 24 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 Financial performance The European business environment is still going through • We launched a new BR store concept in selected test difficult times, also in the Northern European markets where stores. This has been well received and the new concept TOP-TOY has its primary commercial activities. Shopper will be implemented in a significant number of stores behaviour is changing, showing a general decline in spending across our markets in 2014/15. and an increase in online purchases, including across • We increased the number of stores from 299 to 302 by international borders. opening one TOYS”R”US store and nine BR stores in existing markets. At the same time, seven BR stores This year’s operating profit before non-recurring items was were closed. 156 million DKK compared to 164 million DKK in 2012/13. The main reason for this decline is lower than expected store sales during the important Christmas season. On the Revenue positive side, there was a very strong result in the spring and DKK Billion summer due to good weather in our markets, from which the 4.5 organisation was able to benefit fully. 4.0 3.5 In view of this situation and our ongoing investments in the 3.0 future, we are satisfied with the result, despite our weaker 2.5 than expected financial performance. 2.0 1.5 In May 2014, we implemented a new, more effective 1.0 organisation, which unfortunately entailed letting 35 skilled 0.5 employees go. In combination with other projects to reduce 0.0 overall costs, this organisational change will help us secure 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 a more competitive platform for TOP-TOY. Profit after tax was 122 million DKK compared to 57 million DKK in 2012/13. The result shows the positive influence of foreign exchange adjustments and divestment of real estate. Profit of the year Last year, on the other hand, was negatively influenced by DKK Million non-recurring costs related to our decision to consolidate 180 two distribution centres. 160 140 Cash flow from operations developed positively from 120 117 million DKK in 2012/13 to 335 million DKK, primarily due 100 to reduced net working capital in receivables and inventories, 80 60 achieved through systematic improvement activities. 40 Total assets were reduced by 98 million DKK to 2.7 billion DKK. 20 0 Over the past year, the total revenue from our retail business 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 has remained fairly stable. The opening of new stores and webshop growth came close to offsetting the impact of store closures, exchange rate fluctuations and slightly declining same-store sales in some markets. Revenue from our wholesale business, however, has declined. Revenue in retail The following events can be highlighted in our DKK Billion 4.0 retail business 3.5 3.0 • Our total revenue decreased slightly from 3,389 million 2.5 DKK to 3,335 million DKK due to the negative exchange 2.0 rate impact of the Swedish and Norwegian krones. 1.5 Total revenue in local currency, on the other hand, 1.0 slightly increased. 0.5 • The BR and TOYS”R”US webshops experienced strong 0 growth in traffic, as well as revenue, and very high 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 customer satisfaction. TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 25 Financial performance Some important events in our wholesale business Revenue in wholesale DKK Million • Revenue fell from 677 million DKK in 2012/13 to 629 800 million DKK in 2013/14 (-7.1%). 700 • In spring 2014 we launched a business-to-business 600 self-service platform for wholesale customers in Norway, 500 which allows customers to place orders at their own 400 convenience. The solution was well received and will be 300 implemented in all markets during 2014/15. 200 100 Looking to the future 0 In the year ahead, we will increase our focus on margin 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 improvement, permanent cost reduction and activities to support our sales. At the same time, we will invest in strategic areas to ensure long-term profitability and continued growth. TOP-TOY Key Figures And Financial Ratios Five-year key figures in DKK million 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Revenue 3,593.1 3,954.1 4,044.4 4,100.3 3,972.1 Adjusted EBITDA 362.7 312.7 274.2 239.9 218.6 Adjusted EBIT 273.6 217.9 184.7 164.4 156.1 Non-recurring items* 0.0 1.3 15.0 56.3 0.0 Profit 162.7 128.2 105.7 56.8 121.6 Balance sheet total 2,769.5 2,891.5 2,804.2 2,783.6 2,685.7 Equity 1,180.5 1,265.9 1,363.0 1,395.7 1,469.1 Employees and stores Number of employees 2,128 2,261 2,358 2,352 2.258 Number of stores 274 286 297 299 302 Key financial ratios Operating margin 7.6% 5.5% 4.6% 4.0% 3.9% Return on invested capital before non-recurring items 12.2% 8.3% 6.9% 6.3% 6.3% Equity ratio 42.6% 43.8% 48.6% 50.1% 54.7% NOTE: * In 2010/11 non-recurring items related to demolition of real estate in DK In 2011/12 non-recurring items related to the closing of TOY-CLUB activity and write-down of goodwill In 2012/13 non-recurring items related to the decision to merge our two distribution centres into one 26 TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 Our core values Responsibility We take responsibility for our actions throughout the value chain and for our most important stakeholders – the children who play with our products. Business sense We seek to give good service to our retail and wholesale customers by offering the right quality product at the right time and at the right price. Family tree We want to bring joy to children and families by selling good quality products that contribute to fun and memorable moments. Toy fun Fun is a key driver in our work. We are dedicated to bringing smiles to the faces of our customers and colleagues. Top performance We strive to be top performers. We want to do better than yesterday, and we do this by actively listening to relevant stakeholders and closely monitoring our performance. TOP-TOY's Performance Report 2013/14 27 Methodology and reporting framework Scope and reporting framework TOP-TOY This report focuses on our performance during the financial Roskildevej 16, 4030 Tune year from July 1, 2013 to June 30, 2014. Denmark Tel +45 4616 3656 The report meets the criteria of the UN Global Compact, www.top-toy.com including the commitment to issue an annual Communication on Progress (COP) report. In addition, the report complies with the statutory statements on Corporate Social Responsibility by TOP-TOY Hong Kong the Danish Financial Statements Act, sections 99a and 99b. 11/F, Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road Wanchai, Hong Kong We also look to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework Tel +852 3143 8888 for inspiration, but do not follow the guidelines in full. www.top-toy.com Data NORSTAR This report is based on quantitative and qualitative data Sintrupvej 12, 8220 Brabrand collected from internal systems and key people across the Denmark organisation. Statements and data have been verified for Tel +45 8944 2200 correctness by responsible managers to ensure the report www.norstar.eu is an accurate reflection of TOP-TOY’s performance. We work continuously to improve our data collection and verification systems and become more data driven. Legal notices Throughout this report, references are made to TOP-TOY. This comprises TOP-TOY Holding A/S and its subsidiaries: TOP-TOY A/S and TOP-TOY Ejendomme A/S. TOP-TOY is a registered trademark of TOP-TOY (Hong Kong) Ltd. BR, the Guardsman in a circle device and Watermark device are registered trademarks of TOP-TOY A/S. NORSTAR is a registered trademark of NORSTAR A/S. TOYS“R”US, the TOYS“R”US & Star design and the Giraffe design are registered trademarks of Geoffrey, LLC. TOP-TOY A/S is a licensee of Geoffrey, LLC. All other marks referred to in this report are the property of their respective owners. For more information about TOP-TOY and our performance, please visit: www.top-toy.com Please forward any questions or comments to the Corporate Communications and Sustainability Department at com@top-toy.com © 2014, TOP-TOY Holding A/S. All rights reserved. 541-492 Printed matter
