Spirit Our is Clear 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CONTENTS 02 45 123 A Welcome from Environment, Philanthropy Our Chairman and Health and Safety and Community Chief Executive Strategy Involvement Officer Targets and Progress Strategy EHS Management Targets and Progress Water 05 Global Activity Energy Local Activities Greenhouse Gases Corporate Waste and Packaging Responsibility at Bacardi Limited Safety 139 About Bacardi 82 Our Corporate Responsibility Program Limited Stakeholders Responsible 145 Materiality Our Impacts Sourcing Strategy About this Report Targets and Progress 19 Responsible Supply Chain Working with Targets and Progress GRI Content Index Marketplace Suppliers and Partners UN Global Compact Sustainable Agriculture and Strategy Sourcing Targets and Progress Responsible Marketing Tackling Alcohol-Related Harm Responsible Drinking 107 Campaigns People Strategy Targets and Progress Developing Our People Engaging Our People WELCOME MESSAGE A welcome from our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer Welcome to the latest Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility Report. As you interact with this report, you’ll learn about the considerable progress we made to responsibly manage our environmental and social impacts during our 2013 fiscal year, which ended on March 31, 2013. As in earlier years, we are reporting in line with the comprehensive framework developed by the Global Reporting Initiative, or GRI. Widely used around the world, these GRI guidelines enable us to measure and report on our economic, environmental, social and governance performance. We also are aligned with the principles set forth by the United Nations Global Facundo L. Bacardi Compact, which encourages the adoption and reporting of sustainable and Chairman socially responsible policies. These principles guide us in our approach to Corporate Responsibility and to how we communicate our progress. Our aim is to be best-in-class in Corporate Responsibility in the spirits industry. We believe that by responsibly managing our environmental and social impacts, Bacardi will be a more sustainable business in the long term. Through our Corporate Responsibility programs, we regularly introduce new ways of working to increase efficiencies, reduce our global footprint and support grower communities and other partners, all while promoting responsible consumption. We are proud that the spirit of giving back to people and communities in need has been a cornerstone of our Company’s existence since its founding more than 150 years ago. Thanks to this long-standing Corporate Edward D. Shirley Responsibility commitment, we have no doubt that this legacy of giving will President and CEO continue for 150 more. 2 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report WELCOME MESSAGE As we look ahead, we intend to continue to play a role in helping address key global issues such as responsible sourcing, world population growth and climate change. Our increased engagement with stakeholders shows that our actions, as we deal with these and other challenging issues, are aligned with stakeholder interests. The Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility program comprises five pillars that reflect our principal areas of activity. These pillars are Marketplace; Environment, Health and Safety; Responsible Sourcing; People; and Watch Video Philanthropy and Community Involvement. Although there is much more work to do, we’re pleased to report we made progress in all five of these areas during fiscal 2013. Through our Marketplace activities, we continued to strengthen our commitment to promoting responsible drinking and the responsible marketing of alcoholic drinks. We remain very actively involved in the Global Alcohol Producers Group (GAPG), and are placing all necessary resources behind implementation of GAPG commitments to reduce alcohol-related harm. We work diligently to comply with our strict Global Marketing Principles, as well as with international industry codes. We take these responsibilities seriously and in fiscal 2013, as in previous years, no consumer complaints on our marketing materials were upheld by regulators. In the area of Environment, Health and Safety, we continue to strive for environmental improvement and best practice, seeking to minimize our impact on the natural world around us. In fiscal 2013, we focused strongly on improving the environmental performance of our production facilities. Among the many initiatives undertaken in this ongoing effort were programs aimed at reducing our use of water resources, which play such a vital role in our business. We remain committed to promoting sustainable sourcing practices across our business. Through our Responsible Sourcing program and our substantial activity as a founding member of the multi-stakeholder initiative, Bonsucro™, we are working to meet our target of sourcing 100% of our sugarcanederived products from sustainably certified sources by 2022, and Bonsucro is our preferred standard. As described in the People section of this report, we are actively building engagement, based on the overwhelming and positive response to our firstever Global Employee Engagement Survey, conducted in 2012. Employees 3 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report WELCOME MESSAGE Our aim is to be best-in-class in Corporate Responsibility in the spirits industry. We believe that by responsibly managing our environmental and social impacts, Bacardi will be a more sustainable business in the long term. EDWARD D. SHIRLEY | President and CEO asked for greater emphasis to be placed on development opportunities, and during fiscal 2013 we focused on providing more effective employee feedback channels, enhanced coaching from line managers and targeted training programs to support career progression and development. Our progress in the area of Philanthropy and Community Involvement was highlighted by two key developments. In fiscal 2013, we expanded our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Week, successfully launching CR Month, which resulted in over 7,600 volunteer hours being contributed by our global workforce. The other key highlight was the donation by Bacardi companies and brands of US$6.06 million to local communities around the world, including a significant in-kind donation, valued at US$2.7 million, of the iconic Bacardi Tower and Museum building complex in Miami, Florida. This improving performance, as we continue to embed Corporate Responsibility throughout our global operations, would not have been possible without the unwavering dedication, skillful efforts and hard work of our employees around the world. On behalf of the Bacardi senior leadership team, we thank them. As ever, your feedback on any aspect of Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited is most welcome. Facundo L. Bacardi Edward D. Shirley Chairman President and CEO 4 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Corporate Responsibility Our approach to Corporate Responsibility encompasses our at Bacardi Limited whole value chain, from raw materials to end product. In this Section: Our corporate values of Trust, Caring, Our Corporate Passion and Excellence guide our approach to Responsibility Program Corporate Responsibility. We are focused on Stakeholders developing a leading Corporate Responsibility Materiality position by delivering continual improvement Our Impacts and excellence in our performance and by creating a Corporate Responsibility program that is best-in-class. Corporate Responsibility Governance and Management Overall responsibility for Corporate leadership team on a regular Responsibility rests with the office basis. The CRLT comprises senior of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), managers from various global which updates the Board and functions and business units and is Chairman once yearly. led by the global CR Director. The Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility leadership leadership team (CRLT) sets and team members work with delivers the goals of our Corporate their functions and regions to Responsibility strategy. It updates develop action plans to achieve the CEO and Bacardi global the objectives of our Corporate Responsibility pillars. 5 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Our Governance Structure: Each of the five pillars Board and Chairman has its own strategies and targets, which are delivered through President and CEO coordinated activity by the relevant global functions and/or Bacardi global operating companies. leadership team Corporate responsibility leadership team Marketplace Environment, Responsible People Philanthropy Health and Sourcing and Safety Community Involvement Senior executives from across Bacardi’s business functions contribute to the Corporate Responsiblity leadership team, and are drawn from global operations, human resources, legal, sales, corporate communications and external affairs departments. This group is led by the Bacardi global leadership team director. Communicating Corporate Responsibility Internally We use the Corporate Responsibility Community on our ONE Bacardi intranet to communicate with employees on a regular basis. The Corporate Responsibility Community is one of the most popular on ONE Bacardi and is a good way of raising awareness across the Company. 6 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Overall responsibility for Reporting Progress The CRLT reviews progress on Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility rests on an ongoing basis and provides regular updates to the with the office of the Chief GLT. Executive Officer (CEO), Integrating Corporate Responsibility which updates the Board and We have made significant improvements in aligning business processes across our global organization and Chairman once yearly. have increased efficiency by focusing more sharply on the strategic objectives of the Company. The Corporate Responsibility leadership team (CRLT) sets and delivers the goals of our Corporate For Corporate Responsibility, this enhanced business Responsibility strategy. It updates the CEO and Bacardi alignment and strategic focus takes two forms. First, global leadership team (GLT) on a regular basis. The Corporate Responsibility has begun to evolve from CRLT comprises senior managers from various global being a specialist program within Bacardi to becoming functions and business units and is led by the global CR an essential way of working that will be integrated Director. throughout our entire business by 2015. By involving our people and functions in Corporate Responsibility CRLT members work with their functions and regions activities, and engaging with our brands on aspects of to develop action plans to achieve the objectives of our sustainability, we will embed Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility pillars. within the core of our operations. Second, we have updated the individual strategies for each of the Corporate Responsibility pillars, setting targets for 2015 and beyond in some cases. By aligning this program with other business initiatives across the Company, Corporate Responsibility will be better able to support our wider business goals. 7 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Our Corporate Responsibility Program Our overall aim is to achieve a leading Corporate Responsibility position for Bacardi Limited. We will do this by developing and delivering a Corporate Responsibility program that is best-in-class. Our Five Key Pillars Within our Corporate Responsibility program, there are five pillars reflecting our main areas of activity. The table below introduces the five pillars; more information on them can be found in each pillar section of this report. Marketplace We are proud of the quality and heritage of our brands and do not want them to be consumed inappropriately. Our ambition is to encourage consumers to enjoy our products on a regular basis in moderation. Pillar Overview: Measuring the Results: Drinking alcohol is a matter of personal choice, and most consumers choose to drink in moderation. Alcohol can cause harm, however, if it is misused. Encouraging responsible decision-making by legal drinking age consumers and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products 689,271 fans were on the “Champions is, therefore, a key priority for Bacardi Limited. It is the focus of our activity within the Marketplace pillar. Drink Responsibly” Facebook™ page by March 2013. Our ambition is to be best-in-class in promoting responsible drinking and in ensuring that we market our products in a responsible way. To this end, we aim to build on the recognition already received for our award-winning 0 responsible drinking campaigns and to continue to uphold our excellent No consumer complaints on our record of compliance with responsible marketing codes. advertising were upheld in 2013. Read more about Marketplace 8 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Environment, Health and Safety We have a responsibility to minimize environmental impacts across our value chain and to ensure our people are safe at work. These are key business objectives that reduce risk, increase efficiency and make sound business sense. Pillar Overview: Measuring the Results: Our values of Excellence and Caring underpin our goal to achieve best-in-class environmental and safety performance. Most of our products’ environmental impacts are in our supply chain, and we work in our own facilities and with our suppliers to reduce impacts and risks across our whole 3 Years We successfully recertified all of value chain. Ensuring the safety of our employees is of vital importance to us. our production facilities to ISO Within the Environment, Health and Safety pillar, we have developed a new 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 environmental sustainability strategy that will guide us in creating industrystandards. leading programs to reduce our environmental impact. From a safety point of view, we have a long-term vision for an accident-free Bacardi Limited. 54% Read more about Environment, Health & Safety We continued to drive improvement in water efficiency, and in FY2013 we used 54% less water than in FY2006.* * This includes only those sites tracked since fiscal 2006 and, therefore, excludes JDSL distilleries and Santo Stefano Belbo. Responsible Sourcing We source high-quality ingredients and raw materials from many countries around the world, including those where achieving good workplace standards, environmental protection and sound governance can be complex. Pillar Overview: Measuring the Results: Our vision for Responsible Sourcing is for all of our raw materials and packaging to come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled materials – reducing environmental and social impacts, while maintaining or enhancing the economic status of growers and suppliers. Our Responsible 320 suppliers registered and were linked Sourcing program, now in its fifth year, aims to deliver this vision. to Bacardi in Sedex by end of fiscal The Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards outline the standards 2013. we require of our suppliers in the areas of labor, human rights, health and safety, environment and business integrity. We ensure that our suppliers comply with our standards through our internal procurement processes 77% or by suppliers’ membership in Sedex®, the database for sharing supplier of Global Webshop POS suppliers information on ethical business practices. underwent the Vendor Qualification Process (VQP) for screening vs RS Read more about Responsible Sourcing Standards in fiscal 2013. 9 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED People We aim to connect and align all of our employees across the globe behind one set of values, strategies and common ways of working. Pillar Overview: Measuring the Results: Our People strategy is built on the belief that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. To Bacardi Limited, outstanding people means talented and engaged employees who are valued for their unique contributions to the Company. By demonstrating their commitment to 50% We are targeting that 50% of business our values of Trust, Caring, Passion and Excellence, our people are the best ambassadors for our Company and brands. units and global functions hold local awareness and engagement sessions Within the People pillar, we aim to unleash the potential of our people by by the end of fiscal 2014. creating a working environment where every employee takes advantage of the development opportunities Bacardi Limited offers. We strive to inspire, engage and support our people, and we intend to become 53% recognized internally and externally as a Great Place to Work. of job openings at management level and above were filled by internal Read more about People talent in fiscal 2013. Philanthropy and Community Involvement Bacardi Limited has a more than 150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and are still important to us today. Pillar Overview: Measuring the Results: As part of the Bacardi Limited commitment to the communities within which it operates, employees are encouraged to participate in community programs and activities on behalf of the Company. This participation by employees increases the public’s awareness of the nature and extent of US $6.06 million The total value of support given Bacardi community involvement and also generates among our people a strong sense of pride in themselves and in our Company. by Bacardi companies and brands in fiscal 2013. Within the Philanthropy and Community Involvement pillar, we try to involve our employees in community activities and, through their participation, raise awareness of our approach to Corporate Responsibility. 7,600 hours We hold a global flagship community event each calendar year. Local Bacardi employees in 28 countries initiatives are managed by local operations, which are closer to their around the world contributed communities. We provide support in four broad areas: arts and culture; over 7,600 hours of their time education; environment; and health and social services. during CR Month in fiscal 2013. Read more about Philanthropy and Community Involvement 10 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Stakeholders We recognize the need to connect with our stakeholders – those who affect or are affected by our business. Listening to stakeholders helps to prioritize the most important Corporate Responsibility issues for us to address. Stakeholder engagement has been central to our Corporate Responsibility strategy and to the approach we take within each of our five pillars of activity. Stakeholder feedback informs our assessment of the most material Corporate Responsibility issues and helps us determine which topics to include in this report. Stakeholder Groups: We have identified a wide range of stakeholders important to Bacardi Limited: 11 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Stakeholder Groups: We have identified a wide range of stakeholders important to Bacardi Limited: GROUPS DESCRIPTION PRIORITIZED AREAS OF INTEREST Consumers Identifying and understanding consumer trends, • Responsible drinking. including attitudes to alcohol, is essential to • Responsible marketing. ensuring that our responsibility messages resonate • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. with our consumers. • Sustainable packaging. Customers Our customers expect us to be managing Corporate • Responsible drinking. Responsibility issues, just as we expect the same from • Responsible supply chain. our suppliers. We seek to work together on areas of • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. mutual concern. • Product responsibility. Employees We keep our people up-to-date on important • Employer responsibility. issues about Bacardi Limited with CEO webcasts, • Product responsibility. management roadshows and our global ONE • Responsible drinking. Bacardi intranet. • Responsible marketing. Industry Sharing knowledge and experiences with • Responsible marketing. Associations industry partners promotes a collective response • Responsible drinking. on industry-wide matters, such as responsible • Managing direct environmental impacts. marketing and responsible drinking. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. Local Bacardi Limited has always seen itself as part of • Responsible drinking. Communities the communities in which we operate, and we • Responsible marketing. engage with our local communities to understand • Managing direct environmental impacts. and respond to their concerns. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. NGOs We exchange views with NGOs on alcohol • Responsible marketing. issues at various fora, including the World Health • Responsible drinking. Organization (WHO), the EU Alcohol and Health • Good governance. Forum and a range of trade associations. • Supporting local communities. Regulators We engage with regulators through trade bodies, • Responsible marketing. one-to-one meetings and written responses to • Good governance. policy consultation documents. • Responsible supply chain. • Responsible drinking. Shareholders As Corporate Responsibility becomes more • Good governance. important to business, our shareholders are • Product responsibility. increasingly interested in how we are planning • Responsible marketing. for a sustainable future, as well as protecting our • Being a responsible employer. current reputation. Suppliers We engage suppliers on our Responsible Sourcing • Responsible drinking. standards both through our regular procurement • Product responsibility. processes and our Responsible Sourcing program. • Responsible marketing. • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing. 12 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Stakeholder Research We undertook independently conducted stakeholder research in fiscal 2012 as part of our move to a more structured approach to stakeholder engagement. The results of this research, which are summarized below, remain applicable in fiscal 2013. Stakeholder Research Bacardi Limited and Responsibility The research involved structured, one-to-one Stakeholders generally considered Bacardi Limited in a interviews with a global range of individuals from positive light. With regard to our approach to Corporate each of our main stakeholder groups, except for Responsibility, the results were mixed. While many shareholders. The interviews focused on a number of stakeholders felt that Bacardi Limited strived to be a areas, including: responsible business, others were unsure, due to their limited awareness of our Corporate Responsibility activity. • What Corporate Responsibility means for the This was particularly the case with new stakeholders, who spirits sector. were less familiar with Bacardi Limited and are more likely • How stakeholders view Bacardi Limited in relation to to link the Company solely with our BACARDÍ Rum brand. Corporate Responsibility. • What stakeholders think are the most important responsibilities for the sector. Suggested areas for improvement in our approach to and communication of Key Results: Corporate Responsibility included: • Practical solutions for responsible drinking, not Responsibility in the Spirits Sector just education. The results showed that the larger companies in the spirits sector were generally considered to be • Further work on responsible consumption with responsible. There was a sense, however, that the those who sell and serve our brands. industry will face greater expectations and scrutiny • Measuring and managing social and of its behavior with ongoing political, NGO and environmental supply chain issues. public debate and with the growing awareness and expectation in developing markets. • Improving the environmental credentials of our packaging. 13 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Key Areas of Interest for Stakeholders It was also felt that while responsible drinking and Although the main priorities and concerns of responsible marketing were the highest priority issues stakeholders differed, based on their interests or and are most clearly linked with responsibility in the expertise, there was broad consensus on the key sector, other issues are becoming more important, such Corporate Responsibility issues for the spirits sector, as as managing direct environmental impacts. shown below. Issue Prioritization – Global, All Stakeholders (Weighted Scores) Responsible Drinking 121 Responsible Marketing 106 Product Responsibility 59 Managing Direct Environmental Impacts 58 Sustainable Agriculture and Sourcing 56 Responsible Supply Chain 43 Good Governance 43 Sustainable Packaging 40 Being a Responsible Employer 37 Supporting Local Communiities 32 The score for each issue is derived from the top five issues identified by each stakeholder weighted by their level of priority. Working with the Results Engaging Employees We used the stakeholder research to inform our During fiscal 2012, we completed our first-ever Global biannual materiality assessment. The assessment Employee Engagement Survey. Since then, we have prioritized the key Corporate Responsibility issues for set up Action Teams to address challenges and gaps Bacardi Limited by combining the level of priority given identified in the survey. Read more on the follow-up to by stakeholders with the current or potential impact the survey in the People Section of this report. of the issues on our business. Find out more about our materiality process. 14 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Materiality The five pillars of our Corporate Responsibility program – Marketplace; Environment, Health and Safety; Responsible Sourcing; People; and Philanthropy and Community Involvement – reflect our main areas of activity. Our business and the world in which we operate The results of the materiality assessment reflect the are constantly changing, and the specific priorities, relative importance of issues within our Corporate risks and opportunities within each of our Corporate Responsibility program, not the overall importance Responsibility pillars need to reflect this. As a result, we of the issues to Bacardi Limited. For example, being undertake a biannual materiality assessment to prioritize a responsible employer is critically important to our the importance of the issues within each pillar. business overall but is less material than other issues within our Corporate Responsibility program, such as Our last materiality assessment, undertaken in responsible marketing or environmental protection. fiscal 2012, used the results of the independent stakeholder research. We have reviewed the We use the results of these assessments to inform materiality rankings and have concluded that they our Corporate Responsibility strategy and the specific remain relevant for fiscal 2013. Our next assessment will approach taken within each pillar of our program. be conducted in fiscal 2014. The Corporate Responsibility leadership team (CRLT) To complete the materiality assessment, we combine assesses the materiality of Corporate Responsibility issues the level of stakeholder interest in specific issues with for Bacardi Limited on a regular basis. the current or potential impact of the issues on Bacardi Limited. This establishes the relative importance – the Our Material Issues materiality – of our Corporate Responsibility issues to The results of our biannual materiality assessment (last one another. conducted in 2012) are shown on the matrix below. We have reviewed these results and have concluded that they are still appropriate for fiscal 2013. The matrix shows the relative level of stakeholder interest in our Corporate Responsibility issues and the current or potential impact of these issues on Bacardi Limited. 15 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business Notes to the Results: Responsible Marketing Sustainable Agriculture and Responsible Employer includes responsible commercial Sourcing focuses on improvement includes employee rights, health communications, marketing, in social and environmental and safety, diversity and training and advertising and product promotion. standards throughout the entire development. value chain. Responsible Drinking Sustainable Packaging includes action to promote Responsible Supply Chain focuses on making our packaging responsible drinking and address focuses on the minimum standards more sustainable including material alcohol-related harm. required of immediate suppliers to type, packaging weight and Bacardi Limited. recyclability. Product Responsibility includes product quality and Good Governance Local Communities product labeling. includes business ethics, includes employee volunteering transparency and controls to in community projects, as well as Direct Environmental Impacts achieve regulatory compliance. fundraising and donations. includes carbon footprint, air emissions, effluent, water use, waste, transport. 16 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Our Impacts As a manufacturer and distributor of alcoholic beverages, our operations have a range of benefits and impacts. Our Corporate Responsibility program aims to maximize the positives of our business and minimize the negatives. Our Value Chain There are many stages in the production of our premium with our business are in our supply chain, and we try to spirits before they reach the consumer. We know that reduce these impacts at all stages of our product lifecycle. many of the environmental and social impacts associated 17 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Agricultural Raw Materials Bacardi Limited has a more than150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and are still important to us today. Manufacturing Agricultural ingredients are extracted or fermented at manufacturing sites following long-established recipes to create our six global brands and our strong portfolio of local brands. We aim to establish projects that will deliver continual gains in our environmental performance, particularly improvements related to energy and water use, greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water quality. Our success is built on our outstanding people, and we need to ensure they are safe at work. Establishing a safety culture is essential to delivering an accident-free workplace. Packaging and Distribution Aging and bottling take place at sites around the world, where finishing touches are put on our products. When complete, our products are shipped to customers through several distribution channels. Our packaging consists mainly of glass and cardboard, with small amounts of plastic and metal. Around 50% of the carbon emissions from our value chain come from the manufacture of glass. Reducing the weight of our bottles and increasing the use of recycled glass help to reduce this. Retail and Consumer Our customers are retailers who distribute our brands through a number of channels, including supermarkets, restaurants, hotels and bars. These customers sell our products to consumers, who enjoy our brands. The vast majority of consumers drink alcohol responsibly and in moderation. Irresponsible or excessive consumption can cause problems with health, anti-social behavior and drinking and driving. We contribute to reducing the incidence of issues by ensuring we adhere to responsible marketing codes and are an influential voice in engaging with consumers and raising awareness of responsible drinking. Recycling and Reuse Recycling is an essential way to reduce the impact of our packaging. All of our packaging is recyclable, and our sustainable packaging manual will build sustainability considerations into future packaging redesigns. We recycle the majority of our manufacturing waste, and many of the waste by-products from our agricultural raw materials are used as animal feed or fertilizers. 18 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE A Clear Responsibility Promoting responsible drinking with our “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign. In this Section: Promoting responsible consumer choices. Strategy Drinking alcohol is a matter of personal choice, and most consumers who Targets and Progress choose to drink do so in moderation. Alcohol can cause harm if it is misused, Responsible Marketing however. It is therefore in our interest to market our products responsibly and encourage consumers to enjoy drinking our brands in moderation. Tackling Alcohol Related Harm We are proud of the quality and heritage of our brands and want them to be Responsible Drinking consumed appropriately. Encouraging responsible decision-making by legal Campaigns drinking age (LDA) consumers and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products is a key priority for our Company. The Bacardi Limited Global Marketing Principles represent our highest global standards for producing all of our marketing materials, and our commercial teams are trained and held accountable to comply with these principles. We expect to comply with relevant local laws and regulations and in fiscal 2013, as in previous years, we had no consumer complaints that were upheld by regulators. CHRIS SEARLE | International Affairs and Global CSR Director 19 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Chris Searle International Affairs and Global CSR Director Watch Video In the Marketplace section of our Corporate Our responsible drinking flagship project is our awardResponsibility report, we report on two strategic issues: winning global campaign, “Champions Drink Responsibly.” responsible marketing and responsible drinking. This year marked the second full year that tennis great Rafael Nadal has served as the Bacardi Limited Global Social On responsible marketing, the Bacardi Limited Global Responsibility Ambassador and champion of this campaign. Marketing Principles represent our highest global standards for producing all of our marketing materials. We raised awareness around the world of our four key Our commercial teams are trained and held accountable responsible drinking messages, shown below, as we to comply with these principles. Our code of marketing hosted consumer and media events in New York, Majorca, principles is fully aligned with industry codes of the Acapulco and Barcelona. International Center for Alcohol Policies (ICAP), the Distilled Spirits Council (DISCUS) and spiritsEurope. We also expect to comply with relevant local laws and Champions Drink Responsibly regulations. encourages consumers to: • Have a plan for the evening so that everyone has We take our responsibilities seriously and in fiscal 2013, an amazing time. as in previous years, no consumer complaints on our marketing materials were upheld by regulators. • Take their time over their drinks and choose quality over quantity. We have robust processes in place to review and approve • Be a true friend and look out for each other. marketing materials. We have activities under way to update our systems, and we will elaborate on this subject • Have a plan to make sure that everyone gets home in our next report. safely. We all know that drinking and driving don’t mix. On responsible drinking, we promote drinking in moderation to LDA consumers globally. We use “enjoy In this way, consumers can ensure that they have a great responsibly” as a moderation statement on our labels and and memorable evening. in our advertising. This statement replaced our previous admonition to “drink responsibly” after NGOs commented We also share these messages through digital and that it actively instructed consumers to drink. We social media. In its first year, the campaign’s Facebook™ encourage regular consumption and responsible page attracted over half a million fans. We also conduct enjoyment of our brands for those who choose to press conferences, consumer events and global online drink. This is part of our business strategy to encourage competitions (e.g., Ace Rafa, Mix with Rafa) to spread these consumers to choose our premium spirit brands. four core messages. 20 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Our Strategy We are proud of the quality and heritage of our brands and want them to be consumed appropriately. Encouraging responsible decisionmaking by legal drinking age (LDA) consumers and discouraging inappropriate consumption of our products is a key priority for our Company. We work to support this strategy in three ways: We take a similar best-in-class approach to responsible • We adhere to responsible marketing codes in our marketing, ensuring that our brand marketing is businesses globally. not targeted at under-LDA consumers. We focus on • We work closely with third-party organizations to achieving this everywhere that we promote our products reduce alcohol-related harm. -including print, television and, increasingly, digital • We create and support targeted programs that aim to media -by observing the 70/30 age profile, whereby educate LDA consumers about drinking responsibly. a minimum of 70% of the applicable media audience is over the LDA. This is our global objective; in some Our Approach markets the percentage can be higher. We continue Our strategy for the Marketplace pillar is to be very to have an excellent record of compliance with our focused on a few best-in-class activities in promoting Global Marketing Principles and with relevant industry responsible drinking and tackling alcohol misuse. We codes in areas where local laws do not exist. We also aim to play an influential role in engaging with LDA recognize that the spirits industry as a whole has a good consumers to raise awareness of responsible drinking compliance record on responsible marketing, compared issues. To achieve this, we create and support visible to other business sectors. responsible drinking campaigns targeted at LDA consumers, both globally and in local markets, in many cases working through industry associations. We also continue to build on the recognition already received for our award-winning responsible drinking campaigns, such as “Champions Drink Responsibly.” 21 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Material Issues Our priorities relating to responsible marketing and tackling The materiality assessment judged that issues relating to alcohol-related harm closely correspond to the results of “responsible drinking,” which is defined as actions to promote our last biannual assessment of the most material Corporate responsible drinking and to reduce alcohol misuse, and Responsibility issues for Bacardi Limited. “responsible marketing” were both very highly material to stakeholders and to the Company, relative to other Corporate Responsibility issues. Read more on our materiality process in the materiality section. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 22 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: Our ambition is to be role in encouraging responsible decision-making by best-in-class in promoting responsible drinking and legal drinking age (LDA) consumers and discouraging ensuring our marketing is responsible. In order to help inappropriate consumption of our products. reduce alcohol-related harm, we will play an influential TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Achieve 500,000 Facebook™ fans We achieved 689,271 fans on our Develop the Champions Drink by the end of fiscal 2013. Facebook pages by March 2013. Responsibly campaign by This is supported by a strong building its consumer reach analytical evaluation to prove across additional social media consumer engagement. groups, e.g., Instagram, as well as by increasing our consumer engagement on Facebook. Launch a global competition We launched “Mix with Rafa,” a Target of 1 million fans to be to align more clearly the global online competition to reached across all social media “Champions Drink Responsibly” align our campaign messaging platforms. campaign messaging with other with other Bacardi rum consumer brand consumer activity. activity. Update the Bacardi Limited Created a new edition of the Develop plans to increase local Global Marketing Principles and Bacardi Global Marketing market activation beyond current supporting guidelines to bring Principles, which included a core markets. Launch a training them up to date with the new ninth principle to cover our app to reach our commercial developments with our digital digital approach and achieve an teams globally. marketing approach. integrated policy. Launch a responsible digital New e-module to provide Launch third edition of Global marketing e-book to support digital training was created to Marketing Principles book and our existing e-learning module complement the current social follow up with training programs on responsible marketing and responsibility module. to achieve 80% target of all include in the induction of all marketers trained. new employees. Include the responsible sourcing Bombay Sapphire brand equity Introduce new marketing of the botanicals for BOMBAY program is supplemented by compliance approval process SAPPHIRE Gin as part of the educating consumers on its through a dedicated database to brand story. responsible botanicals sourcing. gain greater internal transparency around campaign developments. 23 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Include responsible drinking Bacardi brand activity that focuses Integrate brand advocacy into messaging within BACARDÍ on house parties also incorporated the new Corporate Sustainability Rum consumer party events. responsible drinking messages strategy through the brand and other Corporate Responsibility alignment workshops. (CR) elements. Play a part in developing a Global Alcohol Producers Group Implement first year of the GAPG five-year industry commitment (GAPG) commitments covering commitments plan. to reducing alcohol-related five key areas were signed by harm as part of Global Actions Bacardi CEO. on Harmful Drinking. We will support specific activities to prevent packaging appealing to those under LDA and also expand consumer information on-pack. Assist in reforming the Foreign FSPA body in China was reformed Pilot CR initiatives with retail Spirits Producers Association and new Secretary General partners to contribute to the in China, including widening appointed with key Bacardi reduction of alcohol-related harm the program of activities on involvement. to positively influence antisocial responsible drinking. issues. Expand our work with the U.K. Continued to play an active role Develop Community Alcohol Responsibility Deal, in particular in U.K. Responsibility Deal by coPartnerships that are included in increasing consumer choice of chairing the education group. the Responsibility Deal. lower alcoholic strength drinks as a way to reduce alcohol unit intake and target alcoholrelated harm. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 24 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Responsible Marketing We believe that self-regulation, as part of a legislative framework, is an effective way to manage marketing communications, which are essential to the commercial side of our business. An important part of our commitment to encourage marketing and recognizes the power of social media. the responsible use of our products is to ensure We are committed to producing content that both that our marketing does not promote inappropriate upholds advertising standards and represents honest alcohol consumption, while reinforcing the responsible and truthful communications that respect the privacy of drinking message. Our marketing colleagues have our consumers. The updated Global Marketing Principles a range of tools to support this objective, and we were introduced at a global marketing conference that particularly focus on ensuring that our communications included our top 150 commercial managers. are aimed only at LDA consumers. Read our Global Marketing Principles. Global Marketing Principles Our Global Marketing Principles are a set of nine core Compliance principles that govern all of our marketing practices Our country managers, supported by legal or external and act as our Company’s internal marketing code. affairs specialists, are responsible for ensuring the Together with our implementation guidelines, they compliance of all of our local marketing materials. Key to form the basis of our strategy for responsible marketing. our approach is that country managers are not involved in developing marketing materials, so they are better Our Global Marketing Principles, introduced in 2007 able to be more independent and objective about the and revised in 2009, were updated again in fiscal local suitability of marketing materials developed by our 2013 with the addition of a new principle that takes marketing teams. into account changes in our approach to digital External Codes and Regulations: Measuring the Results: Our first priority in our self-regulatory approach to marketing is to adhere to 0 local marketing regulations and to observe all global, regional and national voluntary marketing codes, wherever we sell our products. Our Global Marketing Principles give us a consistent approach across the many marketing codes that exist in our markets. These principles also No consumer complaints on act as the highest standard and are particularly helpful in markets where advertising regulations are weak or nonexistent. our advertising were upheld in fiscal 2013. In countries in which the availability or sale of alcohol beverages is prohibited, we respect these local cultural traditions. 25 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Developing Digital Marketing At concept and early production stages, digital marketing In fiscal 2013, we continued to see a major shift in our follows the same process as traditional marketing, brand marketing to incorporate greater use of digital requiring internal sign-off against our responsible and social media communication, supplementing our marketing principles before the project can progress more traditional marketing such as print and television to the next stage. With all marketing campaigns, this advertising. In addition, we invested in a central PR event early-stage intervention prevents responsible marketing unit to set best practices in experiential and sponsorship compliance issues later in the project. marketing, where key brands focus on contacting consumers more directly. Digital marketing campaigns also are bound by the same production and distribution rules as are our traditional At the same time, we established a new way of working marketing efforts: all actors or models must be over within our global marketing function that clarifies 25 years old and delivery channels for the campaign responsibilities and delivers greater coordination among must have a user profile made up of at least 70% LDA global, regional and local marketing functions. consumers, which is the global standard across the industry. With the new focus on digital marketing, we now have dedicated specialists who are digital community The importance of this media targeting was reinforced managers for key brands. These managers develop by a commitment made by EU alcohol advertisers who digital content, engage consumers in brand are members of WFA (World Federation of Advertisers) conversations and help us avoid inappropriate to the Directorate-General for Health and Consumers consumer content on our digital channels. (DGSANCO) Alcohol and Health Forum. While Bacardi is a founding member of the Forum and, since 2007, Managing Responsible Digital Marketing has been a member of WFA, our Company already had Our increased focus on digital marketing alters how we this standard in place, governing operations within our manage responsible marketing in some areas. business throughout this time. Keeping Digital Marketing Responsible: As with all aspects of our marketing, digital and social media communications must adhere to our Global Marketing Principles and promote responsible drinking. Our new Global Marketing Principles summarize specific guidance on responsible digital marketing and help ensure that our policy is consistent with industry bodies like spiritsEurope and DISCUS, which also have their own codes. This supports international alignment on our approach and consistency across our brands. Our global digital guidelines, reinforced by a training module, also give direction on how brand and digital community managers should handle digital communities on our social media platforms, such as Facebook™, YouTube™ and Twitter™, including how to ensure that user-generated content complies with our responsible marketing approach. 26 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE The key concern with social media is to avoid contact To make this requirement clear to users, our social media with underage consumers. Our home pages carry agebrand sites have prominent terms and conditions that verification mechanics so that only LDA+ consumers outline what is and is not acceptable content. This allows enter the sites, although these gateways rely on inappropriate user content to be easily removed without consumers’ self-reporting. affecting other postings. Digital marketing establishes interaction with, and conversations among, consumers over the life of the Responsible Marketing Training campaign. The challenge is to ensure that the tone of this Digital Marketing Training conversation does not breach our responsible marketing In fiscal 2013, all new marketing hires received training principles and that user-generated content similarly in responsible digital marketing, as well as in our Global reflects our marketing code. Marketing Principles. To this end, we require our digital community managers Training on the implementation of the guidelines that to actively monitor both on-site consumer conversations support these principles began at Bacardi Global Brands and user-generated content on our digital platforms in London, where our global brands are managed. to ensure their conformation to our understanding of A roadshow to introduce the guidelines around the responsible marketing. Company kicked off in Miami in June 2012, and these workshops are continuing in fiscal 2014. Social Responsibility e-Learning Module: Our social responsibility e-learning module (pictured right) is an online training course that raises awareness of our Global Marketing Principles and our overall approach to responsible marketing. The module is available to all employees electronically through the ONE Bacardi intranet site. All new marketers must complete the training module, and more than 400 have done so since the course was launched in fiscal 2011. We broadened delivery of the e-learning module in fiscal 2012 by incorporating it into Becoming Bacardi, our global induction program for new employees. As a result, since December 2011 all new hires have completed the module, underlining the importance of responsible marketing and our Global Marketing Principles to the growth and development of Bacardi Limited. 27 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Bacardi Limited Global Marketing Principles Bacardi Limited is committed to the responsible and safe consumption of our brands by legal drinking age (LDA) consumers. We are extremely proud of our portfolio and are committed to long-term brand-building in a socially responsible manner. We will never market our brands to consumers under the LDA. We also discourage irresponsible consumption of our brands and urge consumers who choose to drink to do so responsibly. These principles are to be applied to the broad mix of marketing activity, which is generated by the global, regional and local marketing teams that are engaged in producing marketing activities for our brands. Principle 1 Principle 3 All Bacardi Limited companies and employees must All Bacardi Limited products will provide clear information comply with the laws, regulations and self-regulatory on alcohol content. A message of responsible enjoyment codes applicable to their marketing and promotional will be included on commercial communications, as well practices. as on all Bacardi Limited products. Principle 2 Principle 4 All marketing and promotional practices will present The content and placement of all marketing and the responsible enjoyment of alcoholic beverages and promotional practices will be directed toward consumers will not encourage the misuse of alcohol through the of the required legal age to purchase alcohol beverages presentation of excessive consumption or situations in the relevant markets, and will avoid associations where irresponsible consumption is accepted. with images and music that would appeal primarily to underage individuals. 28 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Principle 5 All marketing and promotional practices will support Global Marketing Principles the safe consumption of alcohol beverages and will These principles were originally created in 2004, not associate the consumption of alcohol beverages and we subsequently revised them in 2007 with any potentially dangerous activity, such as driving because of our experience in training, which motorized vehicles, operating machinery or performing revealed the need to have explanatory guidelines. hazardous athletic activities. We also realized that the Global Marketing Principle 6 Principles needed a high level of visibility and Corporate communications may recognize reputable continuous review and training within our evidence of the physical benefits from moderate marketing community, and we have published alcohol consumption, but marketing activities will not three editions in this time period. claim medicinal or performance properties for Bacardi products. As part of our review process, recognizing the advent of digital media and the emphasis that Principle 7 marketers now place on digital content generation, Marketing and promotional practices will not be we added a new principle (Principle 9) relating to associated with any individual or group behavior that this in 2013. is anti-social, violent or destructive. Principle 8 All marketing and promotional practices must be in good taste and must not contain indecent, demeaning or insulting materials. Watch Video Principle 9 We recognize the digital space is an alternative community for consumers to network, communicate Andy Gibson and comment on products and services. We aim Chief Marketing to uphold our legal commitments and be honest, Officer of Bacardi & transparent and truthful in our marketing materials to President of Bacardi ensure that none of our communications attempts to Global Brands mislead our consumers. Consumer privacy in the digital space should be observed at all times. 29 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Tackling Alcohol-Related Harm Alcohol-related harm is recognized as a serious public health concern by a range of stakeholders, including the WHO, national governments, NGOs and the beverage alcohol industry. There is a collective commitment from these stakeholders to reduce the harmful use of alcohol globally. This is recognized in the WHO Global Strategy Internal Management to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol, which promotes We improved our global coordination of issues a role for all stakeholders, including the beverage relating to alcohol policy and responsible drinking alcohol industry. by establishing a Global External Affairs leadership team (GEALT) in fiscal 2012. Bacardi Limited supports the development of appropriate public policy responses to alcohol misuse. The team comprises regional External Affairs We believe that the industry has a significant role to Directors and meets regularly to coordinate play in reducing alcohol-related harm within the 10initiatives and share best practices from across the year framework set by the WHO. Company. More recently, the team has worked with Corporate Communications in a new structure that Despite our commitment to tackle the challenge of raises the profile of these issues with the BLT. alcohol misuse and the recognition by the WHO Global Alcohol Strategy that the beverage alcohol industry needs to be part of the solution, we still face calls from NGOs for governments to reduce total alcohol WHO Global Alcohol Strategy consumption through measures such as restricting Adopted in May 2010, the WHO Global Strategy to the availability of alcohol, increasing taxation and Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol focuses on four implementing advertising bans. In 2013, this topic global objectives and will be implemented over a 10was debated as part of the U.N. non-communicable year period, with an initial review that took place in 2013. diseases plan. This strategy provides a menu of 10 policy options that member states can follow when developing national alcohol policies that reflect their local cultures, issues and existing policy frameworks. Detailed information on the Global Strategy is available from the WHO website: www.who.int 30 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Supporting the Strategy The CEOs of GAPG member companies formally agreed Bacardi Limited supports the WHO Global Strategy to these commitments, which were presented to WHO individually and in collaboration with a wide range of Director General Dr. Margaret Chan. international, regional and country-level stakeholders. Bacardi Limited has embraced the obligations of the Global Alcohol Producers Group (GAPG) program, and planning is under way to set out our fiveBacardi Limited is a founding, and active, member of point plan for implementation. We are working with GAPG, an industry coalition of 15 leading beverage other alcohol producers through our trade associations to alcohol companies. GAPG provides a channel for the provide support in these areas. industry, WHO, member state governments and other stakeholders to engage in constructive dialogue on These commitments are being cascaded into the the health problems caused by harmful drinking business units within our regional and global operations. patterns. Our focus is to deliver more on-pack information to consumers and to ensure that our media messaging is WHO recognizes that leading alcohol producers can reaching only LDA consumers. The progress achieved in make a positive contribution to WHO objectives the implementation of these commitments by all of the to reduce alcohol-related harm. To this end, GAPG signatories will be published regularly on unveiled 10 key commitments in five areas of interest www.globalalcoholproducersgroup.com to WHO that would be delivered over a five-year period that started in January 2013. These commitments were presented at the UN High-Level Meeting on International Center for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) Non-Communicable Diseases In September 2011, the United Nations General conference in Washington, D.C., in October 2012. The Assembly held a high-level meeting on the conference was attended by over 300 stakeholders, of prevention and control of non-communicable which 65% were non-industry representatives. diseases (NCDs), also known as lifestyle-related diseases. The 10 commitments, detailed on the website shown below, cover the following five areas of interest to Various perspectives on tackling alcohol-related GAPG members, WHO and its government members: harm were presented. These included the role 1. Underage consumption. of industry self-regulation and the issue of noncommercial alcohol, which reflect work currently 2. Responsible marketing. taking place to support the WHO strategy on 3. Consumer information. alcohol-related harm. 4. Drink drive initiatives. Further developments in fiscal 2013 on NCDs, as 5. Responsible retailer initiatives. WHO built on the U.N. agenda, led the industry to review how it could work more effectively to coordinate the efforts of its global organizations, including ICAP and GAPG. 31 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE GLOBAL ACTIONS ON HARMFUL DRINKING Global Actions on Harmful Drinking is the headline program developed by GAPG and managed by ICAP to support the WHO Global Alcohol Strategy. This program, which represents a significant collective commitment to reduce the harmful use of alcohol, established projects in the following three key areas where the beverage alcohol industry can make a positive impact: • Drinking and driving programs. • Self-regulation of responsible marketing and advertising. • Non-commercial alcohol and the informal alcohol market. The projects started in 2010 and were aligned to key aspects of supporting the WHO Global Alcohol Strategy, which was planned to be reviewed after three years and, initially, ran until the end of 2012. Local ICAP coordinators, working closely with local government officials, supported 27 projects in these three areas that were established in 18 countries. Special emphasis was placed on lowand middle-income economies, such as China, India and Russia, where existing alcohol responsibility programs are not so advanced. The projects were delivered via a range of stakeholders and local third-party organizations. Bacardi Limited provided direct support to projects establishing self-regulation frameworks in Mexico, Russia and China. Two of these projects Drink/Drive and Self-Regulation subsequently formed part of the GAPG Commitments and are merged into that program. ICAP commissioned an independent audit to report on the progress of some of these projects, and this is discussed below. Evaluation In order to evaluate the effectiveness of Global Actions on Harmful Drinking, ICAP commissioned an independent social development consultancy, specializing in evaluating public programs, to assess the projects. The evaluation took place over the life of the projects, from 2010 to 2012, and a mid-term evaluation report, with recommendations, was completed in September 2011. Details are available on the Global Actions on Harmful Drinking website, www.global-actions.org. A full evaluation was scheduled for the end of 2013. 32 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE European Activity: EUROPEAN UNION DG SANCO ALCOHOL AND HEALTH FORUM We take part in meetings of the European Union (EU) DG SANCO Alcohol and Health Forum. During fiscal 2013, we gave the European Commission an interim evaluation of the “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign that was run in the EU, as our commitment to meet the goals of the Forum spans a three-year period ending in March 2014. In fiscal 2013, we decided not to further engage in commitments relating to the Forum’s digital marketing efforts, but rather to support the efforts of leading companies in fashioning our response to the Responsible Marketing Pact that has been developed by the World Federation of Advertisers (WFA), to which we belong. www.ec.europa.eu/eahfa The WFA commitments, which run until 2015, aim to develop common standards relating to commercial communications and marketing. In particular, these standards put in place media monitoring to enforce the 70/30 audience profile for LDA consumers. This means that all media and publicity purchased or generated has to reach an LDA audience that is composed of over 70% LDA consumers. Details can be found on the WFA website, www.wfanet.org SPIRITSEUROPE spiritsEUROPE is the representative body for the spirits industry in Europe. spiritsEUROPE successfully promotes the interests of our sector with the European Commission, including defending commercial interests like competitive pricing, during the debate over minimum-pricing restrictions. Bacardi Limited currently chairs spiritsEUROPE’s Alcohol and Society Committee. This committee is at work renewing its regional marketing plan and road map for delivering a more effective process for responsible marketing standards in Europe. More information can be found at www.spirits.eu In fiscal 2014, Bacardi Limited is offering a link to the website of spiritsEUROPE so consumers can access a multilingual website and obtain educational information about responsible consumption. This link is featured on all back labels of our brands sold in Europe. For further information, see www.spirits.eu 33 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE United States Activity: DISCUS Bacardi U.S.A., Inc. is a member of the Distilled Spirits Council (DISCUS), the national trade association representing America’s leading distillers, which covers nearly 70% of all distilled spirits brands sold in the U.S. The Bacardi Regional President for North America sits on the board of DISCUS, and we participate in all committees. www.discus.org. A Common Approach to Responsible Digital Marketing In fiscal 2012, DISCUS in the U.S. and EFRD in Europe (a predecessor organization to spiritsEUROPE) launched a joint set of responsible digital marketing guidelines. The organizations agreed on a common approach to self-regulation of digital and social media communications, with the new guidelines building on both organizations’ experience in this area. The guidelines cover spirits advertising through social networking sites, blogs and mobile apps, as well as govern user-generated content on digital platforms. Between EFRD and DISCUS, the new guidelines cover spirits marketing in the world’s largest alcohol advertising markets. www.discus.org www.spirits.eu Local Trade Association Activity The spirits industry is heavily regulated and is a significant contributor to local economies. Because of this, we believe that the interests of Bacardi Limited and our industry often are represented more effectively by working closely with trade associations in local markets on both regulatory and social aspects. Our local managers are encouraged to get involved with the policy-making objectives of these local bodies and, in more significant markets, to take the chair of associations and sit on leadership committees. In addition to having significant positions in global or regional organizations, such as DISCUS, CEPS (another predecessor organization to spiritsEUROPE) and GAPG, Bacardi Limited representatives held leadership roles in local associations in Russia, France, Italy and Chile in fiscal 2013. In developing markets, where industry representation is not so advanced, our external affairs executives support the establishment of spirits trade associations and, drawing on our global experience, assist trade associations that are newly established. 34 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Responsible Drinking Campaigns We aim to play an influential role in engaging with legal drinking age (LDA) consumers on responsible drinking and create consumer campaigns to do this in the regions where we operate. Champions Drink Responsibly Our global flagship responsible drinking program, “Champions Drink Responsibly” (CDR), is now in its fifth year and has completed its second full year with our Global Social Responsibility Ambassador, world tennis champion Rafael Nadal (“Rafa”). The campaign promotes “The Champion’s Way,” a set of four key messages for consumers to make every night out a memorable one: 1. Having a plan so everyone has an amazing time. 2. Taking your time and choosing quality over quantity. 3. Being a true friend and looking out for each other. 4. Making sure everyone makes it home safely (don’t drink and drive). CDR awareness material with Rafael Nadal. All four messages are designed to give people useful In fiscal 2013, we further developed the program by and practical suggestions for behaviors that will help expanding its reach through new platforms and media. them enjoy their night to the fullest -creating The Champion’s Way! 35 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Ace Rafa Promotion Event “Ace Rafa” was an online game hosted on the CDR The “Ace Rafa” live event was a huge success that not Facebook page that enabled players to serve to Rafa only provided a once-in-a-lifetime experience for lucky virtually by using “RoboServ,” a state-of-the-art ballFacebook fans but also effectively communicated serving machine. To win, players had to show that they a challenging responsible drinking message in an had the attributes of a Champion to know where the engaging manner. line is. In fiscal 2013, 2.2 million people were reached globally by “Ace Rafa” content, resulting in more than 20,000 people from over 45 markets entering to win a chance to replicate the “Ace Rafa” game for real and meet CDR Champion Rafa Nadal. A total of 19 winners (and their guests) were invited to the live “Ace Rafa” event in Majorca, where they were treated to a luxury weekend of 5-star accommodation and cuisine. The highlight of the weekend was meeting Rafa in person and attempting to ace him using a reallife robotic ball-serving machine. CDR Facebook Page Since its launch in April 2011, the CDR Facebook page Rafa-related content that demonstrates The Champion’s has gone from strength to strength, communicating to Way. All of this communication is designed to spell a global audience encompassing more than 40 markets out the campaign’s key responsible drinking messages in all five Bacardi Limited geographic regions. By the with an appropriate tone, one that never preaches or end of fiscal 2013, this Facebook page had attracted a condescends to people about drinking alcohol. following of 689,271 fans. With over 40,000 engagements on Facebook content per The CDR Facebook page offers a mixture of responsible month and an ever-growing fan base, we expect that drinking behaviors that will enable LDA consumers to the CDR Facebook community will soon achieve over make the most out of their night out, tips about how one million Champions. This level of consumer response Mocktails (otherwise known as non-alcoholic cocktails) clearly demonstrates the tremendous impact of our can control the pace of a night out and a range of campaign. 36 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Mocktails Taking a break from alcoholic drinks during an evening is a good way for LDA consumers to pace themselves during an evening out. Through CDR Mocktails, we remind fans that responsible drinking does not mean that you need to drink soft drinks or water all evening. Instead, we offer a more exciting alternative. Through a mix of recipe cards and tips about how to incorporate Mocktails into a night out, we have developed a stream of content that gives fans a refreshing alternative to drinking alcohol that will help LDA consumers enjoy and remember a great night out. We launched another global online competition in fiscal 2013 that focused more on social occasions and less explicitly on tennis. “Mix with Rafa” was created to enable consumers to win a place at a house party hosted by Rafa, in unique Bacardi style. The promotion was launched in February 2013 and closed in mid-April, with Mark Plumridge shows Rafa how to make the final event –meeting Rafa in person at a great party The Champion’s Mix. -held in July 2013. Mexico Event In February 2013, just ahead of the 2013 Mexican Open, CDR Champion Rafa Nadal visited Acapulco to educate LDA Mexicans on responsible drinking behavior through “The Champion’s Way.” This was Rafa’s first visit to Mexico as part of the “Champions Drink Responsibly” campaign, and it offered a tremendous opportunity to widen the appeal of the CDR campaign and its messages. Due to local laws, our Mexican company can’t link the promotion of alcohol with sport, and therefore it ran a local promotion to reward its consumers with this opportunity. Rafa also was able to debut for his Mexican fans the latest campaign Mocktail, The Champion’s Mix. To communicate this concept at the event, Rafa tried his hand at mixing up a few Mocktails, showing how simple and delicious non-alcoholic alternatives can be. 37 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE T-Sign The “T-Sign” is a call-to-action A series of ads was created signal in the CDR campaign, which incorporating this gesture into has adopted this well-recognized different messages, e.g., hailing a gesture to indicate “Time Out.” Rafa taxi to get home safely at the end of launched the “T-Sign” at a press an evening. event in Sitges, Spain, in November 2012 to promote responsible To support the new initiative, drinking among LDA consumers. Champions Drink Responsibly developed the “T-Sign” Facebook The “T-Sign” symbolizes many of app in March 2013 that encourages the CDR campaign’s responsible fans to show that they have the drinking messages, as well as qualities of a Champion through T-Sign call to action the behaviors that can make a their own “T-Sign” images. advertising campaign with Champion and ensure that friends Rafael Nadal enjoy a great night out together. New York Event Due to an injury that Rafa suffered prior to the U.S. Open tournament, Tennis Grand Slam Champion and world number-one-ranked Victoria Azarenka took his place at a CDR event in August 2012, just ahead of the Open. Victoria swapped her tennis racquet for a cocktail shaker, joining five of New York’s top bartenders to judge a contest to find a new signature CDR Mocktail. Amid fierce competition, Victoria chose The Champion’s Mix as the winning Mocktail recipe, and this drink joined Rafa’s Berry Smash as the campaign’s lead Mocktail. To strengthen engagement between fans of the CDR page and mixology, all five Mocktail recipes were shared online so that fans could try them for themselves. The event generated significant content for the CDR Facebook page and great PR for the campaign, including a video that was broadcast on NBC’s First Look. 38 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Responsible Drinking Programs from Around the World Bacardi is very active in participating in local initiatives which are coordinated and led by local industry organizations. We regard educating consumers in responsible drinking as a key business imperative, as part of our long-term brand-building. United States In December 2011, legendary NBA basketball star Shaquille O’Neal visited Bacardi U.S.A. headquarters in Coral Gables, Florida, to tell employees about his partnership with The Century Council to fight binge-drinking on U.S. college campuses. As spokesman for the campaign, which runs until 2014, “Shaq” has fronted a series of studentcreated videos addressing the issue of college binge-drinking. www.centurycouncil.org/initiative/unique-partnershipsshaquille-oneal Mexico Shaquille O’Neal attending a In Mexico, the social aspects organization Fundación de Investigaciones binge-drinking awareness event Sociales AC (FISAC), of which Bacardi Mexico is a founding member, at The University of Alabama has launched a new two-year responsible drinking campaign called “No joke, don’t abuse alcohol.” The campaign features two humorous characters to promote messages against drinking and driving and for consuming alcohol in moderation. A range of campaign videos are being aired during national television news broadcasts and through social media channels, including Facebook and Twitter. www.alcoholinformate.org.mx (in Spanish) 39 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Russia During the winter of 2013 in Russia, Bacardi developed the TAKEMEHOMEMACHINE project, which was piloted in a popular Moscow nightclub. In this innovative assist to responsible drinking, a bar patron who orders a MARTINI Royale or any other MARTINI drink also receives a straw from the bartender that can be used to blow into a breathalyzer device. This machine measures the individual’s blood alcohol content and, if it is too high, the machine also supplies the consumer with a 30% discount for a taxi service that can provide a safe ride home. Additional features have been incorporated into the breathalyzer device, including social network access that enables people to take amusing photos of themselves or friends when blowing into the breathalyzer and then post the photos on their social networking profile. This project won four awards at Russia’s “RED APPLE” Advertising and Marketing festival in the following categories: • Best promo campaign using the new technology • The best use of non-standard advertising • Non-standard media • Smart outdoor AD in Alcohol drinks nomination In fiscal 2013, the project also won the prestigious ACE Award, encouraging further project development and roll-out to additional bars, nightclubs and restaurants in Russia and to similar venues in other markets. France In March 2012, Bacardi-Martini France launched “Slow Drinking,” a new concept to promote moderate to enjoy our products. The project is supported by a team consumption that emphasizes the philosophy of quality of experts, including a nutritionist, sociologist, behavioral over quantity. It promotes taste at the center of any consumption specialist and culinary blogger. www. occasion involving alcoholic drinks and introduces slowdrinking.com (in French) 10 principles of Slow Drinking, which include always combining drinks with food and taking your time. A dedicated website informs consumers about the best ways 40 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE gas emissions in the “freight to and 58 million PR contacts for customer” process. Bacardi achieved responsible drinking messaging a reduction of more than 20% in via media coverage. the five-year period from 2007, www.driverscorner.de an accomplishment verified by (in German) independent auditor Deloitte. In order to achieve this decrease in CO2 emissions, Bacardi undertook a number of initiatives, including reducing the frequency of orders Netherlands delivered to customers and In the Netherlands, the Dutch increasing the volume of products Spirits Association (VIP) and Wine being distributed in each delivery. Association (KVNW) are using mobile technology to raise awareness of responsible drinking. Jointly, they have developed a mobile app that helps consumers record their alcohol consumption. Users enter alcoholic Germany drinks consumed into the app, Since 2005, Bacardi has spread the which converts these into units of message “don’t drink and drive” to alcohol consumed. This can then LDA German consumers, adding be compared to recommended value for our on-trade partners, drinking limits for men and women. providing tangible results and The app also enables users to keep making a real contribution to a drinks diary over time. Supporting stakeholder dialogue. During the app is a responsible drinking on-trade events, Bacardi supports website, which provides information designated drivers with free soft about responsible drinking and facts drinks, sponsored by Coca Cola about alcohol in general. Germany, at the Driver’s Corner bar. www.drinkwijzer.info (in Dutch) This is a simple idea close to our business, one attractive to strong Advertising campaign for the Bacardi Netherlands won the Lean & partners like Coca Cola Germany, Driver’s Corner responsible Green STAR in 2012, one of the first Chevrolet, DEKRA (full-service drinking initiative. 15 companies in the Netherlands provider for safe and efficient to do so. The Lean & Green STAR mobility) or BDT (the German onis awarded to companies that trade association). It has involved have significantly decreased CO2more than 200 events with 80,000 designated drivers and passengers 41 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Sweden Italy More specifically related to spirits, a In Sweden, Bacardi is actively In Italy, Bacardi distributed 1,500 Voluntary Industry Code (VIC) was involved in the successful youth CR leaflets at Bartenders Advocacy developed for the Ready to Drink education initiative, “Teach about sessions at the Terrazza Martini in (RTD) category. This VIC will be in Alcohol.” The program focuses Milan. force in fiscal 2014 and will result on taking a social and life skills in the removal of non-compliant approach to encourage young We also participated in the Welfare products from the marketplace. people to behave sensibly with Exhibition (Giornata Nazionale Della Although the New Zealand alcohol. Since the program began Previdenza), which took place in Government had indicated that it in 2006, over 9,000 teachers and Milan in May 2012. At this event, would legislate on the RTD category, 450,000 students have undertaken we shared the history of Corporate the industry argued successfully to the program across Sweden. The Responsibility within Bacardi, be allowed to self-regulate. program also has been successfully including the Company’s efforts on implemented in Finland, Denmark behalf of responsible drinking. and Estonia and will be introduced Japan shortly in Latvia. In Japan, Bacardi is actively involved New Zealand in the STOP campaign, launched Bacardi has been involved in a in 1980 by the Japanese Brewers United Kingdom new initiative that addresses the Association and the Alcohol Health Bacardi continued to support stronger regulatory climate in New Medical Association. This initiative the independent public-facing Zealand. The initiative reflects the has been highly successful in education charity, the Drinkaware market’s close collaboration with promoting responsible drinking Trust, as it helped educate U.K. the Australian team that oversees and preventing drink driving. In consumers about responsible the local sales office and provides fiscal 2013, activities included the drinking. Furthermore, we expertise. development and distribution of assisted innovative schemes for poster campaigns and handbooks, responsible retailing in local onThe set-up and launch of an and the delivery of seminars to raise premise businesses through active industry-wide initiative, awareness and promote responsible involvement with Best Bar None. We www.cheers.org.nz, represents a drinking. also supported Community Alcohol new consumer-facing social change Partnerships, which work with local project within the market. It gives stores to foster responsible retailing. New Zealanders commonsense information about alcohol and tips In addition, Bacardi continued on subjects that include talking to take a leadership role within to teens, how to host a safe party the Portman Group, the social or event and general information responsibility body for alcohol such as what actually constitutes producers in the U.K., assisting a Standard Drink. Please see the efforts to ensure that self-regulation website for more details: is effective in naming, packaging cheers.org.nz/about.html and promoting alcohol drinks. 42 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE in India. Belo Horizonte, Recife, Curitiba and Brazil Salvador. The team met more than Bacardi Brazil is a member of the 1,500 consumers in their pub visits. Brazilian Beverages Association (ABRABE). Our local managers are members of many of its committees, Chile including communications and In Chile, Bacardi actively participates labor relations, and our Finance in the Asociacion pro-Consumo Director is the association’s Vice Responsable (APROCOR), alongside President. One main goal of other alcohol-producing companies. India ABRABE is responsible drinking, In fiscal 2013, our main activities Activities in fiscal 2013 focused on and we use the website “No excess” relating to this membership were our Walk The Line program, which semexcesso.com.br to publish implementing point-of-sale (POS) promotes responsible drinking in best practices in this area. materials in the off-trade, advising premium on-premise spaces selling our consumers to drink responsibly alcohol. The initiative involved In fiscal 2013, in line with our and developing targeted marketing developing mobile apps to enable commitment to responsible campaigns to promote responsible consumers to take sobriety tests consumption of alcoholic drinking. using their mobile phones and beverages, the Company engaged subsequently to give them the its employees in raising consumers’ As part of this work, we helped option of calling a taxi to take awareness about the dangers of conduct a study to evaluate them home were they found to be drinking and driving. consumer opinions of new intoxicated. Walk The Line won a legislation banning all drink-driving Silver award in the category of Best In May 2013, Bacardi Brazil (defined as having a blood alcohol Mobile Application at India’s premier employees visited more than concentration (BAC) of no more marketing awards ceremony, 25 pubs while wearing t-shirts than 30 milligrams of alcohol GOAFEST. displaying the message, “Today, per 100 milligrams of blood). The the Bat will give you a ride.” Our findings showed that consumers In fiscal 2013, India also was part employees reinforced to pub have a largely positive opinion of of the global Champions Drink patrons the serious consequences of this new legislation and think that Responsibly (Mix with Rafa) driving drunk and distributed cards fewer accidents have occurred campaign, which was offered on the with information on taxi companies, since it was passed. Additionally, Indian Bacardi Facebook fan page, encouraging patrons to go home by participants highlighted the which then channeled fans to the taxi if that was the safe choice. importance of education in global contest page. There were 947 promoting and upholding the correct contest entries from India; In all, 54 employees, including legislation and, therefore, in from these entries two winners our local management team, reducing alcohol-related driving were selected to fly to Barcelona to participated in this activity, which accidents. meet Rafael Nadal, subject to visa took place in six Brazilian cities -Sao approvals by the Spanish Embassy Bernardo do Campo, Rio de Janeiro, 43 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Working with the On-Trade We have worked successfully with the International Bartenders Association (IBA) for six years to help provide social responsibility training to bartenders working towards IBA certification. In fiscal 2013, we worked with the Education We continue to be a patron of the Wine & Spirit committee to review and refresh the social Education Trust (WSET) in the U.K., generally considered responsibility training module, as the IBA focuses more the world’s leading provider of wine education. In fiscal on delivering practical workshops and less on running 2013, WSET trained nearly 50,000 people in 61 countries formal training courses. www.iba-world.com in its wine and spirits diploma, which includes training on responsible serving. Bacardi has actively worked In fiscal 2013, we signed a new three-year in the U.K. with WSET to run rum master-class events Memorandum of Understanding with the IBA, at consumer exhibitions, e.g., The Restaurant Show, to strengthening our commitment to support the demonstrate the variation in taste of different kinds of education of bartenders around the world on rums. We then incorporate this information into a cocktail responsible serving practices. workshop, where Bacardi Trade Advocacy managers produce a variety of Bacardi drinks that demonstrates the To date, more than 1,000 bartenders from countries versatility of their rum variants. www.wsetglobal.com including Bulgaria, Colombia, Ecuador, Italy, Singapore and Uruguay have participated in the global training. 44 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Clear Respect Minimizing our impact on water resources is a key focus area. In this Section: Pursuing continual improvement Strategy and best practice. Targets and Progress Our values of Excellence and Caring underpin our aim to achieve best-inEHS Management class environmental performance in order to protect the planet’s natural resources. Our employees are crucial to our business and ensuring their Water safety and wellness is of critical importance to us. Energy We have a responsibility to minimize environmental impacts across our value Greenhouse Gases chain and to keep our people safe at work. These are key business objectives Waste and Packaging that reduce risk, increase efficiency and make sound business sense. Safety We continue to focus on environmental improvement and are pleased to report continuing strong gains in water reduction, particularly at our Scotch whisky distilleries. Safety remains a central focus, and our behavioral safety program is providing ongoing performance improvements. STUART LOWTHIAN | Global Technical Director 45 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Stuart Lowthian Global Technical Director Watch Video Managing our environmental commitments is important to us, which is why we established in 2006 a baseline for measuring our environmental performance. Since then, we have worked together across Bacardi to improve our performance year-on-year. In pursuing this goal, we have made considerable environmental, health and safety (EHS) progress, achieving significant improvements in the environmental performance of our production facilities. In fiscal 2013, we continued to focus on performance gains across our operations, centered on finalizing our vision and strategy for Environmental Sustainability. We recognize that by embedding environmental sustainability throughout our operations, we can drive further improvements in our performance without compromising the integrity of our business. Over the six years up to fiscal 2012, we reduced our water use by almost one-half, energy use by one-quarter and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by one-third. In fiscal 2013, we continued to focus strongly on water reduction targets across our operations, and we delivered particularly encouraging results in our Scotch whisky distilleries. Similarly, over the past six years, we have had a steady reduction in GHG emissions at our Puerto Rico distillery due to a We have achieved these steady increase in renewable energy generation. Unfortunately, this results by establishing best year we had a setback arising from decreased renewable energy practice ways of working. generation. Remedial actions are in place to return the distillery’s GHG emissions to a reduction trajectory in the future. 46 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Alongside our environmental initiatives, health and safety to ISO 14001 for the environment and OHSAS 18001 remain key focus areas for Bacardi. Our Bacardi Behavioral for health and safety. This ensures that all of our Bacardi Safety program continues to deliver measurable results facilities worldwide use the same best-practice methods, in our most advanced facilities. The global roll-out of this and all sites strive for ongoing improvement. program remains ahead of schedule. None of our gains would be possible without the The best-in-class results that we constantly strive for unwavering commitment and hard work of our in EHS performance are achievable only through bestemployees, who have a passion for sustainability and practice ways of working. We use the International who are determined to strengthen our environmental Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the performance. Through their ongoing efforts, we intend to Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Specification achieve a best-in-class environmental record. (OHSAS) management systems and hold certification 47 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Strategy We have a responsibility to minimize environmental impacts across our value chain and to keep our people safe at work. These are key business objectives that reduce risk, increase efficiency and make sound business sense. Tackling Environmental Challenges Global environmental challenges are numerous and With these global environmental challenges in mind, we multifaceted. Climate change and increasing water need to ensure that Bacardi Limited is part of the solution, scarcity around the globe are two challenges that have not only in our direct operations, but also across all the potential to affect Bacardi Limited, either directly stages of our value chain. Considered more broadly, we at our operations or indirectly through their potential recognize that all stakeholders need to work together to impact on agricultural stability and biodiversity. tackle these challenges. Added to this, a growing and increasingly affluent global This approach matches the expectations of our population is consuming more natural resources and customers and consumers, who increasingly feel that producing more waste and pollution, increasing pressure companies should play their part in reducing impacts by on the environment. These pressures have the potential acting to preserve and sustain the environment. to disrupt global ecosystems and food security, and in the future are likely to push up prices for energy and commodities on which our Company relies. 48 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Material Issues The results of our latest materiality assessment from early 2012 The assessment ranked the materiality of “direct environmental support our understanding of customer, consumer and other impacts” as high relative to other Corporate Responsibility stakeholder expectations and highlight the importance of issues. The issue of direct environmental impacts is a broad managing environmental issues. This information has been category that covers water and energy use; carbon footprint; reviewed recently and is still up-to-date today. transport; waste; and effluent and emissions. Read more on our materiality process in the materiality section. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 49 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Work begins on our sustainable Bombay Sapphire distillery in Laverstoke, U.K. During fiscal 2013, work got under way to convert an old banknote-printing mill site into a new distillery and visitors’ center for the Bombay Sapphire brand. The location is near Laverstoke, in Hampshire, U.K., and we have focused heavily on ensuring that this distillery’s impact on the environment is as small as possible. This includes: • The whole site is being constructed under strict BREEAM regulations. Bombay Sapphire distillery in Laverstoke, United Kingdom What is BREEAM? BREEAM (Building Research Establishment’s Environmental Assessment Method) is the U.K.’s most established and widely used environmental assessment method for buildings. It sets the standards for best • The spent botanicals from the distillation process also practice in sustainable development and determines will be incinerated in the biomass boiler. In fact, we will the comprehensive environmental performance of a try to burn as much solid waste as possible in the boiler in new, existing or refurbished building or development. order to reduce landfill waste. Ash from the boiler will be BREEAM assesses the performance of buildings in used for compost. The remaining power will be provided key areas that affect the built environment, including: by a natural gas boiler. Management policy, Energy use, Pollution, Ecology, Use • We will receive hydropower via a turbine located in the of Material, Waste, Water, Transport and the Health and stream running through the site. This will generate up to well-being of building users. Credits are awarded in each 144 kilowatt hours (KWh) per day. This is enough power area according to performance. A set of environmental to heat the visitors’ center. weightings then enables the credits to be added together to produce a single overall score. The building • In terms of biodiversity, we are working hard to ensure is then rated on a scale of PASS, GOOD, VERY GOOD, that there is a returning natural ecosystem, particularly EXCELLENT or OUTSTANDING. Bombay Sapphire is concerning the River Test. We also are striving to make aiming to achieve the OUTSTANDING rating. certain that a nearby colony of bats is protected by supplying bat boxes around the site. In addition, the fish • A biomass boiler that runs on wood chips will be stocks in the River Test will be fully restored as part of our installed. This boiler alone will be responsible for around plan to fully return the river to its natural standard. 15 megawatt hours (MWh) per day, or 15% of the site’s energy needs. It will generate steam to serve production distillation and the heating requirements for the visitors’ center and glasshouse. 50 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Environmental Sustainability Strategy In fiscal 2013, we began to roll out the Bacardi Sustainability Program within our Global Operations function. By creating a focused approach to sustainability, we can continue our work to reduce energy and water Vision: Balance use. We also are able to begin integrating the benefits of sustainability into our brands to support business 3 Areas of Focus growth and ensure that our sourcing practices are both SOURCING OPERATIONS PACKAGING responsible and sustainable (see Responsible Sourcing). • Responsible & • Energy • Reduce Weight Sustainable Sourcing • Water • Increase Recycling • Agriculture (e.g. • Greenhouse Gases A Strategy for Leadership molasses) • Biodiversity The updated strategy primarily focuses on bringing 4 Strategic Levers together two of the five pillars of our Corporate Responsibility strategy – Environment, Health and PARTNERS OPERATIONS BRANDS Working together Leading in Sustainable Safety and Responsible Sourcing -under the umbrella to create low-impact packaging. improvements. manufacture and of the Bacardi Sustainability Program. We did this logistics. in order to better align and manage our upstream activities, our manufacturing operations and the PEOPLE The driving force for improvement and change. downstream impacts of our products because we recognize that many environmental and potential social impacts of our products are in our supply chain. We also understand the need to work both in our own • We will lead the way in low-environmental-impact facilities and with our suppliers to reduce impacts and operations – the emphasis is on our Bacardi Limited risks at all stages of our products’ lifecycles. manufacturing operations. Our environmental sustainability strategy has • We will craft sustainability into our premium spirits – our three areas of focus: sourcing, operations and focus is on packaging. packaging. To drive progress in these areas, we • We will support the passion of our people for have four strategic levers, each with clear targets sustainability – we will engage with and support our for the next five years and beyond: people to act on sustainability. • We will work with our partners to create a more sustainable future – our focus is on sugarcane and its We aim to roll out our Sustainability Program across the products. whole Company in fiscal 2014. 51 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: We aim to achieve best-in-class and with our suppliers to reduce impacts and risks across environmental and safety performance in our operations. our whole value chain. From a safety point of view, we Most of our products’ environmental impacts are in our have a long-term vision for an accident-free Bacardi supply chain and we will work both in our own facilities Limited. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Seek continual improvement We partially achieved this target. We Achieve a 1% reduction in volume in environmental performance, continued to improve our water use of water used in production sites targeting a 1% reduction in efficiency, expanding our program and a 1% improvement in nongreenhouse gas (GHG) emission across all operations and achieving a renewable energy efficiency, both intensity and a 1% improvement 6.3% improvement in our efficiency compared with fiscal 2013. in water use efficiency. metric. We had a significant setback in our GHG emissions intensity, due Begin to implement projects to reduced generation of renewable to enhance renewable energy energy at our Puerto Rico distillery. generation. Solid waste to landfill from production sites will be less than 2% of total weight to landfill. Overall packaging weight will be reduced 0.5% per nine-liter case vs. 2008 benchmark year Launch the environmental Our launch focus was with our Global Extend the roll-out across the sustainability strategy across Operations and core brand teams. business. Bacardi Limited. 67% of sites to have a behaviorWe exceeded this objective, with 100% of sites to have a behaviorbased safety program under way 81% of our sites now actively based safety program under way by the end of the fiscal year. implementing behavior-based safety by the end of the fiscal year. programs. ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Continue to expand our EHS We have achieved this objective program by building an officeand established an office-safety safety network, providing network primarily made up of support from the manufacturing human resources managers who operations organization, actively track and report on safety establishing information-sharing performance. These individuals will networks and developing an continue to work with Global EHS improvement plan for office to establish appropriate policies safety. and programs to protect employee health, safety and well-being. Maintain certification of all In 2012 we successfully recertified, Continue to maintain certification production facilities to the ISO for a three-year period, all of our of all production facilities to the 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS production facilities to these ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management system standards. Our original certification 18001 management system standards. in 2009 also was good for three years, standards. and in 2010 and 2011 we maintained our certification by passing surveillance audits. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 53 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Taking the Long View on Bacardi Environmental Targets We recognize the importance of improving our environmental performance across our operations, year-on-year, which is why we have set strong targets that we review every year. As well as keeping on track with some of our more Achieve a 55% reduction in water use by 2017, immediate targets, we also established a number of from 2006 baseline key longer-term sustainability targets, developed in How we plan to achieve this: response to stakeholder feedback. These include: • Each of our production and distillery sites has water use reduction targets and projects in place to achieve Achieve a 50% reduction in GHG emissions by them. One example is our malt distillery in Craigellachie, 2017, from 2006 baseline Scotland, where we have worked during the last three How we plan to achieve this: years to decrease water use by converting the cooling • We plan to install a biomass boiler at our tequila process to a closed-loop system. Work carried out up distillery in Arandas, Mexico. By doing this, we will be to and through fiscal 2013 enabled us to cut total water able to convert operations from using heavy fuel oil use by 88% at this site during that time. to using the husks of the agave plants, which are the source of the tequila spirit, thus implementing a wasteAchieve continual reductions in our packaging free, closed-loop system. weight, against 2008 baseline • 10% reduction by 2017 • We are also installing a woodchip biomass boiler • 15% reduction by 2022 in our Scotch whisky distillery at Aberfeldy, Scotland. • 30% reduction by 2032 Installing this boiler will reduce the plant’s CO2 How we plan to achieve this: emissions by more than 5,900 tons of CO2 per year. • We currently have packaging weight reduction • We are undertaking a review of our energy sourcing projects with Grey Goose vodka, Martini Sparkling wines strategy in the coming year which will focus on our and Camino Real, which will deliver up to 4,000 tons opportunities for implementing renewable energy reductions from fiscal 2014 onwards. systems within our production network. 54 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Zero negative impact on biodiversity at our Reduce our wastewater loadings by 85% by production sites by 2017 2022, from 2006 baseline How we plan to achieve this: How we plan to achieve this: • We will undertake a review of the impacts of our • We will increase efforts to use more of our residual production sites on local biodiversity and roll out water from production for beneficial use. For example, plans to mitigate potential issues. One example is our we are also working on wastewater management at our new Bombay Sapphire distillery in Laverstoke, U.K., rum distilleries in Mexico and Puerto Rico, which will where we are protecting a colony of bats by supplying greatly contribute to this target. built roosts. Achieve a Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR)* Zero solid waste to landfill from of less than 1 lost time accident per million hours production sites by 2017 worked by 2022. How we plan to achieve this: How we plan to achieve this: • We are building on the work already done at our • We will complete the roll-out of our behavior-based production sites to reduce our landfill waste, and we safety program to all manufacturing sites and continue will work more closely with our supply partners to to build safety awareness at non-production locations ensure that all the packaging we receive from them throughout the world. can be recycled. * Lost Time Accident is any occupational injury or illness which results in an employee being unable to work a full shift. 55 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY EHS Management Our approach to managing Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) is based on continual improvement and the pursuit of excellence in all of our operations. Global Standards for EHS Internal Management Our approach to managing our key environmental Strategic direction for EHS is provided by the EHS impacts and the safety of our people has been very steering team, which is made up of senior managers successful. Since our performance baseline was set in from throughout the Company. The steering team 2006, we have achieved significant improvements in sets longand short-term objectives, determines key all areas. performance indicators and allocates the resources to successfully deliver our EHS programs. To a large extent, these improvements are due to our Global Standards and Codes of Practice. These Supporting the steering team is the EHS core team, created best practices across Bacardi Limited and comprising our most experienced EHS managers from set the benchmark for all facilities to achieve. This around the world. This team provides technical advice, approach has helped all of our facilities deliver strong agrees on best practices and develops procedures, performances that exceed our goals. plans and guidance for use throughout the Company, as well as identifies training needs to support success. Both the steering and core teams meet quarterly. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS We use internationally recognized management systems to deliver continual improvement in our operations. We remain the only major spirits company to hold certification to the International Organization for Standardization’s ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Specification OHSAS 18001 standards for all of our production facilities worldwide. We first achieved this triple certification in fiscal 2010, with this certification remaining valid for three years from the initial date. In fiscal 2013, Bacardi operations were successfully recertified under all three standards for another three years. Our 27 facilities are covered by a group-wide certification. Half of our facilities are audited every 12 months by our external registrar, DNV, while the other half undergoes internal cross-audits by our own EHS teams. This demonstrates our commitment to uphold our “Triple Crown” status. 56 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY How We Measure our Performance Bacardi measures performance in two ways: absolute During this period, we also submitted an article on an totals and efficiency metrics. Absolute totals are advanced application of the method to the Institute of straightforward – for example, total number of accidents, Management Accountants (IMA) for publication in its total volume of water used. Efficiency metrics normalize monthly journal, Strategic Finance. The article not only these absolute totals against an appropriate business passed the publication’s peer review process, but also was output – for example, accidents per one million hours selected as the cover story in the December 2012 issue. worked or water used per unit of product manufactured. Flexible Budgeting Improving our Efficiency Metrics Bacardi Environmental Sustainability Tracking (BEST) now We continue to work with the faculty at North Carolina uses a common accounting practice –flexible budgeting State University’s Poole College of Management – to measure the performance in our reporting year (NCSU) to develop and improve our advanced against our base year. Flexible budgeting is a technique method for measuring sustainability performance: the commonly used in finance and accounting, and Bacardi Bacardi Environmental Sustainability Tracking (BEST) Limited is the first company to apply it to monitoring Method. This method was publicly introduced at the environmental metrics. Manufacturers’ Alliance (MAPI) Sustainability Conference held in Chicago, Illinois in October 2011. One week later, The revised method for calculating efficiency the method was presented at the National Association improvements is a simple concept. For each of our of Environmental Managers’ (NAEM) Environmental metrics – water use, energy use and GHG emissions – we Sustainability Conference in Tucson, Arizona. calculate a flexible budget for the reporting year. The Considerable interest was generated, and in October flexible budget is the performance that would have been 2012, we presented the method to an international achieved for our Company-wide activities during the year group of environmental and sustainability managers if no improvements in efficiency had been made since representing the world’s leading beverage companies at our 2006 baseline. Once we know the flexible budget the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable in Fort figure, we can compare our actual performance for the Collins, Colorado. reporting year against the flexible budget to show our efficiency improvement since 2006. Finally, we multiply The method also was presented at the Academy of the ratio of the actual performance versus the flexible Business Research (ABR) 2012 Fall Conference in Atlantic budget by 100 to provide an efficiency index figure. City, New Jersey and was voted the “Best Paper Award” in its session. The ABR extended an invitation to NCSU and Bacardi to publish the method in the ABR Journal. We submitted an article for publication and are pleased to report that it passed a “double blind peer review” and has been accepted for publication in the Volume 1, 2014 issue. 57 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY For example, using the 2006 efficiency rates for water use, we might calculate a flexible budget figure of 100 million liters of water – in other words, if we had made no improvement in water use efficiency since 2006, we would have used 100 million liters for our Companywide output in the reporting year. If actual water use for the reporting year is 85 million liters, 15 million liters of water have been saved through efficiency improvements implemented since 2006. The water use index for the year would therefore be 85, a 15% improvement in efficiency against the 2006 base year. By measuring efficiency in this way for each activity across our global operations, we more accurately reflect our actual performance. This prevents arbitrary distortions of our Company-wide efficiency that can result from changes in our product mix, sourcing location or merger and acquisition activities. As we move forward, we may need to update our Company activities by choosing a new “reference year” The Bacardi BEST Method was featured – the year that subsequent years are compared to for as the cover story in the December 2012 efficiency. In the event this happens, we will maintain issue of Strategic Finance. continuity in tracking our progress by retaining the performance index score of the new reference year and measuring subsequent progress from this value. To do this, the flexible budget for the reporting year will be calculated using rates from the reference year; the ratio of To obtain the flexible budget for the whole Company, actual performance to flexible budget will be multiplied we first have to calculate the individual flexible budgets by the index score for the reference year (rather than 100). for each of our operating activities. We do this by taking the 2006 efficiency rates for each of our metrics In this way, we will maintain fiscal 2006 as our base year – for example, water use per unit of production – and (index scores = 100), but will establish new reference applying them to the actual production output in the years in fiscal 2009 (due to the integration of water reporting year. This gives the flexible budget for each data from our malt distilleries) and in fiscal 2010 (major individual activity, and we simply add these together to changes in sourcing practices and the addition of a new give a total flexible budget for the whole Company. plant in Italy). 58 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Spills and Releases Fines and Prosecutions Bacardi Limited employs a rigorous system for reporting Bacardi Limited had no significant fines for environmental spills and releases. In fiscal 2013, our sites reported non-compliance at any of our global operations during a total of 42 environmental releases. Of these, 41 fiscal 2013**. However, Bacardi is in discussion with the were minor and did not result in environmental harm. US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) concerning Only one event was deemed significant. It involved wastewater discharge levels which we hope to conclude the accidental release of wastewater from its primary within the next 12 months. containment (a holding tank). The spilled wastewater was entirely contained within secondary containment We received one significant fine for an incident of safety systems, and no material was released to the local non-compliance, amounting to US$110,000, related to environment. The wastewater system has strict permit a fatal accident that occurred in our Jacksonville, Florida requirements, and abnormal events such as this are bottling plant, which we disclosed in the last report and reported to the local environmental authorities. discuss later in this report. * A significant environmental release is an event that requires reporting to a government authority, **Significant fines are defined as those above US$5,000. attracts public or media attention or otherwise results in observable or quantifiable harm to the local environment. An example of a minor release would be a spill (e.g., of alcohol) during operational handling that is immediately cleaned up. 59 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Water Water is a key ingredient in our products and in our production processes, including fermentation and distilling. It is also used for cleaning. We recognize that water scarcity is a growing problem We report our total water use over the previous rolling around the world, and we try to minimize water use in five years. Since fiscal 2009, we have decreased our total all aspects of our production. Water that is not in our water use by nearly 45% (44.8%) and achieved a one-year finished products becomes wastewater, and minimizing reduction of nearly 10% (9.6%) in fiscal 2012. Over the the impact of these discharges, by reducing their volume past four years, we have lowered water use by more than and improving their quality, is among our top priorities. 2,750 million liters. Water Use and Water Efficiency In fiscal 2013, we were more efficient in our water use by We have now expanded our water measurement 6.3% versus the previous year, while total water use was to encompass all of our production activities, which reduced by nearly 10%; the reduction in volume reflected since 2009 have included the malt whisky distilleries lower production. We also were able to use more of our in Scotland. These facilities use large quantities of residual water from production for beneficial use, while cooling water and, prior to fiscal 2009, lacked adequate reducing the amount of wastewater discharged to the means to measure flow. These sites now have metering environment. systems in place to track their water use. We have confidence in the accuracy of their data and have integrated it with the rest of our production operations. Total Water Consumed, (000) Cubic Meters Much of this reduction is the result of improving our water use efficiency. Since fiscal 2006, our 7,000 water use efficiency index benchmark year, we 6,000 have improved our water use efficiency by 45.1%. In the past five years, we improved by 36.1% and, 5,000 our water use efficiency index score showed a 4,000 gain of 6.3% in fiscal 2013. 3,000 6,140 4,760 A combination of better operating discipline, 2,000 4,230 3,750 3,390 water conservation measures, new water1,000 efficient equipment and advanced water 0 recycling systems has delivered the FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 improved performance. 60 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Water Use Efficiency Index GRI EN8: Water Supply Profile Water Use per Unit of Production Improvement Index: Base Year FY06 = 100 100 31% Surface Water 90.0 Public Supply 54% Groundwater 80.0 70.0 15% 60.0 86.0 76.3 71.2 50.0 58.6 54.9 EN8: 40.0 Water Supply to Manufacturing Sites, m3 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 WATER SOURCES FY2012 FY2013 * * Note: data from fiscal 2009 to 2012 has been restated Public Supply 673,183 520,744 to include data from our JDSL distilleries. This required us Groundwater 998,865 1,035,961 to establish fiscal 2009 as a new reference year. We used Surface Water 2,085,700 1,837,041 86.0 as our new baseline index, as that was the progress we achieved since the original base year of 2006. For more Harvested 0 0 details, click here. SUM 3,757,748 3,393,746 Water used includes non-contact cooling water. Water use reduction at Craigellachie, Scotland Our distillery in Craigellachie, Scotland, distills single malt whisky that is bottled and sold under its own label or is used as an ingredient in blended whisky. The distillery traditionally withdrew water from the River Fiddich to cool distilled product and then returned it to the river. The River Fiddich is a main tributary of the River Spey, which is designated by the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) as a Special Area of Conservation, due to the presence of freshwater pearl mussels. This river is also the habitat of a number of other important species, including salmon, sea trout, lamprey (brook, river project that focused on the thermal impacts on the receiving and sea), pike and eel. To protect these species, SEPA sets stream in order to protect local streams and fisheries. One of strict limits on the temperature and volume of the water the benefits of this project is that it helps protect large game discharged. While our distillery has always been careful to meet species, such as salmon and trout, which has a positive effect these standards, the site decided to remove any potential for on local biodiversity and the local economy. impacting water quality by eliminating this discharge. As a result of work carried out up to and through fiscal 2013, We have worked for the last three years to reduce our water use the site achieved an 88% reduction in its water use and ensured by converting the cooling process to a closed-loop, recirculated that our operations will not affect the ecology of an important water cooling system. We also worked closely with SEPA on a local water course. ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Water Discharges We manage used process water from our facilities to municipal treatment facilities (38%); and 3) beneficial in one of three ways: 1) direct discharges of treated land application, including irrigation and fertilizer uses to wastewater to local bodies of water following on-site improve crop production (22%). treatment (40%); 2) indirect discharges of wastewater 22% Used Process Water Wastewater Discharges by Type: 40% 1,520,000 m3 Discharged or Applied to Land Direct Discharges Indirect Discharges Beneficial Land Application 38% Of the total water released by our production facilities, 1,180,000 cubic meters was discharged as wastewater and 340,000 cubic meters was applied to cropland* as a fertilizer or for irrigation. The water that is applied to land for beneficial reuse is returned to the crops that provide our raw feedstock to make spirits in countries where regulatory authorities permit it. * subject to regulatory authorization 62 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 340,000 Water Discharges by Volume, (1,520,000 m3 of Water Discharged) 600,000 Direct Discharges Indirect Discharges Beneficial Land Application 580,000 Total Water Discharges We seek to continually improve the quality of our wastewater by reducing CUBIC METERS elements such as biochemical oxygen Direct Discharges, m3 600,000 demand (BOD), a measure of the Indirect Discharges, m3 580,000 polluting potential of wastewater, 1,180,000 Discharged and total suspended solids (TSS), a Beneficial Land 340,000 measure of the amount of solid matter Application, m3 1,520,000 Discharged and Applied suspended within the wastewater. Our first priority is with direct wastewater discharges, which are treated on-site Total Loading of BOD and TSS and then released directly into local BOD, TONS TSS, TONS bodies of water. In fiscal 2013, our direct treated wastewater discharges included Direct Discharges, m3 2,900 3,100 2,900 tons of BOD and 3,100 tons of TSS. Indirect Discharges, m3 1,100 200 This represents a 20% improvement in the quality of our wastewater discharges Note 1A: Direct Discharges = Discharges to local surface water bodies. Note 1B: Indirect Discharges = Discharges to local public wastewater utility. from fiscal 2012, mostly due to better Note 1C: Beneficial Land Application = Use as soil amendment treatment techniques, such as more on local cropland.* efficient operation of our wastewater Note 2: BOD = Biochemical Oxygen Demand (5-Day); TSS = Total Suspended Solids treatment systems. * subject to regulatory authorization 63 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Energy Energy is essential within our production processes and operations. We use energy from a range of sources, from liquid fuel and gas, to grid electricity and renewable energy sources. Reducing Non-renewable Energy Use of the operating reactors failed before its planned We have a strong plan in place to continue to reduce our refurbishment date and before the replacement reactor reliance on nonrenewable energy, with projects ongoing was ready to go online. As a result, the plant had to in Scotland and Mexico. lower production to match the remaining capacity of the wastewater treatment system. Despite our efforts to reduce and effectively manage our energy consumption, our fiscal 2013 performance This reduced mode of operation resulted in lower in energy use, renewable energy and greenhouse volumes of production and lower quantities of gases (GHGs) was adversely affected by our inability wastewater treated. Biogas production dropped below to produce sufficient biogas at our largest distillery in normal levels, and the site had to switch to using mostly Puerto Rico. The facility has numerous environmental heavy fuel oil to meet steam and electricity needs. There licenses designed to protect the local environment were several consequences: 1) less renewable energy use and employs advanced technologies to achieve and (biogas); 2) more use of nonrenewable energy (heavy fuel maintain compliance with the standards established by oil); and 3) poorer overall energy efficiency for the site these permits. To comply with our wastewater discharge due to lower utilization of production capacity. Because permit, Bacardi employs anaerobic reactors that not this site accounts for more than one-quarter of the only treat the wastewater but also convert the organic Company’s energy use and much of its renewable fuel, residues into biogas, which is used as fuel to produce the Company’s global energy efficiency, nonrenewable steam and electricity to run the plant. energy use efficiency, renewable energy use and greenhouse gas intensity all suffered in fiscal 2013. The anaerobic reactors can typically operate for more than 10 years before they must be taken out of service, thoroughly cleaned and rebuilt (“refurbished”). Refurbishing is a costly procedure that requires nearly two years to complete. At the end of fiscal 2012, one 64 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Calculating our Energy Use Understanding our Energy Mix Bacardi Limited tracks its energy performance based on Our total “primary energy” use is the combined direct the total primary energy consumed at our production energy we use for our operations (fuels) and the facilities. Primary energy includes direct energy, which is estimated fuel used to produce the electricity that we the fuel burned directly at our facilities, and an estimate use. For dedicated renewable energy, such as from solar, of indirect energy, which is the fuel needed to generate wind and hydro, there is no primary energy involved (i.e., the electricity we purchase. no fuel consumed). To estimate the fuel needed to generate our purchased For this report, we have restated our performance using electricity, we assume 33% efficiency for electricity fiscal 2009 as a base year to be consistent with our water generation and transmission. We therefore multiply the reporting. We also have expanded our coverage to electricity we purchase by three to obtain an estimate of include our grape-processing center at Santo Stefano the fuel required to generate the purchased electricity. Belbo, Italy, as of fiscal 2010. These changes have caused We combine this figure with our direct (on-site) fuel use our efficiency index to be restated from fiscal 2010 to give our estimate for total primary energy use. forward. The one important exception is for electricity that is Our primary focus continues to be on improving our specifically contracted to be generated by renewable nonrenewable energy use efficiency. In doing so, we sources, such as wind, solar and hydro. This electricity strive to be more efficient in consuming nonrenewable is not included in our total primary energy use, as no energy and to strengthen efforts to switch from primary fuel is consumed. nonrenewable to renewable sources of energy. 65 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Total Energy Used, (1,830 TJs) Total Nonrenewable Energy Used, (1,660 TJs) 2,400 2,200 2,200 2,000 2,000 1,800 1,800 1,600 1,600 2,230 2,040 1,400 1,400 1,820 1,730 1,860 1,830 1,690 1,630 1,660 1,550 1,200 1,200 1,000 1,000 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 As seen in these graphs, our nonrenewable energy use rose in fiscal 2013, even though our total energy use decreased. As stated previously, this was due to the failure of a wastewater reactor at our distillery in Puerto Rico, resulting in lower biogas production that required us to burn additional heavy fuel oil. Energy Use Efficiency Nonrenewable Energy Use Efficiency Index: Our focus for energy efficiency improvement is on Energy Use per Unit of Production nonrenewable energy. We want to ensure that our operations concentrate on reducing use of fossil-based 100 fuels, which deplete finite resources and contribute to 95.0 the buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. 90.0 Our calculations are consistent with water use 85.0 performance, with a new reference year established 80.0 in fiscal 2009. We have restated our performance 75.0 accordingly, while retaining 84.4 as the starting point 70.0 to reflect the progress achieved against our original 84.4 65.0 base year of 2006. 76.6 74.7 60.0 70.8 68.7 For nonrenewable energy use efficiency, from fiscal 55.0 2006 to 2009 we increased our efficiency by 15.6% 50.0 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 (as reflected by the starting index of 84.4). From fiscal 2009 to 2012, we improved our performance by an Improvement Index: Base Year FY06 = 100 additional 18.6%, but in fiscal 2013 we had a setback of 8.7%. Nonetheless, our fiscal 2013 efficiency index score is still 25% better than it was in our original base year of 2006. 66 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Direct and Indirect Energy Use The following table shows the breakdown of our fiscal 2013 direct and indirect energy consumption in terajoules (TJ): Direct and Indirect Fiscal 2013 Direct Energy Energy Consumption (TJ) Sources in Terajoules (TJ): TJ TJ EN3: Total Direct Energy, TJ 1,207 Fuel Oil 630 EN4: Total Indirect Energy, TJ 240 Natural Gas 402 Biogas 175 All Indirect Energy is supplied electricity consumed by the site. TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY 1,207 Direct Energy Sources (%) Indirect Energy Sources (%) Fuel Oil* Fossil Gas* Biogas Public Power* Hydro Power* Wind Power 0.4% 15% 13.2% 52% 33% 86.4% *Fuel Oil is >99% Heavy Fuel Oil, Fossil Gas *Hydro Power and Wind Power include only that from is > 99% Natural Gas dedicated contract suppliers; Public Power includes all forms of renewable and nonrenewable energy on the national grids. Annual Savings from Energy Efficiency (see GRI EN5) Indirect Nonrenewable and Bacardi annually estimates its energy savings via a Renewable Energy Sources (TJ) holistic approach that uses the Bacardi Environmental Sustainability Tracking (BEST) Method. BEST enables us to TJ estimate how much energy we would have used if we had Public Power 207 performed the fiscal 2013 set of activities in the previous Hydro Power 32 year. While we saved energy in many of our manufacturing Wind Power 1 activities, our overall efficiency was worse in fiscal 2013; as TOTAL INDIRECT ENERGY 240 a result, we cannot report any net energy savings. 67 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Use of Renewable Energy Sources This chart (below right) shows that 14% of our total Looking at electricity and fuel individually, 14% of our primary energy is renewable, made up of 5% renewable electricity was derived from renewable energy contracts electricity, provided under exclusive renewable electricity and 14% of our total fuel was renewable biogas. contracts, and 9% renewable fuel (biogas and wind). Energy Mix for Total Equivalent Energy Mix for Total Equivalent Primary Energy, TJ Primary Energy FY2012 FY2013 % Fuel Oil 585 630 Fuel Oil 33% Natural Gas 409 402 Natural Gas 21% Bio Gas 235 175 Bio Gas 9% Grid Electricity 649 628 Grid Electricity 32% Renewable Electricity 120 99 Renewable Electricity 5% TOTAL, kWh 1,998 1,934 TOTAL, kWh 100% Primary energy is energy consumed directly plus the estimated energy consumed to produce the indirect energy used. As discussed in the EHS Strategy section, our energy available to run the operation. These effects produced performance suffered as a result of operational challenges lower overall energy efficiency, further reductions in our at our largest distillery. The site’s constraints in producing nonrenewable energy use efficiency and decreased use sufficient biogas caused less renewable energy to be of renewable energy. 68 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions It is our aim to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations by improving energy efficiency and shifting to renewable energy sources or lower-carbon fuels. Greenhouse Gas Initiatives and GHG Intensity GHG emissions and efficiency indices have been restated We have expanded our coverage of GHG emissions to to reflect these changes. include our grape-processing center at Santo Stefano Belbo, Italy, as of fiscal 2010. In addition, we calculate From fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2009, we reduced our GHG the GHG emissions for our electricity use by applying intensity by 17.8%. From fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2012, we the national carbon emission factors published annually improved our performance by an additional 20.4%, but by the International Energy Agency (IEA). The IEA often in fiscal 2013 we had a setback of 12.5%. Our fiscal 2013 revises its national factors; therefore, we must revise our efficiency index improvement score is still 26.4% better GHG estimates for previous years. As a result, our total than that of our fiscal 2006 base year. GHG Intensity Index Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions GHG’s per Unit of Production Our direct GHG emissions from manufacturing are primarily from burning fuel, with a small contribution from 100 GHG process losses, primarily leakage of refrigerants from 95.0 cooling and chilling systems. Indirect emissions are the 90.0 GHGs estimated to have been released by the electric 85.0 power companies serving our sites. The GHG emission 80.0 factors are those published by the International Energy 75.0 Agency, unless we are able to provide a more accurate factor directly from the utility. 70.0 65.0 82.2 74.3 74.8 60.0 69.8 67.2 55.0 50.0 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Improvement Index: Base Year FY06=100 69 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Total CO2e, Tons Our total CO2-equivalent emissions increased again in FY2013. While the increase in FY2012 was the result of higher production, FY2013 emissions increased mostly because of the higher consumption of heavy fuel oil to compensate for low biogas production as previously discussed. CO2e emissions from indirect sources (power supply) decreased 1.3% but direct emissions (fuel combustion) increased by 4.7%. FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Direct 88,500 63,000 60,800 64,200 67,200 Indirect 33,500 34,900 29,300 31,500 31,100 TOTAL 122,000 97,900 90,100 95,700 98,300 Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (Tons) 140,000 33,500 Direct 120,000 34,900 31,500 31,100 Indirect 100,000 29,300 80,000 60,000 40,000 88,500 63,000 60,800 64,200 67,200 20,000 0 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 70 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Annual GHG Emissions Reduction Bacardi annually estimates GHG emission reductions our fiscal 2013 set of activities in the previous year. As in much the same way we calculate energy savings, by was the case for energy efficiency, our overall GHG using the Bacardi Environmental Sustainability Tracking intensity was higher in fiscal 2013; therefore, we cannot (BEST) Method. BEST enables us to estimate what our report any net reduction in GHG emissions. GHG emissions would have been if we had performed Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions by Source 500 5,600 Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions, Tons Direct (Fuels) Indirect (Power) 31,100 Process Offices (Power) 66,700 Note: Direct, Indirect and Process emissions are from production facilities. Total Direct and Indirect GHGs Other Relevant Indirect GHG Emissions (Tons) GHGs, Tons Production, Direct GHGs (Combustion), Tons 66,700 Transport (dedicated*), Direct GHGs, Tons 11,400 GHGs, Tons Production, Indirect GHGs (Power), Tons 31,100 Contract Production (dedicated*), Tons TBD [1] Production Process GHGs, Tons 500 Business Travel Air 29,000 Offices (large*), Indirect GHGs, Tons 5,600 Business Travel Other (rail, auto) TBD [2] TOTAL, Tons 103,900 TOTAL, Tons 40,400 *Large offices include those over 25 people. [1] Estimate < 35,000 Tons [2] Estimate < 2,000 Tons *Dedicated transport and contract production is done by a contractor exclusively for Bacardi. 71 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY THE CARBON TRUST STANDARD RECERTIFIES BACARDI U.K. LIMITED In fiscal 2013, Bacardi recertified all of its U.K. operations, including subsidiaries, against The Carbon Trust Standard. Overall, we achieved a 19% improvement in carbon efficiency, relative to an output unit of 1,000 nine-liter cases. Bacardi was certified with a qualitative assessment score of 73.8%, which reflects our demonstrated effectiveness at responding to climate change through governance, carbon accounting and carbon management. Other Air Emissions EN20: Other Air Emissions: Metric Tons Other significant air emissions result from the SO2 NOX Particulate combustion of fuel on our sites. These three major air pollutants are sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOX) and particulate matter 10% 2% (PM). These emissions increased by nearly 12% in fiscal 2013, from 1,010 metric tons to 1,134 metric tons, primarily due to our burning a greater amount of heavy fuel oil to compensate for our decreased biogas generation. Our GHG emissions increased in fiscal 2013 for the reasons already stated in the energy section. Due to operational challenges at our largest distillery in Puerto Rico, biogas 88% production was reduced, and so less renewable energy was available. These effects resulted in higher emissions of GHGs and other air emissions, as well as higher GHG intensity. SO2, Metric Tons 1,001 NOX, Metric Tons 115 Particulate, Metric Tons 18 TOTAL Air Emissions Tons 1,134 72 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Waste and Packaging Bacardi Limited primarily generates non-hazardous waste, most of which is the residue from the agricultural ingredients we use to make our products. Most of our waste is recycled, reused or recovered for Hazardous and Non-Hazardous beneficial use, including use as agricultural fertilizer and Waste Generation Volumes animal feed. Only a very small proportion of our waste is Total waste decreased by 1.5% in fiscal 2013. hazardous waste, much of which is waste alcohol. Hazardous waste makes up only 0.04% of our total waste Packaging is an integral part of our products, and we output. In fiscal 2013, our volume of waste produced rose work to reduce the impacts of our packaging, especially by 44% from the previous year. This increase was due to its weight. activities relating to cleaning out an old fuel oil tank at one of our distilleries, which caused 30 tons of redundant Waste fuel to be sent to a facility to be filtered and then blended 98.6% of our waste was recycled, reused or recovered as fuel for a power plant. Although the redundant in fiscal 2013. We have reduced the weight of our fuel was used in a beneficial manner for its intended packaging by 23,000 tons since 2008, a reduction of 7.1%. purpose, local regulations required that it be classified as “hazardous waste” that was “recovered.” The remaining hazardous waste from our operations totaled 25 tons, 34% less than our total in fiscal 2012. 73 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Waste and Waste Management 0.4% 1.0% EN22: Waste Management Methods Recycling/Reuse/Recovery Incineration/Treatment Landfill Most of our waste (98.6%, as shown in the left chart) is recycled, reused or recovered. Most hazardous waste that is not recovered (mostly waste oils 98.6% and off-specification spirits) and some non-hazardous wastes are incinerated or otherwise treated (0.4% of the total). Our total waste to landfill decreased by 35%; we currently send only 1.0% of our waste to landfill. EN22: Waste and Waste Management (Tons) FY2012 FY2013 % Non-Hazardous Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 151,080 148,990 98.6% Incineration/Treatment 70 670 0.4% Landfill 2,310 1,500 1.0% Subtotal (and % year-to-year change) 153,460 151,160 -1.5% Hazardous Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 11 36 65.0% Incineration/Treatment 24 11 20.6% Landfill 3 8 14.4% Subtotal (and % year-to-year change) 38 55 44.4% Total Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 151,090 149,030 98.6% Incineration/Treatment 90 680 0.4% Landfill 2,310 1,510 1.0% Total (and % year-to-year change) 153,490 151,220 -1.5% %Waste that is Hazardous 0.04% Note: Percentages in black are relative contribution; purple are year-to-year change 74 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Sustainable Packaging Bacardi has set a packaging weight-reduction target of Packaging is very important to our consumers 10% by fiscal 2017, increasing to 15% by fiscal 2022, based globally, and it is, therefore, very important to our on the benchmark figure from fiscal 2008. Use of the business. Consumers expect companies to reduce Bacardi Principles of Sustainable Packaging will inform the the environmental impact of packaging as a matter way we make decisions to achieve these targets. of course. Packaging is the most visible and “hands on” part of the consumer experience; it is where our consumers encounter the passion of our brands. We The Bacardi Principles of Sustainable need to innovate and strive for excellence in our Packaging are Shown Below: packaging, developing a clearer understanding of what this means for each brand and how this contributes to • Support the belief that our packaging can be both our corporate values. sustainable and premium to create the best consumer experience. Sustainable packaging, when used to stimulate • Integrate sustainability into each step of a holistic packaging development process, starting at the design innovation, can create new marketing and consumer board covering primary and secondary packs + engagement opportunities. When aligned with, delivery formats. and promoting, our Sustainability and Corporate • Ensure packaging is effective, safe and protects Responsibility messages, our packaging demonstrates consumers’ health throughout its lifecycle and results in that we are a responsible and trustworthy Company. minimum levels of waste in the environment. Integrating sustainable packaging into our consumer • Understand and optimize the environmental impact of brand experience is one of the strategic levers of the our packaging at the design stage, including ensuring that: Bacardi Sustainability Program. · We develop the optimal packaging weight during the design phase to ensure optimal performance of the product throughout Sustainable packaging also will reduce our its lifecycle. environmental impact and costs. Packaging makes up · We use innovative packaging formats and approximately 57% of Bacardi spending on raw materials. materials, especially those from recycled, It also amounts to about 400,000 tons of raw materials renewable and low-impact sources. each year and is responsible for half of the Company’s · We develop packaging that is as easy and “extended” CO2 emissions, which include emissions from efficient as possible for the consumer to recycle within our own operations and those of our suppliers. or recover after use. Working toward more sustainable packaging decreases • Utilize the most effective manufacturing technologies our impact on the environment and contributes to our and predictive tools to deliver the best packaging bottom line. In fact, in the three years leading to fiscal performance at the lowest environmental impact. 2014, Bacardi saved more than US$5 million per year by • Use successful sustainable packaging executions as benchmarks for future projects across our brands. Drive right-weighting its packaging. strong awareness by decision-makers on the potential impacts. The new Bacardi Sustainable Packaging Manual • Measure improvements to ensure progress toward Global provides a focus for the continued development Sustainability packaging targets. of sustainable packaging within Bacardi. It helps to • Involve suppliers at the earliest stage possible in the concentrate attention on the potential for changes in design phase of each project. our thinking and on the implications for performance across the product/packaging lifecycle. Checklists, tools and links are highlighted within the document to support this process. ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Safety Providing a safe working environment and promoting good health among our people at work and at home is of the highest importance to Bacardi Limited Safety Strategy We have a vision of an accident-free Bacardi Limited, and we believe health and safety is a key factor in our high-performance work culture and in our goal to be a Great Place to Work. We have been working on an upgraded safety strategy that has the goal of “working together to create a safer Bacardi.” The strategy aims to deliver health and safety excellence and focuses on four main areas: Operations: Commercial: We will strive for operations that are We will enhance health and safety best-in-class in the spirits industry. initiatives in the commercial (nonmanufacturing) side of our business. Working Together to Create a Safer Bacardi Logistics: Culture & Behavior: We will improve standards within We will foster a positive health and Bacardi-owned or -managed logistics safety culture and encourage safe and implement loss-control standards behaviors. All manufacturing facilities for third-party logistics warehouses. will have a behavior-based safety program in place by 2015. 76 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY We have established an office and traffic safety network, and we now receive basic safety reports from all of our operations worldwide. We will use this network to promote other initiatives, such as environmental sustainability, in future years. While safety is our top priority, our 2012 Corporate results of this review enabled us to strengthen our design Responsibility Report reported a tragic workplace fatality and work standards further, including enhancing safety that occurred at our Jacksonville, Florida, bottling plant requirements across several of our standards. in August 2012. Bacardi cooperated with representatives from the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health We have made substantial investments and Administration (OSHA) during their investigation. As a improvements in our Jacksonville facility’s health and result of the investigation, OSHA issued several safety and safety programs and practices, and we will work hard to health citations, and placed Bacardi on the OSHA Severe complete our obligations with OSHA, under the agreed Violators Program list for the next three years. procedures as part of the Settlement Agreement. The Company and OSHA entered into a Settlement Following our review, we independently audited all of Agreement, where all the citations were addressed our global facilities and are implementing improvement and abated. During and after the OSHA inspection, actions. the Company has implemented an extensive set of safety improvements. It has also reviewed its entire Reporting on our safety performance safety program while working with a third-party safety We have successfully expanded our safety reporting to all professional. This is in addition to the OHSAS 18001 of our Company locations and activities. safety certification designation that the Jacksonville plant previously received. We have established an office and traffic safety network, and we now receive basic safety reports from all of Following the accident, we undertook a comprehensive our operations worldwide. We will use this network review of the safety requirements embedded in our to promote other initiatives, such as environmental standards and codes of practices. We also evaluated sustainability, in future years. our machine-guarding standards and our policies and procedures for systems, including lock-out/tag-out In fiscal 2013, we improved the Company’s overall Lost (LOTO), contractor management and safety training. The Time Accident Rate (LTAR) by 10%. 77 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Total Lost Time Accident Rate Bacardi Total LTA Rate Number of LTA’s *Extrapolated using production trend data. *Extrapolated using production trend data. 3.5 MFG NON-MFG TOTAL 3 FY2011* 3.1 30 10 40 2.5 FY2012 2.1 19 8 27 2 FY2013 1.9 21 3 24 1.5 3.1 1 2.1 1.9 0.5 0 FY2011* FY2012 FY2013 Non-Production Facilities We began collecting safety data from all facilities, In fiscal 2013, we had three workplace accidents at nonincluding offices and distribution centers, in fiscal manufacturing locations, down from eight in fiscal 2012. 2012. We assembled a team to represent our sales Two accidents occurred in offices and one involved a regions on workplace and travel safety. Team members traffic accident. Our Company-wide lost time accident are responsible for reporting on safety performance, rate (LTAR) was 1.9 per million hours worked, about 10% communicating safety policy and guidance to lower than our LTAR in fiscal 2012*. employees in their region and establishing workplace standards and practices to protect employee health *Our FY2012 LTAR was adjusted from 2.3 to 2.1 to correct for and safety. two traffic-related accidents that were double-counted. 78 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Safety Culture and Behavior Two of our largest operations, our rum distillery in Puerto We have established and are rolling out globally a Rico and our whisky operations in Scotland, have been behavior-based safety program, which helps facilities leaders in implementing the behavior-based safety to improve their safety culture – one of the key areas of program. Puerto Rico was Bacardi’s first site to implement our safety strategy. By 2015, 100% of our manufacturing B-Safe, and our Dewar’s whisky business (JDSL) was the facilities will have implemented the behavior-based safety first to implement B-Safe in Europe. In fiscal 2008, these program. two sites accounted for nearly 40% of the lost time accidents at Bacardi’s manufacturing sites. Over the past By the end of fiscal 2013, 81% of our manufacturing sites two years, these sites accounted for 15% of lost time had implemented a behavior-based safety program, accidents. The graph on the next page demonstrates versus a target of 67%, and nearly half of our sites had these sites’ dramatic improvement in safety performance. completed the program through the initial seven stages that we established when we launched the program. Our target for fiscal 2014 is for 100% of our manufacturing sites to have at least begun implementation. Bacardi B-Safe Program 2013 % CUM% Phase 7 13 48% 48% Phase 5 8 30% 78% Phase 3 1 4% 81% Not Begun 5 19% 27 79 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 9.0 Lost Time Accidents 8.0 3-Year Moving Average 7.0 JDSL 6.0 Puerto Rico 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The rapid improvement of these two “early adopter sites” We anticipate that JDSL and Puerto Rico will continue of B-Safe can be compared to the performance of the their long-term improvement in safety performance five sites that will just begin implementing B-Safe in fiscal and that the remainder of Bacardi sites will show similar 2014 (“late adopter sites”). The graph below highlights progress in their safety programs as they fully implement the contrast in performance: sites that have mastered the B-Safe. fundamentals of the B-Safe program show significantly better performance in preventing accidents. 1.4 B-Safe Early Adopters vs. 1.2 Late Adopters Progress in reducing Lost Time Accidents 1.0 0.8 Late Adopter Sites 0.6 Early Adopter Sites 0.4 0.2 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 80 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Quality Environmental, Health and Safety (QEHS) Day at our Buxtehude, Germany plant Our Buxtehude plant celebrated its very first QEHS Day in fiscal 2013. The QEHS Day emphasized the importance of safety at work, as well as environmental and health issues. For the first time in the plant’s history, we held a Work Safety Day on a scale previously unknown. The organization and planning for our QEHS Day was challenging, but we were committed to making the day memorable for everyone. All of our employees were invited to take part in an exciting day of activities. These events ranged from active employee participation in firstaid training, to witnessing a large-scale accident scenario that involved 25 emergency responders from the local Fire Brigade, Ambulance Services and Buxtehude Police Department, supported by seven firefighting vehicles and ambulances. Safety in Logistics In fiscal 2012, we set out to have all of our distribution centers be at least 90% compliant with our Logistics EHS Code of Practice Standards. In line with Bacardi’s One-Plant The Jacksonville, Florida Distribution Center was first assessed in June 2011 Policy, we invited our logistical and scored 62% against our new Logistics EHS Code of Practice. The site contractors, Fiege, as well as implemented most of the corrective actions from that assessment, and teams from our temporary in February 2012 scored 92%. Since that time, the site has continued to workers’ agency, Uniserv, upgrade its programs and facilities, and we believe it will score even higher and our export consultants, when the next assessment is conducted. Procurus, to participate in QEHS Day. Our Moscow Distribution Center was first assessed in April 2012 and was found to conform to 81% of the standards. The site has used the findings to further improve its programs, and we believe that the next assessment will show that the site now exceeds the 90% conformance target. Our logistics operations completed fiscal 2013 without a lost time accident. In fiscal 2012, there were two lost time accidents related to logistics. 81 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Improving Our Standards Improving standards in Fijian sugar mills. In this Section: Sourcing Quality with Responsibility Strategy We source high-quality ingredients and raw materials from many Targets and Progress countries around the world, including those where achieving good workplace standards, environmental protection and sound governance Responsible Supply can be complex. Our Responsible Sourcing program works to address Chain these complexities. Working with Suppliers and Partners Our Responsible Sourcing program is based on the Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards, which are supported by our Supplier Sustainable Code of Practice. Agriculture and Sourcing In the last year, we have reaffirmed our commitment to embedding RS within the Procurement function by providing more training for our Global Direct Spend and Point-of-Sale (POS) Procurement teams. We also undertook a thorough review and updating of our RS standards and Supplier Code of Practice, which has made our RS process easier to manage. DAVE HOWSON | Global Sustainability Director 82 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Dave Howson Global Sustainability Director Watch Video Bacardi Limited is committed to sustainably sourcing all of its raw materials and packaging. Our Responsible Sourcing program aims to deliver this vision. Our Responsible Sourcing risk assessment identifies the risk level associated with the raw materials used in our responsibly sourced products and the suppliers we source from; and we focus first on the areas with the highest risk of environmental and social challenges. For the Company, sugarcane is a key raw material with high risk, as we use a range of ingredients derived from sugarcane. Molasses, for example, is one of the main ingredients in our flagship BACARDÍ Rum brand. With such a strong association with our business, over the past five years, we have focused on improving the sustainability of the sugarcane supply chain. We are an active supporter and founding member of Bonsucro™, the multi-stakeholder forum focused on improving social, environmental and agricultural standards in the sugarcane industry. Bonsucro™ covers the whole supply chain, from farmer to end user. We remain committed to working We have set a target that is an industry first and a first among members with responsible suppliers as of Bonsucro™. Bacardi Limited is committed to sourcing 100% of its part of our Responsible Sourcing sugarcane-derived products from sustainably-certified sources by 2022 program. and to making sure that evidence of this is externally verified. Bonsucro is our preferred standard. 83 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Strategy Our responsible sourcing program is based on the Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing (RS) standards, which are supported by our Supplier Code of Practice. Our Responsible Sourcing standards, which we Our Approach developed in 2007, are in turn based on the main Our vision for Responsible Sourcing is for all of our raw International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions on materials and packaging to come from sustainably freedom of association, the abolition of forced labor, sourced, renewable or recycled materials – reducing equality and the elimination of child labor, as well as the environmental and social impacts, while maintaining or Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code. They cover the four enhancing the economic status of growers and suppliers. main areas of Responsible Sourcing: labor; health and safety; environment; and business integrity. To achieve this vision, we aim to create long-term sustainable supplier relationships that deliver improved Our Supplier Code of Practice complements the standards and are based on high levels of trust. We do Responsible Sourcing standards and outlines preferred this by focusing on embedding responsible sourcing into supplier actions and behavior. the way we do business in Procurement and especially focusing on our Direct Spend (packaging and ingredients) Read our Responsible Sourcing standards and Point-of-Sale (POS) Procurement functions. and Supplier Code of Practice. 84 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING This year, we have restructured our Global Direct Spend Procurement team to ensure that responsible sourcing is more embedded in the day-to-day business of the function. There are some new faces in the global team, and the RS training has enabled them to better engage our suppliers in the RS program. We also undertook a comprehensive review to update our Responsible Sourcing standards and Supplier Code of Practice, which has resulted in a single clear document that is easier for our suppliers to work with. Michael Hinrichs | Director, Global Procurement, Global Operations Group In fiscal 2013, we undertook a comprehensive evaluation In addition, we also updated our RS Self-Assessment of our responsible sourcing governance documents. We Questionnaire (SAQ), as well as our pre-engagement RS reviewed the then-separate documents of the RS Policy, Risk Assessment Tool. RS Standards and Supplier Code of Practice. We updated the wording, added an extra standard and consolidated To align with our governance review and tools revision, the three documents into a single, more user-friendly we restructured our Global Direct Spend Procurement document that is easier for our suppliers to navigate and team to ensure that responsible sourcing is more use. embedded in the day-to-day business of the function. To be sure that the team was up-to-speed on our responsible sourcing practices and code, we rolled out internal RS training to our Global and Regional Direct Spend Procurement management team across the U.K. and Continental Europe, India, China, Canada, Mexico, Brazil and the U.S. 85 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible Sourcing & Strategy Material Issues In our biannual materiality assessment of the most Sustainable agriculture and sourcing is defined as material Corporate Responsibility issues for Bacardi improving social and environmental standards throughout Limited (last carried out in 2012), “sustainable agriculture the entire value chain, while responsible supply chain and sourcing” ranked as an issue of high materiality focuses on the minimum standards required of immediate relative to other Corporate Responsibility issues, and suppliers to Bacardi Limited. Both of these issues are “responsible supply chain” ranked as an issue of mediumcovered by our Responsible Sourcing program and are to-high materiality. We have reviewed the materiality covered in this section of our report. ranking for “sustainable agriculture and sourcing” this year Read more on our materiality and have concluded that high is still appropriate. Our process in the materiality section. review of “responsible supply chain” also concluded that a medium-to-high ranking remains appropriate. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 86 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Looking Ahead During fiscal 2014, we will continue to establish We remain focused on embedding responsible responsible sourcing as a central way of working sourcing into the way we do business in Procurement, within our Procurement function. Support for this especially in our Direct Spend (packaging and effort will include the following activities: ingredients) and Point-of-Sale (POS) Procurement • We will agree on our Sustainable Procurement functions. As part of this effort, we are working to strategy, including nominating POS and Direct Spend accelerate our supplier audit schedule. Audits are an “Champions” who will manage the strategy from within important source of information about how suppliers the Procurement function. operate with regard to human rights and labor, health and safety, environmental management and • All of our key Direct Suppliers will complete the Sedex® business integrity. Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) by factory site (key = c80% of our global spend). While supplier auditing is important to demonstrate • All of our key Global Webshop and Bacardi USA POS compliance, it is not the sole or even principal suppliers will complete the Sedex® SAQ by factory site measure of supplier engagement. Rather, responsible (key = c80% of our global spend). sourcing is evolving year-on-year to “move beyond compliance” toward developing long-term, sustainable • We will audit more than 10 of our supplier sites at high and mutually beneficial sourcing relationships with risk of non-compliance (POS & Direct Spend). suppliers. For Bacardi and others, this essentially • We will ensure that all light cane distillate (LCD) means working directly with suppliers after audits are purchases are covered by either an EUor U.S.-recognized completed to ensure ongoing adherence to standards, sustainability certification chain of custody. support capacity-building and raise supplier awareness of responsible sourcing in order to continue to foster The long-term targets for our Responsible Sourcing effective, long-term supplier partnerships for the future. program are as follows: • We will source 40% of our sugarcane-derived products from sustainably-certified sources by 2017, and 100% by How Bacardi measures its Sedex® 2022, and we will ensure that evidence of this sourcing is supplier performance: externally validated. Bonsucro is our preferred standard. One of the best ways to measure • We will make certain that 100% of our paper-based the impact and value of Sedex® is to packaging is sourced from sustainably certified sources assess our level of spend with the by 2017. suppliers linked to us. For example, • We will strive, longer term, to extend our sustainable having 100 suppliers linked to us who agriculture targets beyond sugarcane products to a represent 80% of our global spend in a more comprehensive program covering both our major given category is more impactful than commodities (cane, beet, wheat, barley, grapes and having 250 suppliers who represent agave) and our smaller scale, but strategically important, only 25% of our global spend. herbs and botanicals. This will involve becoming closer to small-holder farmers and co-operatives. • We will seek to actively participate with suppliers in mutually beneficial projects, such as increasing the level of cullet (recycled glass) into our glass bottle supply chain. 87 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible Sourcing Standards The Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards apply to all suppliers providing goods and/or services to Bacardi Limited. We seek to gain agreement on and compliance with our Responsible Sourcing standards from all our suppliers. Our standards are based on the Ethical Trading Initiative encourage suppliers who seek to implement higher (ETI) Base Code, an alliance of companies, NGOs and standards within their operations. Bacardi also applies trade unions. This alliance is committed to working these standards within its own operations. together to identify and promote good practices in the implementation of codes of labor practice and key Responsible Sourcing Standards and international standards, including the International Labor Supplier Code of Practice Organization’s (ILO) Fundamental Conventions on labor Each of the 12 Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards. standards is supported by examples of the practices that are expected in meeting that standard. These examples, The standards encompass what we expect from our outlined below, are available to suppliers in an integrated suppliers in terms of labor standards, human rights, Code of Practice document, which includes our standards health and safety, environmental protection and business and implementation steps. integrity. They represent minimum standards, and we 1. EMPLOYMENT IS FREELY CHOSEN • There is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor. • Workers are not required to lodge deposits or their identity papers with their employer and are free to leave their employer after reasonable notice. 2. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ARE RESPECTED • Workers, without distinction, have the right to join or form trade unions of their own choosing and to bargain collectively. • The employer adopts an open attitude toward the activities of trade unions and their organizational activities. • Workers’ representatives are not discriminated against and have access to carry out their representative functions in the workplace. • Where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is restricted under law, the employer facilitates, and does not hinder, the development of parallel means for independent and free association and bargaining. 88 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 3. WORKING CONDITIONS ARE SAFE AND HYGIENIC • A safe and hygienic working environment shall be provided, bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge of the industry and of any specific hazards. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of, associated with, or occurring in the course of work, by minimizing, so far as is reasonably practicable, the causes of hazards inherent in the working environment. • Workers shall receive regular and recorded health and safety training, and such training shall be repeated for new or reassigned workers. • Access to clean toilet facilities and to potable (drinking) water, and, if appropriate, sanitary facilities for food storage shall be provided. • Accommodation, where provided, shall be clean, safe, and meet the basic needs of the workers. • Responsibility for health and safety is assigned to a senior management representative. • A health and safety policy is in place. 4. CHILD LABOR SHALL NOT BE USED A child is defined as a person under 18 years old. The minimum age for employment is defined as the local legal minimum age for employment or the age for completing compulsory education, but in no case lower than 15 for fulltime employment and 13 for light, part-time work. (ILO guidelines allow some developing countries whose economy and educational facilities are insufficiently developed to apply to initially set the limits at 14 and 12). • Child labor is defined as work that is harmful to children (i.e., work which is exploitative, prevents children from getting an education or jeopardizes their physical, mental or moral well-being). • Suppliers will comply with ILO standards on child labor. • There shall be no new recruitment of child labor. • Suppliers shall develop or participate in and contribute to policies and programs which provide for the transition of any child found to be performing child labor to enable her or him to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. • Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in hazardous conditions. 5. FAIR WAGES ARE PAID • Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week meet, at a minimum, national legal standards or industry benchmark standards. • All workers shall be provided with written and understandable information about their employment conditions in respect to wages before they enter employment and about the particulars of their wages for the pay period concerned each time that they are paid. • Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be permitted nor shall any deductions from wages not provided for by national law be permitted without the expressed permission of the worker concerned. All disciplinary measures should be recorded. 89 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 6. WORKING HOURS ARE NOT EXCESSIVE • Working hours comply with national laws and benchmark industry standards. • In any event, workers shall not on a regular basis be required to work in excess of 48 hours per week and shall be provided with at least one day off for every seven-day period on average. • Additional overtime shall be voluntary, shall not regularly exceed 12 hours per week, shall not be demanded on a regular basis and shall always be compensated at a premium rate. 7. DISCRIMINATION IS PROHIBITED • There is no discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on race, caste, national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. 8. TEMPORARY WORKERS ARE TREATED FAIRLY • Employment of temporary workers must comply with relevant national employment laws. • Workers who are continually employed on a series of temporary contracts are potentially missing out on the benefits of permanent employment such as holiday and sick pay. Suppliers must be able to demonstrate they do not keep temporary employees on a series of short-term contracts to avoid providing them with the benefits of permanent employment. 9. ANY HARSH OR INHUMANE TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES IS PROHIBITED AND PREVENTED • Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of physical abuse, sexual or other harassment and verbal abuse or other forms of intimidation shall be prohibited. • A formal disciplinary and grievance appeal procedure with documented records of individual disciplinary hearings exists. Such a procedure will support fair treatment of workers. 10. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION • Suppliers carry out their activities in accordance with national laws, regulations, administrative practices and policies relating to the preservation of the environment of the countries in which they operate, as well as in accordance with relevant international agreements, principles, objectives, responsibilities and standards with regard to the environment. • There is a documented environmental policy, signed by the Managing Director or equivalent. • The main areas of environmental impact are identified and documented. This should include as a minimum: – The consumption of energy, water and other natural resources; – All significant polluting emissions, discharges and wastes; and – Impacts on biodiversity, for example, from the destruction of natural habitats, the use of agro-chemicals and the use of genetically modified crops (GMOs). • Evidence of controls and programs in place to address environmental impacts is available. • Written confirmation of compliance with local and national environmental regulations is available. 90 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 11. BUSINESS INTEGRITY • Suppliers comply with all applicable laws and regulations. • Policies and processes are in place to conduct business without the payment or receipt of unlawful incentives. • Suppliers do not allow employees to provide or accept excessive or inappropriate entertainment of gifts from customers or suppliers. • Suppliers do not enter into any agreements or understandings with competitors or others that restrict competition, in particular agreements to fix prices, allocate markets or limit sales. • To prevent financial fraud and money laundering, any payment by Bacardi to a vendor, supplier or other third party must be made to a bank account titled in the name of the contracted vendor, supplier or other third party. • Suppliers have a policy and procedure in place to ensure employees avoid a situation where a conflict of interest arises. • Bacardi respects the confidential information of others. We will never seek to obtain or disclose the confidential information of other companies, whether it comes to us directly or from third parties and we expect our suppliers to do likewise. Confidential information includes, for example, customer lists, product information, sales and marketing plans, company business plans and any other sensitive or proprietary information. 12. RESPONSIBILITY TO PROMOTE BACARDI RESPONSIBLE SOURCING STANDARDS • Suppliers are expected to promote the policy to their staff and subcontractors. • Suppliers are expected to promote and assess compliance with the Responsible Sourcing standards with their own suppliers. The Bacardi Limited Responsible Sourcing standards are based on the following international principles: The Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code The United Nations (UN) www.ethicaltrade.org Universal Declaration of Human Rights www.un.org/en/documents/udhr The Fundamental Conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO) UN Convention on Biological Diversity www.ilo.org www.biodiv.org UN Global Compact Principles www.unglobalcompact.org 91 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: Our vision for Responsible materials – reducing environmental and social impacts Sourcing is for all of our raw materials and packaging to while maintaining or enhancing the economic status of come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled growers and suppliers. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 On an ongoing basis, 100% A review of our key Direct Spend This is an ongoing target. of highand very high-risk and Global POS Webshop suppliers Each new supplier will be riskdirect suppliers and global POS determined that we are sourcing assessed and engaged to ensure suppliers to be compliant with from fewer than 100 supplier sites compliance with our RS standards Responsible Sourcing standards based in countries deemed highand Code of Practice. either via Sedex® membership or risk in our assessment model. All the Bacardi Limited procurement of these suppliers have been or are process. being screened, either internally or through Sedex, as part of our RS program process. We will ensure the Direct Spend At the end of fiscal 2013, we had This is an ongoing target. and Global POS Webshop over 320 supplier sites registered on Each new supplier will be risksuppliers linked to us in Sedex® Sedex® and access to more than 120 assessed and engaged to ensure represent 80% of our spend in audits. This represented an increase compliance with our RS standards these key categories. of over 20% from the previous year. and Code of Practice. Deliver focused training to All of our production sites now have We will agree on a Sustainable develop the individuals running a defined Procurement Single Point Procurement strategy that the SPM tool at our 10 largest of Contact (SPOC), and the Global includes nominating “Champions” sites in fiscal 2013 and the Procurement management team, from our Direct Spend and Global remainder to be trained in fiscal all members of which have been POS Procurement teams, who will 2014. trained, has begun to deploy this manage the RS strategy within training. their function. We will start our local audit Our Direct Procurement team has We will commission third-party program during fiscal 2013, highlighted a list of suppliers for ethical audits at a minimum of focusing initially on suppliers audit in fiscal 2014. This will be 10 global suppliers at high risk with a higher risk of nonaligned with the results of a Sedex® of non-compliance and ensure compliance. SAQ review to create a more focused closure of any instances of nonlist for fiscal 2014. compliance revealed in the audits. 92 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 In fiscal 2013 we will develop We reviewed growth progress We will ensure at least one of our a sourcing plan to achieve our of Bonsucro and our supplier key sugarcane product suppliers interim target to source 50% of engagement plan and decided we is covered by either an EUor our sugarcane-derived products need to update our target. Our new U.S.-recognized sustainability from sustainably certified sources target is to source 40% of our canecertification chain of custody. by 2017. derived product from sustainable sources by 2017 and we are on course for that. We will work with WWF to Fiji report from WWF covers the KPIs. We will continue to support this develop an agreed set of key project and review progress with performance indicators for the our project partners. Fiji project that will be reported monthly. A gap analysis of the Labasa As above, this is covered in the WWF sugar mill in Fiji against the report on Fiji. Bonsucro™ standard will also be completed in fiscal 2013. Establish a sustainability review The review of new POS items is part This is an ongoing activity, part process for all new POS items of the ongoing POS Sedex® activity. of the rationalization of our POS developed for our global range supply base. for the brands BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin, GREY GOOSE Vodka and DEWAR’S Scotch Whisky. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 93 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible Supply Chain All key direct suppliers – those that provide ingredients or packaging for our products – are required to agree to our Responsible Sourcing standards, and we work with them to help them understand our requirements and improve standards throughout our supply chain. Meeting our Responsible Sourcing Standards for a number of reasons, including supplier size, length Suppliers can meet our Responsible Sourcing standards in or nature of the relationship with Bacardi or alternative two ways: through the Vendor Qualification Process (VQP) approaches to responsible supply chain issues. that our procurement teams apply to all new suppliers; or through membership in Sedex®, the database for sharing Whichever way suppliers choose to comply, we always ethical supply chain data on suppliers. aim to make sure that they have a clear understanding of our Responsible Sourcing expectations. We confer with We encourage all suppliers to join Sedex®, but them as early as possible in our relationship and support understand that the system may not suit all suppliers them to make improvements wherever necessary. Sedex acts as a communication platform which provides a wealth of information between us and our clients. This allows our member clients to undertake an initial appraisal and evaluation of our company. It gives access to a shared pool of information for many of our clients, which in turn allows us to ‘streamline’ the information we send out by reducing the number of audits and questionnaires equaling time saved. Supplier Insight: Sleever International JACQUES COUSIN | Q.S.E. Corporate Manager 94 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Managing Responsible Sourcing Directly Our Global Webshop and Bacardi USA (BUSA) POS teams Our goal is to embed Responsible Sourcing within our have nominated Responsible Sourcing Champions who procurement function and to make it a standard way are responsible for ensuring that our POS suppliers are of working across the Company. For suppliers that do engaged in our RS program through the VQP or the not choose to become members of Sedex®, we use our Sedex® onboarding process. Our teams have reviewed internal procurement system to ensure compliance with the suppliers in Sedex® and are following up on the Selfour Responsible Sourcing standards. Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) gaps and questions. Bish Creative Display joined Sedex® to better serve the Bacardi community. We have recently initiated sourcing and facilities initiatives at our global resourcing partners, where we have added a clean-store policy that rewards our factories for providing a clean and safe environment for their work activities. We currently manufacture wire, wood, metal and plastic components. We also have introduced social activities into the weekly schedule so that employees may have a more enjoyable lifestyle. JERRY FOX | President / CEO, BCD Vendor Qualification A supplier is accepted only after it has satisfactorily All new direct suppliers (ingredients and packaging) and completed the self-assessment. Following this, our global point-of-sale (POS) suppliers that are not members purchasing managers will begin to engage with suppliers of Sedex® must complete the Responsible Sourcing on any areas that are identified for improvement through section of our Vendor Qualification Process (VQP). VQP the self-assessment questionnaire to help strengthen includes checks for quality and Responsible Sourcing supplier standards and align them with our Responsible standards. For Responsible Sourcing, this takes the form Sourcing standards. of a self-assessment questionnaire that is completed and returned to the specific procurement department responsible for the supplier. 95 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Over the years, we have taken the necessary steps to constantly improve our social responsibility code of conduct, through our factories and third-party production units. Thanks to Bacardi, we had the opportunity to join Sedex® in order to exchange ideas and techniques to reduce our global footprint, as well as improve employee working conditions in our factories worldwide. Our screen-printing operation has had a mission to eliminate toxic inks and screen-washing residues. We have taken the following steps to achieve a 100% level as a Non-Toxic/Hazardous Waste screen-printing facility. NRG Screen-Printing Facility Some examples of our actions to achieve this mission: 1) Screen-Washing Liquid: All of our screens are washed with a non-toxic liquid. Once the liquid is mixed with water, it is 100% biodegradable (meets biochemical oxygen demand, B.O.D. levels). The liquid also meets threshold limit values (TLVS) of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and has a bubble gum odor, which is pleasant for employees. 2) Biodegradable Inks: We are slowly implementing the add-on to Plastisol inks with water-based, 100% organic color inks to all ink mixes. As a result, our prints are smoother and less chemically dependent. 3) Workers Safety: We have always been very proud of the working conditions in our facilities. As a result of our partnership with Bacardi, we are seeking to consult externally on how to further improve in this area, so that we retain our reputation as “Safety First” factory. We are working hard to find new methods to improve our social responsibility standing. In doing so, we strive to be a responsible leader in our industry. PATRICK ATLAN | CEO, NRG Global Sourcing 96 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Supplier Performance Management Last year, we included a new Corporate Responsibility Other elements recorded are whether the supplier has section in our Supplier Performance Measurement (SPM) a contingency plan to maintain supply in the event of a tool for packaging suppliers, which is used to assess serious issue and whether it has an active approach to suppliers’ performance. environmental management. This further embeds Responsible Sourcing in our By including Corporate Responsibility in our SPM tool, we standard process for assessing supplier performance. The have created a more complete supplier measurement new section determines whether a supplier has its own tool. One of the next steps is to include Corporate Corporate Responsibility program, if it is compliant with Responsibility in the ingredients suppliers’ version of SPM. the Bacardi Responsible Sourcing standards and whether it is linked to Bacardi in the Sedex® database. We use the Sedex® online database to share ethical performance data on suppliers with other companies. A best-practice association to partner with, IBCShell is constantly monitoring its supply chain, and Sedex® provides us with the resources to assess performance, ethics and labor standards encapsulated within one uniform methodology. MARGARET MAHER | Healion, IBCShell 97 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Sedex® A key tool in our Responsible Sourcing program is In fiscal 2013 (and continuing in fiscal 2014), we worked Sedex®, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange. Sedex® is a to ensure that 100% of high-risk and very high-risk direct collaborative online database through which suppliers’ suppliers and global POS suppliers were compliant with individual production sites can share their ethical our Responsible Sourcing standards. This was achieved performance with buyers, such as Bacardi. either through Sedex® membership or by completing the Responsible Sourcing section of our VQP. Bacardi Limited is a member of Sedex®. We encourage all direct suppliers to join Sedex® and complete the In order to ensure that the value of our ongoing Sedex® self-assessment on their approach to responsible membership in Sedex® is harnessed and disseminated supply chain issues. For all suppliers, we accept Sedex® across the business, in fiscal 2013 we initiated Sedex® membership and completion of the selfassessment as training with our POS Global Webshop category an alternative to confirming their compliance with our managers and the Bacardi USA (BUSA) POS team, both of Responsible Sourcing standards. whom nominated RS Champions. This training supports our efforts to achieve our target of 100% compliance of By the end of fiscal 2013, we had increased the number high-risk and very high-risk direct suppliers and global of supplier sites registered in Sedex® to more than 320, POS suppliers with our Responsible Sourcing standards. which represented more than a 20% increase on the previous year. We also had access to over 120 registered Sedex® audits. Supplier Sites Registered with Sedex® and Breakdown of Linked Supplier Sites on Sedex® Linked to Bacardi Limited (324 Suppliers Registered with Sedex®) Fiscal Year 2013 324 Packaging 141 Fiscal Year 2012 257 Point-of-sale 62 Fiscal Year 2011 244 Ingredients 102 Fiscal Year 2010 175 Flavors 19 Fiscal Year 2009 20 98 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Working with Suppliers and Partners Point-of-Sale Suppliers A strong POS presence is crucial to supporting our brands in ontrade and off-trade retailing. POS items are mainly branded goods, such as glassware, barware, signs and gift and promotional items. We have a large and complex POS supply chain, and every year we source thousands of items from hundreds of suppliers. With this level of complexity, applying our Responsible Sourcing standards and researching the source of each item is time consuming. One of the ways we reduce this complexity is to rationalize our POS supply base and implement a preferred supplier list, where we can more easily verify the correct quality standards and compliance with responsible sourcing. About 40 of our POS suppliers are considered global suppliers of branded items for our “Global POS Webshop,” a centralized ordering system for POS items that can be POS suppliers are vital in used worldwide by our local markets. supporting Bacardi’s on-trade and off-trade retailing. Compared to our ingredient and packaging supply chains, POS materials pose a number of additional challenges to our Responsible Sourcing program. Many POS items are linked to brand campaigns and are, therefore, one-off orders. This can Another method of removing some of mean short-term relationships with suppliers, and many will not the POS supply chain complexity is to join Sedex® on the strength of a single order. Similarly, working shorten our POS preferred supplier list. In to improve standards directly with suppliers is really feasible only fiscal 2013, our BUSA POS team reduced with longer-term supplier relationships. the number of suppliers from whom they sourced by nearly 40%, following a Another challenge is that many purchases are made review of their suppliers in Sedex®. The through intermediaries and agents, rather than directly with BUSA team are currently in the process of manufacturers. Reaching out to POS agents to ensure they share following up with the remaining suppliers their actual factory information for responsible sourcing generally on their preferred list to focus on any gaps or for Sedex® engagement purposes remains one of the biggest there might be in their Sedex SAQs and POS challenges. To address this, our Vendor Qualification Process any questions that relate to them. (VQP) includes a factory assessment document that requires the information provided to come from the site of manufacture, rather than the point of purchase. 99 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Despite these challenges, in fiscal 2013 we continued to encourage POS suppliers to join Sedex® and to use our VQP for new Global POS Webshop suppliers and key suppliers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Our aim is to focus our sourcing pool on fewer preferred suppliers with whom we can build a longerlasting and sustainable relationship, ensuring that compliance can be achieved on most issues and that any instances of noncompliance can be worked through successfully and in a timely fashion. At the end of fiscal 2013, 77% of our Global POS Webshop suppliers had undergone the VQP, and 71% were registered with Sedex® and linked to Bacardi Limited. Sedex® is recognized by many clients, and this is particularly favorable for developing customer relationships. Specifically, through the Self-Assessment Questionnaire, improvement plans, labor standards and other data-sharing in the Sedex® online tool, our customers, including Bacardi China, can learn about these aspects of Doehler Shanghai quickly and easily. Meanwhile, our work will become more efficient, since both work preparation and auditing costs for new suppliers will be reduced. What’s more, our customers will have more trust and respect for Doehler Shanghai, and we anticipate that all this will help us to increase our business by 30%. We also recommend Sedex® to our suppliers and ensure their operation is in line with Sedex®’s standard. Over 20 customers and suppliers have now consulted the details of Sedex®, because they are really encouraged by our great success! KAILIN FENG | Sales Manager of Brewing, Doehler Food & Beverage Ingredients (Shanghai) Co., Ltd 100 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Working with Partners AIM-PROGRESS Bacardi Limited is a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a forum of consumer goods companies working to enable and promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. AIM-PROGRESS is an initiative of AIM, the European Brands Association, and GMA, the Grocery Manufacturers Association. The aim of AIM-PROGRESS supplier forums is to share with suppliers the importance of responsible sourcing and to give them the opportunity to ask questions and share experiences. AIM-Progress Supplier Capability session in Gurgaon, At an AIM-PROGRESS Supplier Capability Summit Delhi, India, in July 2012 in Gurgaon, India, suppliers heard from speakers representing members’ brands, including Bacardi, as well as organizations such as Bonsucro™, the Indian Sugar Mills Association and Solidaridad. The AIM-PROGRESS Supplier Capability Summit provided Presenting at the AIMan opportunity for suppliers to share a common platform PROGRESS Supplier Capability with organizations that included Coca-Cola, Nestlé, GSK event in Gurgaon, India, meant & Kraft Foods. The forum helped to demonstrate Bacardi I could speak directly to many Limited’s commitments to responsible sourcing within our supply chain. We were able to share our experience of our key suppliers about how and provide guidance to attending suppliers in order important our Responsible to promote responsible sourcing and ethical business Sourcing program is to Bacardi practices. and about the added value A key message delivered at the event was that of using Sedex to store our responsible sourcing is not an optional extra for suppliers’ ethical data. consumer goods companies, but rather is swiftly becoming part of core purchasing practices. The idea that SANDEEP KUMAR responsible sourcing offers a new competitive advantage Procurement Manager, Bacardi India was also discussed. 101 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING SSL has been a registered Sedex® member since 2008. Since then, we have been growing with Sedex® in terms of business ethics, code of conduct and also good business practices. Sedex® has provided a good business platform for suppliers and business partners. This not only has facilitated better communication between its registered members, but also has reduced the cost of business ethics certification by sharing relevant information with other members. In addition, we can also discover new business opportunities among its members. As such, we wish to extend our utmost appreciation to Sedex®. SHANGHAI SUPER LABELS CO., LTD The value of these Supplier Capability Building We are member of Sedex with the help of events is not just that suppliers are introduced Bacardi India. Now we are trying to figure to Sedex, but that they become aware of their peer companies’ responsible sourcing journeys, how to move forward in the most effective which enable them to create networks, share their way with all of the ideas you have given experiences and the good practices that can help us. It has become a road map to follow them move towards compliance, and beyond. other ethical practices through Sedex as well. SANJEEV DUTT | Nutech Security Printers 102 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Sustainable Agriculture and Sourcing The main ingredients in our products are agricultural raw materials, such as sugarcane products, grapes and grains. Sustainable agriculture and responsible sourcing of these ingredients are, therefore, essential to the continuity of our Company and our brands. Sustainable agriculture addresses areas in our supply • We are working to establish socio-economic programs chain with which we do not necessarily have contact and to support the sugarcane-growing communities that which we do not control. The issues faced are often at the supply our BACARDÍ Rum distilleries in Puerto Rico level of our suppliers’ suppliers, descending through the and Mexico. supply chain to individual farmers and growers. To be effective in the right places and at the right levels, Sustainable Sugarcane we need to work in partnership with our direct suppliers Why sugarcane? and other local stakeholders and to use our influence as a Based on our Responsible Sourcing risk assessment of major purchaser of agricultural commodities. the products and suppliers we use, sugarcane scores as a high-risk raw material. Added to this, products derived In broad terms, sustainable agriculture is about improving from sugarcane, in particular molasses and cane alcohol, growing practices for agricultural crops to improve are used in many of our brands, including our global yields while minimizing environmental impacts. At the flagship brand, BACARDÍ Rum. same time, it is also about maximizing for agricultural communities the socio-economic benefits of producing Not only do we need to ensure a consistent and and trading agricultural commodities. sustainable supply of sugarcane products to support our Company and its growth plans, we also need to play Within our Responsible Sourcing program, our part in raising standards across the whole sugarcane we have two main areas of focus: industry to minimize the risks to our Company and • We are contributing to the development of a our suppliers. The main vehicle we use to develop and sustainable sugarcane industry and will ultimately promote a sustainable sugarcane industry is Bonsucro™. source and use in our brands only sustainably produced sugarcane products. 103 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Bonsucro™ this target. Given how things Formerly known as the Better can change within the sugarcane Sugarcane Initiative, Bonsucro is a supply chain, we will keep a close multi-stakeholder forum focused eye on progress toward this target. on improving social, environmental We are committed to source our and agricultural standards in the molasses and light cane distillate sugarcane industry in order for from sustainable sources, and our sugarcane production to become preferred standard is Bonsucro. If, fully sustainable. however, the capacity of Bonsucrocertified product is insufficient Bacardi Limited is a founding at the time we are sourcing, we member and active supporter of will consider other EUand U.S.Bonsucro. We have been involved authorized sustainably certified in the development of the initiative standards, such as the ISCC since it was founded in 2007. Standard. To demonstrate our commitment to The Bacardi keynote promoting a sustainable sugarcane In fiscal 2013, we continued our address at the Bonsucro industry, we have reviewed our support for Bonsucro. At the AGM 2012, London current plans and have set a new Bonsucro conference and Annual long-term target to source 40% of General Meeting held in London our sugarcane-derived products in November 2012, Bacardi Limited from sustainably-certified sources delivered a keynote address as work and grow and the critical by 2017 and 100% by 2022. We part of our role on the Board of message that more end-user want to ensure that evidence of this Directors. The speech focused companies should drive market sourcing is externally validated and on the reasons Bacardi Limited demand for sustainable sugarcane Bonsucro is our preferred standard. has supported Bonsucro since its by making public commitments to Our current sugarcane supplier inception, the challenges faced by buy cane products certified to the engagement plan should achieve all members to make the initiative Bonsucro standard. BONSUCRO’S YEAR OF PROGRESS IN 2012/2013 • Membership increased by over 42%, against a target of • A newly created Standards Review Committee is 25% for this year. As of May 2013, there were 87 members undertaking a full review of the Bonsucro Production of Bonsucro. Standard for the first time. • Bonsucro is now a full member of the ISEAL Alliance. • The Bonsucro Secretariat has increased to seven full-time • The Global Producers’ Innovation Network (GPIN) was employees, comprising a Chief Executive, Head of relaunched as the Bonsucro Farmer Community, and it Engagement, Head of Operations, Head of Sustainability, holds monthly meetings. Head of Farmer Engagement, Certification Coordinator and Research & Policy Analyst. • Bonsucro certification has now been achieved by 30 sugar mills, all in Brazil, representing 2.88% of sugarcane production globally. The target is 20% by 2017. 104 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Working with Sourcing Communities in Fiji Highlights of activities undertaken Our Responsible Sourcing program commits us to in the last year: work with the communities from which we source raw materials, including establishing socio-economic Established foundations for the program: support programs for the sugarcane-growing • A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between communities supplying Bacardi Limited. We source WWF South Pacific Program Office (SPPO) and Labasa sugarcane products from three key countries: Fiji, Cane Producers Association (LCPA) has been signed, Guatemala and Mexico. Our first program working with and as per the MOU, joint activities in undertaking such sugarcane communities has been established in Fiji, a analysis will be pursued to ascertain farmer income and major sugarcane producer. expenditure data sets. This MOU establishes the working relationship between the two organizations to undertake mutually desirable activities for better management practices (BMP) in the Labasa Sugarcane Sector. It ensures all stakeholders are fully aware of their roles in the project. • The WWF SPPO Sustainable Sugar Program Coordinator has now been recruited. This means that progress in the project can be accelerated. • The program work plan has been revisited and finalized. Developed baseline findings: Goals of the Fiji Sustainable • Collation of baseline data has commenced in Sugar Program: consultation with the sugar industry stakeholders that would provide data sets for analysis. 1) Conservation of the Great Sea Reef based on improved water quality from • Initial report completed on “The Opportunities and soil run-off. Challenges of Labasa Sugarcane Farmers Relating to Certification Standards.” This report highlights the areas 2) Improved local livelihoods of farmers that need increased focus to facilitate improvements. and communities. 3) Bonsucro certification achieved for farm and mill areas in Labasa, a town in the northeastern part of the island of Vanua Levu. 105 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Identified model farms (pilots): Trained outreach trainers: • Two demonstration/model farms have been identified • “Train the trainer” sessions were conducted by a to illustrate activities of Better Management Practices sugarcane expert for 31 sugar industry extension officers. (BMPs). • Training was developed in collaboration with Fiji Sugar • These farms, located six and 10 miles, respectively, Corporation (FSC). The training covered practical aspects from Labasa, have been selected because they are of extension work, in particular an evaluation of the ideally located to provide the varying data required to technical robustness of extension packages, identification understand the different challenges faced by the farmers of grower needs, techniques for effective engagement and the different methods they use to overcome these and communication tools to align adoption objectives challenges. Owners of both farms fully support the with the practical needs of growers, as well as valuesproject and are willing to put their farms forward for this based needs. demonstration as a model for other farms. • These skills will be built into future extension programs and reviewed at quarterly review meetings. Targeted stakeholder outreach: • Consultation meetings were carried out in February Bacardi Limited is proud to continue to support this 2013 in Lautoka. The Conservation Director and Sugar project. During a recent visit to Labasa, the Program Program Coordinator met with key stakeholders (CEOs Coordinator planned arrangements for a visit that will mostly), such as Fiji Sugar Corporation, Sugar Cane be made by the Bacardi team. The aim of the team’s visit Growers Council, Sugar Industry Tribunal, Sugar Ministry, is to gain a better understanding of the progress being Sugar Research Institute of Fiji, South Pacific Fertilizers made and the needs of the stakeholders. This will enable and Coordination Office of the Fairtrade/ EU. us to see for ourselves the positive impact the project is • The stakeholders were briefed on WWF’s work activities making, as well as the work that still needs to be done. in the sugar sector and particularly in Labasa. The stakeholders appreciated the planned work activity and offered their full support, cooperation and assistance towards this worthwhile initiative. 106 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Clearly Committed People We believe that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. In this Section: Outstanding People Delivering Strategy Excellent Results Targets and Progress It is a fundamental principle of Bacardi Limited that our success is due Developing our People to great brands and outstanding people achieving excellent results. Our Engaging our People people are the best ambassadors for our brands by demonstrating their commitment to our Company values of Trust, Caring, Passion and Excellence. Our People strategy, launched in fiscal 2011, is built on the belief that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. To Bacardi Limited, outstanding people are talented and engaged employees who are valued for the unique contributions they bring to the Company. Our first-ever Global Employee Engagement Survey took place in January 2012. We found that our people are very proud to work for Bacardi and are very proud of our brands and our work in the Corporate Responsibility area. We have seen that pride reflected in the high levels of participation in our employee-driven action teams, created to suggest ways we can leverage our strengths and address areas that could be improved. JOHN MCCUSKER | Global Head of Talent Management 107 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE John McCusker Global Head of Talent Management Watch Video At Bacardi, we aspire to be recognized internally and externally as a Great Place to Work. To assist us in achieving this ambition, we launched our first-ever Global Employee Engagement Survey in 2012. It was clear from the results that our people are very proud to work for Bacardi and are very proud of our brands and our work in the Corporate Responsibility area. We also heard from employees that we should put more emphasis on development opportunities. We made a commitment to work on the following areas: ensuring that our people understand more clearly their options for career development; giving greater visibility to the tools available to help our people build their skills; and providing more feedback and coaching from line managers. We remain committed to We are pleased about the progress made in the last fiscal year to address being recognized as a Great these opportunities, and we are convinced that the work that we have Place to Work. started will enhance the engagement of the wider Bacardi organization and will help build an even stronger Company. 108 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Strategy We believe that outstanding people will deliver excellent results. To Bacardi Limited, outstanding people are talented and engaged employees who are valued for the unique contributions they bring to the Company. Our strategy is designed to bring out these characteristics in all of our employees Global People Strategy Our People strategy sets out a roadmap across five key areas, with the aim of supporting and driving our corporate vision: 1. Unleash the potential of our people. 4. Inspire and engage each person to live We will build an effective development culture and create our values to achieve sustained results. leadership programs that are acknowledged for their We want the Bacardi purpose and values to be an integral quality and effectiveness in developing Bacardi leaders. part of our employees’ lives, influencing individual and corporate behavior. We also aim to become the leader in 2. Build a high-performance team culture. Corporate Responsibility in our industry. We believe that our future success depends on how we work together. We will create a culture of high5. Be globally recognized as a great performing teams among our people. place to work. We will benchmark ourselves against other companies 3. Lead organizational capability and strive to be recognized in Great Place to Work™ or and effectiveness. similar rankings. We will create an effective organization to support our business and vision. We will deliver stability by creating We continue to review our progress in delivering this a talent pipeline for all key roles that mirrors the diverse strategy and to assess its ongoing relevance and linkage societies in which we operate. to our overall business strategy. 109 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Material Issues We completed an updated assessment of our most The materiality assessment reflects a wide range of issues material Corporate Responsibility issues in April 2012. We and the concerns of a wide range of stakeholders. We recently reviewed this information and determined that have gained direct feedback from our people on more it remains up-to-date. Being a “responsible employer” -detailed employee issues from our first-ever Global which covers employee rights, health and safety, diversity Employee Engagement Survey, which was conducted in and training and development -ranked as an issue of fiscal 2012. This survey is now part of our regular People medium-to-high materiality relative to other Corporate Management practices, and it will be conducted again in Responsibility issues. fiscal 2015 for further feedback and actions, also relating to materiality. This materiality ranking reflects our proactive and Read more on our materiality successful approach to managing employee issues process in the materiality section. within Bacardi Limited. It also shows that stakeholders consider other Corporate Responsibility issues that we are addressing to be more significant. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 110 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Corporate Responsibility and Our People Responsible Employer We maintain our belief that developing a leading position in Corporate Responsibility will garner the At Bacardi Limited, being a responsible respect of our people and those in the external job employer means: marketplace. There is a strong link between our goal to • Developing our People: Offering our people be recognized as a Great Place to Work® and our striving opportunities to develop to their fullest potential. to be a leader in Corporate Responsibility. • Connecting with our People: Listening to and communicating with our employees to better understand their needs and concerns, and responding to these to ensure we provide an excellent employee experience. • Supporting our People: Supporting our employees if they encounter personal or professional challenges. 111 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: We will unleash the potential of our people by creating Limited offers. We will inspire, engage and support our a working environment where every employee can take people and intend to become recognized internally and advantage of the development opportunities Bacardi externally as a Great Place to Work®. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Enhance the user experience GPS became accessible to 4,000 Further streamline and simplify for current users of the Global employees. the GPS. Performance Management System (GPS), making the system Development Planning was more intuitive. supported through Leadership • Focus on the link between Fundamentals training program for employee performance and line managers. Company performance. • Focus on functionality. • Focus on development planning. • Complete the global roll-out The TR process expanded to cover We plan to place more emphasis of Talent Reviews across the top over 1,000 leaders across the on TR in all functions, reaching three levels of the Company. organization. even deeper into the organization. • Expansion to deeper levels of the Company, with a specific focus on our sales function. Continue to establish our Coaching 2 Win programs for middle Complete roll-out of Coaching portfolio of leadership managers & senior leaders were 2 Win programs to all senior development initiatives across piloted and tested. leaders and to 1/3 of middle Bacardi Limited: management. Additional • Roll out Step Up and Talent Leadership Fundamentals program Leadership Fundamentals Exchange initiatives. was developed internally and two programs will be developed, and • Pilot a Coaching Certification programs (Performance Review the most critical need will be and Manager Training program. and Development Discussion) covered in our next wave. • Launch our Leadership were delivered across the globe. Fundamentals program for line Completed over 80 sessions globally, managers. covering more than 900 managers at different levels, in 10 languages. Action Teams established In fiscal 2013, more than 700 in fiscal 2013 will identify employees participated in Action key improvement areas and Teams to identify and address areas develop plans for delivering for improvement. This number improvements over the next 24 represents 12% of the employee months. population. 112 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 • 50% of business units and Awareness and Engagement sessions • 50% of business units and global global functions to establish were held in 30% of global functions functions to hold local Awareness a local three-point Women in and business units covering 1,975 and Engagement sessions. Leadership action plan. people. • Part 2 of the Winning@ Bacardi • Run a development course for • In Jan 2013, 24 talented women program was run in October 2013 high-potential women leaders. leaders attended the Winning @ on coaching skills and targeted • Launch recruitment guidelines Bacardi leadership development development areas. that provide guidance on program in Miami. The first global • 24 participants to have career recruiting high-potential women. leadership program to be held in sponsors. • Establish an internal women’s years, the program was attended • 11 additional women to highlight network in key locations. by our CEO, members of our Board, their leadership stories in local external speakers and members of Spotlight forums within our the Bacardi Leadership Team (BLT). business units. • Four Spotlight sessions were held • Business Networks to be in Geneva, London, Paris and U.S., launched in Hong Kong, Geneva, with women leaders sharing their London and Miami. leadership stories and advising • More women leaders to emerging women leaders on undertake stretch assignments managing their careers. CEO & BLT and participate in the talent Connection meetings were held in development tools of Talent Brazil, Russia and Miami. Exchange and Step Up. • We prepared to launch Business • Recruitment guidelines to be Networks. implemented in 100% of HR • We increased focus on women’s teams. development in the fiscal 2013 Talent • Pilot winning work environment Reviews. initiatives with six teams. • Recruitment best-practice diversity guidelines were communicated, setting our clear expectation that talented women will be included in all candidate shortlists. • We assessed how to create a balanced work environment for all employees, with two areas of focus: • Work-life fit • Returning to work after maternity and adoption leave Embed the new operating We have built a toolbox for change, The eight change modules will be model through workshops and supported by training tools and incorporated into the Leadership launch a “toolbox for change” online support that has been tested Fundamentals frame. that provides all Bacardi Limited with the IT community. In addition, people with advice and tips to we have developed a suite of change make our organization more agile modules (8) that has been tested and successful in adapting to with the HR group in Europe. internal and external factors. Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 113 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Developing our People We want people to see Bacardi Limited as a place where they can grow their careers and build great brands. We are establishing a development culture at all levels of the Company to meet this expectation. Diversity Sponsoring We believe that a workforce that reflects the global We have identified 40 female leaders who will be environment in which we operate will help us deliver sponsored by senior executives within or outside Bacardi. top performance in a rapidly changing marketplace The goal is to support the career path of our female talent and enable us to attain greater business success. We to build a stronger pipeline of leaders for the Bacardi established the Global Reflections program in fiscal 2011 business. to support this belief. Women in Leadership (WIL) Initially, the Global Reflections program has focused on Women in Leadership (WIL), with the aim to position Bacardi Limited as a magnet for talented, highperforming women and to unlock the potential of all women within the Company. Following a global survey of 700 Bacardi Limited managers (224 women and 476 men) and a competitor review, the WIL team focused in fiscal 2013 on raising awareness of the benefits of a more gender-diverse workforce, including: • Increasing the potential pipeline for talent. • Benefiting from different leadership styles within the Company. • Creating a workforce that better reflects our consumer profile. During fiscal 2013, we also piloted coaching programs for women and introduced policies on adoptions and equal opportunities. In addition, 24 female leaders participated Women in Leaderhip (WIL) in the first global leadership development program, Miami seminar which we piloted in Miami. 114 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE 10% Formal Training 70-20-10 Framework 20% Coaching and We have laid the foundation for Mentoring development through our 70-20-10 framework, which stresses experiences that can be gained on-the-job. 70% On-the-Job Experiences Looking Ahead Other targets for fiscal 2014 include: To establish the Women in Leadership program across • Developing plans for the roll-out of further modules in Bacardi Limited, we set a target for half of our business fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016. units and global functions to hold Awareness and Engagement sessions and have their own local three• Ensuring that gender balance is built into our Talent point (formal training, coaching and mentoring, and Review process and that talent development tools are on-the-job experiences) WIL action plan by the end equally available to male and female employees. of fiscal 2013. During fiscal 2013, we were able to only • Embedding guidelines for internal and external partially achieve this target, with 30% of our business recruitment that provide guidance on the recruitment of units and global functions participating. We aim to reach high-potential women. our original target of 50% of business units and global functions completing their three-point plans by the end • Establishing an internal women’s network in key of fiscal 2014. In addition, each member of the BLT will locations (Geneva, Hong Kong, Miami and London) and develop a specific action plan for his or her region or identifying suitable external networks and partnerships. function in order to establish and track progress against • Developing a work environment that offers options for the overarching Women in Leadership strategy. work-life flexibility for employees of both genders. • Continuing to raise awareness by spotlighting women leaders on our ONE Bacardi intranet. 115 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Performance Management 50% When we have the right talent in the right place, we need to provide the right management of an employee’s performance, objective-setting and career path, aligning We are targeting that 50% of business units the employee’s personal objectives with those of the and global functions hold local Awareness and Company. Our Global Performance Management System Engagement sessions by the end of fiscal 2014. (GPS) is the tool we use to deliver effective performance management to employees across Bacardi Limited. This award-winning system is innovative because it Development Opportunities aligns our business objectives with each employee’s In order to develop an effective workforce made up of personal objectives, thereby transforming the vision of outstanding people, we need a system that identifies and the Company into specific individual action plans for all develops talent across all functions and at all levels of the of our people. business. The process starts with the CEO and his leadership We have laid the foundation for development through team, as they translate the business strategy to our 70-20-10 framework, which stresses the benefit of Annual and Quarterly priorities, highlighting areas of experiences that can be gained on-the-job. Within the interdependency. This allows us to quickly align the framework, 70% of an employee’s development comes efforts and focus of our entire organization with the from on-the-job experiences; 20% from internal coaching critical activities that will drive overall Company success. and mentoring; and 10% from formal internal or external training The level of alignment that this provides between the Company vision and the individual objectives of our During fiscal 2013, members of our BLT designed a senior leaders is a first for Bacardi Limited. To support this framework for Leadership Excellence that will be used development, we have cascaded workshops to explain to shape their own development and that of all leaders the Vision-to-Action process. throughout the business. In fiscal 2013, we added to our portfolio of tools developed to support the growth of our internal talent by: · Launching Excelerator for Global Operations and · Creating our first in a series of Leadership Marketing functions Fundamentals programs · Expanding our Coaching 2 Win program within middle and · Launching a new online development tool in partnership senior management with Harvard Business Publishing · Hosting the first Winning@Bacardi leadership program · Launching our Talent Development page on the ONE Bacardi intranet 116 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Scribes capture participants’ thoughts at the Winning@Bacardi conference . Excelerator Coaching We firmly believe that the richest and most meaningful Leadership development follows our 70-20-10 framework development occurs “on the job,” in line with the and is closely linked to our Talent Review process and principles of the widely known 70-20-10 development succession planning. There is a genuine desire for model. To help employees become more personally development across Bacardi Limited, and we have accountable for their own development, we created a highlighted this area for improvement. To do so, we will tool to assist people in choosing which development continue to focus on providing current and future leaders experiences will help accelerate their learning the skills with a range of talent development programs. to drive excellence in both current and future roles. We call this product “Excelerator.” In fiscal 2013, we piloted During fiscal 2013, our coaching programs gained this tool with our global marketing workforce, and significant momentum. Our Coaching 2 Win program, we plan to roll out this tool across all Marketing and which is aimed at middle managers and senior leaders, Commercial functions in fiscal 2014. is designed to provide them with a common set of tools to facilitate powerful coaching conversations. Coaching 2 Win is proving highly successful across the business. 117 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE In fiscal 2013, we also launched pilot training for middle managers in the IT function and then rolled it out within IT, training more than 30 middle managers Other Talent in all. In addition, we piloted two programs with senior Development Programs leaders to support the enhancement of their coaching Following successful trial periods, several talent and engagement skills with their direct teams. development initiatives, including the two shown below, were rolled out across the Company in For fiscal 2014, we plan a global roll-out to embed fiscal 2013. a coaching culture within Bacardi. We will reach all senior leaders and about one-third of our middle Talent Exchange managers. Talent Exchange is a program that provides shortterm geographical, functional or portfolio moves “Winning@Bacardi” for employees to help fashion well-rounded In fiscal 2013, we rolled out our first global leadership individuals who can support the future growth of development program in over eight years. We used the Company. the Bacardi Leadership Excellence framework as the core content, and the program was facilitated by our Step Up CEO and members of the BLT. In addition, members of Step Up provides a structured opportunity for our Board of Directors, including Chairman Facundo employees to hone skills working one level up in a Bacardi, spoke to program participants. The first temporary short-term assignment outside of their session of this program was attended by 24 female comfort zone. leaders as part of our focus on accelerating their development. The program’s objectives were to enable participants how to have robust, meaningful conversations about to develop and align their leadership skills around performance and how to support effective planning essential behaviors important to the long-term for career development. Other program elements will success of our business. In addition, participants be introduced in fiscal 2014. were encouraged to connect with others from across the Bacardi network, sharing their experiences Throughout the program, managers are supported and supporting one another to further career by a series of 44 online tools and study packs created development within the organization. by Harvard Business School and available through our Harvard leadership portal. Moving forward, both male and female leaders will attend this leadership program in mixed classes. In fiscal 2013, we hosted over 80 Leadership Fundamentals sessions globally that were offered in Leadership Fundamentals 10 languages and reached more than 900 leaders. Our new Leadership Fundamentals program was To date, just over 400 leaders have taken advantage launched in fiscal 2013. In this program, managers of the online tools, making nearly 3,000 visits to pass through a series of modules to enhance their the site and investing over 900 hours in individual line management skills. The program focused on development. 118 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE One important resource for learning at Bacardi is the 53% of job openings at Talent Development page on ONE Bacardi, where employees can find resources and tools to support their management level and individual development. We have made the content above were filled by internal personal by providing “Lessons in Leadership” from influential Bacardi leaders on how to be successful in all talent in fiscal 2013. aspects of leadership. Global Talent Acquisition now and in the near future. Fiscal 2013 was a strong year for Talent Acquisition across Bacardi. We began to work closely with business units In the external job marketplace, we have burnished our on a global approach to recruitment, which has enabled employer brand image and have launched a Company us to meet increased demand for talent more quickly page on LinkedIn. Our presence on this professional and proactively. networking site has been extremely well received: during our first 12 months on the site, we have gained an We further professionalized our internal talentimpressive 34,000 active followers. acquisition capabilities during fiscal 2013 by piloting an Internal Search Firm concept in three markets – the Apart from the recruitment systems, we have made U.S., Russia and Switzerland. This pilot included the good progress in developing best-practice recruitment implementation of the recruitment module of our Global processes for both internal and external recruitment. Performance Management System (GPS), which enabled In fiscal 2013, we piloted our Recruitment Academy these three countries to both track and promote job workshop for HR and hiring managers. We also applications posted through the system. Feedback has introduced best-practice guidelines for Talent Acquisition been positive. and are finalizing the new Employer Branding framework that complements our Employer Value Proposition. Given our goal to both develop and promote from within, we aim to fill internally 70% of vacancies at the top three levels of the organization by fiscal 2016 on our way to deliver against our medium-term goal of 80%. Talent Review In fiscal 2013, we added new roles to our structure and, A core part of developing a strong talent pipeline is because many employees moved into new positions in effective succession planning, particularly for management fiscal 2011 and 2012, only 53% of the vacancies at the positions. This is crucial to providing stability, continuity top three levels of our organization were filled by internal and, ultimately, sustainable business success. talent in fiscal 2013. Fiscal 2013 was the third year of the global Talent Review We have worked to enhance our internal employer branding, improve our global job-posting process and strengthen our ability to proactively identify internal talent for career opportunities. To complement our internal talent pipeline, we also have increased our capabilities to identify strong outside talent for those opportunities where we need to hire externally, both 119 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Becoming Bacardi Our global onboarding program for new employees, Becoming Bacardi, also was enhanced during fiscal 2013. The multilingual e-learning component of the program has been positively received and is viewed as a valuable source of information for new employees, as well as for veteran employees who wish to refresh their knowledge of the Company. During fiscal 2013, we also expanded the experience-based component of the program to include a comprehensive engagement process for senior executives and built a new framework that allows for a more tailored approach for the levels below. For fiscal 2014, we will further strengthen the experience-based portion of Becoming Bacardi to provide more development options and a consistent approach across all our offices. We also will change the Becoming Bacardi “Welcome Kits” to a lighter, more eco-friendly design. (TR) process, and with each year we have improved the recently promoted into leadership roles, along with their process to gain greater insight into our talent pool. Our perspectives on building a career with Bacardi Limited. TR process currently covers more than 1,000 leaders throughout the organization in over 50 local, regional Based on the findings of the completed Talent Reviews, and global employee development discussions. we will pay close attention to developing the talent we need for effective succession planning in fiscal 2014. The TR process maps the current performance and future This will include a formal assessment of progress each potential of our people against our projected business quarter using a newly developed Global Talent Scorecard. needs. For individual employees, a Personal Development We will evaluate all of our functions to gain a better Plan (PDP) containing key actions is developed during understanding of the breadth and depth of our talent the TR process and is kept within our Global Performance throughout the organization. Management System (GPS). Each PDP outlines areas for continued personal growth that also will support the growth of Bacardi Limited. This process enables us to actively plan for succession within critical roles and ensures that we have a rich talent pipeline across the Company. Coverage To support and communicate the talent assessments and action planning that follow the Talent Reviews, we will kick off a campaign in fiscal 2014 to raise awareness of internal moves through a “Movers & Shakers” segment that will be highlighted on ONE Bacardi, our intranet. This segment will feature employees who have been 120 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Connecting with Our People Global Employee Engagement Survey Since the results of the Global Employee Engagement Actions like these have taken place all over the world, and Survey were announced in fiscal 2013, more than we are thrilled to see so many employees involved. 700 employees, representing 12% of our worldwide workforce, joined Action Teams to address workplace Finally, the CEO and his leadership team have continued challenges and gaps identified in the survey. to sponsor Action Teams and have made this topic of Action Teams are groups of employees who work discussion an important part of country visits. collaboratively to create robust plans for meaningful action that will improve their local areas. In fiscal 2014, we will start the preparation of our second Global Employee Engagement Survey, which we will Several representative examples include: run in fiscal 2015. Our goal is to hear from all employees worldwide to gain insights on where we have achieved a · The team in India wanted to improve the focus on positive impact and where we can still improve. We will development and created an “Individual Development continue to strive for best-in-class engagement scores Day” that employees could tap into for personal and and hope to see that we have made a difference. professional development. This model was later shared with the team in Bacardi Global Brands (BGB), which created its own “Development Day.” · In a move to open the lines of communication in Our overall employee engagement score Japan, we have launched “Sho’s Bar,” where twice a was 3.76 out of 5. Best-in-class engagement month after work Japan’s Managing Director serves starts at 4.0. employees drinks and encourages conversation in a relaxed environment that reinforces the art of In fiscal 2013, we launched more than 70 mixology, while enabling unfettered discussion and employee-led Action Teams to help identify employee feedback. key improvement areas relating to our · In Russia, the team challenged employees to get employee engagement activities and to involved by introducing “Innovation Teams” to create develop plans for delivering improvements new ideas and new ways of doing things. over the next 24 months. · The team in Mexico developed an innovative approach to increased brand awareness through mixology. Every month, the team hosts dynamic onehour workshops at Casa Bacardi to generate new levels of excitement about Bacardi products. 121 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Supporting Our People Global employee assistance program In fiscal 2013, the Bacardi Assist program remained an We raised awareness of the program through quarterly important resource for employees around the world. communications to employees that provided additional Through ongoing communications, employees have details on the types of services offered. To improve learned more about the value that this service provides access, we supplied local answers for questions arising to support life’s ordinary and extraordinary events. from any country with more than 70 Bacardi Limited employees, and we provided a call center to support all The Bacardi Assist program is only two years old, and other locations. we have seen a gradual increase in employee usage over this period. In fiscal 2013, more than 400 people Our intention in fiscal 2014 is to maintain fresh, relevant used the service for information or support. With 41% communication around the program in order to increase of cases utilizing services related to work-life concerns awareness of the value of its services. We also will monitor (legal issues and daily living/convenience) and 59% of employee perceptions of the program and enhance it cases involving counseling, the program continued to where appropriate. add everyday value. 122 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Clear Support Employee volunteers supporting community programs in Miami In this Section: Benefiting Communities, Strategy Engaging Employees Targets and Progress We operate in many locations around the world and always aim to make a Global Activity positive contribution to our local communities. Our employees are members Local Activities of these communities and, by participating in community activities on behalf of the Company, employees feel a strong sense of pride in Bacardi and in themselves. Bacardi has a more than 150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and are still important to us today. Continuing the caring legacy of our founder, Don Facundo Bacardi Masso, this year we continued to look for ways to strengthen our support of the communities in which we live and work, particularly in the areas of arts and culture, education, environment and supporting the needy. RICK WILSON | Senior Vice President, External Affairs and Corporate Responsibility Americas 123 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Rick Wilson Senior Vice President, External Affairs and Corporate Responsibility Americas Watch Video Bacardi operates in many locations around the world, and we want to play an active role in contributing to the local communities that support our businesses. Our commitment to Corporate Responsibility and This year, we successfully expanded Corporate philanthropy began with our founder, Don Facundo Responsibility (CR) Week into CR Month, which resulted Bacardí Massó. In 1852, Santiago de Cuba, the birthplace in more than 7,600 hours of volunteer time from the of BACARDÍ Rum, was struck by a devastating earthquake. worldwide Bacardi workforce. We plan to continue Don Facundo immediately closed his shop to lead relief running CR Month as our annual global community event efforts in the city. This compassionate act initiated our across the Company. legacy of giving back to local communities, a full decade before the founding of the Company in 1862. In fiscal 2013, Bacardi companies and brands donated a total of US$6.06 million to local communities around the We are very proud of this legacy, which continues today in world. This included a significant in-kind donation, valued the community investment and philanthropy that remain at US$2.7 million, of the iconic Bacardi Tower and Museum an important part of our Company and our Corporate building complex in Miami, Florida. This landmark was sold Responsibility program. to a non-profit organization at a sizable reduction in the market value of the property. We involve our employees as much as we can in community activities and, through their involvement, Together, we look forward to sustaining Don Facundo’s they raise public awareness of the caring nature of our legacy of supporting local community initiatives well into Company. Employees’ participation in their communities the future. also makes our people feel good about working for Bacardi. We support local community initiatives across a range of activities in four broad areas: arts and culture; education; environment; and health and social services. 124 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Strategy Bacardi has a more than 150-year history of quality, excellence, ethics and social involvement. These values were important to our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó, and are still important to us in 2013. Global Focus, Local Delivery There is a strong link among our efforts to engage Bacardi Limited has a decentralized approach to our people in community activities, to focus on Philanthropy and Community Involvement (PCI) with Corporate Responsibility and to be recognized as our local operations deciding how best to support their a Great Place to Work. local communities. We direct support into four broad areas: arts and culture; In line with this approach, our PCI strategy is directional, education; environment; and health and social services. rather than prescriptive. This enables our operations to We also assist with disaster relief efforts when significant carry out community activities that are relevant locally natural disasters strike, often in locations linked to our and can assist in meeting community needs. operations. Please visit the section on local activity for more details of our support in these areas. The overall aim of our PCI program is to engage our people in Corporate Responsibility. Our annual flagship In early fiscal 2014, we reviewed our approach to PCI and event, CR Month, is intended to engage our global are developing a strategy based around three themes: workforce and give our employees the opportunity to producer communities, adult education and art & be involved in community activities. architecture. We will report on our revised strategy in our 2015 Corporate Responsibility report. 125 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Material Issues In our biannual materiality assessment (last completed in 2012), This underlined that our approach to community involvement, “local communities” was ranked of moderate interest relative with an annual Company-wide community event (“CR Month”) to other Corporate Responsibility issues based on the level and local operations supporting local causes, worked well for of stakeholder interest in the issue and the potential impact our stakeholders and for Bacardi Limited. on the Company. Please see the materiality section for more detail. We have reviewed the materiality ranking for “local communities” this year and have concluded that this ranking is Read more on our materiality still appropriate. process in the materiality section. Marketplace Increasing Responsible Marketing Importance to Environment, Health Stakeholders and Safety Responsible Drinking Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Agriculture Product Responsibility People and Sourcing Direct Environmental Impacts Philanthropy Sustainable Packaging and Community Involvement Local Communities Responsible Supply Chain Governance Good Governance Responsible Employer Increasing Impact on Business 126 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Measuring our Impact We joined LBG (formerly London Benchmarking Group) in fiscal 2011 and continued to align our community reporting with the LBG model in fiscal 2013. The LBG model provides a standardized way of managing and measuring a company’s community involvement. Reporting community activity against the LBG model enables us to measure our overall contribution – not just cash donations, but also time volunteered, in-kind donations and management costs. During the year, we continued reporting community activities and donations into our community database using the updated and improved instructions and definitions issued last year to our community ambassadors. For fiscal 2014, we will focus on encouraging full reporting of community activities and on improving the quality of data collected using the LBG model. The total value of support given by Bacardi companies and brands in fiscal 2013 was US$6.06 million. This figure reflects our total recorded community investment, including not only financial support, but also time volunteered, in-kind donations and management costs. The US$6.06 million total includes an in-kind donation, valued at US$2.7 million, of the iconic Bacardi Tower and Museum building complex in Miami, Florida. This landmark was sold to a non-profit organization at a sizable reduction in the market value of the property. For more detail, please see case study. Comparing fiscal 2013 to 2012 on a like-for-like basis (excluding the US$2.7 million building donation), the total value of our support increased by 5% to US$3.36 million from the US$3.20 million* donated in fiscal 2012. US$ 6.06M For more information on the LBG model, see: www.lbg-online.net Reported giving of Bacardi companies and brands in fiscal 2013 *Fiscal 2012 total donated restated from US $3.23 million measured using the LBG model. 127 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT How We Contribute: How We Contribute: Cash Contributions Value of Employee Time Charitable Gifts Community Investment Management Costs In-Kind Contributions Commercial Initiatives 33% 34% 45% 58% 3% 21% 6% 2013 excluding the building donation. 2013 excluding the building donation. Where We Contribute: U.K Rest of Europe Asia-Pacific Latin America North America 17% 16% 66.7% 0.2% 0.1% 2013 excluding the building donation. 128 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Targets and Progress Long-Term Ambition: We aim to involve our of our approach to Corporate Responsibility through employees in our Philanthropy and Community these initiatives. Involvement (PCI) activities and raise their awareness TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Continue to monitor the PCI approach monitored throughout Implement and deliver a PCI and effectiveness of our philanthropy fiscal 2013, with review conducted community investment strategy and community approach in early fiscal 2014. Employee for fiscal 2014 and beyond based and develop our employees’ understanding of and involvement in around three themes: producer understanding of and community activities demonstrated communities, adult education and involvement in community in increased participation in CR art & architecture. activities. Month. Continue to roll out the LBG The LBG model was used across the Focus on encouraging more model within the business and Company to record our community complete reporting of community deliver benchmarking feedback investment support for fiscal 2013. activities and improving the in line with LBG. While the total number of PCI quality of PCI data collected using activities increased, we are aware the LBG model. that activities are under-reported. Successfully deliver the expanded CR Month held in May 2012, with 100% of Bacardi business units to CR Month at the beginning offices and plants participating in participate in CR Month during of fiscal 2013 and continue 28 countries, contributing more May 2013. planning and refinement to than 7,600 hours of time. CR Month run a global community event has become our annual global Evaluate CR Month 2013 and annually. community event, with CR Month develop approach for 2014. 2013 held in May 2013 (results will be published in the 2014 CR Report). Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 129 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Global CR Month We aim to involve our employees in our Philanthropy and Community Involvement (PCI) activities and to raise their awareness of our approach to Corporate Responsibility through these initiatives. First CR Month a Success purpose of Spirit for Life. Activities were organized around Our flagship global PCI initiative is Corporate four of our five pillars of CR: marketplace; environment, Responsibility (CR) Month. CR Month is designed to health and safety; people; and philanthropy and engage our people in community activities and to work community involvement. in a globally coordinated way to give back to our local communities. Like CR Week, 2012’s CR Month was another great success, with nearly 100 separate events taking place Launched in fiscal 2011 as CR Week, the event was a in offices and facilities in 28 countries, resulting in great success, strengthening the concept of volunteering employees volunteering more than 7,600 hours. Activities across the Company. To encourage even greater included home building and meal distribution for needy participation, we expanded the event from one week to families; fundraisers for educational, arts and cultural an entire month and held CR Month in May 2012 (at the programs; clothing and blood drives; young adult beginning of fiscal 2013). mentorship programs; park and community center cleanups; recycling programs; and bat conservation efforts, The expanded CR Month continued to be based on the among others. A sample of the projects held during theme of “Spirit for Life, Caring Together,” which links 2012’s CR Month is included in Community Activities. clearly to our Company value of Caring and our Company It is extremely generous of a company such as Bacardi to become so involved in the work we do here in Hampshire to help the homeless and to take so much of its time out from work to assist us. The impact Bacardi has had on providing basic needs of shelter, food and hygiene to the homeless is truly tremendous. We would not be able to achieve anything on this scale without such help. MICHÈLE PRICE | Manager | Winchester Nightshelter 130 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Local Activities It is in our long-term interest to foster healthy and vibrant communities. Our employees and business partners come from local communities, and respecting and supporting our communities is an important part of our being a trusted partner in the local communities where we operate. 131 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Community Activities Following are some examples of activities across our four key areas of Philanthropy and Community Involvement: Arts and Culture: United States – Bacardi Entrusts activities such as master classes and forums with Landmark Buildings in Miami to renowned arts leaders; multi-disciplinary performances; National YoungArts Foundation and exhibitions with emerging and established In October 2012, Bacardi USA announced it had artists. Given the significant role the campus will play conveyed to the National YoungArts Foundation in its expanded activities, YoungArts will add a new (YoungArts), a non-profit organization, the iconic discipline — architecture and design — to its nine landmark Bacardi Tower and Museum building complex current disciplines of cinematic arts, dance, jazz, music, in Miami, Florida. By selling the property to YoungArts at photography, theater, visual arts, voice and writing. half its market value, Bacardi made a major philanthropic contribution and also ensured that an important part “These buildings served Bacardi well for more than of Miami’s architectural, social and cultural fabric will be 40 years, and we’re extremely pleased to have found preserved and honored. a committed, locally based steward who loves these iconic buildings, understands their importance and will The Biscayne Boulevard complex, including the iconic continue to share them with the community,” stated blue-and-white-tiled and stained-glass buildings, was Facundo L. Bacardi, a fifth-generation family member granted an historic designation by the City of Miami and Chairman of the Board of Bacardi Limited, parent Preservation Board in October 2009. Bacardi has always company of Bacardi USA. “If we ever had to let go of maintained a core philosophy that design, art and these buildings, all of us at Bacardi knew we wanted to architecture reflect both a quality of life and the quality ensure they would continue to be shared with the South of the superior spirits brands produced and marketed by Florida community. The heritage and significance of these the Company. buildings will be with Bacardi forever.” YoungArts, founded in 1981 to identify and assist “The development of this headquarters will benefit outstanding emerging young artists ages 15 and up, young artists across the country and is driven by the will convert the buildings into the organization’s first dramatic expansion of our programs,” stated Paul T. Lehr, national headquarters, creating a permanent home that Executive Director of YoungArts. “Moreover, by acquiring will enable YoungArts to carry forward an expansion of the Bacardi campus, we are able to honor and preserve activities unprecedented in its history. an important part of Miami’s cultural history and plan to make it a thriving arts and cultural center for our The new YoungArts campus will support existing community. We thank the Bacardi organization for its extraordinary act of civic-minded generosity.” 132 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Bermuda Supporting the Bermuda United States – supporting El Museo del Barrio to National Gallery Biennial Exhibition of Preserve Art & Culture of Puerto Ricans Contemporary Art The mission of El Museo del Barrio, New York’s leading Located in the City Hall Arts Centre in Hamilton, the Latino cultural institution, is to present and preserve the Bermuda National Gallery (BNG) is the Island’s leading art and culture of Puerto Ricans and all Latin Americans in art museum, with a diverse collection and exhibition the United States. program of past and present works by local and international artists. Bacardi is a long-time sponsor of El Museo del Barrio and has loaned three paintings from its collection to Since 1992, the BNG has brought the world of art to the museum for a new exhibit opening in June 2012 Bermuda and Bermuda’s art to the world. Bacardi has entitled, “Caribbean: Crossroads of the World.” Bacardi USA supported the BNG since 1998, furthering its tradition of provided a cash donation of US$25,000 for El Museo’s excellence, just as Bacardi similarly upholds the tradition 19th-anniversary fundraising gala banquet. of excellence in its crafting of quality premium brands. Through its extensive collections, varied exhibitions and Each year, the BNG shows three temporary exhibitions, as publications, bilingual public programs, educational well as smaller installations and special events. Every two activities, festivals and special events, El Museo educates years, The Bacardi Limited Biennial Exhibition features its diverse public in the richness of Caribbean and Latin contemporary Bermuda art in an international juried American arts and cultural history. show. The 10th Biennial was held in 2012. By introducing young people to this cultural heritage, El One of the most prestigious events in the Bermuda arts Museo is creating the next generation of museum goers, calendar, the Biennial Exhibition is a world-class forum while satisfying the growing interest displayed by a broad that showcases the passion, diversity and excellence of national and international audience in Caribbean and local artists. Latin American art. 133 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Education: United Kingdom – Interview Training Thailand – Children’s Foundation For a second year, Bacardi Global Brands in London During CR Month in May 2012, Bacardi Thailand worked supported a local charity, SPEAR, which aims to spark with “Ban Nokkamin” children’s foundation, which a transformation in the lives of unemployed younger supports orphans, street/ homeless children and less people. Bacardi participated in a six-week program privileged children. Bacardi provided a US$1,200 donation tailored to each student to ensure that he or she finds a to the foundation, and Bacardi employees and their new sense of vision and direction in life. families volunteered their time to work with the children, providing a “second family” for them. As part of the program, students were offered interview training with Bacardi staff, providing a valuable Bacardi Thailand staff also have a long-term relationship experience for the students, many of whom had never with the foundation by providing funding for particular before interviewed. Additionally, the program gave the children. Donation boxes were installed in the office to students insights into the working world, so they could raise money for the foundation, with each box supplying become aware of the benefits, realities and challenges funds for individual children. of work. They can then be better prepared and have realistic expectations when they start working. Bacardi staff -including the HR Director, Business Development Manager and Marketing Manager -“Thank you SO much. The students loved their time with you provided 240 volunteer hours of activity with the children and were raving about everything they had learnt as we left. at the foundation. In particular they enjoyed the challenge you set them, as well as finding out all of your career backgrounds.” — SPEAR Leader “It was great to see how each of the people who worked there brought their individual skills to the company, and I liked that everyone had taken a different path to where they were now – that means I could be something one day too.” — Student Participant 134 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Bermuda – Assistance for France – Les Enfants du Desert Higher Education Degrees In fiscal 2013, Bacardi facilities in France took part in a The Association of Bermuda International Companies series of events to support the charity Les Enfants Du (ABIC) Education Awards scholarship program (ABICEA) Desert (Children of the Desert), including the donation of provides financial assistance to Bermudian students good-quality, second-hand school equipment by Bacardi pursuing higher education degrees (full undergraduate employees. The charity distributes school supplies, or post graduate), primarily in areas related to clothing and educational objects as part of a broader International Business. initiative aimed at improving the lives of children in southern Morocco by supporting access to education. Top students are selected based on financial need, academic ability and course of study. Each year, between Puerto Rico – Universidad Sagrado Corazón 15 and 25 students receive awards valued at US$15,000 Universidad del Sagrado Corazón [USC], the oldest private for two years for the undergraduate award and educational institution in Puerto Rico, was established in US$20,000 for one year for the post-graduate awards. The 1880 by the religious order of the Society of the Sacred awards are presented at a summer luncheon attended Heart as an all-girls’ school. It is now a coeducational, by the winning students and their parents, sponsor comprehensive, selective, liberal arts university that companies and Government Ministers. serves a predominantly low-income student body with many first-generation college students. Since the program’s inception, more than 500 students have been awarded scholarships. Students have Outside support for the university is critical to attended accredited colleges and universities in Canada, supplement its very low tuition charges, which are less United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, Continental than those of most public institutions on the mainland. Europe and Australia. Most recipients return to Bermuda, Bacardi supports the annual Students Scholarship Fund holding top-level positions in the International Business for talented, low-income students with a donation of industry, strengthening Bermuda’s economy and giving US$26,500. back to the community. The ABICEA has been in existence for 36 years and is the most comprehensive college scholarship program for Bermudian students. More than US$5 million has been donated to the ABICEA scholarship program by international businesses in Bermuda. Approximately 50 companies typically contribute to the program annually, and the number of awards granted each year is determined by the size of the corporate donations. Through the ongoing and generous support of its members, ABIC will continue to help secure Bermuda’s future by investing in education. Bacardi has been a supporter of the ABICEA scholarship fund since its inception in 1977, donating $20,000 per year in the last five years. 135 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Russia – Supporting a School for Biking around the local community offered a great Disadvantaged Children opportunity for those looking to get a little exercise while In fiscal 2013, Bacardi Russia chose to dedicate its CR reducing their carbon footprint. Month activities to supporting a special boarding school for disadvantaged children from vulnerable families. Like Bermuda – Volunteering on a many other government-funded facilities in Russia, this National Nature Reserve school suffers from shortages in state financing, which One activity undertaken by the staff at Bacardi is sufficient only to satisfy basic needs such as food, headquarters during CR Month in May 2012 was clothing and medical treatment. volunteering on the Trunk Island national nature reserve, located on the largest island in Harrington Sound, The Bacardi Russia project was devoted to renewing the Bermuda. Bacardi volunteers contributed nearly 85 hours school’s library. Its furniture was worn out, and its bare of work. supply of books consisted mostly of old, poor-quality volumes. The goal was to buy new library equipment Trunk Island’s owner, the late Frances Gardner, (furniture and hardware), as well as to renew the book bequeathed two-thirds of it to the Atlantic Conservation collection. Partnership charity, which then transferred a parcel to the Bermuda Zoological Society. The Bacardi team Furniture and equipment purchase was financed by participated in a habitat restoration project that involved the Company, while Bacardi employees collected a removing invasive plants so indigenous vegetation substantial quantity of all kinds of books, from fairytales could grow, cutting a path to the island’s northeastern for the young readers to fiction and non-fiction literature section and trimming trees on the shoreline. Invasive for high-school students. Casuarina trees, Mexican peppers and Chinese fan palms were removed and replaced by native species, such as the Bermuda cedar and palmetto. Work with the nature reserve will be ongoing. Environment: United States – Bike to Work With gas prices squeezing consumers’ wallets and the nation’s obesity rates at unhealthy levels, biking has been gaining momentum as an alternative mode of transportation. Bacardi launched an innovative twist on the bike-towork concept. To support U.S. National Ride Your Bike to Work Day on May 18, 2012, Bacardi introduced a bikeshare program at the Bacardi Americas headquarters in Coral Gables, Florida. Spearheaded by the 42BELOW vodka team, the program provided employees access to bicycles to get around the local community. Each bike was supplied with a helmet, lock and a basket for running quick errands. 136 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Health & Social Services: India – Eye Care Awareness and Blood Donation Australia – Working with the Salvation Army Eye Care Awareness Throughout CR Month in May 2012, the Australian team A free vision screening and eye care awareness camp at Bacardi Lion supported The Salvation Army in many was held during the May 2012 CR Month for the villagers of its state-based activities, engaging 105 employees in of Golur, near the Bacardi India site in Nanjangud. the effort. Bacardi Lion donated more than 600 hours Sponsored by Bacardi, the medical care was provided by (equivalent to 15 work weeks) to helping The Salvation M/s Vasan Eye Care, Mysore (a division of the largest eye Army complete projects designed to support and care provider in the world). encourage communities in every state. Villagers were briefed about the importance of vision New South Wales and Victoria worked with their local care and screening, and each was then offered free sorting stations to organize hundreds of donated vision screening. The camp was highly successful, with products. New South Wales also had a team visit the over 80 people checked and, where needed, advised Campbelltown Women’s Refuge to assist with painting about further treatment for conditions ranging from and decorating rooms, clearing gutters, gardening and nearsightedness to cataracts. other projects. As a follow-up, Bacardi arranged for the villagers to The Salvation Army Conference Centre New Heights, in receive needed eyeglasses and medicines, as well as West Australia (WA), needed a new floor and general obtain any further recommended treatment at the M/s maintenance, work with which the WA team helped. The Vasan Eye Care Mysore City hospital. Centre provides affordable accommodation for large groups, such as camps, and for individuals who need a Blood Donation place to stay. The WA team stripped, buffed and sealed Every day, thousands of people in India require blood for the dining room floor, among other much needed transfusion, surgery or some medical procedure. There renovations. is a huge gap, however, between the demand for blood and its supply. Bacardi India organized a Blood Donation In South Australia, the Bacardi Lion team turned its Camp across India during CR Month in association with attention to the general restoration of Bramwell House, the Indian Red Cross and other charitable groups. The which houses victims of domestic violence and their response was overwhelming: 208 people donated blood, dependents. Bacardi Lion’s Queensland sales force including 83 Bacardi employees and 125 donors who collected more than US$1,000 in two hours to support volunteered from other companies. The Salvation Army’s Red Shield Appeal. 137 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Iberia – CR Month Activities in Spain, Brazil Portugal and Andorra In fiscal 2013, Bacardi undertook a campaign to collect For the second consecutive year, Bacardi ran Corporate winter clothes for donation to disadvantaged people. Responsibility Month Iberia, entitled “Spirit for Life, Caring The campaign lasted for the entire month of May, just Together 2012.” ahead of the beginning of the Brazilian winter in June. All of the local management team, along with 115 other Throughout May, a number of coordinated activities employees, participated in the campaign, and a total of took place across three countries -Spain, Portugal 171 items of winter clothing were donated. and Andorra -focusing on people in need within local communities. More than 170 employees across the three The Company partnered with a non-profit organization, countries were involved in activities that included: “Assistencia Social Irma Maria Dolores” (asimd.org.br), which runs a day care nursery for 120 children living • Spain – Food, clothing and blood were donated, and in local, socially vulnerable communities and provides cash collected, for Comedor Social in Mollet del Vallés, a training courses to help low-income communities gain social services charity. The cash donation financed 1,022 skills to find employment. meals in the organization’s dining room, guaranteeing that it could feed its clients for three months. Additionally, Bacardi Brazil developed a partnership • Portugal – Financial donations were made to a local with a group of women supported by “Consulado da cancer charity, Liga Portuguesa Contra o Cancro, and to Mulher” (consuladodamulher.org.br), an institute that Grupo Lobo, a local conservation charity. assists low-income women who are attempting their first entrepreneurial undertaking. In this case, the women sold • Andorra –Some 270 pounds of food was collected and healthy food each day from a food cart at the Bacardi more than US$900 raised for Càritas Andorrana, which office in Sao Bernardo do Campo, generating income to used the donations for its “Primary Attention” program, fund a better life for themselves and their families. designed to help Andorran families with financial difficulties. In total, nearly 500 pounds of food was donated, more than 1,000 meals were supplied and over US$5,500 was given to the local charities involved. 138 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED About Bacardi Limited Bacardi Limited is the largest privately held spirits producer in the world. We produce, market and distribute a variety of internationally recognized spirits through a network of regional and country-level companies. Our Brand Portfolio includes more than 200 brands and labels, with a focus on six core Key Statistics: global brands that are supported by a strong portfolio of local brands. Our global brands are: BACARDÍ Rum, BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin, DEWAR’s Scotch Whisky, ERISTOFF Vodka, GREY GOOSE Vodka and 6,198 MARTINI Vermouth and Italian sparkling wines. In fiscal 2013, we had 6,198 employees across the world. OUR CORE GLOBAL BRANDS: US $4,470M BACARDÍ GREY GOOSE Our fiscal 2013 net sales less excise Rum Vodka taxes were US$4,470,000,000. World’s number one World leader in super selling rum. premium vodka. US $1,947M Visit Website Visit Website Our total net debt was US$1,947,000,000. MARTINI DEWAR’S US $5,623M Vermouth Scotch Whisky Our total equity was World’s number one World’s most awarded US$5,623,000,000 (includes vermouth. blended Scotch whisky. US$93M non-controlling interests). Visit Website Visit Website US $9,539M Our total assets were US$9,539,000,000. BOMBAY SAPPHIRE ERISTOFF Gin Vodka World’s top valued and One of the fastest62M fastest growing growing vodka brands We sold 62 million nine-liter cases premium gin. in the world. of our Group brands in fiscal 2013. Visit Website Visit Website 139 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED Our Operations Headquarters: Bacardi Limited is headquartered Distribution: We also operate a global distribution in Bermuda and incorporated under Bermudian network for our brands and selected third-party law. Our products are sold in more than 150 agency brands. Our customers are independent markets worldwide by Bacardi companies and distributors, wholesalers and retail outlets worldwide, third-party distributors. including major grocers, convenience stores, hotels, restaurants and duty-free shops and stores. Production: We currently operate 28 production Consumers therefore have access to our brands from facilities including bottling, distilling and a variety of distribution channels. manufacturing facilities located strategically in 15 countries, including the United States, Scotland, Italy, France, Spain, Germany and Mexico. See map below for more information. Our Production Sites 140 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED The Americas Canada We have one facility in Canada located in Brampton, at which we bottle BACARDÍ Rum and blend BACARDÍ BREEZER. United States We have one facility in the United States located in Jacksonville, at which we bottle BACARDÍ Rum. Mexico We have three facilities in Mexico located in La Galarza, Tultitlán and Arandas. We distill BACARDÍ Rum at La Galarza and bottle it at Tultitlán. We produce CAZADORES Tequila at Arandas. Puerto Rico We have one facility in Puerto Rico located in Cataño, at which we distill BACARDÍ and CASTILLO Rum. Chile We have one facility in Chile located in Santiago, at which we bottle MARTINI Vermouth and ERISTOFF Vodka. Uruguay We have one facility in Uruguay located in Montevideo, at which site we bottle MARTINI Vermouth and ERISTOFF Vodka. Brazil We have one facility in Brazil located in São Bernardo, at which site we bottle BACARDÍ Rum and MARTINI Vermouth. 141 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED Europe France We have six facilities in France located in Marseillan, Cognac, Fécamp, Bordeaux, Gensac and Beaucaire. At Marseillan we produce NOILLY PRAT Vermouth; at Cognac we produce BARON OTARD Cognac and GASTON DE LAGRANGE Cognac; at Fécamp we produce BENEDICTINE Liqueur; at Bordeaux we produce ST-GERMAIN; at Gensac we bottle GREY GOOSE Vodka; and at Beaucaire we bottle ERISTOFF Vodka. Germany We have one facility in Germany located in Buxtehude, at which we bottle BACARDÍ Rum and produce BACARDÍ BREEZER. Asia Italy China We have one facility in Italy located in Pessione, at We have one facility in China located in Shanghai, which we produce MARTINI Vermouth and MARTINI at which we bottle BACARDÍ Rum and produce sparkling wines. BACARDÍ BREEZER. Portugal India We have one facility in Portugal located in Lisbon, at We have one facility in India located in Nanganjud, which we bottle MARTINI Vermouth. at which we produce and bottle BACARDÍ Rum. Spain We have one facility in Spain located in Mollet, at which we produce MARTINI Vermouth and bottle BACARDÍ Rum. Switzerland We have one facility in Switzerland located in Meyrin, at which we produce botanical blends and aromatic extracts for a range of brands. United Kingdom We have six facilities in Scotland. At our sites in Aberfeldy, Aultmore, Craigellachie, Royal Brackla and MacDuff we distill malt whisky. At our site in Glasgow we blend and bottle Scotch whisky. 142 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED Our Corporate Structure Regions Global Functions The corporate structure of Bacardi Limited includes Our global functions are Global Operations, Finance, five geographical regions – North America, Europe, Marketing and Sales. These global functions are Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific – supported by General Management functions, including and the global functions that support the Company. IT, Legal and External Affairs, Communications and Corporate Affairs, Procurement, Business Development The operating structure comprises a number of and Human Resources. Each region consists of a small holding companies, trading subsidiaries and operating regional management hub and local markets where units, the ultimate owner of which is Bacardi Limited. Bacardi has its distribution companies or sales offices. In total, Bacardi has over 100 companies and sales offices that are wholly owned. Our Corporate Structure Bacardi Global Leadership Team North Latin Asia Europe Middle East America America Pacific and Africa Covering three Covering five Covering five Covering seven Covering one business units. business units. business units. business units. business unit. Global Functions Global Operations, Finance, Marketing and Sales supported by IT, Legal, Communications and Corporate Affairs, Procurement, Business Development and Human Resources. 143 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT BACARDI LIMITED Distribution Operations Governance Operating arrangements differ from market to market, This organizational structure is overseen by the Bacardi but include wholly owned, joint venture or third-party Board of Directors, which has three principal committees distribution. covering Audit, Compensation and Nominations (including oversight of the Company’s corporate In smaller markets, area managers work with governance). Further details are given in our GRI index. nominated distributors and wholesalers in order to meet local demands for our brands. In many markets, formal agency arrangements exist with other brand owners to handle product distribution. A separate business unit distributes our brands through the Global Travel Retail network, i.e., airports, cruise ships and diplomatic channels. 144 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT About this Report This is the sixth annual Corporate Responsibility report produced by Bacardi Limited, the largest privately held spirits company in the world. It focuses on our work to manage the social and environmental impacts of our business. This report covers the fiscal year ending March 31, Global Reporting Initiative 2013 (fiscal 2013) and builds upon our first five annual In this report, for the second time, we have followed Corporate Responsibility reports. Our previous Corporate the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 framework for Responsibility report was published in March 2013. This sustainability reporting. We self declare this report to report is not independently verified. Application Level B. This is the second time that the Bacardi Limited Corporate Responsibility report has been produced as an online report and as an integral part of our corporate website. www.BacardiLimited.com 145 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT Report Coverage There were no significant changes to the size, structure or ownership of the Company in fiscal 2013. There were no significant acquisitions or divestments during the year. Data presented in the People and Philanthropy and The WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol was used to Community Involvement sections, as well as safety compile our GHG emissions data. data from the Environment, Health and Safety section, cover our offices and our directly owned and managed Any reference to “Bacardi” as a Company in this report production facilities. refers to Bacardi Limited, one of its subsidiaries or a group of Bacardi companies. Data on indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions cover our directly owned and managed production facilities Request for Feedback and large offices with 25 people or more. We would like to hear from our stakeholders on our 2013 Corporate Responsibility report. We are particularly All other environmental data cover our directly owned interested in your views on the following: and managed production facilities. Performance data • Any information we have included from our offices, suppliers, outsourced bottlers and co• Any information we have not included packers are not included. There have been no significant • The case studies changes in the scope or boundaries of the data we are • The data reported reporting this year. • The design of the report Any re-statements of data are noted in the relevant Please use the Contact Us Form to send us your sections of this report. comments. Data has been compiled following the GRI indicator protocols. Data measurement techniques and Thank you. assumptions are cited in the relevant sections of the report. 146 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT Targets and Progress The table below shows our progress against targets for fiscal 2013 and our targets for fiscal 2014. Full details of our performance can be found in the sections for each of our Corporate Responsibility pillars. Marketplace Long-Term Ambition: Our ambition is to be role in encouraging responsible decision making by best-in-class in promoting responsible drinking and legal drinking age (LDA) consumers and discouraging ensuring our marketing is responsible. In order to help inappropriate consumption of our products. reduce alcohol-related harm, we will play an influential TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Achieve 500,000 Facebook™ fans We achieved 689,271 fans on our Develop the Champions Drink by the end of fiscal 2013. Facebook pages by March 2013. Responsibly campaign by This is supported by a strong building its consumer reach analytical evaluation to prove across additional social media consumer engagement. groups, e.g., Instagram, as well as by increasing our consumer engagement on Facebook. Launch a global competition We launched “Mix with Rafa,” a Target of 1 million fans to be to align more clearly the global online competition to reached across all social media “Champions Drink Responsibly” align our campaign messaging platforms. campaign messaging with other with other Bacardi rum consumer brand consumer activity. activity. Update the Bacardi Limited Created a new edition of the Develop plans to increase local Global Marketing Principles and Bacardi Global Marketing market activation beyond current supporting guidelines to bring Principles, which included a core markets. Launch a training them up to date with the new ninth principle to cover our app to reach our commercial developments with our digital digital approach and achieve an teams globally. marketing approach. integrated policy. Launch a responsible digital New e-module to provide Launch third edition of Global marketing e-book to support digital training was created to Marketing Principles book and our existing e-learning module complement the current social follow up with training programs on responsible marketing and responsibility module. to achieve 80% target of all include in the induction of all marketers trained. new employees. 147 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Include the responsible Bombay Sapphire brand equity Introduce new marketing sourcing of the botanicals for program is supplemented by compliance approval process BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin as part educating consumers on its through a dedicated database to of the brand story. responsible botanicals sourcing. gain greater internal transparency around campaign developments. Include responsible drinking Bacardi brand activity that focuses Integrate brand advocacy into messaging within BACARDÍ on house parties also incorporated the new Corporate Sustainability Rum consumer party events. responsible drinking messages strategy through the brand and other Corporate Responsibility alignment workshops. (CR) elements. Play a part in developing a Global Alcohol Producers Group Implement first year of the GAPG five-year industry commitment (GAPG) commitments covering commitments plan. to reducing alcohol-related five key areas were signed by harm as part of Global Actions Bacardi CEO. on Harmful Drinking. We will support specific activities to prevent packaging appealing to those under LDA and also expand consumer information on pack. Assist in reforming the Foreign FSPA body in China was reformed Pilot CR initiatives with retail Spirits Producers Association and new Secretary General partners to contribute to the in China, including widening appointed with key Bacardi reduction of alcohol-related harm the program of activities on involvement. to positively influence antisocial responsible drinking. issues. Expand our work with the U.K. Continued to play an active role Develop Community Alcohol Responsibility Deal, in particular in U.K. Responsibility Deal by coPartnerships that are included in increasing consumer choice of chairing the education group. the Responsibility Deal. lower alcoholic strength drinks as a way to reduce alcohol unit intake and target alcoholrelated harm. 148 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Environment Health and Safety Long-Term Ambition: We aim to achieve best-inown facilities and with our suppliers to reduce impacts class environmental and safety performance in our and risks across our whole value chain. From a safety operations. Most of our products’ environmental impacts point of view, we have a long-term vision for an accidentare in our supply chain and we will work both in our free Bacardi Limited. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Seek continual improvement We partially achieved this target. We Achieve a 1% reduction in volume in environmental performance, continued to improve our water use of water used in production sites targeting a 1% reduction in efficiency, expanding our program and a 1% improvement in nongreenhouse gas (GHG) emission across all operations and achieving a renewable energy efficiency, both intensity and a 1% improvement 3.5% improvement in our efficiency compared with fiscal 2013. in water use efficiency. metric. We had a significant setback in our GHG emissions intensity, due Begin to implement projects to reduced generation of renewable to enhance renewable energy energy at our Puerto Rico distillery. generation. Solid waste to landfill from production sites will be less than 2% of total weight to landfill. Overall packaging weight will be reduced 0.5% per nine-liter case vs. 2008 benchmark year Launch the environmental Our launch focus was with our Global Extend the roll-out across the sustainability strategy across Operations and core brand teams. business. Bacardi Limited. 67% of sites to have a behaviorWe exceeded this objective, with 100% of sites to have a behaviorbased safety program under way 81% of our sites now actively based safety program under way by the end of the fiscal year. implementing behavior-based safety by the end of the fiscal year. programs. Continue to expand our EHS We have achieved this objective program by building an officeand established an office-safety safety network, providing network primarily made up of support from the manufacturing human resources managers who operations organization, actively track and report on safety establishing information-sharing performance. These individuals will networks and developing an continue to work with Global EHS improvement plan for office to establish appropriate policies safety. and programs to protect employee health, safety and well-being. Maintain certification of all In 2012 we successfully recertified, Continue to maintain certification production facilities to the ISO for a three-year period, all of our of all production facilities to the 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS production facilities to these ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management system standards. Our original certification 18001 management system standards. in 2009 also was good for three years, standards. and in 2010 and 2011 we maintained our certification by passing surveillance audits. Responsible Sourcing Long-Term Ambition: Our vision for Responsible materials, reducing environmental and social impacts Sourcing is for all of our raw materials and packaging to while maintaining or enhancing the economic status of come from sustainably sourced, renewable or recycled growers and suppliers. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 On an ongoing basis, 100% A review of our key Direct Spend This is an ongoing target. of highand very high-risk and Global POS Webshop suppliers Each new supplier will be riskdirect suppliers and global POS determined that we are sourcing assessed and engaged to ensure suppliers to be compliant with from fewer than 100 supplier sites compliance with our RS standards Responsible Sourcing standards based in countries deemed highand Code of Practice. either via Sedex® membership or risk in our assessment model. All the Bacardi Limited procurement of these suppliers have been or are process. being screened, either internally or through Sedex, as part of our RS program process. We will ensure the Direct Spend At the end of fiscal 2013, we had This is an ongoing target. and Global POS Webshop over 320 supplier sites registered on Each new supplier will be risksuppliers linked to us in Sedex® Sedex® and access to more than 120 assessed and engaged to ensure represent 80% of our spend in audits. This represented an increase compliance with our RS standards these key categories. of over 20% from the previous year. and Code of Practice. Deliver focused training to All of our production sites now have We will agree on a Sustainable develop the individuals running a defined Procurement Single Point Procurement strategy that the SPM tool at our 10 largest of Contact (SPOC), and the Global includes nominating “Champions” sites in fiscal 2013 and the Procurement management team, from our Direct Spend and Global remainder to be trained in fiscal all members of which have been POS Procurement teams, who will 2014. trained, has begun to deploy this manage the RS strategy within training. their function. We will start our local audit Our Direct Procurement team has We will commission third-party program during fiscal 2013, highlighted a list of suppliers for ethical audits at a minimum of focusing initially on suppliers audit in fiscal 2014. This will be 10 global suppliers at high risk with a higher risk of nonaligned with the results of a Sedex® of non-compliance and ensure compliance. SAQ review to create a more focused closure of any instances of nonlist for fiscal 2014. compliance revealed in the audits. In fiscal 2013 we will develop We reviewed growth progress We will ensure at least one of our a sourcing plan to achieve our of Bonsucro and our supplier key sugarcane product suppliers interim target to source 50% of engagement plan and decided we is covered by either an EUor our sugarcane-derived products need to update our target. Our new U.S.-recognized sustainability from sustainably certified sources target is to source 40% of our canecertification chain of custody. by 2017. derived product from sustainable sources by 2017 and we are on course for that. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 We will work with WWF to Fiji report from WWF covers the KPIs. We will continue to support this develop an agreed set of key project and review progress with performance indicators for the our project partners. Fiji project that will be reported monthly. A gap analysis of the Labasa As above, this is covered in the WWF sugar mill in Fiji against the report on Fiji. Bonsucro™ standard will also be completed in fiscal 2013. Establish a sustainability review The review of new POS items is part This is an ongoing activity, part process for all new POS items of the ongoing POS Sedex® activity. of the rationalization of our POS developed for our global range supply base. for the brands BOMBAY SAPPHIRE Gin, GREY GOOSE Vodka and DEWAR’S Scotch Whisky. 151 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report People Long-Term Ambition: We will unleash the potential We will inspire, engage and support our people and of our people by creating a working environment where intend to become recognized internally and externally as every employee can take advantage of the development a Great Place to Work. opportunities Bacardi Limited offers. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Enhance the user experience GPS became accessible to 4,000 Further streamline and simplify for current users of the Global employees. the GPS. Performance Management System (GPS), making the system Development Planning was more intuitive. supported through Leadership • Focus on the link between Fundamentals training program for employee performance and line managers. Company performance. • Focus on functionality. • Focus on development planning. • Complete the global roll-out The TR process expanded to cover We plan to place more emphasis of Talent Reviews across the top over 1,000 leaders across the on TR in all functions, reaching three levels of the Company. organization. even deeper into the organization. • Expansion to deeper levels of the Company, with a specific focus on our sales function. Continue to establish our Coaching 2 Win programs for middle Complete roll-out of Coaching portfolio of leadership managers and senior leaders were 2 Win programs to all senior development initiatives across piloted and tested. leaders and to 1/3 of middle Bacardi Limited: management. Additional • Roll out Step Up and Talent Leadership Fundamentals program Leadership Fundamentals Exchange initiatives. was developed internally and two programs will be developed, and • Pilot a Coaching Certification programs (Performance Review the most critical need will be and Manager Training program. and Development Discussion) covered in our next wave. • Launch our Leadership were delivered across the globe. Fundamentals program for line Completed over 80 sessions globally, managers. covering more than 900 managers at different levels, in 10 languages. Action Teams established In fiscal 2013, more than 700 in fiscal 2013 will identify employees participated in Action key improvement areas and Teams to identify and address areas develop plans for delivering for improvement. This number improvements over the next 24 represents 12% of the employee months. population. 152 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 • 50% of business units and Awareness and Engagement sessions • 50% of business units and global global functions to establish were held in 30% of global functions functions to hold local Awareness a local three-point Women in and business units covering 1,975 and Engagement sessions. Leadership action plan. people. • Part 2 of the Winning@ Bacardi • Run a development course for • In January 2013, 24 talented women program was run in October 2013 high-potential women leaders. leaders attended the Winning @ on coaching skills and targeted • Launch recruitment guidelines Bacardi leadership development development areas. that provide guidance on program in Miami. The first global • 24 participants to have career recruiting high-potential women. leadership program to be held in sponsors. • Establish an internal women’s years, the program was attended • 11 additional women to highlight network in key locations. by our CEO, members of our Board, their leadership stories in local external speakers and members of Spotlight forums within our the Bacardi Leadership Team (BLT). business units. • Four Spotlight sessions were held • Business Networks to be in Geneva, London, Paris and U.S., launched in Hong Kong, Geneva, with women leaders sharing their London and Miami. leadership stories and advising • More women leaders to emerging women leaders on undertake stretch assignments managing their careers. CEO & BLT and participate in the talent Connection meetings were held in development tools of Talent Brazil, Russia and Miami. Exchange and Step Up. • We prepared to launch Business • Recruitment guidelines to be Networks. implemented in 100% of HR • We increased focus on women’s teams. development in the fiscal 2013 Talent • Pilot winning work environment Reviews. initiatives with six teams. • Recruitment best-practice diversity guidelines were communicated, setting our clear expectation that talented women will be included in all candidate short-lists. • We assessed how to create a balanced work environment for all employees, with two areas of focus: • Work-life fit • Returning to work after maternity and adoption leave Embed the new operating We have built a toolbox for change, The eight change modules will be model through workshops and supported by training tools and incorporated into the Leadership launch a “toolbox for change” online support that has been tested Fundamentals frame. that provides all Bacardi Limited with the IT community. In addition, people with advice and tips to we have developed a suite of change make our organization more agile modules (8) that has been tested and successful in adapting to with the HR group in Europe. internal and external factors. 153 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Philanthropy and Community Involvement Long-Term Ambition: We aim to involve our awareness of our approach to Corporate Responsibility employees in our Philanthropy and Community through these initiatives. Involvement (PCI) activities and raise their TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 STATUS TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Continue to monitor the PCI approach monitored throughout Implement and deliver a PCI and effectiveness of our philanthropy fiscal 2013, with review conducted community investment strategy and community approach in early fiscal 2014. Employee for fiscal 2014 and beyond based and develop our employees’ understanding of and involvement in around three themes: producer understanding of and community activities demonstrated communities, adult education and involvement in community in increased participation in CR art & architecture. activities. Month. Continue to roll out the LBG The LBG model was used across the Focus on encouraging more model within the business and Company to record our community complete reporting of community deliver benchmarking feedback investment support for fiscal 2013. activities and improving the in line with LBG. While the total number of PCI quality of PCI data collected using activities increased, we are aware the LBG model. that activities are under-reported. Successfully deliver the expanded CR Month held in May 2012, with 100% of Bacardi business units to CR Month at the beginning offices and plants participating in participate in CR Month during of fiscal 2013 and continue 28 countries, contributing more May 2013. planning and refinement to than 7,600 hours of time. CR Month run a global community event has become our annual global Evaluate CR Month 2013 and annually. community event, with CR Month develop approach for 2014. 2013 held in May 2013 (results will be published in the 2014 CR Report). Achieved Partially achieved Not achieved Target ongoing View all our Targets 154 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI Content Index Fully reported This report has been produced in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Not reported Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and is a self-declared Application Level B report. 1. Strategy and Analysis INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision • A welcome from our Chairman and maker of the organization about the Chief Executive Officer relevance of sustainability to the • CEO Video organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, • A welcome from our Chairman and and opportunities. Chief Executive Officer • Our Corporate Responsibility Program • Stakeholders • Materiality • Our impacts 2. Organizational Profile INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 2.1 Name of the organization. • About Bacardi Limited 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. • About Bacardi Limited 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, • About Bacardi Limited including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. • About Bacardi Limited 2.5 Number of countries where the • About Bacardi Limited organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. • About Bacardi Limited 2.7 Markets served (including geographic • About Bacardi Limited breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 1 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index 2. Organizational Profile (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, • About Bacardi Limited including: • Number of employees; • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and • Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the • About this Report reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the • Responsible marketing reporting period. • EHS management 3. Report Parameters Report Profile INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) • About this Report for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). • About this Report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). • About this Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the • About this Report report or its contents. Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content • Stakeholders • Determining materiality; • Materiality • Prioritizing topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, • About this Report divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 2 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Report Scope and Boundary (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope • About this Report or boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, • About this Report subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the • EHS Management bases of calculations, including assumptions • Energy and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements • EHS Management of information provided in earlier reports, • Philanthropy and community investment and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting • EHS Management periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard • GRI Content Index Disclosures in the report. 4. Profile Governance INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, • Our Corporate Structure including committees under the highest governance body responsible for The Board of Directors of Bacardi Limited is the specific tasks, such as setting strategy or highest governance body within the organization organizational oversight. and consists of 16 members. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the only ‘executive’ officer on Continued on next page 3 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, the Board. The Directors are elected by our including committees under the highest shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and governance body responsible for hold their office for a term of one year or until specific tasks, such as setting strategy or their successors have been duly appointed. The organizational oversight. Board of Directors is entrusted with directing and conducting the business, including determining the Company’s strategic direction. Directors: The following list presents information concerning our directors in fiscal 2013: Name Position Facundo L. Bacardi(1) Chairman of the Board Adolfo L. Danguillecourt(1) Deputy Chairman of the Board Barry E. Kabalkin Deputy Chairman of the Board Edward D. Shirley President and Chief Executive Officer Victor R. Arellano, Jr.(1) Director Jaime Bergel(2) Director Francisco V. Carrera Justiz(1)(2) Director Robert J. Corti(2)(3) Director Georgia Garinois-Melenikiotou(3)Director Paul M. de Hechavarria(2) Director Ignacio de la Rocha(1) Director Michael J. Dolan (2) Director John S. Galantic(3) Director Patrice Louvet(2) Director Roman Martinez IV(2)(3) Director Theodore C. Walker(3) Director (1) Nominating and Governance Committee member. (2) Audit Committee member. (3) Compensation Committee member. Continued on next page. 4 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.1 Committees of our Board of Directors The Board of Directors has established three principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee. The Audit Committee’s primary functions are to advise and assist the Board of Directors with respect to the selection of the independent auditors of the Company, the conduct of the external and internal audits of our internal control structure, the external audit of our accounts, financial reporting matters and internal controls over financial matters. It is also responsible for reviewing our consolidated financial statements, the reports of the independent auditors and other financial information. The Compensation Committee assists the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities in determining the compensation of the Company’s senior executives and Board members. The Compensation Committee has the overall responsibility for approving and evaluating the compensation plans (including perquisites and retirement benefits), policies and programs of the Company with respect to officers, senior executives and directors. The Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board of Directors in identifying, recruiting and providing candidates who would become nominees for future election to the Board of Directors by the shareholders. It is also responsible for assessing the performance of the Board of Directors and its individual members in coordination with the Chairman of the Board. Additionally, the Nominating and Governance Committee is tasked with oversight of the Company’s corporate governance. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Bacardi Limited has adopted the practice of governance body is also an executive separate appointments of the Chairman of the officer (and, if so, their function within the Board and the CEO of the Company. organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 5 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.3 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Bacardi Limited has adopted the practice of governance body is also an executive separate appointments of the Chairman of the officer (and, if so, their function within the Board and the CEO of the Company. organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Shareholders: to provide recommendations or direction to As a private company, which is family-owned by the highest governance body. approximately 400 shareholders, the mechanisms in place for shareholder communication with the Board are as follows: • Letters and other forms of written communication to the Chairman or to the Board directly are reviewed and responded to. • There is a formal shareholder relations department that deals with specific requests and/or complaints from shareholders as and when they arise. In addition to this, the office of the Chairman provides a shareholder relations function with shareholders often discussing issues directly with the Chairman. • There is family representation on the Board from the branches of the family. Often issues are funneled up to the Board via the appropriate family representative. • The Annual General Meeting allows for shareholder queries on specific items as they are presented. There is also the opportunity for general shareholder questions and comments. There is no specific time limit or cap on the number of questions that can be asked. • There is a semi-annual shareholder webcast. Here again, shareholders can ask specific items as topics are covered; however, there is also the opportunity for general shareholder questions and comments. Employees: There are a number of mechanisms in place for employees to engage with the CEO and members of his management team. • The CEO holds regular webcasts with staff throughout the year with an open question and answer period. Continued on next page. 6 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.4 • The CEO and representatives from his senior management team hold regular forums throughout the year, engaging employees on all levels. • The CEO and senior management team regularly engage with employees on the ONE Bacardi global intranet. • In addition, in 1999 the company and employees’ representatives from each of the Member States of the European Economic Area created the Bacardi Martini Forum, an information and consultation forum of management and employees’ representatives who meet to engage in a dialogue on the business performance and prospects for the Bacardi operations within the European Region. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for The directors are currently paid a fixed fee for members of the highest governance body, each Board and Committee meeting attended, senior managers, and executives (including as well as their expenses incurred in connection departure arrangements), and the with meeting attendance. Unlike many companies organization’s performance (including social (particularly publicly traded companies), the and environmental performance). Company does not provide equity or equity-based compensation to the directors. Bacardi has adopted a pay for performance compensation philosophy. The annual incentive structure is designed to instill shared accountability in achieving the Company’s strategic vision. This design implements a globally consistent structure, revises the financial measures and links performance ratings to compensation decisions. The structure will apply a consistent mix of financial measures and individual performance ratings to all Bacardi executives by level and function or region (subject to local legal constraints) and will have a significant impact on the determination of the annual incentive payout. Our Long-term Cash Incentive Plan (“LTCI Plan”) compensates senior executives with the objective of maximizing the growth of the Company. The amount that is eventually paid from the LTCI Plan is based on a three-year performance period evaluation, based on financial goals and brand health. The measures used in this evaluation reflect both financial and strategic objectives. The awards vest on the third anniversary of their issuance and are automatically exercised upon vesting. 7 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Conflicts of interest are handled at the Board level governance body to ensure conflicts of and at the Company level. interest are avoided. At the Board level, during the nomination phase of a director, the current directors’ qualification policy states that nominees for director must not have a conflict of interest as defined by the Company’s Code of Conduct, unless it is waived by the Nominating and Governance Committee following full disclosure of potential conflicts as part of the nomination process. In addition, directors of a Bermuda company have a duty to avoid conflicts of interest. Our bylaws also provide that a director must disclose any direct or indirect interest in any contract or arrangement with us. At the Company level, the Code of Conduct is monitored by the Compliance Committee which reports to the Audit Committee. There is a Board policy on the qualifications for 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications nominations to the Board of Directors for which and expertise of the members of the each nominee is reviewed and measured against highest governance body for guiding by the Nominating and Governance Committee, the organization’s strategy on economic, prior to being put forth as a candidate for election environmental, and social topics. to the Board. This policy seeks to ensure that the nominees to the Board meet certain criteria and have the necessary education and experience. Experience is defined as “having experience demonstrating significant management or professional accomplishments with substantial business enterprises and a capacity to understand the material business and financial issues of the Company and to contribute meaningfully to the work of the Board.” The Board receives a report on the Corporate Responsibility program once a year, as well as ad hoc updates from the CEO and from members of the management team. The Company’s mission, values and Code 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission of Conduct are globally applied across the or values, codes of conduct, and principles organization to all regions, countries, departments relevant to economic, environmental, and business units. They are promoted on and social performance and the status of the internal website and through messaging their implementation. in employee communication, training and development. 8 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Governance (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Once a year the Board receives a report on our body for overseeing the organization’s Corporate Responsibility program, which covers all identification and management of initiatives in this area. economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and The Board has appointed a Compliance Committee opportunities, and adherence or compliance which has, among other things, the responsibility with internationally agreed standards, codes of overseeing and implementing the Code of of conduct, and principles. Conduct. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest A Compliance Committee is in place and has, governance body’s own performance, amongst other things, the responsibility of particularly with respect to economic, overseeing and implementing the Code of environmental, and social performance. Conduct. The Compliance Committee is a management committee which reports into the Board appointed Audit Committee. Commitments to External Initiatives INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Our environmental policy adheres to the precautionary approach or principle is Precautionary Principle established by the 1992 addressed by the organization. Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. This states that complete scientific certainty is not necessary before measures are taken to prevent environmental damage. 4.12 Externally developed economic, • Responsible sourcing standards environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the UNGC (http://www.unglobalcompact.org/) organization subscribes or endorses. GRI (https://www.globalreporting.org/) European and national self-regulatory codes on responsible marketing ILO Conventions (www.ilo.org) Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code (www.ethicaltrade.org) BonsucroTM (www.bonsucro.com) LBG (http://www.lbg-online.net/) 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as • Stakeholders industry associations) and/or national/ • Tackling alcohol-related harm international advocacy organizations. • Responsible drinking campaigns • Responsible supply chain • Working with suppliers and partners • Sustainable agriculture and sourcing Continued on next page. 9 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Commitments to External Initiatives (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.13 International Council for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) (www.icap.org/) Global Alcohol Producers Group (GAPG) (http://www.global-actions.org/) World Federation of Advertisers (WFA) (www.wfanet.org) European Spirits Organisation (CEPS)* (www.spirits.eu ) European Forum for Responsible Drinking (EFRD)* (www.spirits.eu ) Distilled Spirits Council (DISCUS) (www.discus.org) The Century Council (www.centurycouncil.org) AIM-PROGRESS (http://www.aim-progress.com/) Sedex® (http://www.sedexglobal.com/) BonsucroTM (www.bonsucro.com) Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER) (http://www.bieroundtable.com/) We are also members of various local trade associations and social aspects organizations in the markets in which we operate. * In November 2012, after the close of fiscal 2012, CEPS and EFRD merged to become spiritsEUROPE. Stakeholder Engagement INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by • Stakeholders the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of • Stakeholders stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, • Stakeholders including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been • Stakeholders raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 10 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • Responsible Supply Chain Market Precense EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of We select our suppliers on a range of criteria spending on locally-based suppliers at including cost, quality, supply chain and adherence significant locations of operation. to our Responsible Sourcing standards. Although proximity to our operations is not a basis for supplier selection, figures for the location of our suppliers show that a large percentage is local to our plants. We define suppliers as local if they are in the same country as the operation they are supplying. In fiscal 2012, 79% of packaging and ingredient suppliers (329 of a total of 414) were local suppliers. Packaging and Ingredient Supplier Defined As Local (%) EMEA* 71 73 North America 84 82 Latin America 96 91 Asia Pacific 81 100 Total 78 81 Ingredient Suppliers Packaging Suppliers *Europe, Middle East and Africa Environmental Performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach • EHS strategy • EHS management 11 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Materials Energy INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary • Energy energy source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by • Energy primary source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and • Energy efficiency improvements. (Additional indicator) Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. • Water Biodiversity Emissions, effluents, and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas • Greenhouse gases emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas • Greenhouse gases emissions by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions • Other air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality • Water and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and • Waste and packaging disposal method. EN23 Total number and volume of • EHS management significant spills. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, • Waste and packaging exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. (Additional indicator) 12 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Products and services INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental • Sustainable packaging impacts of products and services and extent of impact mitigation. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and • EHS management total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach. • People • Safety Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, At the close of fiscal 2013, our total workforce employment contract and region. numbered 6,533, comprising 6,198 employees and 335 supervised workers. Total Workforce Employees by Type of 95+5 92+8 Employment Contract Employees 6,198 Permanent 5,731 Supervised Workers 335 Temporary 467 Permanent Employees Workforce by Region 98+2 16+13+1754 by Employment Type Full-time 5,619 North America 1,075 Supervised Workers 112 Europe, Middle East and Africa 3,548 Latin America 1,058 Asia Pacific 852 13 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Employment INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover In fiscal 2013, 673 employees left the Company, by age group, gender, and region. representing a turnover rate of 10.8%. Employee Turnover Employee Turnover 58+42 64+14+22 by Gender by Age Male 392 (6.32%) Over 50 years 97 (1.57%) Female 281(4.53%) 30 to 50 years 430 (6.94%) Under 30 years 146 (2.36%) Employee Turnover 20+13+1453 by Region North America 112 (1.6%) Europe, Middle East and Africa 410 (6.5%) Latin America 162 (2.6%) Asia Pacific 101 (1.6%) Labour/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by In fiscal 2013, 36.94 % of employees were covered collective bargaining agreements. by collective bargaining agreements. 63+37 Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements Covered by a collective bargaining agreement 2290 Not covered by a collective bargaining agreement 3,908 14 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Human Rights and Performance Indicators INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES DMA Disclosures on Management Approach. • Responsible Sourcing • People Investment and Procurement Practices HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination In fiscal 2012, five separate allegations of employee and actions taken. harassment were brought to the attention of the Compliance Committee. Two complaints were uncorroborated, with one case being closed immediately. In the other uncorroborated case, a local remediation plan was put in place. In one of the remaining reported cases, the complaint was discussed with the reported employee and thereafter closed. In another, two employees were dismissed for their behavior. The fifth report was of inappropriate discriminatory behavior by an employee which did not involve any other person. This resulted in the employee being issued with a formal final warning and a remediation plan is now in place to prevent further occurrences. Society Performance Indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach. Our employee Code of Conduct is based on widely recognized principles of sound governance and articulates our high standards on issues such as legal compliance, conflicts of interest, financial reporting, competition, anti-corruption practices and social responsibility. Each year our key managers have to certify their compliance with the Code of Conduct and expressly note any exceptions. The certifications are reviewed by our Compliance Committee and the results are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 15 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index Corruption INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES SO3 Percentage of employees trained in All Bacardi employees have undertaken a training organization’s anti-corruption policies program on the principles of the Bacardi Limited and procedures. Code of Conduct which includes anti-corruption practices. In addition, the CEO and all members of the Bacardi global leadership team (GLT) have undertaken specific training on anti-corruption practices. Similar training was rolled out to all direct reports of GLT members during fiscal 2013. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents In fiscal 2012, ten separate allegations of corruption of corruption. were reported. Eight cases related to inappropriate business practices. In five of these cases, employees were dismissed or disciplined. In one case, a contract with a vendor was terminated. Of the eight cases reported, in four cases there was an internal review of current business practices. In addition there was one allegation of misuse of company assets, which resulted in an employee dismissal followed by a review of local internal business practices. There was one allegation of theft of company assets, which resulted in an employee dismissal followed by a review of local internal business practices. Compliance score SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total • Fines and regulations number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product responsibility performance indicators DMA Disclosures on Management Approach. • Marketplace Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, • Responsible Marketing and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Marketing Communications (Continued) INDICATOR STATUS DESCRIPTION LINKS & NOTES PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance • Responsible Marketing with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for We have not received any significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of concerning the provision and use of products and products and services. services. ABOUT THIS REPORT UN Global Compact Communication on Progress: As a signatory to business operations. Signatories to the UNGC are the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are required to publish an annual Communication on committed to meeting the ten internationally accepted Progress. This report, including the GRI content index, principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, provides our Communication on Progress against the the environment and anti-corruption in all our global principles of the UNGC. TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Human Rights Businesses should: Maintaining the health and safety of all Environment, Health and Safety 1. support and respect the protection our employees is a high priority for us. of internationally proclaimed human All our manufacturing sites continue to Responsible Sourcing rights; and be certified to the international health 2. make sure that they are not complicit and safety standard OHSAS 18001. in human rights abuses. Our suppliers have to meet our Responsible Sourcing standards, which commit them to complying with human rights principles. We have a structured process for engaging suppliers with our standards. This includes supplier self-assessments and on-site inspections. Labor Standards Businesses should uphold: We respect the right to freedom of Responsible Sourcing 3. the freedom of association and the association among all of our employees. effective recognition of the right to GRI content index collective bargaining; Our Responsible Sourcing standards 4. the elimination of all forms of forced require our suppliers to respect freedom and compulsory labor; of association and the right to collective 5. the effective abolition of child labor; bargaining. and 6. the elimination of discrimination We do not use forced or child in respect of employment and labor in any of our operations. Our occupation. Company Code of Conduct includes a commitment to equal opportunities and non-discrimination. We aim to achieve the elimination of all forms of forced labor, child labor and discrimination in our supply chain through our Responsible Sourcing standards. We are also members of industry-wide 18 BACARDI LIMITED | 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index ABOUT THIS REPORT TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2013 PROGRESS IN FISCAL 2013 TARGETS FOR FISCAL 2014 Labor Standards (Continued) partnerships such as Bonsucro™, which aims to ensure minimum labor and environmental standards are achieved within the sugarcane growing and processing sector. Environment Businesses should: Our Group-wide environmental policy Environment, Health and Safety 7. support a precautionary approach to adheres to the precautionary principle. environmental challenges; Responsible Sourcing 8. undertake initiatives to promote We aim to drive continuous greater environmental responsibility; improvement in our facilities’ GRI content index and performance through a management 9. encourage the development and systems approach. All our facilities diffusion of environmentally friendly remain certified to the ISO 14001 technologies. international environmental management system standard. We are actively promoting the wider use of renewable energy sources in our facilities and focusing our effort on reducing the use of non-renewable energy. Our Responsible Sourcing standards require our suppliers to protect the environment as part of business practice. Anti-corruption Businesses should: Our Company Code of Conduct details Responsible Sourcing 10. work against corruption in all the behaviors we expect from our its forms, including extortion people and it addresses issues of GRI content index and bribery. conflicts of interest and bribery and corruption. Our Responsible Sourcing standards state that bribery and corruption are not tolerated.
