2013 Registration document CONTENTS 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 4 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND 1.1 Company history 6 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 190 1.2 Ophthalmic optics industry 8 4.1 Introduction 192 1.3 Group businesses 9 4.2 Social information 193 1.4 The Group’s strategy 15 4.3 Environmental information 202 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2013 16 4.4 Information on societal commitment 1.6 Risk factors 28 to promote sustainable development 210 4.5 Note on methodology 217 4.6 Independent third-party report on 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 32 4.7 the consolidated corporate, social and environmental information included in the Management Report Location of GRI elements 221 223 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies 34 2.2 2.3 2.4 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control Compensation and Beneﬁts Statutory Auditors’ Report 50 68 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE on the Report of the Chairman 81 COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL 2.5 Special Report of the Statutory Auditors on related party agreements and commitments 82 AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 224 5.1 Company 226 5.2 Share capital 228 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1 Comments on the Company’s ﬁnancial 84 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION position and earnings 86 3.2 Trend information 89 ABOUT THE REGISTRATION 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements 91 DOCUMENT 248 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 99 6.1 Persons Responsible 250 3.5 Report of the Auditors 6.2 Auditors 251 on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 158 6.3 Public Documents 252 3.6 Fees paid to the Auditors and 6.4 Cross-reference tables 253 the members of their networks 159 3.7 Annual ﬁnancial statements of Essilor International 160 3.8 Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 164 3.9 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the annual ﬁnancial statements 189 Document de référence 2013 | Essilor REGISTRATION DOCUMENT & Annual Financial Report 2013 The French version of this Registration Document was filed with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) on March 25, 2014, in accordance with Article 212-13 of the General Regulations of the AMF. It may only be used in support of a ﬁnancial transaction if accompanied by an offering memorandum approved by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers. This document has been prepared by the issuer and is binding on the signatories. KEY FIGURES Revenue Net proﬁt €5,065M €593M 28 worldwide plants Revenue by operating segment and by region Readers Lenses and Optical Instruments 7% 89% Geographical breakdown of the Lenses and Optical Instruments Division As a % of total Group revenue 35% North America 31% Europe 16% Asia-Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa Equipment 7% Latin America 4% Proﬁt attributable to Group Net earnings per share Operating cash ﬂow* equity holders +0.6% In millions of euros +1.6% In euros In millions of euros and * Operating cash ﬂow excluding change as a % of revenue in working capital requirements 12.1% 11.7% 11.7% 506 584 593 2.44 2.80 2.82 723 850 912 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor KEY FIGURES 55,129 employees in 62 countries more than 450 28 prescription laboratories new partnerships around the world (representing a combined across ﬁve continents and edging centers full-year revenue of €254M) Share price The CAC40 graph has been rebased to the Essilor share price at January 1, 2004 In euros 100 Essilor : +77% 80 60 40 20 CAC 40 : +21% 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Dividend In euros 1.0 0,94 * 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Subject to shareholders' approval at the May 7, 2014 Annual Meeting. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 3 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1 1.1 COMPANY HISTORY 6 1.4 THE GROUP’S STRATEGY 15 1.1.1 Essilor was created by the merger of two innovative companies 6 1.5 PERFORMANCE 1.1.2 The 1970s to 1990s: internationalization 6 OF THE GROUP IN 2013 16 1.1.3 Essilor the world’s leading manufacturer 1.5.1 Highlights by business and region 17 of ophthalmic optics 6 1.5.2 Innovation and key products 1.1.4 The 2000s were marked by a true and services launched in 2013 20 globalization of high technology 1.5.3 Operating highlights 23 and strategic alliances 7 1.5.4 Other aspects of business in 2013 24 1.5.5 Investments made in 2013 1.2 OPHTHALMIC OPTICS INDUSTRY 8 and planned for 2014 27 1.2.1 Chemical companies and glass manufacturers 8 1.6 RISK FACTORS 28 1.2.2 Lens manufacturers 8 1.6.1 Operational risks 28 1.2.3 Prescription laboratories and edging centers 8 1.6.2 Market risks 29 1.2.4 Retailers and optical chains 9 1.6.3 Legal risks (material claims and litigation, proceedings, arbitration) 29 1.3 GROUP BUSINESSES 9 1.6.4 Industrial and environmental risks 30 1.3.1 Lenses and Optical Instruments 9 1.6.5 Insurance 31 1.3.2 Equipment 13 1.3.3 Readers 14 4 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1 IN BRIEF ESSILOR: THE WORLD'S LEADING OPHTHALMIC OPTICS COMPANY From design to manufacture, Essilor markets a wide range of lenses to improve and protect eyesight. The Group also develops and markets equipment for prescription laboratories and Our mission is instruments and services for eye care professionals. Essilor is the to improve lives non-prescription reading glasses leader in North America and also sells non-prescription sunglasses. by improving sight The Group owes its success to a strategy in which innovation has been the driving force for more than 160 years. As a result, the Group allocates more than €150 million to research and innovation every year to continuously bring new, more effective products to market. Essilor's mission is to improve lives by improving sight. Of the 7 billion people living on the planet, 4.3 billion need vision correction and only 1.8 billion actually receive it. Another 2.5 billion people worldwide do not receive any correction. Accordingly, the Group strives to provide products tailored to the needs of every person. Essilor reported consolidated net revenue of over €5 billion in 2013. The Group distributes its products in more than 100 countries and has over 55,000 employees. The Group has 28 plants, more than 450 prescription laboratories and edging centers as well as several research and development centers around the world. The Essilor share trades on the NYSE Euronext Paris market and is included in of the Euro Stoxx 50 and CAC 40 indices. THE GROUP’S FLAGSHIP BRANDS Note: Acquisition of Costa announced on November 8, 2013 and ﬁnalized on January 30, 2014 (see Section 3.2.3 “Subsequent events”). Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 5 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Company history 1.1 Company history 1.1.1 Essilor was created by the merger of two innovative companies Essilor was formed in 1972 from the merger of two technological The second one, which dates back to the 1930s, was founded by and marketing pioneers, ESSEL and SILOR, which dominates the Georges Lissac. The industrial division of Lissac group, SILOR was French ophthalmic optics market. formed in 1969 from the merger of the frame-maker SIL (Société Industrielle de Lunetterie) and the lens-maker LOR (Lentilles The ﬁrst one traces its origins to the Association Fraternelle des Ophtalmiques Rationnelle) which had launched the first plastic Ouvriers Lunetiers, an eyewear makers’ cooperative founded lens, Orma, in 1954. 1849 in the Marais quarter of Paris, soon changing its name to Société des Lunetiers (SL) and then to ESSEL. In 1953 it registered With the merger that formed Essilor in 1972, the priority became a patent for the ﬁrst-ever progressive lens in the world, launched the building of a outstanding group specializing in ophthalmic as Varilux in 1959. ESSEL’s original operating structure, which optics. Secondary activities such as compasses, drawing was inspired by workers’ cooperatives and involved employees equipment, topography, its historical heritage, have gradually been in corporate governance, is the source of the strong employee sold off. shareholding culture that is still present in Essilor today. 1.1.2 The 1970s to 1990s: internationalization In the early 1970s, Essilor was mainly an exporting group with The 1980s were marked by stiffening competition particularly in its international business accounting for 45% of revenue. It had the progressive-lens market, and the development of opticians inherited ESSEL’s presence in Japan and SILOR’s commercial organizing themselves into groups. To grow its competitiveness, development in the United States. A distribution network was Essilor set up other mass-production sites in Brazil and Thailand. gradually built up, first in Europe and the United States and The Group also set up and expanded its local distribution networks then in Asia. After its successful IPO in 1975 it continued its by buying up distributors in Europe and intensifying its presence innovation strategy, launching the ﬁrst-ever progressive plastic in Asia. In 1986, the American subsidiaries were consolidated lens Varilux Orma, a strong symbol of the synergy between the under Essilor of America. By the end of the 1980s, Essilor had two founding entities. In 1979, the construction of a large plasticbecome the world’s leading manufacturer of ophthalmic optics. lens manufacturing plant in the Philippines was a turning point identifying Essilor’s as a true international Group. 1.1.3 Essilor the world’s leading manufacturer of ophthalmic optics In the early 1990s, the ophthalmic optics market was reshaped brought it the polycarbonate lens. The Group also invested in by a wave of mergers and acquisitions and an increase in optics design, launching a new progressive lens, Varilux Comfort, competition. Essilor consolidated its world-leading position in 1993. Last but not least, having until the mid-1990s achieved through a global strategy based on three key vectors, the ﬁrst of most of its revenue in Europe, Essilor now set up a global which was industrial specialization in corrective lenses as well network. The Group put down roots in China and India and also as in instruments for opticians. The second was innovation in acquired more independent prescription laboratories, mainly in lens treatments and their combinations. Launched in 1992, the the United States and Europe, to ensure that its network reached Crizal lens with anti-reﬂective, smudge-proof and scratch-proof local customers. Production was also set up in China with the properties, and the variable-tint Transitions lenses launched opening of a plant near Shanghai in 1998, as part of a dynamic one year later on the back of a new joint venture with PPG, expansion strategy that included the consolidation of distribution became a high-added-value major growth segment. At the same subsidiaries, particularly in Eastern Europe in the last years of time, Essilor strengthened its market share in very light and the decade. unbreakable lenses with the takeover of Gentex in 1995, which 6 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Company history 1 1.1.4 The 2000s were marked by a true globalization of high technology and strategic alliances 1 Technological innovation accelerated at the turn of the 21st century United States (2010); and Shamire Optical in Israel (2011). Over with a growing number of innovations beneﬁting opticians and the period, Essilor developed its positions in many new countries, consumers. New products targeted both optical quality and particularly in South America, Asia and Africa, aided by a score of wearer-comfort thanks to new and increasingly effective designs new acquisitions and partnerships each year. such as the Varilux S Series launched in 2012. In addition to At the same time, Essilor pursued to broaden its scope of activities correction, Essilor was also positioning itself in UV protection, and in the optics world with the formation of two new divisions. in clear lenses. The E-SPF index (Eye Sun Protection Factor) was The Equipment Division was created in 2008 following the created in 2012 to guarantee the protection level for consumers acquisition of Satisloh, a world leader in prescription laboratory on both faces of the lens. Prevention, with lenses selectively equipment. In 2010, Essilor took over FGX International, the protecting against harmful blue light, such as Crizal Prevencia, North American leader in non-prescription reading glasses. constituted a new development line for the Group. But Essilor also This acquisition gave to the creation of the Readers Division. set out to supply solutions that would cover the entire range of It was supplemented in 2011 by the takeover of Stylemark, needs in all circumstances, by developing new more-affordable another major player in the United States with a substantial products to offer visual correction to as many consumers as portfolio of licensed brands of non-prescription sunglasses and possible. In this respect, the Group is also pushing back the limits reading glasses. of science thanks to new technologies that today allow visually impaired people to test eyeglass prototypes under augmented In 2013, the Group accelerated the development of its sunglasses reality conditions. range with the acquisition of new companies specializing in midrange products and high-tech sunglasses, such as Polycore, The Group also continues to grow through acquisitions and Xiamen Yarui Optical/Bolon, Suntech Optics and Costa (the latter’s strategic partnerships that allow Essilor to reaffirm its leading acquisition completed in early 2014). position in fast-growing countries such as India, China and Brazil. This strategy also allows the integration of new technologies and Lastly, 2013 was marked by the creation of a Social and new distribution networks on a group-wide basis. Environmental Responsibility Committee within Essilor’s Board of Directors and the position of Chief Corporate Mission Officer The decade was marked by major strategic partnerships, in in charge of coordinating and strengthening all of the Group’s particular: the Japanese group Nikon as the joint venture Nikon CSR initiatives. The objective: to contribute, through new product Essilor Co. Ltd. (1999); the South Korean group Samyung Trading and distribution solutions, notably Essilor’s goal of equipping Ltd. as the joint venture Essilor Korea Ltd. with subsidiaries in 50 million new people around the world a year. South Korean and China (2002); GXB Rx in India (2006); Wanxin Optical in China (2010); Signet Armorlite which notably has the worldwide production and distribution license for Kodak, in the Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 7 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Ophthalmic optics industry 1.2 Ophthalmic optics industry The mission of the players in the ophthalmic optics industry is The ophthalmic lens industry is organized into four distinct to correct and protect vision. Consumers purchase glasses businesses, which correspond to the phases in the transformation about every three years to correct defects such as myopia, of the product ordered by consumers: raw materials suppliers, hypermetropia, presbyopia and astigmatism. lens manufacturers, prescription laboratories and edging centers, and distributors. Raw materials suppliers Chemical companies and glass manufacturers Integrated manufacturers Non-integrated manufacturers – Lens manufacturers with laboratories Essilor Lens ﬁnishers Essilor Independent laboratories Optical chains with integrated Retailers Independent opticians – Non-integrated optical chains laboratories End customers Consumers According to the data available to the Group, the world market for ophthalmic optics represents approximately 1.2 billion lenses per year or approximately 590 million consumers per year. 1.2.1 Chemical companies and glass manufacturers Raw materials are developed and produced by glass Essilor is a customer of chemical companies and glass manufacturers for glass lenses and by chemical companies for manufacturers around the world. the polymerizable thermoset resins and injectable thermoplastic resins used in plastic lenses. 1.2.2 Lens manufacturers Using these raw materials, lens manufacturers produce in their Finished lenses are for simple eyesight corrections, while semiplants single-vision ﬁnished lenses and a variety of semi-ﬁnished ﬁnished lenses allow for the production of more complex eyesight lenses. corrections. Essilor manufactures both single-vision finished lenses and semi-ﬁnished lenses. 1.2.3 Prescription laboratories and edging centers Prescription laboratories transform semi-ﬁnished lenses (only Essilor operates in this segment and owns more than 450 the front surface is ﬁnished) into ﬁnished lenses corresponding prescription laboratories and edging centers around the world. to the exact speciﬁcations of an optician or optometrist’s order. In addition, Essilor’s Equipment business designs equipment This customization enables them to deliver the broadest possible ranges (primarily machines for surfacing and anti-reflective array of correction combinations, especially for presbyopia. In coatings) and sells consumables to prescription laboratories. the process, they surface and polish the semi-finished lenses and then apply tinting, anti-UV, anti-scratch, anti-reﬂective, antismudge, anti-static, light-ﬁltering, anti-fog and other coatings. 8 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Group businesses 1 1.2.4 Retailers and optical chains 1 Lenses are marketed through a number of channels, including In the United States and the United Kingdom, for example, independent eye-care professionals, cooperatives, central laboratories and edging centers usually fully mount the lenses purchasing agencies and retail optical chains. and frames and deliver ready-to-wear eyeglasses to the eye-care professional. The primary role of eye-care professionals is to advise customers on the choice of lens, based on the prescription, as well as the In countries such as France and Germany, laboratories deliver choice of frame. They then send the prescription data to the lens round lenses to opticians, who then adjust them to ﬁt the frame. manufacturer or prescription laboratory. Essilor is a supplier for optical retailers and chains worldwide. The interaction among these players differs from one country to another. 1.3 Group businesses 1.3.1 Lenses and Optical Instruments 1.3.1.1 Business overview 1.3.1.2 Market and competitive position Essilor designs, manufactures and customizes corrective lenses According to the Group’s estimates, 4.3 billion people worldwide to meet each person’s unique vision requirements. are in need of vision correction. Among them, 1.8 billion, or 25% of the global population, already have equipment to correct and Through a wide range of lenses that offer greater comfort, protect their vision. Essilor provides solutions for correcting myopia, hypermetropia, astigmatism and presbyopia to enable people to regain perfect The world market for ophthalmic optics represents a total of vision, and preserve and protect their eyesight. 1.2 billion lenses per year or approximately 590 million consumers per year, with an estimated manufacturing value of approximately Essilor serves every segment of the ophthalmic lens market with €10 billion. Its long-term growth, traditionally ranging from 3% globally recognized brands, such as: to 4%, is primarily based on the demand from fast-growing n Varilux and its variants for progressive lenses, including the countries with an under-equipped population, on the ageing global Varilux S series, a new range of lenses launched in 2012; population, and on the increasing number of unmet visual needs. n Crizal and its range of anti-reﬂective, anti-smudge and antiIn a highly fragmented market comprised mainly of small local static lenses, including Crizal Prevencia, a new generation of competitors, the Group estimates Essilor’s market share to be lenses launched in 2013 (see Section 1.5.2.5, “More than 200 37% in terms of volume. Essilor’s main competitors are Hoya new products launched in 2013”); (Japan) and Carl Zeiss Vision (Germany). n Optifog for anti-fog lenses; In 2013, according to estimates produced by the Essilor group, the n Xperio for polarized lenses; global optics market grew by 2%, with volumes driven primarily by fast-growing countries in Asia and Latin America. n Nikon, Transitions (photochromic lenses), Kodak and Polaroid, brands used under agreements with Nikon Corporation, The long-term development of the different market segments is Transitions Optical Inc., Kodak and Saﬁlo. characterized by: Essilor also designs, develops, distributes and maintains a range n T he replacement of mineral lenses with organic lenses, of optical instruments with two specialties: a range of lens edging primarily in the emerging countries; instruments for opticians and prescription laboratories, and n The growth in new organic materials which make it possible vision screening instruments for eye-care professionals, schools, to produce very thin lenses, including the high and very high occupational medicine centers, the military and other institutions. indices and polycarbonate; In 2013, the Lenses and Optical Instruments business represented n The replacement of bifocal lenses with progressive lenses; 89% of the Group’s revenue. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 9 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Group businesses n The development of surface coatings and multi-layer lenses, Essilor’s customers are: essentially anti-reﬂective, anti-smudge and variable tint lenses; n O pticians/optometrists for ophthalmic lenses and edgingn The growth in the developing countries supported by the growth mounting instruments directly or indirectly through distributors; in their middle class. n P rescription laboratories for lenses and edging-mounting instruments. 1.3.1.3 Organization and facilities ■ Business process delivery to stores. It has a global network of plants, prescription laboratories, edging centers and distribution centers serving eyeEssilor’s business process is designed as a complete network. care professionals (optical retailers and chains) throughout the The Group is involved in every step, from product manufacture to world. Plants Distribution Centers Prescription Laboratories Opticians / eye-care professionals Semi-ﬁnished lenses Finished lenses Stock or prescription ﬁnished lenses Ready-to-wear glasses Orders sent to the prescription laboratories 10 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Group businesses 1 ■ A unique global network 1 Europe: 45 North America: 174 x x3 Paris Dallas Asia-Paciﬁc/Middle East/ Africa: 200 Singapore Latin America: 35 Rio de Janeiro 15 Essilor plants Plants specialized in sunlenses production 13 Plants operated in partnership or recently acquired Plants specialized in sunlenses production 454 local prescription laboratories and edging centers 7 Export prescription laboratories 16 Distribution centers Production plants ﬁnished lenses to subsidiaries and direct customers, on-time, per speciﬁcations and at the best cost. Their role is to ensure the secure supply of ﬁnished and semiThe Group had a total of 28 plants as of December 31, 2013. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 11 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Group businesses The 15 Essilor group plants (consolidation year) North America: 4 Latin America: 1 Europe: 5 Asia-Paciﬁc: 5 United States Brazil France China n Carbondale, Pennsylvania (1995) n Manaus (1989) n Ligny en Barrois – Les Battants (1959) n Shanghai (1997) n Dudley, Massachusetts (1995) n Dijon (1972) Laos Mexico n Sézanne (1974) n Savannaketh (2013) n Chihuahua (1985) n Bellegarde sur Valserine (2003)(a) Philippines Puerto Rico Ireland n Marivelès (1980) n Ennis (1991) n Laguna (1999) n Ponce (1986) Thailand n Bangkok (1990) (a) Plants specialized in sunlenses production. The 13 plants operated in partnership or recently acquired by the Group (consolidation year) North America: 1 Europe: 1 Asia / Middle East: 11 United States United Kingdom China n X-Cel Optical – Sauk Rapids, n Crossbows Optical (2010) n Essilor Korea via its subsidiary Minnesota (2012) Chemilens – JiaXing (2006) n ILT Danyang – Danyang (2010) n Wanxin Optical – Danyang (2010) n Youli Optics – Danyang (2011) n Seeworld Optical – Danyang (2012) Korea n Essilor Korea via its subsidiary Chemiglas – Yangsan (2002) Israel n Shamir Optical – Kibbutz Shamir (2011) Indonesia n Polycore – Karawang (2013)(a) Japan n Nikon-Essilor – Nasu (2000) Malaysia n Polycore – Johor Baru (2013)(a) Vietnam n Essilor Korea via its subsidiary Chemiglas – Dai An (2013) (a) Plants specialized in sunlenses production. Prescription laboratories and edging centers Distribution centers Prescription laboratories transform semi-finished lenses into Distribution centers take delivery of ﬁnished and semi-ﬁnished custom-made ﬁnished lenses. lenses and ship them to distribution subsidiaries and prescription laboratories. Sixteen centers are located throughout the world: six At year-end 2013, the Group’s prescription laboratories and in Asia, ﬁve in Europe, three in North America and two in Latin edging centers were located as follows: America. North America 174 The distribution of products produced by Essilor and its subsidiaries is done: Europe 45 n either by the Group’s subsidiaries or networks in the countries Asia-Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa 200 where Essilor is located; or Latin America 35 n by distributors if the Group does not have its own subsidiaries. 12 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Group businesses 1 1.3.2 Equipment 1 1.3.2.1 Business overview particularly in digital surfacing machines, small machines that produce anti-reﬂective lenses in one hour, and consumables. The Equipment business consists primarily of Satisloh, which manufactures and sells equipments and consumables used by Satisloh’s customers are prescription laboratories, integrated prescription laboratories. optical chains and lens manufacturers. In 2013, the Equipment business represented 4% of the Group’s Its main competitors are Schneider (Germany) in surfacing and revenue. Leybold (Germany) in anti-reﬂective coating machines. 1.3.2.2 Market and competitive position 1.3.2.3 Organization and facilities In value, the Group estimates the market for equipment and Satisloh, whose headquarters are in Baar in Switzerland, owns consumables used by prescription laboratories at around production units in Germany (Wetzlar), Italy (Milan), the United €500 million. States (Charlottesville and Concord), Brazil (Petropolis) and China (Zhongshan), and has representative offices in many other Satisloh is the world’s leading supplier of surfacing machines and countries. anti-reﬂective coating units. Its global market share is substantial, Moscow Wetzlar Paris Horgen g HQ: Baar Zagreb Barcelona Milan Ankara Athens Tel-Aviv Seoul Germantown Tokyo Concord Charlottesville Teheran Danyang Zhongshan Hong Kong Mumbai Bangkok Bogota Petropolis Sao Paulo Brisbane Production and /or R&D centers Sales and service centers Representative offices Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 13 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Group businesses 1.3.3 Readers 1.3.3.1 Business overview FGX International is the North American leader in nonprescription reading glasses. Internationally, the competitors of The Readers business, which consists mainly of FGX International, FGX International are small local players. markets non-prescription reading glasses and non-prescription sunglasses. Products in the Readers Division are sold to large retail companies (e.g., Wal-Mart and Target), pharmacies (e.g., Walgreens and CVS) The Group has a portfolio of well-known brands such as Foster and specialized retail outlets (e.g., Barnes and Noble), as well as Grant, Bolon, Molsion, Ryders Eyewear, Magnivision, Gargoyles, to eye care professionals and department stores. SolarShield, Infokus, Solair and Corinne McCormack. It also holds licenses for trademarks such as Ironman®, Nine West®, Dockers®, Reebok®, Hello Kitty® and various Disney® trademarks. 1.3.3.3 Organization and facilities In 2013, the Readers business represented 7% of Group revenue. FGX International’s headquarters are in Smithﬁeld, Rhode Island, United States. 1.3.3.2 Market and competitive position It has representative offices and subsidiaries in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, Italy and China. The Group estimates the Readers market at 220 million pairs per year in volume and close to €1.1 billion per year in value. Since the acquisition in 2013 of 50% of Xiamen Yarui Optical, the The Group holds a market share of around 22% in volume. Chinese leader in mid-range sunglasses and owner of the Bolon brand, the Readers Division has a production plant in Xiamen in T h e n o n p re s c r i p t i o n s u n g l a s s e s m a r ke t re p re s e n t s southeast China. approximately 550 million pairs per year in volume and €6 billion in value. The Group holds a market share of around 12% in volume. Headquarters Representative offices/subsidiaries Plants 14 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE The Group’s strategy 1 1.4 The Group’s strategy 1 For all of its businesses, Essilor’s strategy is based on four key n An active acquisitions and partnership strategy with industry pillars: stakeholders, allowing the Group to strengthen its local presence or enhance its asset portfolio (see Section 1.5.4.1 n I nnovation in terms of products, services and technology, “Acquisitions and partnerships in the year”). reﬂected in particular in the launch each year of a large number of products with improved performance and new benefits n S timulating demand through the development of vision for wearers to resolve vision problems (see Section 1.5.2 information and screening campaigns, plus initiatives to make “Innovation and major launches of products and services in visual correction accessible to as many people as possible (see 2013”). Section 1.5.4.2 “2.5 New Vision Generation”). n The development of offers tailored to all market segments and These four pillars rely on the Group's ongoing industrial and all regions to meet the various needs of eye care professionals operational efficiency and on a strong commitment to corporate, and consumers (see Section 1.5.2.5 “More than 200 new social and environmental responsibility (see Section 4). products launched in 2013”). INNOVATE DEVELOP GROW STIMULATE Products Top Acquisitions Demand & Services & Mid-range & Partnerships for Vision markets Improvement Operational and management efficiency Corporate social responsibility Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 15 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2013 In 2013, Essilor consolidated its positions after two years of n Launch of the Crizal Prevencia lens, conﬁrming Essilor's strong strong growth and despite an unfavorable exchange rate climate. innovation drive and marking its entry into the promising visual The Group improved every indicator, laid extensive groundwork health and preventive lens segment; in such future shaping areas as visual health, sunlens strategy n Acceleration of the acquisition strategy, with the announcement and brand development, while further expanding in fast-growing of the Company’s largest acquisition to date – Transitions countries. Optical for US$1.8 billion – and the signature of 28 partnership Highlights in the year included: agreements representing full-year revenue of €254 million; n A further improvement in the Company's share of the worldwide n Ramp-up of a sunlens range combining Essilor and lens market, to 37% of units; FGX International's expertise in prescription sunwear, polarization, UV protection and distribution with the positions n A sharp increase in the contribution from fast-growing and brands of the companies acquired in 2013 (Polycore, countries, which accounted for 21% of consolidated revenue for Xiamen Yarui Optical/Bolon and Suntech Optics) and early the year; 2014 (Costa Inc) in the mid-range and performance sunlens n A rise in the Group’s contribution margin, to 18.1%; segments. Change in revenue from 2012 to 2013 Change in scope of Reported Like-for-like consolidation Currency effect € millions 76 105 165 -194 As a% 1.5% 2.1% 3.3% -3.9% In 2013, consolidated revenue totaled €5,065 million, an In 2013, Essilor's robust innovation drive led to the deployment of increase of 1.5% over the previous year (+5.4% excluding such major new products as the Varilux S series progressive lens, currency effect). the Crizal UV antireﬂective lens and, at year-end, Crizal Prevencia, the ﬁrst lens that ﬁlters harmful blue light. The popularity of these The growth in 2013 revenue reﬂects: products with eyecare professionals, combined with the assertive n A 2.1% like-for-like increase in revenue over the year, acquisitions strategy, enabled Essilor to broaden and deepen its demonstrating an improvement in sales between the ﬁrst half global market positions during the year. Nevertheless, organic (up 1.2%) and the second (up 3.0%); growth was dampened by fierce competition and, in certain n A 3.3% impact from changes in scope of consolidation, regions, by a lackluster economic environment that weighed on led by the growing quarter-by-quarter contribution from the demand for eyecare solutions. acquisitions strategy; n A 3.9% negative currency effect attributable to the rise in the euro against most of the other billing currencies. 16 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 1 1.5.1 Highlights by business and region 1 Revenue Change in scope Currency € millions 2013 2012(1) Reported Like-for-like of consolidation effect Lenses and Optical Instruments 4,505 4,445 +1.3% +1.8% +3.5% -4.0% North America 1,770 1,775 -0.3% +0.5% +2.8% -3.6% Europe 1,572 1,570 +0.1% +0.5% +0.4% -1.0% Asia-Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa 812 778 +4.5% +4.2% +8.2% -7.9% Latin America 351 322 +8.9% +9.7% +10.7% -11.5% Equipment 205 199 +2.9% +7.3% -1.5% -2.9% Readers 355 345 +3.0% +2.7% +3.7% -3.4% TOTAL 5,065 4,989 +1.5% +2.1% +3.3% -3.9% (1) Nikon-Essilor sales in North America (€39.5 million in 2012) and Europe (€11.5 million) had previously been posted to the Asia-Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa region. Breakdown of Essilor 2013 revenue by operating segment and by region Readers Lenses and Optical Instruments 7% 89% Corrective lenses Non-prescription Optical Instruments intended reading glasses for optician / optometrist Non-prescription sunglasses Geographical breakdown of the Lenses and Optical Instruments Division As a % of total Group revenue 35% North America Equipment 4% 31% Europe Machines and consumables 16% Asia-Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa used by plants and prescription laboratories 7% Latin America Revenue generated by fast-growing countries amounted to €1,062 million, or 21% of the Group’s revenue. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 17 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 1.5.1.1 Lenses and Optical Instruments The region's overall performance masked contrasting situations in different countries. After a good start to 2013, sales in France were impacted by a difficult economic and regulatory environment ■ North America in the latter part of the year. The United Kingdom, Switzerland and certain eastern countries, such as Russia, delivered healthy In 2013, revenue in North America rose 0.5% like-for like. Over the performances, while Italy gradually returned to growth. In year, buoyant customer and product trends enabled the Company contrast, conditions were more difficult in Spain and Portugal, to successfully counteract a number of temporarily unfavorable Germany and the Benelux countries. effects in the region. In the United States, 2013 was shaped by solid volumes with major optical chains. A leading retailer enjoyed very strong ■ Asia-Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa demand for the NikonEyes line-up, while the new supply contract Revenue in the Asia-Paciﬁc-Middle East-Africa region rose 4.2% signed last year with a major national chain continued to ramp like-for-like. This performance reﬂected sustained growth in the up in 2013. In the independent laboratory segment, initiatives to Chinese and Indian domestic markets as well as the improved give new impetus to the sales force delivered positive results. product mix, both of which were partially offset by a decline Among mutual insurance companies, a new supply contract with in export sales and softer demand in the region's developed the nation's no. 2 provider took effect in the last months of the economies. year. These factors offset the non-renewal of two supply contracts with mid-sized chains during the year, as well as the unfavorable In China, domestic business was buoyed by the large number of basis of comparison resulting from the number of anti-reﬂective new product launches, such as the Crizal UV lenses and the midsolutions delivered to LensCrafters in 2012. range anti-fatigue lenses, which helped to drive noticeable market share gains. The decline in export business reﬂected more cyclical Concerning the product line-up, the year saw strong growth trends exogenous to China. for Xperio polarized lenses, lifted by the positive impact of its advertising campaign. The end-2013 launch of Crizal Prevencia All of the networks in India delivered double-digit growth, led by helped to revitalize sales in the anti-reﬂective segment. As for the Crizal and Varilux ranges, whose solid results amply exceeded Varilux progressive lenses, the new generation Varilux S series the positive impact from the launches of Crizal UV, Varilux S series received a very warm welcome but was not rolled out as quickly and other new products. as planned due to technical factors. This situation was resolved Revenue rose across the Southeast Asian countries with the late in the year. exception of Thailand, which nevertheless saw a recovery at yearIn Canada, sales to independent eyecare professionals returned to end. growth, led by the success of the Varilux Club and the advertising Among the developed economies, sales in Japan ended the year campaigns. In the chains segment, measures to promote multipledown slightly but with a signiﬁcant upturn in the fourth quarter, pair sales partially offset the effect of the new marketing strategy reﬂecting changes in the competitive environment, more favorable initiated by a major customer in 2012. In every channel, demand prior-year comparatives and new product-driven market share was buoyed by the popularity of major product innovations, gains. In Australia/New Zealand, sales were dampened by including the Varilux S series, Crizal UV, Crizal Prevencia and reduced demand in the independent optometrist channel, which Nikon-Essilor's e-Life series for intermediate vision. Lastly, the was partially offset by optical chain sales. Company strengthened its presence in the mid-range segment Operations in a number of countries weighed on the region's with the acquisition of Riverside, a group of prescription overall performance and required special attention during the laboratories that operates in Quebec and Ontario. year. Disappointing results in South Africa and Indonesia, for example, led to organizational changes. In South Korea, demand is ■ Europe suffering from the longer eyewear renewal rate, which was once one of the world's shortest. Nevertheless, the impact of this trend Revenue in Europe grew 0.5% like-for-like, attesting to the was cushioned by product mix improvements as a large number popularity of product innovations despite persistently weak of opticians continued to move upmarket. demand and more intense competition. These conditions led in particular to the loss of a contract with a major optical chain, which signiﬁcantly impacted fourth-quarter performance. ■ Latin America In this difficult environment, the new Varilux S series progressive Despite a more difficult economic environment than in 2012, lens was a resounding success in most European countries, Essilor pursued its fast growth in Latin America to report a likeincluding France and Germany. Similarly, the Crizal UV antifor-like revenue gain of 9.7%. This performance reflected the reflective lens continued to meet demand in the market, fully popularity of new products, with in particular the launch of the replacing previous versions in the range in most European Varilux S series and the changeover of the entire Crizal range countries. Lastly, sales of Xperio polarized lenses continued to to the new-generation Crizal UV during the year. In addition, grow rapidly during the year. These innovations enabled Essilor operations in the region benefited from the deployment of a to strengthen its market share in the premium segment. more assertive organization that more effectively segmented the In addition, Essilor continued to develop integrated frame and lens market among the Company's various partners, with a stronger equipment supply solutions through high value-added contracts focus on key accounts and optical chains. with leading optical chains. 18 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 1 In Brazil, the network of prescription laboratories was 1.5.1.2 Equipment strengthened with three new partnerships during the year, which extended market coverage to Minas Gerais state and the Federal The Equipment Division reported like-for-like revenue growth of 1 District (Brasilia). Growth was led by robust sales of Varilux and 7.3%, exceeding the record set in 2012 despite unfavorable priorCrizal lenses, with Crizal UV in particular being very quickly year comparatives, which were lifted by exceptional deliveries to deployed across the entire range. At the end of the year, Essilor a key account in Asia. also introduced Crizal Prevencia in the premium segment and Demand for coating machines rose steeply from US optical chains Kodak-brand lenses, which are now the standard-bearers in the as they automated anti-reflective coating operations in their mid-range segment. The appeal and name recognition of Essilor proprietary laboratories. This trend towards greater automation brands were enhanced among eyecare professionals, through a is supported across the production process by the new On-Block carefully targeted promotional campaign, and among consumers, Manufacturing solution, which is enjoying growing success among through several waves of print and TV advertising. optical chains in both Europe and North America. Revenue from Colombia is now the Essilor's second largest market in the region surfacing machines was stable, excluding the impact of the following the acquisition of Servi Optica, the country's leading exceptional deliveries in Asia in 2012. domestic distributor. During the year, the Company focused on By region, the division widened its market share in North America optimizing the product portfolio among its different distribution and certain European countries, as well as in Latin America, led networks and stepped up marketing of the Varilux and Crizal by a solid performance from lens surfacing subsidiary CMSatisloh. brands. This process also included the domestic launch of Nikon lenses. 1.5.1.3 Readers In Mexico, operations enjoyed double-digit growth despite a slowdown at year-end due to the economic environment. Business The Readers Division had a mixed year, generating like-forbenefited from the introduction of new products in the Varilux like growth of 2.7%, with much more vigorous store sales in progressive and Crizal anti-reﬂective ranges, strong demand for the second half. Space gains with a key account and extensive value-added lenses and the opportunities for optimization created collection renewals drove brisk business in the distribution of by the partnership with Crystal y Plastico. non-prescription lenses. Sunglass sales, on the other hand, were Business in Argentina was heavily impacted by drastic restrictions hurt by unfavorable weather in the United States, especially in on imports. regions where FGX International's large customers have a strong presence. Lastly, Essilor gained access to the Chilean market by partnering with Megalux, a local leader with a solid franchise among Internationally, demand was robust despite the economic independent opticians. This will help the Company to take slowdown seen in certain regions at the end of the year. FGX advantage of the very low penetration rate of value-added lenses International began marketing its lineup in Ecuador, Poland and in Chile. Algeria. Sales rebounded in Europe, with solid growth in the United Kingdom and especially in Italy, where Polinelli widened its market share. The situation was more difficult in Canada, however. ■ Instruments The year was also shaped by Stylemark's successful integration Despite a still challenging economic situation in Europe, which into FGX International and execution of the synergies plan, which accounts for the bulk of its revenue, the Instruments Division helped to strengthen FGX's market leadership and improve its returned to solid like-for-like growth of 5.5% in 2013, recording operating performance. FGX pursued its acquisitions strategy, particularly strong gains in the second half of the year. The with two major transactions completed in China and Canada (see Division's four product lines finishing instruments (mainly Section 1.5.4.1 “Acquisitions and partnerships in the year”). edgers), measurement devices, optometric equipment and small tools and consumables all contributed to the upturn. 1.5.1.4 Exceptional factors The deployment of Mr Mix, a lens ﬁnishing instrument combining the Mr Blue tracer and the Mr Orange edger, helped Essilor to No exceptional factors inﬂuenced the Group’s main businesses or strengthen its market share in Europe. The Company also reaped markets in 2013. the initial rewards of its edging system distribution agreement with Topcon in Japan. In China and Brazil, growth was very robust during the year. Lastly, Essilor worked on renewing its midrange offer with the launch of NeKsia, a ﬁnishing instrument that features new interfaces and integrates the latest generation lens centering and blocking technologies. In measurement devices, revenue was fuelled by strong demand for the M'EyeFit range, particularly in France, Germany and the United States. Sales of the optometric equipment range grew throughout the world, while in the United States, Stereo Optical delivered strong results in vision screening and vision performance measurement instruments. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 19 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 1.5.2 Innovation and key products and services launched in 2013 1.5.2.1 Innovation: at the core of the Group’s In 2013, the Group created a joint research center with Wenzhou Medical University in China to investigate myopia in strategy children. The goal of this research center is to identify the origins Since Essilor’s beginnings, innovation has been one of the Group’s and causes of this vision impairment, the factors that can affect strategic areas and a major competitive advantage. Essilor was its development, and solutions focused primarily on ophthalmic behind two major inventions in the ophthalmic industry: organic lenses, to slow its progression. This work will be conducted at the lenses and progressive lenses, both launched in 1959. Eye Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, one of the leading Every year, the Group devotes a signiﬁcant percentage of revenue Chinese research centers for vision science. to R&D: €164 million in 2013, before deduction of research tax The Group also renewed its cooperation agreement with Shanghai credit. University for three years. Signed in 2007, this cooperation which To offer innovative technical solutions, products, processes and has now led to the ﬁling of four international patents, has resulted services to meet individual vision correction needs, Essilor’s R&D in a joint research center investigating on how nanotechnology Department is organized into three branches: Optics, Physics & can be applied to surface treatments. Chemistry which studies materials and thin ﬁlms, and Disruptive Lastly, in 2013 the Group signed a new 4-year partnership with Technology. They rely on the regional networks built up with the the Vision Institute in France, one of the leading European centers world’s leading experts in these ﬁelds and on its solid base of dedicated to scientiﬁc and medical research into eye diseases, and international patents that it is constantly developing. the Pierre and Marie Curie University, Paris, specializing in science Each year sees innovations in: and medicine. This partnership led to the creation of a joint R&D laboratory dedicated to the non-pathological aging of vision. n Surface coatings; The studies conducted by this very highly qualiﬁed scientiﬁc team n Materials; and were aimed at understanding and assessing the mechanisms involved in age-related vision loss and their consequences on loss n Designs (primarily in progressive lenses). of independence. Technologies developed by other industries are regularly integrated to constantly improve Essilor’s product properties. 1.5.2.3 A global structure based on three Since 2006, Essilor has used digital surfacing technology to develop new generation progressive lenses combining: Innovation and Technology Centers n The wavefront management system, a revolutionary method for To strengthen its innovation capacity, in 2011 Essilor brought calculating progressive surface (design); together the skills and resources of the R&D, and engineering and technical support teams at three Innovation and Technology n A high-precision production technique; Centers around the world, in Europe (Créteil, France), North n New personalization options. America (Dallas, USA) and Asia (Singapore). The purpose of these centers was to optimize quality, performance, product development and launch time on world markets, in response to 1.5.2.2 R&D partnerships focusing on innovation customer expectations and the speciﬁcs of each market, and to be In developing its products, Essilor networks with many able to identify and forge the best research partnerships. universities, public and private research centers, and R&D In 2013, the Group opened its Innovation and Technology Center teams in other industrial sectors (major groups or innovative in Europe, the ﬁnal stage in this global project. Bringing together SMEs). The Group’s R&D work and partnership projects focus on some 900 technicians, this is the biggest private research center ﬁve main lines which are vision health and protection, myopia, in the world dedicated to ophthalmic optics. customization and segmentation, the challenge of aging vision, The Group has also strengthened its teams at two other Innovation and last but not least the brightness management (photochromic and Technology Centers, especially in ﬁne chemistry in Asia and properties, dazzle, etc.). polarizing lenses in the United States. 20 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 1 1 CRETEIL Grenoble Norway Toulouse London Montreal, QC Germany Tokyo DALLAS San Diego Boston, MS Madrid Shanghai Chihuahua, MX Tampa, FL Tel Aviv Bangkok Bangalore Singapore Jakarta ASIA Rio de Janeiro Melbourne 1.5.2.4 Patents territory and to sell the lenses with that technology in a speciﬁc territory. At the end of 2013, the Group, including the companies in which it owns all the capital (BNL, Gentex Optics, FGX International, Essilor also cross-charges a portion of the costs of the central Rupp and Hubrach, Satisloh and Signet Armorlite) and their functions providing support to Group subsidiaries. subsidiaries, held 1,100 patent families representing a total of The Group is not dependent on any contracts, patents or licenses over 5,500 patents and patent applications in France and abroad. or on any one or several customers that currently have a material The Group’s very active innovation policy is sustained and impact on its operations or that could have a signiﬁcant impact on strengthened by an equally active intellectual property policy, expiration. Similarly, it is not dependent on any supply contracts, both upstream, to support innovation (by using patents as a tool since purchases are spread among a number of suppliers. All for innovation) and downstream, to optimize protection for all contracts are on arm’s length terms. innovations. Accordingly, in 2013, Essilor International and its wholly-owned 1.5.2.5 More than 200 new products launched subsidiaries achieved an all-time record in terms of ﬁling new in 2013 inventions by ﬁling 107 patent applications that year. Every year, the Group launches more than 200 new products. This It is also Group policy to prevent patent infringements. As such, all high number reﬂects the increasing customization of lenses and Group employees have access to guides, forms and awarenessthe Group’s desire to fulﬁll special requests. raising sessions on intellectual property to create, protect and defend the Essilor group’s intellectual property around the world. In 2013 it launched the new anti-reﬂective lens Crizal Prevencia, the ﬁrst-ever preventive lens to protect both against harmful blue The commitments given in the context of exclusive or nonrays, one of the risk factors in age-related macular degeneration exclusive use of patents through licenses are not material. (AMD), and against UVs, implicated in the onset of cataracts. Essilor International, as the owner of the technology and knowDeveloped using its exclusive Light Scan technology that filter how patents, grants its subsidiaries a non-exclusive license for light, this lens lets beneﬁcial blue light through while blocking the the use of the technologies to manufacture lenses in a speciﬁc harmful violet-blue rays emitted by the sun as well as by artiﬁcial Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 21 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 lights such as cold white LEDs, computers and smartphones. Polaroid brand, whose reputation is a major advantage in the This major innovation, thanks to a 4-year research program in mass market. partnership with the Vision Institute that included in vitro tests In the Readers segment, FGX International launched Crystal exposing retinal cells to light, is a scientiﬁc ﬁrst in ophthalmic Vision, a new range of reading glasses that reduce visual fatigue optics. These tests identiﬁed 435 nm wavelengths (± 10 nm ) as and provide optimal clarity of vision while reducing scratching, being the most harmful to the retina. smudging and brightness. Still in the ﬁeld of blue light, the Group also launched “blue cut” For people with low vision, Prodigi Duo is the ﬁrst conﬁgurable lenses that block all the blue light responsible for brightness. vision assistant that automatically checks the size and format of Called SeeCoat Blue, Neva Blue and I-Relief, these lenses are ideal the text in each user’s ﬁeld of vision, and suggests an appropriate, for occasional use to provide more comfortable viewing when, for voice-delivered adjustment. It is the fruit of the combined example, working on a computer for an extended period of time. expertise of Essilor’s Myopia Center, based on an analysis of In the mid-range, BBGR’s new Intuitiv lens is the first-ever the needs and visual acuity of visually impaired people and progressive lens to take the posture of right-handers and their conﬁguration, and those used in the electronics and image left-handers into account. It uses two exclusive and patented processing of Humanware, a company acquired by Essilor in technologies: Ergonomic Technology identifies the useful field 2013. Humanware is a world leader in the design and distribution of vision depending on the posture of the eyeglass wearer, and of electronic assistance products for the visually impaired and Vision Booster uses new calculation technology coupled with blind. This product won the Silmo d’Or Award in the Short-Sighted dual surfacing, to offer enhanced optics that provide a wider category at the Paris International Optics and Eyewear Exhibition field of vision and unrivalled comfort for both close work and in September 2013. intermediate vision. This lens won the Silmo d’Or Award in the In 2013 the Group also launched a prototype for augmentedVision category at the Paris International Optics and Eyewear reality smart glasses designed to improve the visual perception Exhibition in September 2013. of the visually impaired. This prototype is currently being tested The Shamir Autograph III progressive lens was launched at the by a number of visually impaired people in France and the United MIDO International Optics and Eyewear Exhibition in Milan. It relies States. on four innovative technologies that maximize viewing comfort As for sales-support instruments for opticians and services, the based on the power of the lens, its position on the person’s head, Group has accelerated its differentiation in customization by screen clarity, and stability. distributing ever-more efficient measurement tools. Following In the latter part of the year, the Group also rolled out to its BBGR the acquisition of Interactive Visual Système, it launched the and Kodak lenses the most complete visual UV protection with an new measurement feature Visioffice 2 which allows opticians to E-SPF (Eye-Sun Protection Factor) of 25. take all physiological and behavioral measurements using newgeneration ergonomics and connectivity. It has also encouraged The Transitions Signature photochromic lens began its European the use of in-store interactive sales-support tablets and roll-out in 2013 and continued in the rest of the world in 2014. measuring devices. It beneﬁts from the new Chromea7 technology: a new exclusive formulation composed of eight special pigments that activate Lastly, the Marketing, R&D and Engineering Departments have more molecules to absorb more light. The lens is therefore more prepared product launches for 2014, in particular the Transitions reactive to light intensity as well as to indirect light, thereby Signature photochromic lens to be launched in early 2014 outside reacting to darker tints faster than previous versions while Europe; the Varilux E series progressive lens which will offer, returning faster to their clear state. from the ﬁrst quarter of 2014, a version of Nanoptix technology reserved until now to high-end Varilux S series lenses; the Optifog In the polarized sunglasses segment, reducing brightness and Smart Textile lens, a new-generation longlife anti-fog lens whose enhancing contrast while preserving the clarity of natural vision, liquid activator is replenished by a microﬁber dry cloth; and the Essilor launched Xpero Gradient Polar, the ﬁrst-ever polarized new indices e-SPF 15 and e-SPF 10, offering visual UV protection gradual color lens. This innovation extends the Xperio range to intensity designed for mid-range. more-feminine customers. The Group also announced a license agreement with Saﬁlo concerning the design, manufacture and worldwide distribution of polarized corrective lenses under the 22 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 1 1.5.3 Operating highlights 1 1.5.3.1 Production and capital expenditure ”Acquisition and partnership in the year“. In parallel, Essilor continued to optimize its network and streamline facilities in the Essilor operates 15 plants around the world: f our in North United States and Europe. America, one in Latin America, five in Europe and five in Asia, including its new plant opening in Laos in 2013. It also has For prescription laboratories, 2013 was also marked by the 13 other production plants belonging to companies with whom continuing roll-out of the Varilux S series range of progressive Essilor has set up partnerships or recently acquired. (see lenses, in North America in particular, and by the global launch of summary tables in Section 1.3.1.3. “Organization and facilities.”) Crizal Prevencia, the ﬁrst-ever lens to block the harmful effects of blue light. In 2013, Essilor’s plants including those of its partners, produced around 432 million lenses. Per material, the volumes of highFurthermore, in 2013 engineering teams around the world index lenses remained steady compared to 2012 and the lens continued to develop technologies and expertise in sunglasses production of 1.56 index continued to grow. and develop corrective sunglasses that can ajust big-brand sunglasses to the wearer’s vision. This range reproduces During the year, the Group continued to achieve significant identically the camber, tint and treatments (especially the mirror productivity gains, and recorded a decrease in production costs effect) of original non-prescription big-brand sunglasses on versus 2012. the fully-UV protective e-SPF 50 corrective sunglasses. Called In terms of capital expenditure, the Group’s main actions in 2013 “SunMax”, this range was initially launched in Spain. focused on: The Group’s global Engineering Department also developed, in n setting up and starting up two new production plants in Asia; partnership with Satisloh, an anti-reﬂection machine called “Small a first production plant in Laos for making finished Box Coater” designed to perfectly suit small production plants. polycarbonate lenses and a second in Vietnam, in partnership Satisloh is scheduled to market this machine in spring 2014. with Chemiglas, which produces high-index unifocal lenses Also in 2013, Group entities continued the DEO (Digital-Surfacing (ﬁnished or semi-ﬁnished); External Offer) roll-out to independent laboratories in the United n a proposal for automating the end of the production line (to States and Latin America. DEO is a partnership offer in digital inspect lenses package them and ship them) at the Dudley plant surfacing. It includes the installation of technologies, the supply in the United States; of semi-ﬁnished lenses, training in controlling procedures and technical support, to locally produce the lenses developed by n setting up a new production line at the Dijon plant in France, the Group. In 2013, the Group strengthened it offer by licensing intended for manufacturing high-index unifocal lenses for which its latest innovations, in particular the technologies used in the Group had obtained the “Origine France Garantie” label. manufacturing Crizal UV and Varilux S series lenses. At the end Lastly, in 2013, Operations produced a new roadmap for the of the year, more than 100 independent laboratories and partners next five years, the challenges being to improve the operating were equipped with DEO worldwide and the number of lenses efficiency of the Group’s plants and those of its partners, and to calculated and manufactured grew strongly compared to 2012. implement a “lean manufacturing” program. 1.5.3.3 Logistics 1.5.3.2 Global prescription lens production Essilor’s Logistics segment covers the Group’s entire and ﬁnishing product flow worldwide: from production sites and central Essilor has a network of 454 prescription laboratories and warehouses to prescription laboratories and sales outlets of edging centers spread around the world, including seven export eye-care professionals customers. In particular, the segment laboratories (two in Mexico, two in Thailand, two in India and simultaneously manages flows of series productions (finished one in China) making lenses mainly to the European and North lenses, mainly single-vision lenses, manufactured at the plant) American markets. and ﬂows of prescription lens productions (semi-ﬁnished lenses manufactured at the plant and then surfaced and treated at a These laboratories produce custom lenses based on orders from prescription laboratory). eye-care professionals (opticians, optometrists...) corresponding to the end-consumer’s prescription. Using semi-ﬁnished lenses, Among the year’s highlights, new-product launches mobilized all the prescription laboratories and edging centers ﬁnish the product Logistics teams, in particular for the Varilux S series in Asia and with surfacing operations, polishing, treatments (multi-layer Latin America, and for Crizal Prevencia, in a synchronized way coatings) and edging-mounting. across all continents, and Transitions Signature in Europe. These launches, associated with the integration of recently acquired In 2013, the Group’s prescription laboratories (excluding companies, entailed an increase in the number of product acquisitions and partnerships completed in 2013) produced and references managed in 2013. Despite this growth, inventories coated around 108 million lenses. remained unchanged in terms of value in 2013 (excluding the During ﬁscal year 2013, the Group continued to forge partnerships substitution effects of Transitions products), in line with the with a signiﬁcant number of laboratories around the world, mainly Group’s objectives. in North American and fast-growing countries (See Section 1.5.4.1 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 23 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 The year was also marked by the deﬁnition and implementation of During the year, the Group also strived to implement logistics a 3-year action plan for Logistics, which included in particular the synergies with recently acquired companies and, notably, to objective of optimizing global supply chain costs. Over the course internalize some of their lens purchasing that had previously been of the year, this plan led to the implementation of an integrated outsourced. supply chain in Europe. It covers all the teams working on the In 2014, the Group will continue to roll out turnkey frame and lens distribution of semi-ﬁnished lenses at prescription laboratories offers to the major distribution chains, particularly in Europe, by as well as ﬁnished lenses, with the joint objective of optimizing implementing intercontinental logistics integrating stock lenses, the ﬂows, inventories and capacities of prescription laboratories. prescription lenses and frames. The Group also opened, in August, its second distribution center in the United States, in Dallas, to split lens distribution with its historic distribution hub in Columbus. 1.5.4 Other aspects of business in 2013 1.5.4.1 Acquisitions and partnerships in the year In 2013, Essilor pursued its acquisitions and partnerships strategy. The Company acquired interests or increased its stake in 28 companies, representing combined annual revenues of around €254 million. Fifteen of these transactions were in fast-growing economies, enabling the Company to enter two new geographic markets, Chile and Nepal. 28 acquisitions and partnerships completed in 2013 DEVELOPED MARKETS PureLab LMC R.D. Prodigy Cherry Optical CPS 360 & Benson Edwards MOC Suntech Optics Humanware Onbitt Katz & Isbir Optik Klein Riverside Optical Xiamen Yarui Nemkul Optical e.Magine VIP Optical Optiplas Optical Movisia Shih Heng Frame Displays Deepak Optic Classic Optical Polycore Servioptica PSA Nilo Optiminas Comprol FAST GROWING Megalux Advanced MARKETS Optical Supplies 24 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 1 ■ Lenses and Optical Instruments n In Singapore, the Group strengthened its sunlens production North America with the acquisition of 50% of the capital of Polycore Optical, which has two production plants in Asia and three prescription 1 laboratories in Indonesia and the Netherlands (annual revenue n In the United States, Essilor of America developed new local of about €30 million). partnerships to accelerate the dissemination of cutting-edge technologies while strengthening its local roots. The Group took n In Taiwan, Essilor acquired a majority stake in Shih Heng, a control of the following prescription laboratories: major lens distributor with a prescription laboratory (annual revenue of about €6.5 million). — Classic Optical, in Ohio and specializing in health insurance plan members (annual revenue of about US$17 million); n In South Korea, Essilor Korea acquired a majority stake in Onbitt, a producer of polarized films for ophthalmic lenses — e.magine Optical, in Oklahoma (annual revenue of about (annual revenue of about €5 million). US$3 million) ; n In Australia, the Group took a minority stake in Advanced — Katz & Klein, in California (annual revenue of about Optical Supplies, a prescription laboratory in the state of US$4 million) ; Victoria (annual revenue of about €0.8 million). — Prodigy Optical, in Minnesota (annual revenue of about n In Morocco, Essilor acquired Movisia (annual revenue of about US$3.5 million) ; €1 million), a distributor of Nikon and Kodak products. — R.D. Cherry, in Michigan (annual revenue of about n In Turkey, Essilor acquired a majority stake in Isbir Optik, the US$9.8 million) ; leading distributor in its market (annual revenue of about — VIP Optical, in New Jersey (annual revenue of about €15 million). US$3.9 million). n In Israel, the Group acquired the production and marketing n Essilor also acquired a majority stake in Frame Displays, a assets of Optiplas, Essilor’s traditional distributor (annual company that designs, manufactures and distributes sales-aid revenue of about €5 million). furniture and accessories for optical retailers (annual revenue of about US$4.5 million). Latin America n In Canada, the Group accelerated its presence in the low vision n In Colombia, the Group took a minority stake in Servioptica, segment by acquiring a majority stake in Humanware, a group the local leader in distribution (annual revenue of about based in Quebec and world leader in the design and distribution €29 million). of electronic aids for the visually impaired or blind (annual n In Brazil, Essilor expanded its geographical coverage by forging revenue of about US$35 million). Essilor also strengthened its is ﬁrst partnerships in the state of Minas Gerais, the second distribution network by signing a partnership with Riverside largest state by population. Essilor also acquired a majority Optical, a group of prescription laboratories operating in the stake in PSA Nilo (annual revenue of about €6.7 million) provinces of Quebec and Ontario (annual revenue of about and Optiminas (annual revenue of about €3.7 million), two CAD26 million) and with Benson Edwards Optical Lab and CPS prescription laboratories based in Belo Horizonte. The Group 360 Optical Lab, two prescription laboratories based in the also has a base in the Federal District (Brasilia), a state of province of Ontario (annual revenue of about CAD3 million). 2.5 million inhabitants with the highest average per capita n Lastly, Shamir acquired a majority stake in PureLab LMC, a income in the country, by signing a partnership with Comproi prescription laboratory based in the province of Saskatchewan (annual revenue of about €5.4 million). (annual revenue of about CAD2 million). n The Group entered Chile by taking a majority stake in Megalux, the leading distributor in the country (annual revenue of about Europe €7 million). n In Russia, Essilor acquired a majority stake in MOC-BBGR, a joint venture owned by Marketing Optical Company, BBGR’s ■ Readers business traditional distributor (annual revenue of about €4 million). In 2013, the Group also strengthened its Readers Division with Asia-Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa the acquisition of Suntech Optics Inc. and by taking a 50% stake in n In India, the Group took a majority stake in Deepak Optic, an Xiamen Yarui Optical Company Ltd. ophthalmic lens wholesaler and Essilor’s traditional distributor n Based in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, the Suntech (annual revenue of about €1 million). Optics Inc. g roup (annual revenue of about US$15 million) n Essilor set up operations in Nepal by taking a majority stake in is a leading distributor of sunglasses and reading glasses the distributor Nemkul (annual revenue of about €0.5 million). in Canada. The company markets its glasses mainly under the proprietary brands Infokus and Solair. It also owns and distributes Ryders Eyewear, a Canadian brand of performance sunglasses with an excellent reputation among mountain bike enthusiasts. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 25 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 n Xiamen Yarui Optical Company Ltd (annual revenue of about Note: €42 million) is the Chinese leader in mid-range sunglasses. The Pursuant to the acquisition strategy conducted by the Group and in order to company designs, manufactures and markets non-prescription retain the management teams of the companies acquired, Essilor frequently sunglasses in China under various brands including Bolon acquires only a majority in the first phase, most frequently between 75% and Molsion, the two most well-known sunglass brands in the and 90%. Cross options generally expiring in three to ﬁve years are then set country.(1) The company has a production plant in Xiamen, in up with the sellers for the remaining percentage. As part of its acquisition programs and particularly in countries with strong growth, Essilor may southeast China. gradually increase its interest in target companies from 10% to 51% over a threeto ﬁve-year period or create a 50/50 joint venture. The exercise value of these options is recognized in the consolidate balance sheet, which is ■ Other agreements signed in 2013 presented in Section 3.3.2. Transitions Optical On July 29, 2013, Essilor announced the signing of an agreement 1.5.4.2 2.5 New Vision Generation to acquire the 51% stake in Transitions Optical owned by PPG. In 2013, Essilor created a new division “2.5 New Vision Transitions Optical is a leading provider of photochromic lenses Generation”. Its mission is to develop new business models to optical manufacturers worldwide. Following the transaction, that will be proﬁtable and deployable on a large scale aimed at Essilor will own 100% of the capital of Transitions Optical. promoting access to vision correction for people who do not yet Transitions Optical generated revenue of $814 million in 2012, of have it. which around $310 million with lens manufacturers other than According to the Group’s estimates, 4.3 billion people worldwide Essilor. Under the agreement, Essilor will also acquire 100% of are in need of vision correction. Among them, 2.5 billion, 95% of the capital of Intercast, a premium sunlens manufacturer based in whom live in emerging countries, have no equipment to correct Parma, Italy. In 2012, Intercast revenue stood at nearly $34 million. or protect their sight, due to lack of awareness and only limited The consideration for the transaction amounts to $1.73 billion at access to eye care professionals. If nothing is done, estimates are closing, as well as a deferred payment of $125 million over ﬁve that the number of people concerned will reach 3.2 billion by 2050. years, for 51% of the capital of Transitions Optical and 100% of The ambition of the “2.5 New Vision Generation” Division is to Intercast. reverse the trend by contributing to the Group’s target to equip Subject to various regulatory approvals, the transaction is 50 million new eyeglass wearers by 2020. expected to close during the ﬁrst half of 2014. Various business models are currently used by Essilor in China, Based on current estimates, the transaction should have a India and Brazil. These models are based on new distribution positive impact on Essilor’s ﬁnancial indicators and, in particular, channels that allow non-corrected people to have access to an accretive impact on earnings per share as of year one of the professionals who can test their sight and ﬁt them with affordable integration and of at least 5% in subsequent years. products appropriate to their needs and budgets. For example, in 2013 the Group launched the Eye Mitra program (“friend of eyes” Following the transaction, the consolidated debt-to-equity ratio in Sanskrit) in India, in partnership with one of the local skills will remain below 40%. development agencies. This program aims to provide local eye care for people in rural and semi-urban areas, by developing local Costa Inc. micro-enterprises managed by young rural people trained and On November 8, 2013, Essilor and Costa Inc. announced the equipped to do basic sight tests. signature of an agreement for the acquisition of all outstanding shares of Costa Inc., a US leader in high-performance sunglasses. The transaction was approved by the shareholders of Costa Inc. at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of January 30, 2014 and was approved by the competent regulatory authorities (see Section 3.2.3 “Subsequent events”). (1) (Source: 2012 Ipsos Poll: “Sunwear brand perception in China”). 26 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Performance of the Group in 2013 1 1.5.5 Investments made in 2013 and planned for 2014 1 1.5.5.1 Investments € millions 2013 2012 Property, plant & equipment and intangible (gross of disposals) 297 241 Depreciation and amortization 253 244 Financial investments net of cash acquired 333 171 Purchase of treasury shares 169 112 1.5.5.2 Purchases of property, plant In early 2014, Essilor made several acquisitions in various parts of the world. These acquisitions are disclosed in detail in Section 3.4, and equipment Note 31 “Subsequent events”. Capital expenditure net of the proceeds from asset sales were up at €285 million (or 5.6% of revenue) in ﬁscal 2013 compared with €232 million the previous year. 2013 was shaped by the 1.5.5.4 Principal outstanding investments implementation of a certain number of large-scale projects, Capital expenditure commitments payable represented including the ongoing construction and delivery of the Créteil approximately €68 million at December 31, 2013, corresponding Innovation and Technology Center in France, the opening of a mainly to outstanding orders for equipment, particularly for new polycarbonate lens plant in Laos, and the addition of a new export laboratories. The construction of the new registered manufacturing facility in Vietnam that expanded Essilor Korea's office in Singapore was the focus of another part of the efforts. production capacity. In terms of intangible assets, 2013 was This amount can be broken down as follows: €20 million in marked by the purchase of the Kodak license. Europe, €19 million in North America and €29 million for the rest Investments were distributed between Lenses and optical of the world. instruments (€229 million, of which €60 million for Europe, €77 million for North America and €92 million for the rest of the world), Readers (€54 million) and Equipment (€2 million). 1.5.5.5 Principal future investments In 2014, the Group will continue its capital expenditure in production and prescription. 1.5.5.3 Financial investments In the area of ﬁnance, the Group will continue its external growth Financial investments net of cash acquired amounted to strategy. €333 million in 2013, versus €171 million in 2012. These investments mainly related to acquisitions made by the Group. For more information, refer to Section 3.4, Note 31, “Subsequent events”. The Group also spent €169 million (net of disposal proceeds) on share buybacks in 2013, compared to €112 million in 2012. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 27 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Risk factors 1.6 Risk factors 1.6.1 Operational risks Operational risks are managed by the operating units concerned. member of Essilor Executive Committee. This multidisciplinary They are tasked with anticipating, to the extent possible, and committee includes, in particular, the R&D, Procurement, Logistics, actively monitoring changes in such risks in order to reduce their Engineering and Health & Safety Departments. It reviews the potentially negative impact and, if necessary, escalate them to the assumptions underlying our priorities (criticality of change, time Executive Committee. available to find a solution, impact on our processes) in terms of possible or conﬁrmed changes, establishes action plans and The risks set out below can be inherent in our industry (such as follows up these plans for key points. It also annually sends an substitution risk where raw materials are concerned), or speciﬁc up-to-date list of the main suppliers to Senior Management. to our Group (such as the risks in implementing the Group’s external growth strategy). Risks linked to the growing importance of retail Risks linked to changing economic conditions chains The Group’s sales are closely linked to ﬂuctuations in average Retail chains offering ophthalmic optical equipment to end per capita purchasing power and to the economic conditions in its consumers are playing an increasing role in a certain number of main markets. Given the persistent economic uncertainty in some the Group’s essential markets. Given the ability of these chains to of the Group’s important markets, particularly Europe, the Group attract a growing number of consumers into their stores (existing cannot exclude the possibility of a drop in consumer sales or a or potential), the Group could lose market shares if it ignores this change in consumption patterns. distribution channel, while respecting its fundamental proﬁtability objectives. To beneﬁt from the opportunities associated with fast growing markets and to diversify its geographic risk, the Group continues To respond to these challenges, Essilor has a highly diversiﬁed to gradually strengthen its new entity covering the “AMERA” portfolio of products and services, as well as a strong capacity region (Asia-Pacific, Middle East, Russia, Africa) and a second for innovation and adaptation, allowing it to offer and implement entity covering Latin America. Essilor’s growth in these regions solutions adapted to these chains’ particular needs. In a is especially strong, sustained by demographic fundamentals, competitive context conducive to the destruction of value, the the rise in purchasing power and the Group rolling out into those Group thus has advantages that give it the capacity to create, offer markets an adapted mid-range product offering. As a result, and implement new innovative business models, thereby creating the fast growing markets are an increasing part of the Group’s long-term differentiation against its competitors. revenue and rose from 18% of revenue in 2012 to 21% of revenue In addition, the Global Department of Key Accounts (under the in 2013. responsibility of an Executive Committee member) develops Another line of Essilor’s strategy is focused on capturing the a strategic overall vision of the key multinational accounts and full potential of mature markets, primarily through a policy of provides support to local teams to allow them to develop bettercontinuous innovation, stimulating upscale demand by launching adapted responses to the demands and strategies of their new differentiated products, and developing customer services business partners. This organizational structure also allows it to and solutions. better manage the complexity that some commercial agreements involve. Risks linked to substitutions of raw materials and consumables Risks linked to logistics chain management The Group’s quality of service relies on a sophisticated logistics Changing regulations (especially in the European Union, chain which aims to control, on very short time cycles, complex regulations governing the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization flows (mass production plants, laboratories, transporters, and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”)) may force us to ﬁnd new distribution centers) and an extremely large number of possible alternatives for raw materials and consumables. Changing the product combinations (over 630,000 references to suit indices, raw materials or consumables used in our glass manufacturing materials, the unique prescription of every glasses wearer, processes can theoretically lead to the inability to produce, treatments chosen, color, personalization markings, etc.). temporarily or permanently, certain types of products or treatments. This logistics chain can experience malfunctions, even temporary blockages, due to external factors (in particular natural disasters, In order to anticipate any impact, to deﬁne priorities and to review geopolitical events that can translate into blocked transportation current action plans, a Critical Raw Materials and Consumables capacity in a given country) or internal factors (in particular risks Committee (“MPCC”) meets on a monthly basis chaired by a linked to information systems, see below). All told, this could 28 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Risk factors 1 translate into long delivery delays or even a temporary inability to Risks linked to the implementation of its external supply certain customers or certain products. To reduce this inherent risk in our industry, Essilor has growth strategy 1 In the context of increasing concentration in our industry, the implemented a diversiﬁed industrial strategy aimed at spreading Group’s strategy consists of acquiring equity interests (generally risk across large network of production plants around the majority interests) in well-defined target companies, with world and at setting up distribution centers on every continent. the objective of helping them grow proﬁtably and to be able to Furthermore, with over 450 laboratories across all continents, beneﬁt from that growth. Essilor therefore needs to put in place the Group has the capacity to reorient its flows quickly in the the necessary resources to achieve the projected synergies, event of crisis. Lastly, the Group’s Logistics Department as well and oversee that these acquired partner companies develop in as its regional counterparts are responsible for implementing accordance with forecasts and operate appropriate governance substitution and business continuity solutions, especially in regard policies. Should there be execution problems following an to what it considers to be the most sensitive sites. acquisition, the profits from the external growth strategy may not be as high as expected. If the recoverable value of a Cash Risks linked to the security of information systems Generating Unit (see Section 3.4 Note 11) is less than the net book value of the assets, including goodwill, an asset impairment loss The Group’s activity depends in part on its information systems, is recognized in the income statement. particularly for ensuring the proper functioning of production, distribution, billing, reporting and consolidation, as well as for Although it cannot guarantee to achieve these objectives, Essilor effectively organizing internal and external communications. capitalizes on its extensive experience of welcoming new A failure (whether due to malfunction or malice, internal or companies into the Group and promoting its values – including external), or even a total system shutdown, could translate into entrepreneurial spirit, respect and trust – to maximize its loss or corruption of sensitive data, delivery delays, loss of market chances of success in fostering its acquisitions. Partners are shares and could adversely impact the Group’s reputation. thus invited, by various means, to invest and participate in the Group’s development – including discussion meetings with the The Group’s Information Systems Department and its local units Executive Committee. The Group also pays particular attention to contribute, through various strategies, to reducing the possibility the shareholders pact with each acquired company. that this risk would occur. These include, in particular, publishing an Information Systems security policy, distributing security With regard to the joint ventures in which it is involved, the regulations, especially those concerning compliance with local Group is not aware of specific risks other than those inherent regulations, such as the protection of personal data and bank data, in such partnerships (partner relationships, political changes implementing system backup rules, network access, technical in the countries concerned, environmental risk that may affect architecture principles aimed at ensuring enhanced system operations, etc.). integrity and robustness, and programs to raise awareness of users. 1.6.2 Market risks Market risks are managed by the Group Finance and Treasury Liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, counterparty risk Department, whose director reports to the Chief Financial Officer and the corresponding financial instruments are described in (member of the Executive Committee). Section 3.4, Notes 23 and 26. 1.6.3 Legal risks (material claims and litigation, proceedings, arbitration) The principal accounting for provisions is presented in other operating income and expenses in detail, Note 21 presents Section 3.4, Note 1.32 of the accounting principles in the notes changes in provisions and Note 28 presents Litigation. to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Furthermore, Note 5.1 of the financial statements at December 31, 2013 presents Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 29 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Risk factors Germany the market for the development, manufacture and sale of photochromic lenses between 1999 and March 2010. At the end of 2008, the German competition authorities, the “Bundeskartellamt” (“BKA”), launched an investigation into Joinder of the US cases before a federal court in Florida was possible breaches of German competition law by major players authorized in late 2010. The plaintiffs’ admissibility proceedings in the ophthalmic optics market, including two of our subsidiaries, began in the first half of 2011 and the discovery phase was Essilor GmbH and Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH. completed in late 2012. A court decision is awaited to confirm or deny the qualification of the motions as class actions and On June 10, 2010, following the investigation, the BKA sent determine the procedure’s next steps. The claims received contain official notices of ﬁnes to the major ophthalmic optic companies no claims for damages. At this stage, as of December 31, 2013, the in Germany. Accordingly, our two subsidiaries were officially Group had not recorded any provisions in relation to the above. notiﬁed of violations representing an aggregate amount of around €50 million. Essilor GmbH and Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH are contesting Japan both the grounds for the BKA’s findings and the amount of the Hoya filed a court claim in Tokyo in Japan on July 24, 2013, ﬁne which they deem to be disproportionate. Two appeals were alleging that Nikon Essilor’s product sales in Japan fell within the therefore lodged against the BKA’s decisions on June 15 and scope of patents originally registered by Seiko and sold to Hoya 16, 2010. None of the ﬁnes will be paid while these appeals are on March 15, 2013. Hoya’s claim covers Nikon Essilor sales in the pending. The Group is not currently in a position to forecast their period March to July 2013. outcome or timetable. As of December 31, 2013, the Group had made a provision in its Following the receipt of the notices from the BKA, the Group consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the amount most likely to be booked provisions of €50.7 million in its 2010 consolidated needed to settlement of this dispute. ﬁnancial statements. Since that date, there have been no further developments in proceedings. In the absence of new evidence, the provisions Other disputes created in the 2010 financial statements were maintained at In 2013, Essilor International was subject to a tax audit for ﬁscal December 31, 2013. years 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Company received a notice of adjustment pertaining to those three years and is contesting some of the adjustments requested. United States and Canada In addition, a provision of €17 million has been made in the Following the settlement of charges brought by the Federal consolidated financial statements for various tax audits and Trade Commission after an investigation into Transitions Optical disputes underway in the Group. Inc’s business practices in 2009, around twenty motions for To the Company’s knowledge, there are no other current authorization to bring class actions have been filed since late or pending legal or tax disputes, governmental or judicial March 2010 against Transitions Optical Inc, Essilor International, proceedings or arbitration which may have or have had in the past Essilor of America and Essilor Laboratories of America before US 12 months a signiﬁcant impact on the ﬁnancial position, income, and Canadian courts. The plaintiffs in these motions are alleging proﬁtability, operations or assets of the Company or Group. that the companies concerned endeavored to jointly monopolize 1.6.4 Industrial and environmental risks Industrial risks assess the risks arising from their use and to take the necessary measures to manage them. To its knowledge, the Company is in See Section 1.3 of this Registration Document, for a description of compliance with this directive. the Company’s business activities. To the Company’s knowledge, the nature of its industrial business does not present any particular risk. Environmental risks To the Company’s knowledge, the acquisitions made in activities Within the scope of the entities that it controls operationally on a signiﬁcantly different from the Company’s traditional activities, day to day basis, environmental management systems have been particularly in instruments and machine tools or pre-mounted implemented and are being maintained at upstream production glasses, have not led to any speciﬁcs in their industrial activities facilities and, where appropriate, at downstream prescription that would expose the Company to any new speciﬁc risks. laboratories. The Company aims to have the environmental management systems of all its sites audited and certiﬁed, site by The Company has set up a system to manage issues related to the site, to ISO 14001 standards. European Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances (REACH) Directive. Under REACH, companies These systems help to minimize the environmental impact of our that manufacture and import chemical substances are required to operations and prevent incidents, while also forming the basis 30 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Risk factors 1 for developing action plans based on environmental performance The Group can thus allow these new entities to benefit from improvement targets. The starting point in each case is a detailed environmental its experience and expertise in these ﬁelds so as to extend the culture of environmental risk prevention along with oversight of 1 certain management procedures and systems and the sharing of analysis to identify and qualify the related risks. best practices used by the Group. As part of the gradual widening of the boundaries of environmental Ongoing efforts to continuously improve the eco-efficiency of reporting within the Group’s consolidated companies, the production are gradually decoupling volume growth from resource Company has begun establishing regular relationships with use. selected new companies and operating departments in the Group. Thus, two key indicators are part of the “Change Accelerating Notably, but not only with the Global Environment, Health and Program” (CAP) dashBoard: the number of kilowatt hours and the Safety Department (Global EHS Department) which is in charge number of liters of water per ophthalmic lens produced. of this The Global EHS Department is within the Global Operations Department. Information about social corporate responsibility and sustainable development in presented in Section 4 of this document. 1.6.5 Insurance The Group’s wholly-owned subsidiaries have high-level risk to the halting of production following an accident), losses due prevention programs and the Group follows a risk prevention and to the interdependence of the various sites, transportation risks protection strategy designed to drive constant improvement in (covering all movements of goods) and liability risks (operating, behaviors, procedures and equipment. after-sales, clinical trials, professional and environmental liability covering also biodiversity and the cost of depolluting sites, as well Essilor’s plants throughout the world are audited by our insurers as the responsibility incumbent on Essilor and its subsidiaries to who issue reports detailing the levels of insurance cover required transport raw materials, waste and products). at each facility and, where applicable, recommending measures to reduce insurance risks. The engineering departments of Essilor’s Under the laws of certain countries, insurance cover must be insurers are consulted concerning the design and protection of taken out with local insurers, in which case the guarantees may certain construction projects and other major works as necessary. be different from those provided under the worldwide insurance The projects are reviewed and adjusted to take into account both programs. The worldwide master policy covers any excess loss the needs of the Group and the prevention targets set jointly with not covered by a local policy. the insurers. Physical assets are regularly valued by independent The Group does not have any insurance policies with a captive experts. insurance company; minority-owned entities manage their In addition, the growing geographical diversification of our insurance needs independently. operations helps to limit the potential impact of a major loss at a The Group’s policies have low deductibles and transfer given facility on the Group’s ﬁnancial position. substantially all of the risk to the insurance market. In view of the nature of the business, the Group is not exposed to No major damage was recorded in 2013 and no company of the any speciﬁc insurance risks. Group was involved in signiﬁcant insurance disputes. Insurance cover is provided mainly by our worldwide insurance To determine the required level of cover for wholly owned programs negotiated at corporate level. The programs comprise subsidiaries, the Group estimated the extent of exposure to major a master policy drawn up in France and local policies in other risks, after taking into account the mitigating effects of internal countries, which together provide the same level of cover for all controls, preventive and protective measures and alternative of our controlled subsidiaries throughout the world. ﬂows. They are placed with leading insurers that have no ties with the The maximum insurance cover for property and casualty risks Group. and business interruption was kept at €200 million in 2013 and at Local insurance policies are taken out by subsidiaries to add to the €1.5 million for transportation risks. cover provided by the worldwide programs and comply with local The total cost of the Group policies was €4.64 million in 2013. This insurance requirements. was very slightly higher than the previous year since the scope is The programs cover property and casualty risks (fire, constantly expanding as a result of the Group’s external growth explosion, machine damage, flood, theft, natural disasters), and actions to integrate subsidiaries into its insurance program. consequential business interruption (loss of gross margin due Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2 2.1 MANAGEMENT AND 2.3 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 68 SUPERVISORY BODIES 34 2.3.1 Compensation of the members of the 2.1.1 Board of Directors 34 Board of Directors 68 2.1.2 The Executive Committee 48 2.3.2 Compensation policy of corporate directors and officers 68 2.2 CHAIRMAN’S REPORT ON 2.3.3 Appendix: Compensation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and beneﬁts tables 75 AND INTERNAL CONTROL 50 2.2.1 Board of Directors Membership 50 2.4 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE REPORT 2.2.2 Preparation and organization of meetings of the Board of Directors 52 OF THE CHAIRMAN 81 2.2.3 Internal control procedures implemented by Essilor 59 2.5 SPECIAL REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS 2.2.4 Organization of powers of management and control of the Company and powers ON RELATED PARTY of the Chief Executive Officer 66 AGREEMENTS AND 2.2.5 Corporate governance 66 COMMITMENTS 82 2.2.6 Speciﬁc procedures for shareholder participation in Shareholders’ Meetings 67 2.2.7 Items that may have an impact in the event of a public offering 67 32 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2 IN BRIEF Essilor’s original governance model is a reﬂection of its ambition for growth. The Executive Committee oversees the proper functioning of operations all over the world. The Board of Directors deﬁnes the strategy and ensures the management of the company. It is supported by ﬁve working committees. The members of the governing bodies are selected based on their character and expertise. Lastly, employee shareholding, Essilor’s leading group of shareholders promotes dialogue and involves all employees in the Group’s decisions. MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Hubert SAGNIÈRES, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (a) Philippe ALFROID, not completely Independent Director (a) 15 Directors Benoît BAZIN, Independent Director of which Antoine BERNARD DE SAINT-AFFRIQUE, Independent Director Maureen CAVANAGH, Director representing employee shareholders 9 Independent Directors (b) Yves CHEVILLOTTE, Independent Director Mireille FAUGÈRE, Independent Director 3 Directors representing employee shareholders Xavier FONTANET, not completely Independent Director Louise FRÉCHETTE, Independent Director Yi HE, Director representing employee shareholders (a) Bernard HOURS, Independent Director Maurice MARCHAND-TONEL, Independent Director (a) Aïcha MOKDAHI, Director representing employee shareholders (a) Olivier PECOUX, Independent Director Michel ROSE, Independent Director (a) (a) Term to be renewed at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. (b) In application of the AFEP-MEDEF Code of June 2013, Directors representing employee shareholders are not counted when determining the percentage of Director independence. Accordingly, the independence ratio (9 out of 12) is 75%. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD n an Audit and Risk Committee n an Executive Directors and Compensation Committee n an Appointments Committee n a Strategy Committee n a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 33 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies 2.1.1 Board of Directors As of December 31, 2013, Essilor’s Board of Directors had Each committee reports to the Board on its work and the resulting 15 members, including three members representing employee proposals. shareholders. In early 2013, the work of the Audit Committee was extended The average age of Board members in 2013 was 60. to cover the monitoring of certain risks, this role being by law the responsibility of the Board, which will continue to monitor strategic risk directly (including reputation risk) and risk 2.1.1.1 Committees of the Board associated with governance of the Company. On the recommendation of the Chairman, the Board of Directors At its meeting of February 27, 2013, the Board decided to form a has ﬁve special standing committees composed of members of Corporate Social Responsibility Committee. the Board: The role, organization, operations and accomplishments of each n the Audit and Risk Committee; committee are described in Section 2.2.2.6. n the Executive Directors and Compensation Committee; n the Appointments Committee; n the Strategy Committee; n the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee. 34 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2 2.1.1.2 List of directorships at December 31, 2013 Hubert Sagnières 58 years old Number of shares: 61,079 Main position held within the Company: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (since January 2, 2012) Business address: Essilor International – 147 rue de Paris – 94227 Charenton Cedex – France First appointment as Director: May 14, 2008 Current term ends: 2014 2 Personal information – Experience and expertise Hubert Sagnières has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Essilor since January 2, 2012. He joined Essilor in 1989 as President of International Marketing. He was appointed President of Essilor Canada from 1991 to 1996, and President of Essilor Laboratories of America in 1996, then President of Essilor of America, a position he held until 2005. From 2006 to 2009, he was President, Essilor Europe and North America before being named Chief Operating Officer in August 2008, then Chief Executive Officer from January 1, 2010 to January 2, 2012. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Essilor International* Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Essilor International Chairman, Essilor of America, Inc. (USA) United States Chief Executive Officer, Essilor International Director, Essilor International and subsidiaries Chief Operating Officer, Essilor International Essilor of America, Inc. United States Chairman, Essilor of America, Inc. (USA) United States Transitions Optical Inc. (USA) Frames for America, Inc. (USA)(b) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Essilor of America, Inc. Transitions Optical Holdings B.V. (Netherlands) (USA) Essilor AMERA Pte Ltd (Singapour)(a) Director, Essilor International and subsidiaries Essilor Vision Foundation (USA) Essilor of America, Inc. United States Transitions Optical Inc. United States Frames for America, Inc. United States Essilor Canada Ltee/Ltd (Canada) Transitions Optical Holdings B.V. (Netherlands) Omics Software Inc./Logiciels Omics, Inc (Canada) Cascade Optical Ltd (Canada) Reseau Essilor in Canada Inc./Essilor Network in Canada Inc, (Canada) Groupe Vision Optique Inc. (Canada) Optique de l’Estrie Inc. (Canada) Optique Lison Inc. (Canada) Vision Optique Inc. (Canada) (Canada) Vision Optique Technologies Ltée (Canada) Visionware Inc. Canada Westlab Optical Ltd (Canada) Nassau Lens Co., Inc. (USA) K&W Optical Limited (Canada) Vision Web Inc. (USA) Econo-Optic Ltée (Canada) Essilor Vision Foundation (USA) (a) Term of office started during the ﬁscal year. (b) Term of office expired during the ﬁscal year. * Listed company. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 35 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies Philippe Alfroid Not completely Independent Director 68 years old Number of shares: 260,743 Business address: Not applicable – retired since June 30, 2009 First appointment as Director: May 6, 1996 Current term ends: 2014 Personal information – Experience and expertise Philippe Alfroid was Chief Operating Officer of Essilor until his retirement in June 2009. He began his career with PSDI in Boston before joining the Essilor group in 1972. He has held executive positions in different operational departments, including contact lenses and frames. He was appointed Vice President Financial Control in 1987 and promoted to Chief Financial Officer in 1991. He was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 1996. Philippe Alfroid, who served as Chief Financial Officer and then as Chief Operating Officer, brings to the Board his very broad knowledge of the company. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Faiveley Transport* Chief Operating Officer, Essilor International Director Chairman Eurogerm* Essilor of America, Inc. (USA) Essilor of America, Inc. (USA) Omega Optical Holdings, Inc. (USA) Gemalto N.V. (Netherlands)* Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Faiveley Transport Director Sperian Protection Essilor of America, Inc. (USA) Gentex Optics, Inc. (USA) EOA Holding Co, Inc. (USA) EOA Investment, Inc. (USA) Omega Optical Holdings, Inc. (USA) Essilor Canada Ltee/Ltd (Canada) Pro Optic Canada Inc. (Canada) Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Ltd (China) Faiveley Transport Eurogerm Gemalto N.V. (Netherlands) * Listed company. 36 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2 Benoît Bazin Independent Director 45 years old Number of shares: 1,000 Major positions: Executive Vice President, Compagnie de Saint-Gobain Chairman, Saint-Gobain Distribution Bâtiment, Building Distribution Division Business address: Saint-Gobain – Les Miroirs – 18 avenue d’Alsace – 92096 Paris La Défense – France First appointment as Director: May 15, 2009 2 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise Benoît Bazin is a Senior Vice President and Director of Building Distribution Sector with the Saint-Gobain group and Executive Vice President at Compagnie de Saint-Gobain. He began his career with Saint-Gobain in 1993 as project manager. He was successively Corporate Planning Director from 2000 to 2002, President of the Abrasives – North America division from 2002 to 2005 and Chief Financial Officer from 2005 until 2009. Benoît. Bazin brings to the Board his experience as Chief Financial Officer and senior manager of a major international group. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Saint-Gobain group Saint-Gobain group Executive Vice President, Compagnie de Saint-Gobain* Executive Vice President, Compagnie de Saint-Gobain Chairman Chairman Saint-Gobain Distribution Bâtiment Sas Saint-Gobain Distribution Bâtiment Sas Partidis Sas Partidis Sas Saint-Gobain Distribution Bâtiment Suisse AG (Switzerland) Chairman of the Supervisory Board Point P S.A. Chairman of the Supervisory Board Lapeyre Point P S.A. Lapeyre Chairman of the Board of Directors Projeo Chairman of the Board of Directors Saint-Gobain Distribution Nordic AB (Scandinavia) Projeo Saint-Gobain Distribution Nordic AB (Scandinavia) Director Fondation Saint-Gobain Initiatives Director Jewson Ltd (United Kingdom) Fondation Saint-Gobain Initiatives Saint-Gobain Building Distribution Ltd (United Kingdom) Jewson Ltd (United Kingdom) Norandex Building Material Distribution Inc. (USA) Saint-Gobain Building Distribution Ltd (United Kingdom) Norandex Building Material Distribution Inc. (USA) Member of the Supervisory Board Saint-Gobain Building Distribution Deutschland GmbH Member of the Supervisory Board (Germany) Saint-Gobain Building Distribution Deutschland GmbH Saint-Gobain Distribution The Netherlands B.V. (Netherlands) (Germany) Saint-Gobain Distribution The Netherlands B.V. (Netherlands) * Listed company. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 37 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies Antoine Bernard de Saint-Affrique Independent Director 49 years old Number of shares: 1,000 Major position: President of Foods at Unilever Business address: Unilever – 100 Victoria Embankment – Blackfriars – London EC4P 4BQ – United Kingdom First appointment as Director: May 5, 2009 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise Antoine Bernard de Saint-Affrique is President of Foods at Unilever. He joined Unilever in 2000 after serving as Marketing Director of Amora-Maille (Danone group then PAI), holding the positions of Vice President, Sauces and Condiments Europe until 2003 and of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Unilever Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia from 2003 to 2005. He was subsequently Vice President of the Unilever group, in charge of Central and Eastern Europe and Russia from March 2005 until August 2009 and Executive Vice President in charge of skin products for the Group from August 2009 to September 2011. Antoine Bernard de Saint-Affrique brings to the Board his international experience and his expertise in marketing and sales. POSITION AND TERM OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Unilever group President of Foods at Unilever President of Foods at Unilever* Executive Vice President, Unilever, Skin Care and Skin Cleansing Unilever (Central & Eastern Europe) Director Inmarko (Russian Federation) Icosmeticals SAS * Listed company. 38 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2 Yves Chevillotte Independent Director 70 years old Number of shares: 2,257 Business address: Not applicable – retired since January 2004. First appointment as Director: May 14, 2004 Current term ends: 2016 Personal information – Experience and expertise Yves Chevillotte was Chief Operating Officer of Crédit Agricole SA since 2002 before his retirement in 2004. He joined Crédit Agricole in 1969 and was appointed head of the bank’s regional branches in 1985. In 1999, he joined Caisse Nationale as Executive Vice President in charge of the Market Development Division. Yves Chevillotte brings to the Board his experience as senior manager of a major international bank and his knowledge of ﬁnancial matters. 2 POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Board of Directors Arvige Arvige G.A.S.F.O. G.A.S.F.O. Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors SA Soredic Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors SA Soredic Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Finaref Director Mission Possible F.R.A.C. Mireille Faugère Independent Director 57 years old Number of shares: 1,000 Business address: Not applicable First appointment as Director: May 11, 2010 Current term ends: 2016 Personal information – Experience and expertise Mireille Faugère was Chief Executive Officer of Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP) until November 13, 2013. A graduate of École des Hautes Études Commerciales de Paris, she joined the SNCF in the early 1980s, working in operational positions. She was then given responsibility for the TGV Méditerranée network, SNCF’s ﬂagship project. Starting in 1996, she took over the Sales and Marketing Action Department and created the voyages-sncf.com website in 2000. From 2003 to 2010, she was General Manager of the high-speed branch of SNCF. Mireille Faugère is also an Independent Director at EDF and chairs the Ethics Committee of the EDF Board of Directors. Mireille Faugère brings to the Board her expertise in marketing and sales and her knowledge of the world of healthcare. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Chief Executive Officer, Assistance Publique Chief Executive Officer Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP)(b) Assistance Publique – Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP) Director, EDF* SNCF Voyages Chairman, Voyage-sncf.com Director EDF SNCF Voyages Développement SNCF Participations * Listed company. (b) Term of office expired during the ﬁscal year. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 39 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies Xavier Fontanet Not completely Independent Director 65 years old Number of shares: 276 960 Business address: Not applicable retired since December 31, 2011 First appointment as Director: June 15, 1992 Current term ends: 2016 Personal information – Experience and expertise Xavier Fontanet was Chairman and CEO of Essilor from 1996 to 2009, then Chairman of the Board of Directors from January 1, 2010 to January 2, 2012. He is still a Director. He began his career as Vice President of the Boston Consulting group and became Chief Executive Officer of Bénéteau in 1981. He managed food service operations for the Wagons-Lits group from 1986 until 1991. He joined Essilor in 1991 as Chief Executive Officer. Xavier Fontanet brings to the Board his extensive knowledge of the ophthalmic optics industry and of the company. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Director Chairman of the Board of Directors, Essilor International L’Oréal* (Chairman of the Appointments and Governance Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Essilor International Committee) Schneider Electric SA* Chairman EOA Holding Co., Inc. (USA) Permanent representative of Essilor International Nikon and Essilor International Joint Research on the Board of Directors of Association Nationale Center Co Ltd (Japan) des Sociétés par Actions (Ansa) Director Essilor International and subsidiaries Essilor of America, Inc. (USA) Transitions Optical Inc. (USA) EOA Holding Co, Inc. (USA) Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Ltd (China) Transitions Optical Holdings B.V. (Netherlands) Nikon-Essilor Co. Ltd (Japan) Nikon and Essilor International Joint Research Center Co Ltd (Japan) Essilor Manufacturing India Private Ltd (India) Essilor India PVT Ltd (India) Essilor Amico (L.L.C.) (United Arab Emirates) External companies L’Oréal Crédit Agricole SA Fonds stratégique d’investissement (SA) Member of the Supervisory Board, Schneider Electric SA Permanent representative of Essilor International on the Board of Directors of Association Nationale des Sociétés par Actions (Ansa) * Listed company. 40 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2 Louise Fréchette Independent Director 67 years old (Canadian nationality) Number of shares: 1,000 Business address: Not applicable First appointment as Director: May 11, 2012 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise Louise Fréchette is Chairman of the Board of Directors of CARE Canada and a member of the Board of Directors of CARE International. She is also a member of the Global Leadership Foundation. From 1998 to 2006, she was the Deputy Secretary2 General of the United Nations, the ﬁrst appointee to this position. Prior to that, she pursued a career in the Public Service of Canada, serving as Ambassador to Argentina, Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Associate Deputy Minister of Finance and Deputy Minister of National Defense. Louise Fréchette brings to the Board, among other things, her UN and nongovernmental organizations experience, her knowledge of emerging countries and her experience in sustainable development and governance matters. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Chairman of the Board of Directors, CARE Canada Chairman of the Board of Directors CARE CANADA (Canada) Member of the Board of Directors Pearson Peacekeeping Centre (Canada) CARE CANADA (Canada) CARE INTERNATIONAL (Canada) Member of the Board of Directors Montreal Board of International Relations (Canada)(b) CARE CANADA (Canada) Pearson Peacekeeping Centre (Canada) Montreal Board of International Relations (Canada) (b) Term of office expired during the ﬁscal year Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 41 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies Yi He Director representing employee shareholders 60 years old (Chinese nationality) Number of shares: 16,998 Major position: Chairman of Essilor (China) Holding Company (China) Business address: Unit D2, 20th Floor – N∞ 398 Huai Hai Middle Road – Luwan District – Shanghai – China P.R.C. 200020 First appointment as Director: January 27, 2010/May 11, 2010 Current term ends: 2014 Personal information – Experience and expertise Yi He is a Director representing Valoptec Association. Since September 2010, he has been Chairman of Essilor (China) Holding Company (China). After studying Management and Strategy at École des Hautes Études Commerciales, in 1991 he joined Danone group as Chief Executive Officer of the Shanghai subsidiary. He joined the Essilor group in 1996 as Chief Executive Officer of Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Ltd (China). POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Essilor International and subsidiaries Essilor International and subsidiaries Chairman and Director of Essilor (China) Chairman and Director of Essilor (China) Holding Company (China) Holding Company (China) Chief Executive Officer and Director, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Ltd (China) Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Ltd (China) Director Director Danyang Sales and Distribution Co. Ltd (China) Danyang Sales and Distribution Co. Ltd (China) Jiangsu Wanxin Optical Co. Ltd (China) Jiangsu Wanxin Optical Co. Ltd (China) Jiangsu Youli Optical Spectables Ltd (China) Jiangsu Youli Optical Spectables Ltd (China) Xin Tianhong Optical Co. Ltd (China) Shanghai Nvg Optics Co. Ltd (China) Shanghai Nvg Optics Co. Ltd (China) Member of the Board of Directors, Valoptec Association Member of the Board of Directors, Valoptec Association Member of the Supervisory Board, Member of the Supervisory Board, Essilor group 7-year FCPE Essilor group 7-year FCPE External company External company Sun Art Retail Group Ltd (China) Sun Art Retail Group Ltd (China) 42 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2 Bernard Hours Independent Director 57 years old Number of shares: 1,222 Major position: Deputy General Manager, Danone (S.A.) Business address: DANONE – 17 boulevard Haussmann – 75009 Paris – France First appointment as Director: May 15, 2009 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise 2 Bernard Hours has been Co-Chief Executive Officer of Danone since 2008 and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since April 2011. He joined Danone in 1985, working ﬁrst in sales and marketing for Evian and Kronenbourg, then as Marketing Director for Danone France in 1990. He was then President of Danone Hungary (1994) and Danone Germany (1996) before becoming President of LU France in 1998. In 2001, he joined the Dairy Division as President of Business Development and became Vice President of that Division in 2002. Bernard Hours brings to the Board his experience as a senior manager of a major international group and his knowledge in the ﬁeld of marketing and sales. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Danone group Danone group Deputy General Manager and Vice Chairman of the Board Deputy General Manager and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, Danone (S.A.)* of Directors, Danone (S.A.) Managing Director Danone Trading B.V. (The Netherlands)(a) Chairman of the Supervisory Board (b) Danone Baby and Medical Nutrition B.V. (Netherlands) Member of the Supervisory Board, Ceprodi Danone Baby and Medical Nutrition Netherland Director (Netherlands) Danone (S.A.)* Member of the Supervisory Board, Ceprodi Flam’s Danone Industria (Russia) Director OJSC Unimilk Company (Russia) Danone (S.A.) Fondation d’Entreprise Danone (Association) Flam’s Danone Industria (Russia) Permanent representative of Danone (S.A.) Danone S.A. OJSC Unimilk Company (Russia) (Spain) Colombus Café External company Stonyﬁeld Farm, Inc. (USA) Essilor of America, Inc. (USA) Fondation d’Entreprise Danone (Association) Permanent representative of Danone (S.A.) Danone S.A. (Spain) External company Essilor of America, Inc. (USA) (a) Term of office started during the ﬁscal year. (b) Term of office expired during the ﬁscal year. * Listed company. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 43 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies Maurice Marchand-Tonel Independent Director 69 years old Number of shares: 1,000 Major positions: Senior Advisor, BearingPoint France SAS Advisor Director, Invescorp. Bank B.S.C. Business address: Not applicable First appointment as Director: November 22, 2006/May 11, 2007 Current term ends: 2014 Personal information – Experience and expertise Maurice Marchand-Tonel is an independent consultant. He began his career in 1970 with Boston Consulting group, and then served successively as Chairman of Compagnie Olivier (1979), Chief Executive Officer of Sommer (1984) and Chairman of Givenchy (1987). Next, he headed Ciments Français International and Transalliance. In 2000, he became a partner at Arthur Andersen/BearingPoint where he is Senior Advisor since 2004. He is President of the European American Chamber of Commerce, Advisory Director of Investcorp, Senior Advisor at Newbury Pinet (Boston) and member of the Supervisory Board of Faiveley Transport. Maurice Marchand-Tonel brings to the Board his experience both as a senior manager and as a high-level corporate advisor. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Chairman, European American Chamber of Commerce (France) Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Du Pareil au Même Member of the Supervisory Board, Faiveley Transport* Member of the Supervisory Board, Faiveley Transport Director Chairman, European American Chamber of Commerce European American Chamber of Commerce (Cincinnati, USA) (France) European American Chamber of Commerce (New York, USA) Director Faiveley Transport European American Chamber of Commerce (Cincinnati, USA) European American Chamber of Commerce (New York, USA) French American Chamber of Commerce (Chicago, USA) * Listed company. 44 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2 Aïcha Mokdahi Director representing employee shareholders 58 years old Number of shares: 13,251 Major position: Essilor Vision Foundation VP – Europe and AMERA (Asia-Paciﬁc, Middle East, Russia, Africa) Business address: Essilor International – 147 rue de Paris – 94227 Charenton Cedex – France First appointment as Director: January 24/May 11, 2007 Current term ends: 2014 Personal information – Experience and expertise 2 Aïcha Mokdahi has been VP of Essilor Vision Foundation – Europe and AMERA (Asia-Pacific , Middle East, Russia, Africa) since October 1, 2013 and President of Valoptec Association. She began her career in 1976 in the Frames Division, where she successively held the positions of product manager, logistics manager and sales development manager. In 1990, she joined the Lens Division, holding various managerial positions in the Global Operations Department including that of Logistics Director Europe until year-end 2003. From 2004 to 2008, she was head of acquisitions at Essilor subsidiary BBGR. From 2008 to the end of September 2013, she was the Essilor Supply Chain Director for Europe. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Chairman of the Board of Directors, Valoptec Association Chairman of the Board of Directors, Valoptec Association Member of the Supervisory Board, Essilor group 7-year FCPE Member of the Supervisory Board, Essilor group 7-year FCPE Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 45 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies Olivier Pécoux Independent Director 55 years old Number of shares: 1,000 Major positions: Managing Director, Paris-Orléans Managing Partner, Rothschild et Cie Banque Business address: Rothschild & Cie – 23 bis avenue de Messine – 75008 Paris – France First appointment as Director: January 31, 2001/May 3, 2001 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise Since March 2010, Olivier Pécoux has been Managing Partner of Rothschild & Cie Banque, Managing Director for investment banking for Rothschild group, where he started working in 1991 and Managing Director and Member of the Executive Board of Paris-Orléans group since 2012. He began his career at Peat Marwick then at Schlumberger as a ﬁnancial advisor in Paris and New York. In 1986, he joined Lazard Frères in Paris and was named Vice President of the investment bank’s New York office in 1988. Olivier Pécoux brings to the Board his experience in ﬁnancial and banking matters and his extensive knowledge of Essilor for which he has been instrumental since 2001. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Rothschild group Rothschild group Managing Director, Paris-Orléans* Managing Director and Member of the Executive Board, (b) Paris-Orléans Member of the Executive Board, Paris-Orléans* Managing Partner Managing Partner, Rothschild et Cie Banque Rothschild et Cie Managing Partner, Rothschild et Cie Banque Managing Rothschild et Cie Banque Director, P.O. Gestion Director Director Rothschild España (Spain) Rothschild España (Spain) Rothschild Italia (Italy) Rothschild Italia (Italy) Rothschild GmbH (Germany) Rothschild GmbH (Germany) Member of the Supervisory Board Financière Rabelais External Company Extend Capital (b) Term of office expired during the ﬁscal year. * Listed company. 46 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2 Michel Rose Independent Director 70 years old Number of shares: 1,000 Business address: Not applicable – retired since May 1, 2008 First appointment as Director: May 13, 2005 Current term ends: 2014 Personal information – Experience and expertise Michel Rose was Co-Chief Executive Officer of Lafarge, where he was mainly responsible for the Cement Division before retiring in 2008. He joined Lafarge in 1970 as an engineer, moved to the Research Center and was later named to lead the group’s Internal 2 Communications Department. After managing Lafarge’s activities in Brazil from 1980 to 1984, he was named Executive Vice President Human Resources and Communication and later headed the Biotechnologies Division. He was appointed Senior Executive Vice President in 1989, served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lafarge North America from 1992 to 1995 and was named to manage the company’s operations in high-growth markets in 1996. In 2003, he became Chief Operating Officer of the Lafarge group in charge of the Cement Division. Michel Rose brings to the Board his experience in human resources and senior management of a major international group. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Director Director Lafarge Maroc (Morocco) La Poste Malayan Cement (Malaysia) Neopost Lafarge Maroc (Morocco) Malayan Cement (Malaysia) Unicem (Niger) Chairman, Fondation de l’Ecole des Mines de Nancy Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 47 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2.1.1.3 Director whose term began during ﬁscal year 2013 Maureen Cavanagh Director representing employee shareholders 50 years old (American nationality) Number of shares: 1 704 Major position: Chairman of Nassau Lens Co, Inc. (USA) and 00GP, Inc. (USA) Business address: 13515 N Stemmons Frwy – Dallas, TX 75234 (USA) First appointment as Director: November 27, 2012 / May 16, 2013 Current term ends: 2016 Personal information – Experience and expertise Maureen Cavanagh has been Chairman of Nassau Lens Company since December 2009 and of OOGP since May 2012. After working at Johnson & Johnson, she joined Essilor in October 2005. Since May 2012, she represents the Essilor Association of Employee Shareholders in the United States and is a member of the Board of Directors. She brings to the Board her experience and knowledge of the ophthalmic industry. In addition, she contributes to broadening the international representation and diversity on the Board. POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD POSITIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE HELD AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Chairman: Chairman: Nassau Lens Co, Inc. (USA) Nassau Lens Co, Inc. (USA) 00GP, Inc. (USA) 00GP, Inc. (USA) Director Director Nassau Lens Co, Inc. (USA) Nassau Lens Co, Inc. (USA) 00GP, Inc. (USA) 00GP, Inc. (USA) Shore Lens Co, Inc. (USA) Shore Lens Co, Inc. (USA) Member of the Board of Directors, Valoptec Association Member of the Board of Directors, Valoptec Association 2.1.2 The Executive Committee Chaired by Hubert Sagnières, the committee is made up of all of its activities. It plays a unifying role by liaising with the the Company’s top corporate and business executives, with Company’s other cross-functional Boards and committees. The either worldwide responsibilities – for example corrective lens Executive Committee is tasked with reviewing, understanding, manufacturing – or regional responsibilities (Europe, North considering, implementing and organizing the Company’s America, Latin America, Asia-Paciﬁc and Africa). strategy and in some cases, making strategic decisions. It reviews proposed changes and the Group’s mediumand longThe Executive Committee holds around nine two-day meetings term outlook and goals. It issues opinions on the actions to be each year to review the Company’s business performance and implemented in order to achieve them. 48 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management and supervisory bodies 2 As of December 31, 2013, the Executive Committee has 24 members. Tadeu Alves President, Latin America Region Eric Bernard Chief Operations Officer, AMERA (Asia-Paciﬁc, Middle East, Russia, Africa) Jayanth Bhuvaraghan Chief Corporate Mission Officer Carl Bracy Executive Vice President, Marketing & Business Development, Essilor of America Jean Carrier-Guillomet President, Essilor of America Patrick Cherrier President AMERA Region (Asia-Paciﬁc, Middle East, Russia, Africa) Lucia Dumas-Bezian Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications Bernard Norbert Duverneuil Gorny Chief Information Officer Senior Vice President, Satisloh, Equipment and Consumables activities 2 Réal Goulet President, Essilor Laboratories of America Lena Henry Chief Strategy Officer Eric Leonard President, Europe Region Frédéric Mathieu Corporate Senior Vice President, Human Resources Eric Perrier Corporate Senior Vice President, Research and Development Géraldine Picaud Chief Financial Officer Patrick Poncin Corporate Senior Vice President, Global Engineering Thierry Robin Senior Vice President, Digital Surfacing Strategic Opportunity Bertrand Roy Senior Vice President of Strategic Partnerships Kevin Rupp Executive Vice President, Finance & Administration, Essilor of America Hubert Sagnières Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Paul du Saillant Chief Operating Officer Eric Thoreux Corporate Senior Vice President, Strategic Marketing Laurent Vacherot Chief Operating Officer Carol Xueref Corporate Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs and Development Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 49 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control To the Shareholders, The purpose of this report is to help shareholders understand our Company’s management processes and methods. Pursuant to Article L.225-37(6) to (10) of the French Commercial Code, I present below my report regarding: This report was prepared after certain procedures had been performed, in particular by the Corporate Senior Vice President, n Board membership and the application of the principle of equal Legal Affairs. Section 2.2.3 was prepared in close collaboration representation of men and women on it; with the Internal Audit Department, based on written consultations n the preparation and organization of Board Meetings during the and discussions with the heads of the various departments ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2013; involved in internal control at the corporate level. It was presented n the Company’s internal control and risk management to the Audit Committee (on February 24, 2014) before being procedures; presented to the Board of Directors. This makes it possible for priorities and works in progress to be validated and for awareness n any restrictions on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer of the importance of internal controls to the Company to be decided by the Board of Directors; raised. We also relied on the principles of the AMF (Autorité des n the Corporate Governance Code adopted by the Company, any Marchés Financiers) reference framework for risk management provisions of that Code not applied by the Company and the and internal control procedures for listed companies for the reasons for not applying them; preparation of this report. Finally, the contents of this report were approved by the Board of Directors on February 26, 2014. n specific procedures for shareholder participation in Shareholders’ Meetings; We are committed to steadily improving our corporate governance, year after year, not only in terms of the practices of the Board n the principles and rules applied by the Board of Directors to of Directors and the Board Committees but also as regards the determine the Executive officer’s compensation and beneﬁts; Company’s internal control procedures. n contracts containing a change of control clause. 2.2.1 Board of Directors Membership Article 12 of Essilor’s bylaws stipulates that the Company’s affairs 2.2.1.2 Term of office of members are to be managed by a Board of Directors of no less than three of Board of Directors and no more than ﬁfteen members, not including Board members representing employee shareholders (Article 24.4). Board members are currently elected for a three-year term and may stand for re-election. The terms of one-third of the Directors At December 31, 2013, Essilor’s Board of Directors had ﬁfteen expire at an Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, so that the entire members, including three members representing employee Board is re-elected over a rolling three-year period. To help make shareholders. An amendment of the bylaws to allow for the the renewal process smoother, at its meeting of February 26, appointment of a Board member representing employees under 2014, the Board of Directors decided to submit a revision of the Employment Security Law will be subject to the approval of Article 14 of the Bylaws to the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. on May 7, 2014. 2.2.1.1 Representation of women 2.2.1.3 Qualifying shares on the Board of Directors In accordance with Article 13 of the Bylaws in force at The Board of Directors currently has four women among its ﬁfteen December 31, 2013, each Director must own at least 1,000 members and therefore complies with the provisions of Article 5. shares in the Company. The Board of Directors, at its meeting of II of Law 2011-013 of January 27, 2011 applicable to companies February 26, 2014, decided to submit a revision of Article 13 of the whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market, Bylaws to the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held on May 7, 2014. according to which the proportion of Directors or members of the Supervisory Board of each sex cannot be less than 20% at the end of the ﬁrst Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held after January 1, 2014. See also “Major accomplishments of the Appointments Committee in 2013” in Section 2.2.2.6. 50 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2 2.2.1.4 Expertise and experience of Directors The Board of Directors, at its meeting of November 25, 2013, on the recommendation of the Appointments Committee and Members of the Board of Directors contribute management after having examined the situation of each Director with regard expertise and/or experience to the Company in a variety of areas, to the independence criteria established by the AFEP-MEDEF including general and practical business knowledge, expertise Code, concluded that out of the ﬁfteen Directors on the Board of in a speciﬁc Essilor International business segment or several Directors, nine were independent (at least half, as required by the years of experience in managing international companies and rules), namely: thus contribute their management expertise and/or experience. For more details, see the list of directorships in Section 2.1.1.2. n Benoît Bazin; The Company’s Directors have a duty of vigilance and exercise n Antoine Bernard de Saint-Affrique; their judgment freely and independently when participating in n Yves Chevillotte; the decisions and work of the Board and, where applicable, in the special committees of the Board. n n Mireille Faugère; Louise Fréchette; 2 n Bernard Hours; 2.2.1.5 Independence of the members of the Board of Directors n Maurice Marchand-Tonel; n Olivier Pécoux; The criteria for determining the Board members’ independence are set out in the Company’s internal rules as adopted by the n Michel Rose. Board on November 18, 2003 and amended from time to time. The AFEP-MEDEF Code of June 2013 states that Directors These criteria, which comply with the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate representing employee shareholders are not counted to determine Governance Code, are as follows: percentages of Independent Directors. Accordingly, the rate of “A Board member is independent when he or she has no relationship of independence (9 out of 12) is 75%. any kind whatsoever with the Company, the Group or the management The Board is of the opinion that none of these Directors had any thereof which may color his or her judgment. In particular, a Board material business relationships with the Company and its group. member does not qualify as an Independent Director if: In particular, it is noted that the Saint-Gobain group, of which n such Board member is an employee or Executive Director of the Benoît Bazin is an Officer, and Assistance Publique – Hôpitaux Company or of a company of the Group (or has been during the de Paris, of which Mireille Faugère was Managing Director until previous ﬁve years); November 13, 2013, have no signiﬁcant business dealings with the Company and that the services provided to Essilor by the n such Board member is an Executive Director of a company in companies of the Rothschild group, of which Olivier Pécoux is an which the Company holds, either directly or indirectly, a seat Officer, do not constitute a signiﬁcant part of Group activities or a on the Board or in which Board membership is held by an signiﬁcant part of the services provided to Essilor in the banking employee of the company designated as such or by a current sector. or former (going back up to ﬁve years) Executive Director of the Company; However, the following Directors did not qualify as independent: n such Board member is a customer, supplier, investment banker n Hubert Sagnières, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since or commercial banker – in each case – which is material for the January 2, 2012; Company or the Group or for which the Company or the Group n Xavier Fontanet, Chairman of the Board of Directors until represents a material proportion of the entity’s activity; January 2, 2012; n such Board member has any close family ties with an Executive n Philippe Alfroid, Chief Operating Officer until June 30, 2009, Director; after his retirement on that date; n such Board member has been a S tatutory A uditor of the and the Directors representing the employee shareholders: Company over the past ﬁve years; n Maureen Cavanagh; n such Board member has been a Director for more than 12 years. n Yi He; Board members representing shareholders who do not have a controlling interest in the Company are considered Independent n Aïcha Mokdahi. Directors. However, if a Board member represents a shareholder holding 2.2.1.6 No potential conﬂicts of interest more than 10% of the share capital or voting rights, the Board of Directors determines whether that Board member is an Every year, each Board member completes and signs a statement Independent Director, based on the opinion of the Appointments as provided in Annex 1 of European Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of Committee issued in writing. Such opinion namely takes into April 29, 2004 implementing the so-called “Prospectus” Directive. account: To the Company’s knowledge: n the composition of the share capital of the Company; n there are no potential conﬂicts of interest between the duties, n and whether there exists potential for any conﬂicts of interest.” with regard to the issuer, and the private interests and/or other duties with regard to third parties, of any of the members of Each year, the Board of Directors reviews the situation of each of the Company’s Board of Directors. To this end, the Directors’ its members with regard to the independence criteria set out in Charter stipulates that Directors have an obligation to inform the AFEP-MEDEF Code in force. the Board of any conﬂict of interest, even potential, and must refrain from participating in the deliberations related thereto; Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 51 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control n no member of the Board of Directors or any Chief Executive n none of the Executive or Non-Executive Directors have been Officer has a service contract with Essilor or any of its publicly incriminated and/or sanctioned by statutory or subsidiaries providing for the award of beneﬁts at the end of regulatory authorities (including designated professional such contract; bodies); n none of the Executive or Non-Executive Directors have been n there are no family ties between the members of the Board of convicted of a fraudulent offence in the last ﬁve years; Directors. n in the last ﬁve years, none of the Executive or Non-Executive Directors have been involved in a case of bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation as a member of a Board, a management or supervisory body or as a Chief Executive Officer; 2.2.2 Preparation and organization of meetings of the Board of Directors The operations of the Board of Directors and the special as this information has not been made public. In accordance with committees are governed by internal rules adopted by the Board the AMF (Autorité des Marchés Financiers) Recommendation of at its meeting of November 18, 2003 and revised several times, November 3, 2010 on the prevention of insider trading attributable most recently on November 25, 2013, and, by a Directors’ Charter. to managers of listed companies, the charter speciﬁes that Board The main elements of these two documents are reproduced or members may not trade in the Company’s shares during the summarized below. They are reproduced in full, along with the period preceding the publication of privileged information of which bylaws, on the “governance” pages of the Company’s website. they are aware and also during the 30-day period that precedes the publication of the annual, half-year and where applicable, quarterly earnings. The day of publication of such information is 2.2.2.1 Directors’ Charter part of the black-out period. The Directors’ Charter adopted for the ﬁrst time by the Board on Executive Directors are required to disclose any trading in the November 18, 2003 and revised several times, most recently on Company’s shares by themselves or their close relations. To this November 25, 2013, describes the rights and obligations of the end, the charter states that in accordance with Article 621-18-2 members of the Essilor Board. of the French Monetary and Financial Code and Articles 222–14 The charter requires each Board member to commit to attending and 222-15 of the General Regulations of the Autorité des Marchés meetings of the Board of Directors and Shareholders’ Meetings Financiers (AMF) and AMF Position No. DOC-2006-14 of April 16, regularly, to inform the Board of Directors of any potential or 2008, Board members undertake to report immediately to Essilor, actual conﬂict of interest, and to refrain from participating in the through the Company’s registrar, any and all transactions in the corresponding proceedings, including the work of specialized Company’s shares or ﬁnancial instruments carried out by him or committees. Board members must also keep the Board informed her or by any close relation, in order to enable the Company to of directorships held in other French and foreign companies and, report these transactions to the AMF and to announce them in a in the case of Executive Directors, seek the advice of the Board press release, within the required timeframe. before accepting a new corporate office. Directors must consider themselves subject to an obligation of professional secrecy – 2.2.2.2 Role and responsibilities of the Board which goes further than the obligation to be discreet provided for in Article L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code – with regard of Directors. to non-public information that comes into their possession in their The Board of Directors is a collegial body whose role and capacity as a Board member. responsibilities – in addition to those defined by law and The charter also stipulates that each Board member: regulations – are to: n is entitled to receive, when first elected and throughout his n decide the criteria to be applied to determine whether Directors or her term, any and all training that he or she considers are independent and review these criteria each year; necessary to independently exercise his or her judgment. The n identify the Directors who meet the independence criteria; training is organized, offered and paid for by the Company; n review and if appropriate, approve major strategic choices; n must be given all relevant information about the Group; and n review and if appropriate, approve acquisitions and disposals n may participate in meetings to examine in detail the matters put representing over €100 million in the case of strategic before the Board. investments in new business segments or new geographic The Directors’ Charter states the obligations resulting from markets or over €150 million for all other acquisitions; Articles 622-1 and 622-2 of the AMF’s General Regulations, in n approve material restructuring and investment projects that do particular that each Board member who has access to inside not form part of the stated strategy; information may not trade in the Company’s shares, directly or through a third party or cause any other person to trade in the n monitor implementation of the Board’s decisions; Company’s shares on the strength of that information for as long 52 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2 n review and approve the ﬁnancial statements; of information, minutes of Board Meetings and committee minutes and the Board’s ability to function as a team were acknowledged. n assess the performance of Board members (collectively and individually) and of members of senior management; Additional improvements could be made to further continue improving the quality of governance: n ensure that Essilor’s tradition of managerial excellence is maintained; n training of Directors and contacts with business leaders; n discuss and if appropriate, approve the choice of candidates n anticipation of discussions, including with regard to acquisition for election as Executive Directors and their compensation projects; recommended by the Appointments and Compensation n information on financial market trends (analysis briefs, Committee; summaries of roadshows); n discuss and if appropriate, approve the appointment of n presentation of agendas and increased focus on issues related the members of the special Board C ommittees on the recommendation of the Appointments Committee; to human resources and overall corporate strategy. 2 Other potential topics were suggested, such as the number of n discuss and if appropriate, approve Group senior management Directors. succession plans and major organizational changes; n examine the procedures for identifying, evaluating, auditing and monitoring the Group’s commitments and risks; 2.2.2.4 Information provided to the Board n monitor the Group’s financial reporting so as to ensure that of Directors investors receive relevant, balanced and strategic information All necessary documents to inform the Board members about the on the company’s strategy, development model and long-term agenda and any matters to be discussed by the Board are enclosed outlook. with the notice of meeting or sent, handed to or otherwise made On the recommendation of the Appointments Committee and with available to them reasonably in advance of the meeting. the approval of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Board Each Board member is required to ensure that he or she has all may create special committees and set the rules governing their the information they deem essential to the proper operation of the remit and composition. These committees act on the authority Board or the special committees of the Board. If any information is delegated to them by the Board and make recommendations and not made available or if a Director believes that information may proposals to the Board. have been withheld, he or she must ask for it to be supplied. Board members’ requests are made to the Chairman of the Board (or the Chief Executive Officer if the two positions are separated), who is 2.2.2.3 Self-assessment of the operations under the obligation to ensure that Board members are able to of the Board fulﬁll their duties. A formal assessment of the operations of the Board of Directors Between meetings, Board members also receive all useful as well has been conducted each year since 2004. These have often as business-critical information about all events or transactions led to the amendment of the Board of Directors internal rules that are material to the Company. In particular, they receive copies and the Directors’ Charter. The results of the self-assessment of all press releases published by the Company. are presented to shareholders in the Registration Document. As in prior years, Board members were informed of the blackThe assessment covers the three objectives set out in out periods for 2013, during which they may not trade in Essilor Article 10.2 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code of Corporate Governance International shares or any instruments that have Essilor (review the operating procedures of the Board, ensure that International shares as their underlying, either directly or through important issues are suitably prepared and discussed, measure a third party. They were also given a copy of the ethics guidelines the contribution of each Director to the Board’s accomplishments). drawn up by the Company, which state that Board members are In 2013, a new formal self-assessment was entrusted to considered as permanent insiders because they regularly receive the Corporate Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs under the price-sensitive and other conﬁdential information. leadership of the Appointments Committee. The report on the Directors may, if they deem it necessary, receive additional training questionnaires showed that the Directors have an overall positive in the speciﬁcs of the company, its business and its industry. Upon assessment of the Board, which they consider to be “involved and their appointment, the members of the Audit and Risk Committee strengthened,” and of the relationships with senior management are provided with speciﬁc details about the company’s accounting, regarding the inclusion of its concerns and freedom of expression ﬁnancial and operational practices. in the meetings of the Board and the committees. Improved quality Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 53 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2.2.2.5 Meetings of the Board of Directors ■ Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The Board meets as often as necessary in the Company’s interest The Company’s bylaws state that Directors may participate in and at least ﬁve times per year. The dates of the following year’s certain meetings by videoconference or other telecommunications meetings are set no later than one month before the end of link, with the exception of those cases explicitly stipulated, such the year, except for Extraordinary Meetings. The Independent as the approval of the ﬁnancial statements and preparation of the Directors meet at least once a year without the Executive Management Report. Under the Board’s internal rules, Directors Directors in attendance, to conduct the performance evaluation of who participate in meetings in this way are included in the the Chairman and CEO. calculation of the quorum and voting majority for the meeting. In accordance with the Board’s internal rules, calls to meeting The Company’s Auditors attended the two Board Meetings to were sent to Directors by email, confirmed by letter sent by which they were invited. As in prior years, the Labor-Management regular mail, at least seven days before each meeting. The Committee representatives on the Board attended all Board Statutory Auditors are invited to attend the Board Meetings called Meetings held in 2013. to review the interim and annual ﬁnancial statements, as provided All the Directors attended the Combined (Ordinary and for in Article L.823-17 of the French Commercial Code. Extraordinary) Shareholders’ Meeting held on May 16, 2013. In 2013, the Board of Directors held six meetings on the dates The table below shows the number of Board and Committee planned in 2012 (January 24, February 27, May 16, July 10, Meetings held during 2013, as well as their members and the August 26 and November 28). The last meeting was held in individual attendance at each of these meetings. The average Shanghai (People’s Republic of China). In addition, on July 26 attendance of Directors at Board Meetings was 95.8% and October 28, the Board held two meetings via conference call devoted to the ﬁnal approval of major transactions (takeover of Transitions, acquisition of Costa). The meetings lasted on average 2 hours and 15 minutes. Executive Directors and Board of Audit and Risk Compensation Appointments Strategy CSR Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in 2013 8 4 3 4 5 3 Participation (%) Hubert SAGNIÈRES 100% 100% Philippe ALFROID 100% 100% 100% Benoît BAZIN 87.5% 100% 100% Antoine BERNARD DE SAINT-AFFRIQUE 100% 100% 100% Maureen CAVANAGH 100% 100% Yves CHEVILLOTTE 100% 100% 100% 100% Mireille FAUGÈRE 100% 100% 100% Xavier FONTANET 87.5% 100% 100% Louise FRÉCHETTE 100% 100% 100% Yi HE 100% 100% Bernard HOURS 87.5% 100% 100% 100% Maurice MARCHAND-TONEL 100% 100% 100% 100% Aïcha MOKDAHI 100% 75% 100% 100% Olivier PECOUX 75% 80% Michel ROSE 100% 100% 100% 100% ■ Major accomplishments of the Board of Directors in 2013 financial indicators, “key events” in the commercial and technical ﬁelds, state of competition, consolidation of acquired The matters discussed by the Board in ﬁscal year 2013 and the businesses, etc.; decisions taken covered a wide range of areas, including: n 2013 budget: this was discussed at two meetings at the n business developments: at each meeting (except for beginning of the year; those convened at short notice to deliberate on a strategic transaction), the Chairman and CEO presented the Company’s n 2012 ﬁnancial statements: they were approved by the Board general position for the previous period: changes in key after hearing the reports of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Statutory Auditors; 54 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2 n external growth: at each meeting scheduled the previous year, n guarantees, endorsements and sureties: the Board delegated to the Board was informed of and discussed acquisitions that were the Chairman and CEO, with the right to further delegate such planned or underway; two meetings called on short notice were powers, the authority to grant the Company’s guarantee for an devoted to the ﬁnal approval of major transactions (takeover overall annual limit of €400 million; of Transitions, acquisition of Costa); in addition, the Board was n committee reports: the Board heard, for the preparation of its informed in advance of the company’s general external growth deliberations above in the areas that concern them respectively, policy, through the Strategy Committee’s Reports; reports by the Audit and Risk Committees (five reports), n financial transactions: the Board approved the private the Appointments Committee (two reports), the Executive placement transactions with US investors (US PP) and the issue Directors and Compensation Committee (two reports), the of US (US Commercial Paper Notes) and European (European Strategy Committee (three reports) and the Corporate Social Medium-Term Notes) bonds, delegated its powers to the Responsibility (two reports). Chairman and CEO to issue bonds and for the implementation of the share buyback program authorized by the Tenth Resolution ■ Minutes 2 of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2013, and decided to cancel 1.5 million shares pursuant to the Tenth Resolution of The draft minutes of each Board Meeting were sent to all Directors the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2012; no later than the date of notice the next meeting. n notice of Shareholders’ Meeting: at two meetings, the Board reviewed and approved (after discussing dividend policy and hearing a report on the opinion of the main shareholders) the 2.2.2.6 Committees of the Board of Directors draft resolutions submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting of The Board confirmed the composition of its committees upon May 16, 2013; the renewal by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 16, 2013 of the n governance: the Board approved a reorganization under which terms of four Directors. the Chairman and CEO will personally assume the presidency of the subsidiary Essilor AMERA, which oversees the Group’s ■ Audit and Risk Committee development in Africa, the Middle East, Russia and Asia (with no impact on his total compensation), heard reports from the CSR Membership Committee and the Appointments Committee, a report on the main changes introduced by the revision of the AFEP-MEDEF The Board’s internal rules stipulate that the Audit and Risk Code and the Employment Security Act, revised its internal Committee is to be comprised of at least three members appointed rules accordingly, reviewed a report from the Egon Zehnder ﬁrm by the Board from among the Directors. At least two thirds of on the role of the Board and governance with regard to strategy, the committee members must be Independent Directors. The risk control and succession and conducted a self-assessment members of the Audit Committee cannot hold senior management (see Section 2.2.2.3) and the annual review to determine the positions or be Executive Directors. They should have specific independence of its members (see Section 2.2.1.5); expertise in accounting and ﬁnancial matters. n employee-related issues: the Board heard a report by The Audit Committee is chaired by Yves Chevillotte. management on company developments in employeeAt December 31, 2013, the other members of the committee were related matters in 2012 (workforce developments, business Philippe Alfroid (since July 1, 2009), Antoine Bernard de Saintcombinations of entities and reorganization of the distribution of Affrique, Benoît Bazin and Aïcha Mokdahi, all of whom have held instruments in France, major trade union negotiations, company responsibilities requiring ﬁnancial and accounting skills during policy regarding equal employment opportunity and pay, etc.) their careers. awarded “capped” stock options and performance shares to employees in France and the major foreign subsidiaries Role pursuant to the Twelfth, Thirteenth and Fourteenth Resolutions of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2012 and a capital Under the Board of Directors’ internal rules, as amended by the increase for employees as part of a company savings plan Board at its meeting of August 28, 2013 and in accordance with pursuant to the Eleventh Resolution of the Shareholders’ Article L.823-19 of the French Commercial Code, the Audit and Meeting of May 16, 2013 (see Section 5.2.1.4); Risk Committee examines issues related to the preparation and control of accounting and ﬁnancial information. n compensation of corporate directors and officers: the Board allocated Directors’ fees to its members and set the Without encroaching upon the responsibilities of senior compensation of the Chairman and CEO, and also approved management, the Audit Committee is tasked with overseeing: in accordance with the procedure concerning related party n processes for the preparation of ﬁnancial information; agreements of the terms of his severance pay under his n internal control and risk management procedures; suspended employment contract and his supplementary pension (see Sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.2); n the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements by the Statutory Auditors; Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 55 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control n the Statutory Auditors’ independence; — review and evaluation of the qualiﬁcations, performance, fees, independence and compliance with the rules of professional n and, generally speaking, reviewing all financial statements incompatibility of the Statutory Auditors, including the main presented during the year. partner, The Audit Committee makes recommendations concerning the — review of the rotation regulations applicable to the main choice of Statutory Auditors to be appointed by the Shareholders’ partner and evaluation of the need for rotation among the Meeting. Statutory Auditors, As part of its role, the Audit and Risk Committee also has to report — review of the Statutory Auditors’ R eports, information regularly to the corporate body in charge of the management of its brought to the attention of the Board pursuant to activities and notify it immediately of any difficulties or material Art. L. 823-16 of the French Commercial Code and the problems that it encounters. responses provided by management, including the quality of In this context, its remit also extends to analyzing the procedures internal control procedures and the preparation process for in place within the Company to ensure: ﬁnancial information; n the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements: n the performance of internal audits: — presentation of the semi-annual and annual financial — review of the Internal Audit’s Charter, its role and scope of statements and elements of the associated Registration work, Document to the Audit and Risk Committee, — review of the budget, resources and means available to the — review of the key assumptions impacting the recognition and internal audit team, reporting of any material changes made to the accounting — review of the proposed audit plan for the year by the Internal principles; Audit Director, n the effectiveness of internal control and major risk management — review of the main results presented by the Internal Audit procedures: Director, — understanding of how the Company identifies, evaluates, — review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit Department, anticipates and manages its key financial, operational, compliance and reporting risks (on the contrary, the — opinion on the appointment and replacement of the Internal committee is not responsible for investigating issues related Audit Director. to the strategic risks and risks related to governance unless requested otherwise by the Board), assessment of the Major accomplishments in 2013 jurisdiction, availability and positioning of the organization in The work of this committee is based on the recommendations of charge of monitoring the Company’s risk control, the AMF Audit Committee Working Group of June 14, 2010 and the — i s s u i n g re c o m m e n d a t i o n s , i f n e c e s s a r y, f o r t h e committee’s 2012 self-assessment. implementation of corrective actions in the event of The Audit and Risk Committee met four times (with a participation weaknesses or significant deficiencies, improvement of rate of 95% for the year) and heard the Group’s Chief Financial existing procedures, and the introduction of potential new Officer, the Group Legal Director, the Group’s Internal Audit one. Director and the Statutory Auditors. The Audit and Risk Committee may also be consulted by the Board The following topics were discussed at these various meetings: or by management about any issues concerning procedures to control non-recurring risks: n ﬁnancial statements: review of the ﬁnancial statements for the third quarter of 2012, the year 2012, a summary of 2013 budget n compliance with legal and statutory requirements: estimates, the ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁrst quarter and ﬁrst — compliance with accounting regulations and proper half of 2013 (this examination was performed with sufficient application of the Company’s accounting principles and time before the relevant meetings of the Board of Directors); policies, n internal audit and internal control: internal audit plan for — cognizance of major disputes for the year, 2013 as part of the multi-year “roadmap” with a monitoring — review of actions to prevent risks related to economic of internal and external audits, Chairman’s Report on regulation (compliance), corporate governance and internal control, Internal Audit Charter, performance indicators, budget and review of activity — compliance with securities regulations and the strict insider (productivity measurement) of the internal audit; dealing rules in force within the Company; n ﬁnalization of proposals for the selection of Statutory Auditors; n the performance, qualifications and independence of the Statutory Auditors: n ﬁnancing strategy; — recommendation regarding the appointment of the Statutory n risk control: thematic reviews (protection of innovation and Auditors, intellectual property, litigation risks, supplier vulnerability, liquidity, interest rates, trapped cash, subsidiary counterparties, — resolution of potential disagreements between the positions fraud across the Group), review of the Group’ s insurance of the Statutory Auditors and management, 56 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2 program, business continuity plan, legal compliance program n conﬁrmation of Independent Director classiﬁcation attributed and the process of self-assessment of the internal control and to certain Directors, after a review conducted by one of the the risk to the Group associated with so-called “iCare”; independent members of the committee (see Section 2.2.1.5); n other financial matters: calculation of Return on Capital n examination of the report by the Egon Zehnder ﬁrm (see “Major Employed to monitor acquisitions; accomplishments by the Board of Directors” in Section 2.2.2.5), from which the committee has identiﬁed a number of n litigation and fraud. recommendations to guide the preparation of the renewal of The committee also met with the Statutory Auditors with the the mandates in the coming years (particularly with regard to Group representatives not present. improving gender disparity); On February 24, 2014, the 2013 consolidated ﬁnancial statements n review the findings of the Board’s self-assessment (see were reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee. Section 2.2.2.3). ■ Appointments Committee 2 ■ Executive Directors and Compensation Committee Membership Membership The internal rules of the Board of Directors stipulate that the The Board’s internal rules stipulate that the Executive Directors Appointments Committee is comprised of a maximum of six and Compensation Committee is to have at least three members, members, at least three of whom are Independent Directors. all of whom must be Independent Directors. The Chairman is appointed by the Board after approval by the The Compensation Committee is made up of Michel Rose members of the Appointments Committee. (Chairman), Mireille Faugère, Bernard Hours and Maurice The Appointments Committee is comprised of Xavier Fontanet Marchand-Tonel, all four of whom are Independent Directors. (Chairman), Yves Chevillotte, Maurice Marchand-Tonel and Michel Rose, all three of whom are Independent Directors. The Chairman Missions and CEO and a Director elected on the proposal of Valoptec Association are involved in the work of the committee. The role of the Executive Directors and Compensation Committee, as described in the Board’s internal rules, is to: Role n make recommendations concerning Executive D irectors’ compensation; As described in the Board’s internal rules, the principal role of the Appointments Committee, as part of the duties of the Board n make recommendations concerning the allocation of stock of Directors, is to: options and/or so-called “performance” shares for Executive Directors; n make recommendations to the Board concerning the choice of Directors; n review the Company’s general compensation policies; n supervise the Board’s self-assessment process; n make recommendations to the Board concerning the choice of candidates for election as Executive Directors; n make proposals to improve the functioning of the Board; n assist the Chairman and the Board in the Group’s senior n identify Independent Directors to be approved by the Board; management succession planning. n evaluate Director performance; n manage the Board’s development process and Director Major accomplishments in 2013 performance; The Executive Directors and Compensation Committee met three n suggest people as members of the special committees to the times in 2013 (with a participation rate of 100% for the year) to Board; consider the following topics to submit as recommendations to the Board: n reﬂect on the composition of the Board of Directors and any possible developments; n review of the 2012 performance of the Chairman and CEO for the ﬁnal calculation of his variable compensation for the ﬁscal n prepare for a change of Directors as needed. year ended; Major accomplishments in 2013 n rules for determining the variable compensation of the Chairman and CEO for 2013; The committee met four times in 2013 (with a participation rate of 100% year). n review of a benchmark for the compensation of executives of comparable companies; It reviewed the following topics: n creation of a Corporate Responsibility Committee, a recommendation that was adopted by the Board; n consideration of draft resolutions for submission to the Shareholders’ Meeting for the reappointment of four Directors; Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 57 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control n review of the adjustments made to the supplementary pension Director), and is composed of Aïcha Mokdahi and Bernard Hours scheme for executives, in particular to take account of the (Independent Director) and Hubert Sagnières. revision of the AFEP-MEDEF Code; Role n all compensation components of the Chairman and CEO for 2014 (including the continuation of the regulated agreements The main role of the CSR Committee, within the remit of the Board concerning his employment contract and supplementary of Directors, is to ensure that the Group is even more effective at pension). addressing the economic and societal challenges associated with our mission to “improve sight,” which involves helping as many people as possible to see better, in order to live better. The Group ■ Strategy Committee strives to offer products customized to each individual within its entire global scope. Membership This covers all areas of corporate social responsibility relating to The Board’s internal rules stipulate that the Strategy Committee the Group’s mission and operations. is to include all Essilor Board members. The Chairman of the Strategy Committee is the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The CSR Committee is also responsible for governance of the Group’s societal project. Role As such, and with particular regard to the Group’s voluntary CSR The role of the Strategy Committee, as described in the Board’s process, the committee must: internal rules, is to regularly review the Company’s product, n examine the main opportunities and risks for the Group and for technology, geographic and marketing strategies. To do this, all stakeholders regarding challenges speciﬁc to its role and the Chief Executive Officer makes regular presentations to the activities; Board on these issues, assisted where necessary by Executive n remain informed and help to deﬁne and approve the scope of Committee members. The agenda is determined by a strategic the Group’s general CSR policy as required; steering group. n oversee the implementation and gradual roll-out of this policy Major accomplishments in 2013 and its initiatives; The Strategy Committee met five times in 2013 (with a n guide the Board of Directors on the Group’s long-term participation rate of 98% for the year). development, including its economic development, through its CSR initiatives in matters of sight and its improvement; The committee reviewed the following topics: n assess the risks, identify new opportunities, take account of the n the Company’s competitiveness; impact of the CSR policy in terms of economic performance and n alternatives to progressive lenses; evaluate the impact for the Group of investments with social and societal goals in different businesses and in all countries; n the Group’s ﬁnancial strategy; n ensure that the Group’s interests are protected and anticipate n general market developments, including internet, solar, retail. potential conﬂicts of interest regarding CSR investments and After each of its meetings, a summary of presentations and other Group activities; various discussions was presented to the Board of Directors by n review once a year a summary of the ratings given to the Group its Chairman. and its subsidiaries by rating agencies and via non-ﬁnancial analyses. ■ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee The CSR Committee receives and reviews the report on the Company’s economic, human (social and societal) and Membership environmental contribution as well as the non-financial The CSR Committee was established following the decision of the information reported by the Group relating to society and the Board at its meeting of February 27, 2013. The internal rules, as environment. amended to that effect, stipulate that the CSR Committee shall be composed of a minimum of four members and a maximum of six, Major accomplishments in 2013 including two Independent Directors and the Chairman and CEO During 2013, the committee met three times (with a participation and one non-Independent Director from Valoptec. rate of 100% for the year) and discussed the following topics: The CSR Committee is chaired by an Independent Director n setting of Group societal policy objectives (“inclusive business”); appointed by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Appointments Committee. n organization of its own work; The CSR Committee is chaired by Louise Fréchette (Independent n work of the Vision Impact Institute. 58 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2 2.2.3 Internal control procedures implemented by Essilor The system of Essilor internal control procedures exists pursuant to the legal framework applicable to companies listed on the Paris Bourse and is inspired by the reference framework for risk management and internal control mechanisms published by the AMF on July 22, 2010. 2.2.3.1 Company internal control objectives 2.2.3.2 Components of the internal control Generally speaking, internal controls at Essilor are a mechanism mechanism that is applicable to the parent company and its consolidated subsidiaries in France and abroad (“the Group”) (See Section 2.2.3.3) Its aim is to ensure that: ■ Control environment and Group values 2 n the achievement of economic and ﬁnancial goals is conducted in The control environment that underlies the control mechanism accordance with the laws and regulations in force; plays an essential role at Essilor. It was built through a long history of commitment and a very strong entrepreneurial culture n the instructions and guidelines set by Senior Management are on the part of employees and management. This foundation implemented; enables Essilor to welcome, both now and in the future, an evern the Company’s internal processes, particularly those growing number of employees and partners, while at the same contributing to the protection of assets, perform properly; time preserving its corporate culture. n the Group’s accounting and ﬁnancial information is reliable and The “Essilor Principles” document, which was prepared in 2011 by honestly presented. the Legal and Human Resources Departments and is the product of a broad consultation and gathering of proposals from around Internal control contributes to the disciplined management of the the world, is the basis of this environment and makes it possible business, the effectiveness and efficiency of operations and the to share Essilor’s mission, principles and values. It is organized efficient use of resources. The parent company guarantees the around three major concepts which give all Essilor employees and existence of internal control mechanisms within its subsidiaries partners the feeling of sharing the reputation and responsibilities that are adapted to their sizes and associated risks. of their Group in the wider sense: a position as a world leader, In practice, the purpose of internal control is to ensure that: rapid global expansion and a strong corporate culture. The document is currently available in 33 languages on the Group’s n ensure that management actions or execution of transaction, intranet site and on its website. and staff behavior, fall within the scope defined by the guidelines given to activities undertaken by corporate bodies. Our values foster governance, business ethics and a culture of This includes compliance with applicable laws and regulations, accountability and are based on “our entrepreneurial spirit,” as well as values, standards and rules internal to the company; “respect and trust,” “innovation,” “working together” and “our diversity.” n all accounting, financial, legal and management information reported to the Board of Directors, the regulatory authorities, Sharing and respecting our common principles and values helps shareholders or the public presents fairly the Company’s us, in our day-to-day work, to live out the mission and spirit of business and ﬁnancial position; our Company, which consists of offering everyone ways to “see the world better.” Our mission mobilizes us in the sense that n cover all of the Company’s implemented policies and good sight is an essential asset to health and also to social and procedures that provide reasonable assurance that business is professional integration, child development and personal wellmanaged efficiently and effectively. being in our day-to-day lives. Yet 2.5 billion people around the One of the goals of the system of internal control is to prevent world do not have access to corrective lenses. and limit the risk of error or fraud, in particular of an economic, At the same time, part of the charter of Valoptec, an association ﬁnancial and legal nature, to which the Group may be exposed. comprised of active and retired Essilor employees, includes a However, no system of controls can provide an absolute guarantee Code of Values. The goal of this association is to “promote the that all such risks have been completely avoided, eliminated or adoption by Group companies of sound business practices and entirely brought under control or that the Company’s objectives human resources management policies.” The charter upholds will be met. Indeed, the probability of achieving these goals does the values of respect and trust among individuals. Members not depend solely on the Group’s wishes but rather on several promise to uphold this charter as the foremost condition of their factors, such as the uncertainty of the outside world or the membership and, even though Essilor employees who are not commitment of an act of fraud. Valoptec members do not sign this charter personally, its spirit Risk control takes into account the main characteristics of the infuses the corporate culture in a very real way. The members of Group: Valoptec and other employee shareholders together hold 14.6% n its signiﬁcant role in international activities; of the Company’s voting rights. The association’s bylaws are regularly updated and reviewed to ensure they are aligned with n its decentralized structure; its development. n the speciﬁc nature of risks (see information on the risk factors that our Company may face in Chapter 1.6); n the strong corporate culture. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 59 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control ■ Organization of internal controls for improvement needed and the Audit and Risk Committee is informed of the most signiﬁcant issues. Implementation of the It is our intention to promote a system of internal control based recommendations is the responsibility of the audited entities. on: The internal audit function monitors the implementation of these n clear deﬁnitions of responsibilities, backed by the necessary recommendations by monitoring the implementation of action resources and skills, appropriate information systems, plans decided in agreement with them in accordance with the procedures and processes, tools and practices; schedule set. n internal communication of all the information needed to enable Since 2011, under the leadership of its Vice President, the Internal each individual to fulﬁll his or her responsibilities; Audit Department defined and began to implement a roadmap for the next three years. This roadmap was created based on a n the identification and analysis of the main risks that could study which combined various benchmarks and best practices negatively impact the Company and the implementation of in these areas. The roadmap is organized around the following procedures to manage these risks; themes: governance, risk management and internal control, terms n control procedures that are proportionate to the risks of office, human resources, technology, performance, and quality associated with each process and are designed to provide and value creation. The roadmap was then presented to the core assurance that measures are taken to limit and to the extent and enlarged Management team (Executive Committee), to the possible, manage the risks that could prevent the Company Audit and Risk Committee, as well as to various internal audit and from fulﬁlling its objectives; internal control partners (including the Statutory Auditors). It was n supervision of the internal control and risk management discussed and commented on and resulted in various action plans process and regular reviews of its operations. intended to help the Department keep pace with the challenges inherent to a high-growth company. In 2013, progress was generally in line with the roadmap. Substantial progress recorded 2.2.3.3 Key control activities and key players in several areas relating to its operation and its internal efficiency have also allowed ACS to win the “Grand Prix Innovation” 2013 Various internal control activities help to ensure that the organized by the IFACI (French Institute of Internal Control) and application of standards and procedures deﬁned at the corporate its partners. This award, which is given to one of 59 participating level are consistent with senior management’s guidelines. organizations, is intended to raise awareness of and distinguish The departments with specific responsibility for monitoring the good practices of companies and public organizations for activities are: innovation in the ﬁeld of internal audits and internal controls. ACS ﬁts well in its area of work, in the long tradition of innovation at all levels of Essilor. ■ Internal Audit and Internal Control The ACS Department (Audit & Consulting Services) covers Internal ■ Consolidation Audit and the Group’s Internal Control with a total dedicated workforce of 21 people as of December 31, 2013 (19 for Internal The Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared by the Audit, 1 for Group Internal Control and its Director). Geographically, Consolidation and Group Reporting Department. This Department the ACS workforce as of that date included employees located at is in charge of updating consolidation procedures which are ﬁrst the corporate headquarters in Charenton (6 people for Corporate, presented to the Audit and Risk Committee. It is also tasked with Europe and Africa operations), Dallas (7 people for North America training the newly consolidated subsidiaries and including them operations), Singapore (6 people for Asia-Paciﬁc and Middle East in the reporting. operations) and Rio de Janeiro (2 people for Central America The Group’s consolidation is established on the basis of the local and South America operations). The ACS Director reports to accounts of the various subsidiaries or existing sub-groups. one of the Senior Vice Presidents and has no authority over, nor The Consolidation and Reporting Department receives detailed responsibility for, the operations audited. The internal audit team ﬁnancial statements according to a set schedule, performs a full also reports on the Department’s activities to the Audit and Risk review of the statements and makes the adjustments required Committee. for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The ongoing role of the internal audit is, within the limits of These are audited by the Joint Statutory Auditors who apply the the resources allocated to it, to evaluate operation of risk standards of the profession. management and internal control mechanisms, carry out regular The reporting process ensures that the Group’s interim and checks and make any recommendations for its improvement. annual ﬁnancial statements are reliable. To prepare for the ﬁscal Internal audits are carried out using the same methodology periods ending June 30 and December 31, a hard close procedure applied in all geographic areas. For each audit, a report is is performed at May 31 and November 30. prepared and distributed to the management of the entity, the regional Director of the audited entity, the Chairman and CEO, the Senior Vice Presidents, the Finance Department and the Legal ■ Business Analysis Department of the Group and, depending on the nature and impact of the issues raised, the operational or functional departments. Each Group entity or reporting unit has its own business analysis This report summarizes the observations and recommendations unit responsible for analyzing performance and preparing 60 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2 forecast cycles. The Group’s entities are supported by a business monitored and protected and initiates legal proceedings in the analysis unit in each operating division to which they are attached. event that the rights are breached. In addition, the Department plays a key role in legal and regulatory compliance programs. The Group’s business analysis unit defines and monitors the indicators for checking that the Group is operating in accordance It advises the Group and the Board of Directors (and its special with its targets. It measures the contribution of the Group’s committees) on good practices of corporate governance. various operating divisions. It regularly attends meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Strategy Committee. It ensures that executives throughout It performs consistency tests on management reporting data the organization are aware of potential liability risks and to check the overall reliability of the information, working in proposes legal solutions which contribute to strengthening the collaboration with the business analysis units in each operating control environment. It provides answers to all legal questions division. raised by the various departments of the Group in a French and It ﬂags differences compared with targets set, identiﬁes risks and international legal and regulatory environment that is increasingly opportunities and provides decision-making guidance. It oversees the forecasting phases (forecasts, budget, MTP). complex and burdensome and in an operating environment of 2 increasing competitiveness. It also manages and streamlines internal ﬂows within the Group Legal Affairs ensures that the Company fulfills some twenty and in particular establishes transfer prices and royalties. thousand contractual obligations, with the help of a contracts database that is constantly updated. It keeps an up-to-date list of claims and lawsuits ﬁled by or against the Group (such as judicial ■ Sustainable Development disputes, industrial property disputes, tax audits or claims) and The Sustainable Development Unit plays a cross-functional role. posts information memoranda on its intranet site announcing This cross-functional unit is primarily responsible for anticipating changes in legal (including intellectual property), tax or insurance and influencing foreseeable changes in the business and rules or practices. To help enhance the reliability and quality analyzing the economic, human and environmental consequences, of legal and financial information on the many subsidiaries, to enable the Company, its stakeholders and the community to the Department has integrated a new web-enabled intranet beneﬁt from the opportunities that arise and to warn management application to manage and update this information. of possible risks. The unit is also responsible for producing the The Insurance Department, which is part of Legal Affairs, Group’s non-ﬁnancial disclosures. implements a policy that combines prevention, in the form of regular site visits and audits with our insurers and brokers, with ■ Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) protection, in the form of international insurance programs. The Global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Department Our compliance policy for preventing legal risk is structured reports directly to a member of the Executive Committee (the around major legal topics related to the Group’s business Corporate Senior Vice President, Global Engineering) and also activity, especially antitrust law, confidentiality management, has a dotted-line reporting relationship with the Sustainable and prevention of corruption. Its main purpose is to inform and Development unit. It is responsible for applying the Group’s educate managers about legal risks, communicate and formalize common safety strategy to protect individuals, facilities and good practices and guarantee that this policy is truly effective by assets, prevent industrial risks, preserve employees’ health and gradually building a culture of compliance within the Group. protect the environment. The Department leads the network To this end, a roadmap was developed and approved by senior of EHS representatives and sets up programs and systems management, the Executive Committee and the Audit and to ensure regulatory compliance and continually improve the Risk Committee. It covers the main points to be considered – Group’s EHS performance. It also provides technical expertise in risk identification, assessment of existing risks, individual the areas of REACH compliance, chemical products management, accountability, capacity and effectiveness of compliance and the fire protection, equipment safety, transportation of hazardous necessary support of senior management – and continues to be materials, ergonomics, etc., to the Group’s other departments. rolled out gradually. In this context, awareness raising actions and legal guides to the ■ Legal Affairs basic rules of antitrust law and trade practices continued on a global scale, especially in Europe, Asia (including India) and the The Group’s Legal Affairs and Development Department offers United States. advice and assistance to all departments of the Company and its subsidiaries in preventing claims and litigation. It is responsible To provide all Group employees with regular, accessible for negotiating and drafting contracts and other legal documents information, specific, detailed, bilingual (French/English) relating in particular to business acquisitions, in order to ensure documentation with educational content has been posted that the warranties obtained are aligned with the related risks. on the Legal Affairs intranet site in a section dedicated to It is located in North America, South America, China, France, India, compliance. It consists of “audio kits” (multimedia presentations Israel, Singapore and Switzerland. for awareness-raising sessions), briefing notes, PowerPoint presentations, fact sheets, guides to best practices and a list of As part of its risk management strategy, the Department ensures do’s and don’ts. The information is constantly being updated and that contracts include an arbitration clause whenever possible. consulted on an ongoing basis. Guides, charts and manuals for It also ensures that the Company’s intellectual property rights are use by employees are also produced at regular intervals. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 61 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control Local legal teams which have a dotted-line reporting relationship Similarly, owing to the development of new communication with the Corporate Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs, can tools such as social media, which are increasingly being used thus guarantee uniformity and continuity in the deployment of by employees, the Communications and Human Resources our policy, by adapting this documentation and the awarenessDepartments have produced a guide to good practices. This has raising meetings to local contexts. They also prepare and been distributed to all Group employees so that they can be alert submit regularly to operational staff legal information memos to the content and nature of information sent across these media, on professional issues, safety and standards, or “Legal and with particular regard to the requirement for conﬁdentiality. Compliance” guides for employees in their regions. At plants in Given the Group’s business activities, confidentiality is an Asia, training sessions are ongoing and are carried out jointly with important part of our legal compliance policy. the Global Environment, Health and Safety Department and local Human Resources Departments. A guide to good practices in support of these actions has been posted on the Legal Affairs intranet site and pamphlets translated The results of these awareness-raising actions and a report of into local languages, particularly Mandarin, have been widely identified legal risks and actions to implement (legal audits, disseminated throughout the Group. implementation of compliance programs, good practices guide) were presented to the Executive Committee by the Group Legal Awareness-raising exercises and provision of full documentation Director, who may also have topics or reports registered on the continued to be supplemented by training sessions focused on the Executive Committee agenda in order to raise the appropriate right behavior to adopt. level of awareness. As a result, at the local level, local lawyers As part of the prevention of corruption and taking particular also carry out regular reporting of compliance measures account of the extra-territorial application of the US Foreign implemented with areas for improvement in the Executive Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act (UKBA), Committees of subsidiaries (including for factories in India, the relevant information and outreach tools (multimedia modules, Philippines and Thailand). triptychs in multilingual version including Mandarin) prepared As part of the execution of the roadmap and the identification in collaboration with local legal experts in Brazil, China, India, of legal risks, audits for antitrust law and trade practices have the Philippines, Thailand and Singapore were produced for all been conducted in the major European subsidiaries, particularly employees. those in Eastern Europe. Audit reports have been presented to Obligations under French and international anti-corruption laws Senior Management and the Corporate Europe Division with also require an assessment of the risks to which the Company may recommendations to be implemented as part of an ongoing plan to be exposed so that if necessary, adequate internal procedures, improve our prevention policy. A plan for monitoring these areas commensurate with the risks identified, can be implemented. for improvement was developed in collaboration with the Audit To this end, an inventory of existing practices within the Global and Internal Control Department. Purchasing Department and any recommendations to improve The development of awareness-raising audio kits in e-learning these internal policies and procedures in our relationships with training module form tailored to the laws, practices and local our suppliers has been conducted. An e-learning module on the languages under the responsibility of the Human Resources prevention of corruption for purchases is being deployed for Department have been completed and were made for all European global purchasing teams. subsidiaries for the main managers and employees concerned In this context of continuous improvement of our internal risk (350 people). prevention procedures, the “gifts” policy has been supplemented In addition, because of the new Group organization and the and the Group’s policy on conflicts of interest is now being creation of the Country Manager function, the good practices updated and adapted to the new legal requirements applicable to guide for information exchange in the context of competition all Group employees. A monitoring procedure for the disclosure law has been updated. To this end and with the assistance of conflicts of interest is being enhanced in collaboration with of the Strategy Department, Country Managers have had a the management of the Audit and Internal Control and Human training session on best practices for intra-Group information Resources Departments. exchange, the availability of multimedia tools (quizzes, speciﬁc Lastly, other compliance procedures are gradually being e-learning modules on the exchange of information, legal notes) deployed throughout the Group, relating mainly to Group-wide to enable them and the employees to exchange information both agreements and charters such as the charter for the Protection with external partners (customers, suppliers, etc.) and with of Personal Data, the updating of the charter for Information and subsidiaries by following a few best practices. Communication Technology, the charter for IT administrators, A “common principles” module in competition law intended to a computer systems security policy that defines roles and inform and educate senior managers within the Group on the responsibilities and the principles and processes needed for ordinary rules of applicable competition law in major countries their implementation (such as conﬁdentiality management) in the was also produced and distributed widely. Group’s computer systems. In general, the Group’s legal compliance policy reinforces the gradual creation of a network of Compliance Officers within the Group for the purposes of applying the compliance program to local competition law. 62 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2 These agreements and charters are in addition to the information ■ Mergers and Acquisitions memoranda that have been available for a number of years on the Legal Affairs intranet site regarding compliance with The Mergers and Acquisitions Department reports to the Financial securities legislation, anti-money laundering and corruption Department and deﬁnes the Group’s external growth policy and legislation, competition law and other trade practices and coordinates initiatives in subsidiaries to ensure consistency. principles. To ensure that all employees have access to complete It also analyzes, monitors and validates the ﬁnancial aspects of information on securities legislation, the memorandum on the Group’s various planned business acquisitions and has the this topic is accompanied by an audio kit detailing the legal authority to approve the ﬁnancial terms of such acquisitions or obligations pertaining to ﬁnancial information. More generally, divestments. Group entities can never approve the acquisition of a memorandum, also supplemented by an audio kit, is available external companies, assets or business segments or the total or containing full details of all the criminal risks to which the partial sale of Group companies, assets or business segments Company may be exposed and the consequences for the criminal on their own. All external growth operations (including sales) are liability of the Company, its Directors and its employees. This memorandum, designed to inform and raise awareness among submitted to the Board of Directors prior to being implemented. Projects representing over €100 million in the case of strategic 2 all employees, is available at all times on the Legal Affairs intranet investments in new business segments or new geographic site for the widest possible circulation. markets or over €150 million for all other acquisitions must be formally authorized in advance by the Board of Directors. Compliance actions are communicated regularly in internal publications such as Connection, Essilook, and Repères and all documentation and audio kits are bilingual (French/English) or ■ Group Treasury translated into local languages so that the compliance policy is The Group Treasury Department is in charge of the funding, risk sure to be applied consistently throughout the Group. hedging and cash management of the Group. It also provides a To provide regular information on developments in the legal general advisory and assistance role for the Group subsidiaries environment that is targeted to compliance topics, a monthly for these duties. It reports directly to the Corporate Finance newsletter, a tool to prevent legal risks mainly for legal experts Department. and Country managers has been established. Mediumand long-term ﬁnancing as well as a large percentage Finally, in July 2012 the Industrial Property Department sent all of short-term liquidities are managed in a centralized manner Group managers guidelines for using, protecting and globally by the parent company through bank loans, private investments, complying with our trademarks, logos and other identity elements. confirmed medium-term lines of credit or commercial paper. Financing of the major Group subsidiaries is guaranteed through cash pooling and shortand medium-term inter-company loans, ■ Quality which allow for liquidity to be gradually centralized. Reporting directly to the Corporate Senior Vice President, Cash investments are subject to a policy that encourages safety Global Engineering (a member of the Executive Committee), the and liquidity on the return. Cash surpluses are invested only in Quality and Customer Satisfaction Department is responsible short-term formats (mutual funds, certiﬁcates of deposit), thus for establishing and upgrading a quality system designed to limiting the risk of capital loss and making them immediately continuously enhance satisfaction levels for all Essilor customer available. categories. Led and coordinated by a small central team, the Department’s decentralized organization is closely aligned with Exposures to currency risk are routinely hedged by the the market structure and helps to reduce response times. Its four appropriate market instruments. Invoicing in local currency of core aims are to: importing or exporting companies allows the concentration of the bulk of foreign exchange risk on a small number of entities. n enhance satisfaction with products and services, taking into Those companies that are exposed to signiﬁcant currency risk are account the diverse expectations of the various customer hedged with the support of the Group Treasury Department. The segments; risk to other subsidiaries, if reduced, is nonetheless monitored n improve the efficiency and consistency of internal processes, centrally. aligning them with the overall strategic objectives and The interest rate management policy is to minimize the cost of developing techniques to measure their efficiency; ﬁnancing while protecting the Group against an adverse change n ensure that decision-making processes are results-oriented, in interest rates. Since Group ﬁnancing is centralized at the parent particularly by contributing to the establishment of indicators, company, interest-rate risk management is also centralized there. based where possible on comparable company and related Moreover, for the above responsibilities, the Group Treasury business activities benchmarks in this industry; Department is in charge of the banking relationship. n represent the Essilor group on standardization bodies and It also participates with the Consolidation Department in the promote the interests of consumers on these bodies. proper compliance with procedures related to the application of IFRS to ﬁnancial instruments. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 63 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2.2.3.4 Reference texts, standards, procedures, consultation on the Group’s intranet site. They are updated each time a change is made and when new standards are adopted. and membership in bodies that structure the internal audits Local and corporate finance managers are responsible for ensuring that the data reported in FIGURES comply with the Group accounting policies and procedures. The use of FIGURES ■ Group Standard Guide guarantees consistent accounting treatment of transactions and enables us to exercise close control over the preparation of the The Group Standard Guide (GSG) sets out the mandatory policies accounts of the various units. and procedures to be followed by all Essilor units and departments in such areas as purchasing, acquisitions, communications, ﬁnance, legal affairs, operations, R&D and human resources. ■ Other reporting systems The procedures are organized by process, including ﬁxed assets, The uniﬁed reporting system now includes a twinned application, inventories, sales/receivables, treasury, purchasing, onand “Sustainability,” which can be used to report economic, human off-balance sheet commitments, tax, R&D and production start(social and societal) and environmental data as well as produce up costs, production accounting, fraud prevention, insurance, the schedules containing non-financial data reported by the human resources, legal affairs, consolidation and acquisitions of Sustainable Development Department. The procedures associated companies, assets and businesses. The GGS also includes ethical with Sustainability are similar to those for the consolidation criteria that are applicable to the entire Group and focused around system and it is supported by speciﬁc reporting instructions and a four themes: human rights, working conditions, the environment speciﬁc glossary. The information is collected from the managers and the ﬁght against corruption. concerned by local and corporate ﬁnance managers. The G SG is accessible online in French and English on the We have numerous information systems to manage, monitor, Group’s intranet site and a dedicated extranet address. It is analyze and control both upstream activities (production/logistics) an indispensable tool, both for the preparation of financial and downstream activities (prescription/distribution). statements and for guaranteeing and maintaining an internal Various reports or controls of outside agencies (monthly, quarterly control environment which is adapted in the Group’s entities. The or annual) facilitate the monitoring and control of the activity of latest developments in the Group’s rules are covered by a speciﬁc the Group’s subsidiaries, particularly in the areas of financial, release at the time of inclusion in the manual (newsletter and accounting and logistics performance, tracking business, intranet announcement). accidents at work, monitoring of health and safety controls, APAVE The application of all of the rules and procedures contained in controls, ISO certiﬁcations, reports on sustainable development, the GSG is the responsibility of corporate and business managers claims and loss prevention, insurance, litigation, etc. (ﬁnancial managers, purchasers, etc.) at local and Group level. Moreover, each function has the responsibility to document (in line In 2013, the Audit & Consulting Services (ACS) Department with the GSG rules) the speciﬁc procedures to follow. An Intranet published the Minimum Control Standards (MCS), which show in a Charter makes it possible to coordinate internationally the various simple format 75 internal controls generally regarded as the most actions related to the circulation and sharing of information via the critical to be in place. Brochures available on the ACS intranet site Essilor intranet. were specially communicated and are available in 33 languages. The MCS also form the basis for annual questionnaire for selfassessment of internal controls (iCare). ■ Indices of corporate social responsibility and adherence to international initiatives ■ Uniﬁed reporting system Essilor is included in six sustainable development indices: ECPI® Ethical EMU Equity, ECPI® Ethical Europe Equity, FTSE4Good, and The quality and reliability of ﬁnancial information is guaranteed Ethibel Excellence . by the use of an integrated management and statutory reporting system, FIGURES. Local accounting data are entered in the system For the second consecutive year, Corporate Knights has ranked either directly or via an interface, according to a detailed reporting Essilor International among the 100 most sustainable companies timetable issued by Corporate Finance at the beginning of each in the world for 2014. Announced each year at the World Economic year. Forum in Davos since 2005, the Global 100 ranking is considered to be an assessment documented by the most comprehensive ﬁgures Consolidation procedures guarantee the consistency of ﬁnancial for Corporate Sustainability. information. A speciﬁc manual includes a glossary describing the information to be entered for each module in accordance with Essilor is a member of the Global Compact and is committed Group rules (income statement, balance sheet, notes, treasury, to embracing and enacting its ten universal principles within inventory, capital expenditure) and deﬁning accounting ﬂows and its sphere of influence. The Company regularly reports its business segments. achievements and progress to the Global Compact Office at UN Headquarters in New York. The glossary and all reporting instructions are available for 64 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2 Essilor International would like to take this opportunity to renew via the FIGURES reporting system, which is used not only for for the coming year its commitments to include the ten principles business analysis but also for statutory consolidation. All units are of the Global Compact in its strategies and operations. managed by the system to maintain strict control over accounting and ﬁnancial information. Attentive to and aware of the consequences of climate change, Essilor has supported the Carbon Disclosure Project and Caring For statutory consolidation purposes, balance sheet data are for Climate initiatives since their launch. The production of a pair reported on a quarterly basis, in addition to the monthly reporting. of corrective lenses generates only a few hundred grams of CO2 The Consolidation Department checks the ﬁgures entered in the equivalents. Used for many months, these small, light objects do system and ensures that they comply with Group policies. The not consume any energy. Essilor has also been associated with the aims of consolidation procedures are to: Water Disclosure Initiative since its creation by the CDP. n guarantee compliance with the applicable rules (IFRS, Group The ophthalmic lens mass production plants under the direct policies, AMF guidelines, etc.) through the implementation of control of Essilor have ISO 9001-certiﬁed quality management systems (100%), ISO 14001-certiﬁed environmental management general procedures and the issuance of speciﬁc consolidation instructions to the various entities; 2 systems (100%) and OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed workplace health and n provide assurance concerning the reliability of financial safety systems (100%). They guarantee the regular maintenance information, through the execution of controls programmed into of these systems and the renewal of their certifications in the system or performed by the various ﬁnance departments subsequent accreditation audits. Some of the ophthalmic lens (business analysis, consolidation, treasury) within the required prescription manufacturing laboratories that essentially play a timeframes; service role also have these systems, although only when justiﬁed by their size. n guarantee data integrity through high-level systems security. Speciﬁc instructions are issued to reporting entities before each consolidation exercise, including a detailed reporting timeline. 2.2.3.5 Internal control procedures relating to the The procedures for monitoring off-balance sheet commitments production and processing of accounting and assets are included in the GSG. They stipulate the types of and ﬁnancial information commitments to be recorded onand off-balance sheet. Full information about these commitments is provided by the reporting Each operating division draws up its own three-year business plan system. setting strategic objectives based on the overall strategy decided by the Company’s senior management. All of these objectives are The budgeting process and consolidation procedures enable us included in the medium-term plan presented to the Company’s to constantly monitor the performance of the various units and senior management. to swiftly identify any variances from budget in order to take immediate corrective action. The budgeting process begins each year in August, with signiﬁcant input from the regional units, which provide analyses All procedures included in the GSG are applicable by the Group of transaction volumes between the central marketing unit, companies, whether consolidated or not, and enforcement is the the logistics unit and the regions. Each Group entity prepares responsibility of operational management (“ﬁrst line of control” its budget on the basis of objectives issued by the regional in the terminology of French Audit and Internal Control Institute or operating division and of the entity’s own strategy for the (IFACI)), functional departments responsible for areas of expertise coming year. (management control, human resources, internal control, etc. or “second line of control”) and the internal audit (“third line of The budgets are presented to the Group’s senior management control”). Moreover, at each closing date, the ﬁnancial information at budget review meetings held at the end of the year. The deemed most relevant is presented by the Finance Department to consolidation of all budgets ends in November or December and the Audit and Risk Committee. Such meetings, which are attended is formalized in December or January of the following year. The by the Statutory Auditors, discuss all material transactions and budget is then presented to the Board of Directors. The annual the main accounting options selected to address potential risks. budget is updated in June of the budget year and again in November, when the following year’s budget is prepared. Finally, even though it is not an integral part of the internal control procedures, the Statutory Auditors review the accounting and The process, which concerns all Group units, is led and monitored internal control systems to plan their audits, deign their audit by the Group Business Analysis unit, in order to ensure that all strategies and test a certain number of key internal controls. The budgets are prepared on the same basis and are consistent with accounts of all Group subsidiaries are audited by local auditors, the overall strategic objectives of senior management. Actual most of whom are members of the networks of the accounting performance is monitored and analyzed on a monthly basis ﬁrms that audit the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 65 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2.2.4 Organization of powers of management and control of the Company and powers of the Chief Executive Officer At its meeting of November 24, 2011, the Board of Directors identity) ensures that the Board fully exercises its oversight decided to entrust its chairmanship, effective January 2, 2012, functions over the executive part of the organization. to Hubert Sagnières, Chief Executive Officer, and thus reunite the The general management functions are carried out without formal offices of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. This limitation of the powers of the Chief Executive Officer. However, structure combining the two functions, which has been adopted by acquisitions and disposals as part of the “new business/new most French corporations, ensures responsiveness and greater country” strategy, as well as restructuring and signiﬁcant nonefficiency of operations in terms of governance and strategic strategic investments announced, are to receive the prior approval management of the Company. In addition, the presence on the of the Board, in accordance with Article 2 of the internal rules. Board of a high proportion of Independent Directors and three representatives of the Valoptec Association (while the important In addition, the CEO is assisted by two Chief operating officers. role of employee shareholders is a key feature of the Group’s 2.2.5 Corporate governance Pursuant to Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code and By reducing the protection afforded to Executive Directors at a in accordance with the decision of the Board of Directors that it time when they are taking on increased risks by virtue of their adheres to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed new responsibilities, this could lead internal candidates to turn companies. down the promotion or to ask for a bigger increase in their compensation, which is obviously not in line with the spirit of the The Code may be consulted at the MEDEF website at the following AFEP-MEDEF recommendations. address: http://www.medef.fr/main/core.php This measure would also open up a breach between Executive D irectors and the managers below them, which would work Provisions of the Corporate Governance Code that against the principles of internal promotion and sustainable were not retained and explanations thereto management that Essilor considers to be instrumental in building powerful and stable companies. ■ Maintaining a corporate officer’s employment contract (Article 22 The Essilor Board of Directors will therefore continue to suspend senior managers’ employment contracts when they are appointed of the AFEP-MEDEF Code) Chief Executive Officer or Chairman and CEO, if they have been At its meeting of November 27, 2008, the Essilor Board of Directors with the Company for at least 10 years at the time of their voted on the October 2008 AFEP-MEDEF recommendations appointment. The AMF has recognized the validity of this position. concerning the compensation of Executive Directors of listed However, Hubert Sagnières has 25 years of seniority in the Group. companies. Moreover, the benefits to which Hubert Sagnières would be The Board of Directors approved these recommendations, entitled under his employment contract if he were to leave the which are consistent with Essilor’s long-standing corporate Company at the termination of his employment (severance governance policies. Generally speaking, Essilor has always had pay, supplementary retirement beneﬁts) were approved by the a policy of transparency and moderation with regard to executive Shareholders’ Meetings of May 11, 2010 and May 5, 2011 in compensation. accordance with Article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code and are in compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. However, concurring with the position of the Executive Directors and Compensation Committee, the Board expressed reservations Essilor, a pioneer of employee shareholding, has always sought, about the requirement that would be imposed on an Executive wherever possible, to rise up leaders from within its ranks, to O fficer to terminate his or her employment contract when promote their long-term vision and to share their entrepreneurial appointed Chairman and CEO or Chief Executive Officer. See risk. The large number of Essilor shares held by its leadership is Section 2.3.3 table 11. the clearest illustration of this. While it would appear reasonable not to give an employment contract to an Executive Officer newly recruited from outside the ■ Obligation to purchase shares corresponding to the allocation Company, the requirement is difficult to accept in the case of a of performance shares (Article 23.2.4 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code) manager who has been asked to take on higher responsibilities after a long and successful career within the organization. Please refer to Section 2.3.2.3 (“Enhanced conditions for Executive Officers and members of the Group Executive Committee”) and Section 2.2.2.1 for the exercise periods. 66 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal control 2 2.2.6 Specific procedures for shareholder participation in Shareholders’ Meetings All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to participate in There is no quorum requirement meetings held on second call. Shareholders’ Meetings, regardless of the number of shares they Resolutions of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting are adopted own, provided such shares have been paid up to the extent called. by a majority of the votes cast by the shareholders present or represented, including ballots cast by mail. The rights of shareholders to be represented by proxy and to participate in the vote are exercised in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. The Company’s bylaws do not 2.2.6.3 Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings contain any restrictions on the exercise of these rights. (Article 26) The Company’s bylaws (Section V – Shareholders’ Meetings) include the following provisions concerning the organization of Shareholders’ Meetings, its main powers and the rights of The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting has the power to modify all provisions of the bylaws, except to change the Company’s 2 shareholders, which are in compliance with the law. nationality other than in the cases provided for by Law or to increase the shareholders’ commitments. Subject to these restrictions, the Extraordinary Shareholders’ 2.2.6.1 Shareholders’ right to information Meeting may, for example, decide to increase or reduce the share (Article 24) capital, change the corporate purpose, change the Company’s name, extend its life or wind it up in advance, or change its legal All shareholders have the right to receive the documents needed form. to allow them to make informed decisions and to form an opinion concerning the management and control of the Company. The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may validly conduct business provided that the shareholders present, represented or The type of documents concerned and the manner in which they voting by post hold at least one quarter of the voting shares on are made available to shareholders are determined according to ﬁrst call and one-ﬁfth on second call. If the quorum is not met on the relevant laws and regulations. either ﬁrst or second call, the meeting can be postponed for up to two months, before being called again. 2.2.6.2 Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings Resolutions of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting are (Article 25) adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast by the shareholders present or represented, including postal votes, The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting votes on all matters involving except where different legal rules apply. the Company’s interests that do not fall within the competence of an Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. Exceptionally, resolutions concerning the capitalization of reserves, earnings or additional paid-in capital are subject to The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting makes all decisions that the quorum and voting majority rules applicable to Ordinary exceed the powers of the Board of Directors and do not lead to a Shareholders’ Meetings. change in the bylaws. The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may also amend the An Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting is held at least once a year, rights of various classes of shares. However, in the event that a within six months of the fiscal year-end, to deliberate on all decision by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting would affect aspects of the annual ﬁnancial statements and, as applicable, of the rights attached to a class of shares, this decision will become the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. This meeting may be held final only after it has been ratified by a Special Meeting of the more than six months after the ﬁscal year-end by court order. shareholders for the class targeted. Said Special Meeting will Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings may transact business if be subject to the legal and regulatory provisions applicable to holders of at least one-ﬁfth of the voting shares are present or Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. If none of the Company’s represented. Directors holds shares in the class concerned, the Special Meeting If the quorum is not met, the Shareholders’ Meeting must be called elects its own Chairman. again. 2.2.7 Items that may have an impact in the event of a public offering In application of Article L.225-37(9) of the French Commercial Section 5.2.6.2, “Contracts containing a change of control clause Code, the information required under Article L.22525-3 of and shareholders’ agreements” of the Registration Document. the Code is presented in the Management Report and in Charenton, February 26, 2014 The Chairman of the Board of Directors Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 67 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts 2.3 Compensation and Benefits 2.3.1 Compensation of the members of the Board of Directors Directors’ fees The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2010 voted to award Directors’ fees of €525,000. At its meeting of July 13, 2010, the Board of Directors decided to allocate this sum as shown in the table below. This allocation was unchanged in 2013. Variable component based Directors’ fees Fixed component on attendance record All Board members €3,800 €2,000 per meeting Chairman of the Audit Committee €22,000 €2,200 per meeting Chairman of the Corporate Officer and Remunerations Committee €11,000 €2,200 per meeting Chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee €11,000 €2,200 per meeting Only for Independent Directors, members of the Audit, Corporate Officer and Remunerations, Appointments or Corporate Social Responsibility Committees Not applicable €2,200 per meeting Members of the Strategic Committee Not applicable €1,000 per meeting Total Directors’ fees paid to the members of the Board of Directors Aïcha Mokdahi, Yi He and Maureen Cavanagh, who represent in 2013 amounted to €462,200, of which €365,000 are for the employee shareholders on the Essilor Board, pay their Directors’ variable component. fees to the Valoptec Association, net of tax and any applicable social security contributions. 2.3.2 Compensation policy of corporate directors and officers Compensation of key management personnel, as deﬁned in IAS 24, The 2013 compensation package of Hubert Sagnières, Essilor’s is presented in Note 30 to the Financial Statements, Section 3.4. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is a good illustration of this policy: 2.3.2.1 General principles The compensation of corporate directors and officers is set by the Board of Directors on the proposal of the Corporate Officer and Remunerations Committee. ~25% Annual performance-based variable The guiding principles on which the Board’s decisions are based are as follows: n compensation policy should reﬂect the Company’s corporate values and culture. In line with this principle, Essilor International’s policy consists of using the compensation tools and systems that are best able to foster sustainable performance, a long-term vision, loyalty to the company ~25% Performance-based ~75% and entrepreneurial risk-sharing, in particular, through the Fixed compensation ownership of a stake in the Company’s capital; component n a signiﬁcant portion of each corporate officer’s compensation must be performance-based. The aim should be to reward both short-term performance, as evidenced by the achievement of annual strategic targets, through an annual bonus, as well as long-term performance, ~50% through long-term incentive plans whose performance targets Fixed Component Long-term incentive and value are ultimately based on the creation of lasting Performance-based Performance shares valued value for shareholders that is also of benefit for the entire compensation according to IFRS organization. 68 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts 2 n corporate officers’ compensation should be measured and The c orporate o fficer and Remunerations Committee competitive compared with the practices of companies in commissioned a benchmarking study of senior executive Essilor International’s peer group, taking into account their compensation practices from an independent firm of business, international reach and size (as measured by compensation consultants. The study covered the compensation revenues, employee numbers and market capitalization). packages of Chairmen and Chief Executive Officers and Chairmen For the application of this principle, the corporate officer and of the Management Boards of French industrial groups included Remunerations Committee refer to benchmarking surveys in the CAC 40 and Next 20 indices whose market capitalization conducted by independent compensation consultants; and/or revenue are comparable to those of Essilor International. n all the compensation components (salary, annual bonus, Fixed compensation long-term incentive, supplementary pension beneﬁts) and the balance among those components are taken into account by the The ﬁxed annual compensation of Hubert Sagnières, Chairman Board of Directors when deﬁning the compensation of corporate and Chief Executive Officer, was set at €800,000 for 2013, officers. unchanged from the previous year. 2 Variable annual compensation 2.3.2.2 Situation of Hubert Sagnières, Chairman The variable target-based annual compensation of Hubert and Chief Executive Officer Sagnières, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, for 2013 was Hubert Sagnières was an employee of the Group for twentyalso set at €800,000 if the targets were met, or at between 0 one years before being appointed Chief Executive Officer of Essilor and 1.5 times this amount if the targets were not met, were only International on January 1, 2010. He was named Chairman and partly met or were exceeded. The target compensation and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company on January 2, 2012. maximum variable compensation for 2013 were unchanged from the previous year. His employment contract was suspended on January 1, 2010 when he became Chief Executive Officer, in accordance with the Variable compensation for 2013 was 80%-based on financial Company’s policy which is recognized by France’s securities targets and 20%-based on personal targets, broken down as regulator, AMF (see Section 2.2.5 above). follows: Company policy consists of promoting talented internal candidates n 40% on an adjusted Net EPS target, or up to 68% if the target whenever possible. Employees who are promoted through this were to be exceeded signiﬁcantly; process to the top positions in the organization have demonstrated n 30% on an organic growth target, or up to 51% if the target were over the long term their ability to deliver excellent performance to be exceeded signiﬁcantly; and their adherence to Essilor’s values and culture. Moreover, they have acquired the high levels of marketing, industrial, scientiﬁc or n 10% on a growth by acquisition target, without any increase if other expertise needed to develop a long-term vision. the target were to be exceeded; n 20% on three personal objectives related to business strategy, without any increase if the target were to be exceeded. 2.3.2.3 Compensation package of Hubert The targets for 2013 were the following: conduct a major Sagnières, Chairman and Chief acquisition in line with the long term strategy, implement the Executive Officer new organization and prepare for the future of the Group in particular through identifying future senior executives. In order to best reflect Hubert Sagnières’ performance and a) Annual compensation neutralize the impact of factors beyond his control, performance The annual compensation of Hubert Sagnières as Chairman against ﬁnancial targets is assessed by eliminating the distortions and Chief Executive Officer includes a fixed component and a caused by changes in exchange rates. In addition, net EPS is variable component. Hubert Sagnières requested that the Board adjusted for the impact of non-recurring costs that cannot be of Directors no longer award him Directors’ fees following his budgeted and for the total impact from acquisitions for the year appointment as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, a request that are not taken into account in the “growth by acquisition” endorsed by the Board in a formal resolution. criterion. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 69 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts Based on a review of performance against the targets, it was determined that the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was entitled to variable compensation for 2013 equal to 106% of his gross ﬁxed compensation for the year (versus 123% for 2012), or €848,000. The details of the calculation are presented in the table below: W A WxA W x A x target in € Performance % weighted Weighting Target measurement % achievement achievement Achievement in € 40% Net EPS 0 to 170% 170% 68,0% €544,000 30% Organic growth 0 to 170% 30% 9,0% €72,000 10% Growth by acquisition 0 to 100% 100% 10,0% €80,000 20% Personal factor 0 to 100% 95% 19,0% €152,000 100% 106,0% €848,000 By comparison, in 2013, the Group achieved: November 25, 2013 plan n published (non-restated) net earnings per share of €2.82; Pursuant to the twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth resolutions n organic growth of 2.1%; of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2012, on November 25, 2013 the Board of Directors decided to award n and 28 acquisitions equal to annual revenues of €254 million. 1,376,340 performance share rights and 87,880 capped The level of achievement required for these targets was performance stock options to 9,006 Company employees. established in a precise, rigorous manner. Details of these Under the terms of this plan, Hubert Sagnières received 45,000 performance measures are not provided, however, because the performance share rights (valuated as stated in Table 2 in the Company considers that disclosure would be detrimental to the Appendix at the end of this Section), representing 3.1% of the total proper execution of its strategy in light of its speciﬁc situation in number of rights awarded (sum of performance share rights and relation to competitors in matters of ﬁnancial communication. performance stock options awarded) and 0.021% of the capital at December 31, 2013. b) Long-term incentive plans Vesting conditions and lock-up period Long-term incentives: awards of stock subscription options Essilor’s long-term compensation plans are designed to align the and performance share plans interests of employee shareholders and external shareholders. Long-term compensation plans are a fundamental component of The performance shares are subject to the following vesting and Essilor’s entrepreneurial culture and its compensation policy. lock-up conditions: They contribute to: n a performance condition based on growth in the Essilor n developing the company spirit that has been one of the International share price measured over several years; fundamental reasons for Essilor’s performance since its n an employment condition (grantees must still be employed creation; by the Company at the end of the vesting period) designed to n encouraging loyalty and long-term commitment among the guarantee the long-term engagement of the grantees and their Company’s senior executives, key managers and other talents; loyalty to the Company; n ensuring that the Company’s overall compensation policies are n an obligation to hold the vested shares during a speciﬁed lockcompetitive. up period, designed to strengthen the convergence between the interests of employee shareholders and external shareholders; Since 2006, Essilor has decided to award performance shares and, where this is not possible, capped performance stock options. The n stricter conditions for corporate directors and officers and awarding of performance shares instead of stock options is less members of the Group Executive Committee. dilutive for shareholders. Moreover, the lock-up period applicable General performance condition to performance shares strengthens the convergence of interests This condition is applicable to all performance share grantees between employee shareholders and external shareholders (see “Vesting conditions and lock-up period”). Performance share awards vest, in full or in part, based on annualized growth (1) in the Essilor share price, measured as The awarding of performance shares and performance stock follows: options occurs at the same time of the year. n at the award date, the Initial Reference Price (corresponding to the average of the opening prices for the 20 trading days preceding the award date) is determined; (1) Calculation formula: (Average Price/Initial Reference Price)^(1/Y)-Y, where Y is the number of years between the award date and the performance measurement date. Y =2 then, if the performance condition is not met, 2.25… up to a maximum of 6. 70 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts 2 n two years after the award (Y+2), an Average Price corresponding share price growth target of 2% to 7%. This performance to the average of the opening prices for the three months assessment may be repeated every three months until the preceding the second anniversary of the award date is sixth anniversary of the award date (Y+6). If the minimum calculated; annualized growth target of 2% is not met in any of these periods (corresponding to a 12.6% gain in the Average Price n if the increase in the Average Price compared with the Initial compared with the Initial Reference Price) the performance Reference Price is: share rights will be forfeited and grantees will not receive — greater than 14.5% (representing an annualized growth any Essilor shares. of 7%), all shares initially awarded vest provided that The number of shares that vest is determined when the the employment condition is also met (see “Employment annualized increase in the Average Price compared with the condition”), Initial Reference Price exceeds 2% for the ﬁrst time, even if — between 4.0% and 14.5% (corresponding to an annualized a higher annualized increase is subsequently observed. As growth of between 2% and 7%), some of the shares initially awarded vest provided that the employment condition is also time goes by, the bar represented by the minimum growth in 2 the Average Price for the minimum number of Essilor shares met (see “Employment condition”), to vest gets steadily higher, rising from 4% in Y+2, to 6.1% in — less than 4.0% (corresponding to an annualized increase Y+3, 8.2% in Y+4 …. and 12.6% in Y+6. of less than 2%), none of the shares vest on the second Application of the performance condition is illustrated in the graph anniversary of the award date. In this case, a further below. In the interest of simplicity, the share price is assumed to performance assessment is carried out three months be 100 at the award date. later by the same method using the same annualized Share price in euros 160 150 150.1 7% annual growth required to receive all shares 147.6 145.1 140 142.6 140.3 137.9 135.6 133.3 130 131.1 128.9 126.7 124.6 120 122.5 120.4 118.4 116.4 114.5 110 112.1 112.6 111.0 111.5 109.3 109.9 110.4 107.2 107.7 108.2 108.8 106.1 106.6 105.1 105.6 104.0 104.6 100 No shares if annual growth never exceeds 2% 90 80 0 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 71 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts The vesting rates based on annualized growth in the Essilor International share price are as follows Annualized growth: Vesting rate less than 2% 0% greater than or equal to 2% and less than 3% 60% greater than or equal to 3% and less than 4% 68% greater than or equal to 4% and less than 5% 76% greater than or equal to 5% and less than 6% 84% greater than or equal to 6% and less than 7% 92% Greater than 7% 100% Employment condition Speciﬁc additional performance conditions applicable to corporate For French tax residents, the shares will only vest if the grantee directors and officers is still employed by the Company when the performance condition Awards to corporate directors and officers are subject to a second is met, which may occur between the second and the sixth performance condition based on an Average Ratio corresponding anniversaries of the award date (see “General performance to the average of the performance rates in relation to their annual condition”). variable compensation targets achieved over the vesting period. This ratio is capped at one and can therefore only reduce the For non-residents, the shares will only vest if the grantee is still percentage of shares awarded to corporate directors or officers employed by the Company on: compared to the shares awarded to grantees who are not n the fourth anniversary of the award date if the performance corporate directors or officers. condition is met between the second and fourth anniversaries; For their entire term of office, corporate directors and officers n on the date when the performance condition is met, if the are required to keep one third of the shares acquired under the performance condition occurs after the fourth anniversary of performance share plans. This restriction no longer applies when the award date. the number of shares held under the various performance stock This employment condition is waived in the case of the grantee’s options and performance share plans exceeds two times the death, invalidity, redundancy or retirement. annual ﬁxed and variable cash compensation (received for the year ended December 31 preceding the vesting date). Lock-up period In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Chairman and CEO If the performance and employment conditions are met, the has pledged not to use any hedging strategies to manage the risk shares are transferred to the beneﬁciaries in a registered account. related to the options and shares granted under the long-term The beneficiaries are required to comply with the holding discretionary proﬁt-sharing plans, until the expiration of his term condition described below: of office. n for French tax residents, the vested shares are subject to a lockPursuant to the Directors’ Charter, corporate directors and up period entailing that they can be sold at the earliest as from officers are required to refrain from all transactions involving the sixth anniversary of the award date and at the latest as from the Company’s stock during the period preceding the publication the eighth anniversary; of privileged information of which they have knowledge and n for non-residents, half of the shares are subject to a two-year to respect “blackout periods” of 30 days before the publication lock-up period and the other half may be sold immediately to of the annual, interim and, if applicable, quarterly financial pay the related taxes. statements and of 15 days before ﬁnancial information meetings; the publication date of the relevant information is also part of Speciﬁc conditions for corporate directors and officers and the blackout period. The calendar for these black-out periods is members of the Executive Committee prepared annually. Cap applicable to awards made to corporate directors and officers Speciﬁc additional performance conditions applicable to members of Awards to corporate directors or officers are capped as follows: the Executive Committee n the value (under IFRS) of performance stock options and/or In addition to the performance condition applicable to all plan performance shares awarded to each corporate director or beneﬁciaries, a second performance condition must be met by the officer cannot exceed the sum of his or her annual ﬁxed and members of the Group Executive Committee. It is based on the variable cash compensation; Group’s average rate of achievement of targets for their annual variable compensation during the vesting period (from two to six n a corporate director or officer cannot receive an award years). If the average rate is below 100%, the numbers of shares exceeding 7% of the total awards (performance stock options vested to the member of the Group Executive Committee is + performance shares) made each year by the Company to decreased proportionally. If it exceeds 100%, it is capped at 100% employees. 72 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts 2 and therefore does not change the number of shares vested to the Assesment of performance in relation to the November 25, 2011 Group Executive Committee in relation to the general performance performance share plan targets condition. At its meeting on November 24, 2011, the Board of Directors decided to award a maximum number of 50,000 performance share rights to Hubert Sagnières. 1) Achievement of the ﬁrst performance condition, that was applicable to all plan grantees, was assessed on November 25, 2013, by calculating the annualized growth in the Essilor International share price, as follows: Initial Reference Price: average price for 20 trading days preceding November 24, 2011 €52.27 Average Price: average price for period from August 26 to November 25, 2013 €79.86 2 Increase = +52.8% Annualized growth = +23.6% Annualized growth, calculated as shown above, was greater than the performance target of 7% per year, and the ﬁrst performance condition was therefore met. 2) The second performance condition, applicable only to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is based on a target Average Ratio corresponding to the average of the performance rates in relation to his annual variable compensation targets achieved over the vesting period. The Average Ratio for the period 2011-2012 was measured as follows: Performance rate for targets used to determine 2011 variable compensation 131.3% Performance rate for targets used to determine 2012 variable compensation 123.0% Average Ratio 127.2% As the Average Ratio was greater than 100% it was capped at c) Deferred compensation policy 1 and therefore had no impact on the number of vested shares based on the ﬁrst performance condition. Supplementary deﬁned beneﬁt ”loyalty-based“ pension plan As the two performance conditions were fully met, Mr. Sagnières Company executives in categories IIIC and HC (as deﬁned in the received 50,000 vested Essilor International shares that have Metalworking Industry collective bargaining agreement) who been registered in his name and will be subject to a lock-up meet the following conditions are entitled to benefits under a until November 24, 2017. As from that date, one-third of the supplementary defined benefit pension plan (Article 39 of the shares (16,667 shares) will continue to be subject to a lock-up French General Tax Code): for as long as he remains in office, or unless or until he holds on a permanent basis a number of shares (acquired over time n they have at least ten years’ seniority in the Company (vs. through performance share plans or the exercise of stock options) two years recommended in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate equivalent to two year’s ﬁxed and variable cash compensation. Governance Code); n they retire from Essilor International (or a member company). In Analysis of long-term incentive plans accordance with the applicable regulations, an executive whose During 2014, there will be an analysis of the long-term employment is terminated after he or she reaches the age of incentive plans to find, if necessary, areas where the plans to 55 who does not accept any other paid position is considered as award performance shares currently in effect in the company having retired from the Company. can be improved (vesting and lock-up periods, performance If both of these conditions are met, the supplementary pension conditions, etc.). beneﬁts are determined upon retirement as follows: n 10% of the reference compensation, corresponding to the Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 73 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts average of the fixed and variable compensation paid for the the Company, other than for serious or gross misconduct or three years preceding the last day worked; when he reaches normal retirement age. n Plus, for each year of service between 10 and 20 years: n A supplementary beneﬁt of up to €989,942. When Mr. Sagnières reaches the age of 60, this amount will be increased to — 1% of the reference compensation, €1,248,417. — 1.5% of the portion of the reference compensation This amount corresponds to the termination beneﬁt provided that exceeds the “tranche C” ceiling for Social Security for in his employment contract over and above the amount due contributions or 5% of the reference compensation, in strict application of France’s labor laws and the applicable whichever is lower. collective bargaining agreement. The plan pays category IIIC and HC executives with at least This beneﬁt could be payable if Mr. Sagnières were to leave the 20 years’ seniority a replacement rate of up to 25% of their Company following a change of control or strategy, and would reference compensation (versus a maximum of 45% provided for be subject to the performance conditions described below. in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code). Mr. Sagnières had 25 years’ seniority at December 31, 2013 and Performance conditions his hypothetical beneﬁt entitlement at that date would therefore At its meeting of March 3, 2010, the Board of Directors reiterated represent a replacement rate of 25% of his average compensation the performance conditions set by the Board at its meeting for the years 2011 2012 and 2013 (approximately €413,000). of March 4, 2009 and upon which the potential payment of the The beneﬁt obligation is accrued in the balance sheet during the supplementary beneﬁt was contingent, namely: vesting period (i.e. the period during which the corporate director As in the past, performance would be measured by the average remains in office). When the corporate director retires, the liability rate of achievement of Hubert Sagnières’ annual targets as is outsourced to an insurance company which is responsible for Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for the three years preceding paying the beneﬁts. his departure. These targets are set by the Board of Directors and are used to calculate his variable compensation. For an average Termination beneﬁts performance rate of at least 50%, the termination beneﬁt would be Hubert Sagnières is not entitled to any compensation for loss of determined on a strictly proportionate basis up to a maximum of office in the event that his appointment as Chairman and Chief 100% (for example, if actual results represented 90% of the target, Executive Officer is terminated. 90% of the termination beneﬁt would be paid). His employment contract with the Company, which is currently If the performance rate were to be below 50%, no supplementary suspended, includes a clause inserted many years before termination beneﬁt would be paid. he became a corporate officer guaranteeing him an amount This related party agreement was approved by the Shareholders’ equivalent to two years’ reference compensation in the event that Meeting of May 5, 2011 in a speciﬁc resolution. his contract is terminated by the Company. At December 31, 2013, his reference gross compensation d) Group death/disability and health insurance plans amounted to €1,055,000, corresponding to his compensation as and “Article 83” deﬁned contributions pension plan an employee of the Company as of the date when his employment contract was suspended, increased by the annual average pay Hubert Sagnières participates in the Group death/disability and rises awarded to category IIIC executives at Essilor. health insurance plans and the defined contribution pension plan set up by the Company for its managers and executives. The maximum termination benefit that would be payable at Contributions paid by the Company to these plans on his behalf in December 31, 2013 would therefore be €2,110,000. 2013, in addition to the employee contributions paid by him, were This amount breaks down as follows: as follows: n Termination benefits payable under French labor law and n €6,277 for the death/disability insurance plan; the applicable collective bargaining agreement: €1,120,058. n €826 for the health insurance plan; When Mr. Sagnières reaches the age of 60, this amount will be reduced to €861,583. n €14,912 for the deﬁned contribution pension plan. It corresponds solely to the statutory termination beneﬁts that would be due to Mr. Sagnières pursuant to France’s Labor Code e) Beneﬁt in kind for his 21 years of service as an employee of the Company before he was named Chief Executive Officer. Hubert Sagnières is covered by an unemployment insurance policy purchased from GSC. The related premium, in the amount French law stipulates that payment of this termination beneﬁt of €7,205 in 2013, is qualiﬁed as a beneﬁt in kind. cannot be avoided if his employment contract is terminated by 74 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts 2 2.3.3 Appendix: Compensation and benefits tables Table 1 – Directors’ fees and other compensation received by non-Executive Directors(a) In euros 2013 2012 Philippe ALFROID 29,600 25,600 Benoît BAZIN 29,600 28,600 Antoine BERNARD DE SAINT-AFFRIQUE 29,600 28,600 Maureen CAVANAGH 20,800 2,600 Yves CHEVILLOTTE 60,400 55,000 2 Mireille FAUGERE 27,400 26,400 Xavier FONTANET 29,600 24,200 Louise FRECHETTE 38,400 12,400 (b) Yves GILLET 14,200 Yi HE 20,800 19,800 Bernard HOURS 34,000 26,400 Maurice MARCHAND-TONEL 36,200 30,800 Aïcha MOKDAHI 42,800 19,800 Olivier PECOUX 15,800 14,800 Michel ROSE 47,200 41,800 TOTAL 462,200 371,000 (a) No non-Executive Director has received any compensation other than Directors’ fees. (b) No longer a non-Executive Director in 2013. Table 2 – Summary of compensation and options and shares awarded to the Executive Director Hubert SAGNIÈRES In euros 2013 Chairman and CEO 2012 Chairman and CEO Compensation for the year (detailed in Table 3) 1,655,205 1,791,547 Valuation of options granted during the year Valuation of performance shares awarded during the year 1,521,000 (a) 1,212,750 (a) (a) The amounts indicated correspond to the accounting fair value of the options and shares in accordance with IFRS. Accordingly, they are not the actual amounts that may become available upon the exercise of the options if they are exercised or upon the vesting of the shares if they are vested. It should be further noted that the awarding of the options and shares is subject to conditions of presence and performance. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 75 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts Table 3 – Summary of compensation of the Executive Director 2013 2012 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chairman Chief Executive Officer Hubert SAGNIÈRES In euros Amount due Amount paid Amount due Amount paid Fixed component 800,000 800,000 800,000 800,000 Variable component(a) 848,000 984,000 984,000 853,450 Exceptional component Directors’ fees Beneﬁts in kind: n car n unemployment insurance 7,205 7,205 7,547 7,547 n other TOTAL 1,655,205 1,791,205 1,791,547 1,660,997 (a) Variable component for Hubert Sagnières for 2013: 106% of achievement of objectives (123% for 2012). Table 4 – Performace shares awarded to the Executive Director Value (Method applied Rights to performance shares in the consolidated awarded to the Executive Director Total Price ﬁnancial statements) in 2013 number (In €) (In €) Vesting date Plan between Nov. 25, 2017 & Hubert SAGNIÈRES 45,000 77.29 33.8 Nov. 25, 2019 Nov. 25, 2013 As part of the collective award of December 20, 2013, Hubert Sagnières also received a maximum award of 20 rights to performance shares. Table 5 – Performance shares that became exercisable for the Executive Director during the ﬁscal year No performance shares became available during 2013. Table 6 – Stock subscription or purchase options granted during the term of Executive Director during the ﬁscal year No stock subscription or purchase options were awarded during the ﬁscal year. Table 7 – Stock subscription options exercised by the Executive Director during the ﬁscal year Value (Method applied in the consolidated Options exercised in 2013 Total Price ﬁnancial statements) by the Executive Director number In € In € Expiration date Plan (a) Hubert SAGNIÈRES 42,999 41.46 7.76 Nov. 22, 2013 Nov. 22, 2006 Hubert SAGNIÈRES 50,000 43.65 7 Nov. 14, 2014 Nov. 14, 2007 (a) Of the 44,000 options granted, 1,001 were cancelled because of the cap on proﬁt. In accordance with the regulations of the stock option plans the proﬁt is capped at 100% of the exercise price. 76 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts 2 Table 8 – History of capped performance stock options Information regarding capped performance stock options (excluding collective awards) 11/14/2007 11/27/2008 11/26/2009 11/25/2010 11/24/2011 11/27/2012 11/25/2013 plan plan plan plan plan plan plan Date of Shareholders’ 05/11/2007 05/11/2007 05/11/2007 05/11/2010 05/11/2010 05/11/2012 05/11/2012 Meeting Board of Directors’ date 11/14/2007 11/27/2008 11/26/2009 11/25/2010 11/24/2011 11/27/2012 11/25/2013 Total number of shares that 1,117,770 1,568,080 1,579,120 634,760 85,620 81,760 87,880 can be subscribed of which number can be subscribed by: The Executive Directors: 50,000 320,000 230,000 0 0 0 0 2 Xavier FONTANET 0 120,000 80,000 NC NC NC NC Philippe ALFROID 0 100,000 NC NC NC NC NC Hubert SAGNIÈRES 50,000* 100,000 150,000 0 0 0 0 Option exercise start date 05/14/2010 11/29/2010 11/28/2011 11/26/2012 11/25/2013 not yet known, not yet known, depends on depends on performance performance Expiration date 11/14/2014 11/27/2015 11/26/2016 11/25/2017 11/24/2018 11/27/2019 11/25/2020 Subscription price (average €43.65 €33.17 €38.96 €48.01 €52.27 €71.35 €77.29 of 20 opening prices before the Board of Directors’ date) Terms of exercise if performance if performance if performance if performance if performance if performance if performance achieved and of plan of plan achieved and achieved and achieved and achieved and present in (+ special (+ special present in present in present in present in company: 50% performance performance company: 50% company: 50% company: 50% company: 50% after 2 years, for Executive for Executive after 2 years, after 2 years, after 2 years, after 2 years, 100% after Director based Director based 100% after 100% after 100% after 100% after 3 years on achievement on achievement 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years of annual of annual variable variable compensation compensation targets) achieved targets) achieved and present in and present in company: 50% company: 50% after 2 years, after 2 years, 100% after 100% after 3 years 3 years Number of shares 777,380 1,048,760 976,747 149,376 6,240 160 0 subscribed at 12/31/2013 Aggregate number of options 98,730 166,470 160,147 53,240 9,980 4,325 0 cancelled or lapsed Options remaining at 241,660 352,850 442,226 432,144 69,400 77,275 87,880 12/31/2013 * Hubert Sagnières was not a Director in 2007. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 77 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts Table 9 – History of performance share awards Information regarding performance shares (excluding collective awards) 11/14/2007 11/27/2008 11/26/2009 11/25/2010 11/24/2011 11/27/2012 11/25/2013 plan plan plan plan plan plan plan Date of Shareholders’ 05/11/2007 05/11/2007 05/11/2007 05/11/2010 05/11/2010 05/11/2012 05/11/2012 Meeting Board of Directors’ date 11/14/2007 11/27/2008 11/26/2009 11/25/2010 11/24/2011 11/27/2012 11/25/2013 Total number of shares that 552,491 513,775 536,116 893,458 1,193,189 1,176,340 1,279,460 can be subscribed of which number can be subscribed by: The Executive Directors: awarded 0 0 45,000 50,000 45,000 45,000 103,500/vested 46,575 Xavier FONTANET awarded 0 0 NC NC NC NC 58,500/vested 26,325 Philippe ALFROID awarded 0 NC NC NC NC NC 45,000/vested 20,250 Hubert SAGNIÈRES 0 0 0 45,000 50,000 45,000 45,000 Vesting date of shares 05/14/2010 11/29/2010 11/28/2011 residents: residents: not yet vested not yet vested 11/26/2012 11/25/2013 non-residents: non-residents: 11/25/2014 11/24/2015 Ending date of lock-up period 11/14/2014 11/27/2015 11/26/2016 residents: residents: depends on depends on 11/25/2016 11/24/2017 vesting date vesting date non-residents: non-residents: 50% 50% 11/25/2014 11/24/2015 and 50% and 50% 11/25/2016 11/24/2017 Performance Conditions presence presence presence presence presence presence presence + number + number + number + number + number + number + number awarded awarded awarded awarded awarded awarded awarded depending on depending on depending on depending on depending on depending on depending on increase in increase in increase in increase in increase in increase in increase in share price share price share price share price share price share price share price + special + special + special + special performance performance performance performance for Executive for Executive for Executive for Executive Director based Director based Director based Director based on achievement on achievement on achievement on achievement of annual of annual of annual of annual variable variable variable variable compensation compensation compensation compensation targets targets targets targets Number of shares vested 245,640 503,224 522,982 513,898 558,219 650 0 at 12/31/2013 Aggregate number of shares 306,851 10,551 13,134 49,950 60,550 24,810 0 cancelled or lapsed Shares remaining 0 0 0 329,610 574,420 1,150,880 1,279,460 at 12/31/2013 78 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts 2 Table 10 – Executive Director – detailed table HUBERT SAGNIÈRES Chief Operating Officer until December 31, 2009, Chief Executive Officer starting January 1, 2010, Chairman and CEO starting January 2, 2012 Start of term 2008 End of term 2014 Employment contract Yes – suspended starting January 1, 2010 Indemnities relating to a nonNo compete clause 2 Additional pension plan Yes Compensation or beneﬁts that are or No(a) may be owed due to the termination Severance package or termination pay (in the event of dismissal, except for serious or gross or change of functions misconduct) 2 years’ salary under employment contract: the portion of compensation beyond the contractual compensation is subject to performance conditions. Restrictions concerning the sale Starting with awards granted in 2007, lock-up period for: of options or performance shares 1/3rd of vested performance shares or 1/3rd of the shares acquired on exercise of stock options (excluding those shares sold immediately to ﬁnance the acquisition of the shares and the payment of tax due on the capital gain) may not be sold. Hedging instruments Absence of use of hedging instruments for options or performance shares Pension commitment (actuarial €740,218 value) Supplemental pension commitment €10,039,827 (actuarial value) (a) There is no provision for severance pay for this corporate office. Details of the severance pay provided under the suspended employment contract are given in Section 2.3.2.3.c. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 79 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and Beneﬁts Table 11 – AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations not retained Suspension of employment contract of corporate directors On November 27, 2008, on the proposal of Remunerations and officers (Point 22 of the Code) Committee, the Board had expressed reservations about “the obligation” to terminate the employment contract of a corporate It is recommended that, when an employee becomes a corporate director were he or she appointed Chairman and CEO or Chief director or officer of the company, the employment contract Executive Officer. While this provision would make sense for between him or her and the company or a group company be a Director hired externally or newly arrived within the Group, terminated, either by conventional termination or resignation. it is difficult to justify it for a manager who has had a long and successful career within the company and is called to higher responsibilities. Indeed, from an individual standpoint, this measure would weaken the position of the parties in question with regard to the risks incurred in their new responsibilities and could cause in-house candidates to refuse the position or result in an upward revision of the remuneration, which is certainly not the objective pursued by the AFEP and MEDEF. This measure would detach the corporate directors from the company and violate the policies of internal promotion and “sustainable management” that are, for Essilor International, the key to building strong and stable groups. Consequently, the Board of Directors of Essilor decided to continue to “suspend” the employment contracts of senior executives upon their appointment as Chairman and CEO or Chief Executive Officer when they have at least ten years of seniority in the company. Stock options and performance shares (Point 23.2.4 of the Code) The Board of Directors has not deemed it necessary make the awarding of performance shares contingent upon an obligation Moreover, the performance shares awarded to corporate directors to purchase due to the lock-up period for the shares acquired and officers should be made […] contingent upon the purchase of that applies to corporate directors and officers for the entire a deﬁned quantity of shares during the availability period of the term of their office. shares awarded, in accordance with the terms established by the Board and made public when they are awarded. 80 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statutory Auditors’ Report on the Report of the Chairman 2 2.4 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the Report of the Chairman Report of the Statutory Auditors prepared in application of Article out the information about the corporate governance system L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the Report of the and the other disclosures required by Article L.225-37 Chairman of the Board of Directors of Essilor International of the Commercial Code. Fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 Our responsibility is to: To the Shareholders, n report our observations on the information set out in the 2 Chairman’s Report on internal control and risk management In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Essilor International procedures relating to the preparation and processing of and as required by Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial ﬁnancial and accounting information and Code, we present to you our report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 prepared by the Chairman of your Company in n Certify that the report contains the other disclosures required accordance with Article L.225-37 of the Commercial Code. by Article L.225-37 of the Commercial Code, without being responsible for verifying their fairness. The Chairman is responsible for preparing and submitting to the Board of Directors for approval a report describing the Company’s We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards internal control and risk management procedures and setting applicable in France. Information about internal control and risk management procedures relating to the production and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information The standards of our profession applicable in France require us to n Determining whether major internal control weaknesses plan and perform an audit to assess the fairness of the information that we would have detected as part of our audit, in relation set out in the Chairman’s Report on the internal control and to the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting risk management procedures relating to the preparation and information, have been appropriately disclosed in the processing of financial and accounting information. The audit Chairman’s Report. notably consisted of: On the basis of our audit, we have no matters to report in n obtaining an understanding of internal control and risk connection with the information on the internal control and management procedures relating to the preparation and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information supporting processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information contained in the information provided in the Chairman’s R eport and the Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors in accordance reviewing existing documentation; with Article L.225-37 of the Commercial Code. n obtaining an understanding of the work performed to support the information given in the Chairman’s Report and the existing documentation; Other information We hereby certify that the Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors includes the other disclosures required by Article L.225-37 of the Commercial Code. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 11, 2014 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Christine Bouvry Daniel Escudeiro Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 81 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Special Report of the Statutory Auditors on related party agreements and commitments 2.5 Special Report of the Statutory Auditors on related party agreements and commitments Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. To the Shareholders, Our responsibility is also, as applicable, to report to shareholders as stipulated in Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your company, we present Code regarding the performance, during the ﬁscal year ended, below our report on regulated agreements and commitments. of any agreements and commitments already approved by the Our responsibility is to report to shareholders, based on the Shareholders’ Meeting. information provided to us, about the main terms and conditions of We performed our procedures in accordance with professional agreements and commitments that have been disclosed to us or guidelines issued by the Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires of which we have become aware in the performance of our audit, aux Comptes for this type of engagement. without commenting on their relevance or substance or inquiring about the existence of other agreements or commitments. Under the provisions of Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code, it is the responsibility of shareholders to determine whether such agreements and commitments are appropriate and should be approved. Agreements and commitments subject to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting We have not been advised of any agreements or commitments require the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant that have been approved in the year ended and would to Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code. Agreements and commitments previously approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting We have not been advised of any agreements or commitments previously approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting and the performance of which may have continued during the year ended. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 11, 2014 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Christine Bouvry Daniel Escudeiro 82 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2 2 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 3.1 COMMENTS ON THE 3.5 REPORT OF THE AUDITORS COMPANY’S FINANCIAL ON THE CONSOLIDATED POSITION AND EARNINGS 86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 158 3.1.1 Operating results 86 3.1.2 Net proﬁt 87 3.6 FEES PAID TO THE AUDITORS 3.1.3 Financial position 88 AND THE MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS 159 3.2 TREND INFORMATION 89 3.7 ANNUAL FINANCIAL 3.2.1 Recent trends 89 STATEMENTS OF ESSILOR 3.2.2 Outlook 89 INTERNATIONAL 160 3.2.3 Subsequent events 90 3.7.1 Key ﬁnancial data at December 31, 2013 160 3.2.4 2014 Outlook 90 3.7.2 Income statement at December 31, 2013 161 3.7.3 Balance sheet at December 31, 2013 162 3.3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 3.7.4 Cash ﬂow statement at December 31, 2013 163 Main consolidated ﬁnancial data 91 3.8 NOTES TO THE 2013 ANNUAL 3.3.1 Consolidated income statement 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 164 3.3.2 Consolidated balance sheet 94 3.3.3 Statement of changes in equity 96 3.9 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ 3.3.4 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 98 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 189 3.4 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99 84 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 IN BRIEF SIMPLIFIED INCOME STATEMENT € millions 2012 2013 Revenue 4,989 5,065 Contribution from operations (a) 893 917 Operating income 831 843 Net income attribuable to Group equity holders 584 593 (a) Operating income before share-based payments, restructuring costs, other income and expenses, and before impairment of goodwill. DATE OF LATEST FINANCIAL INFORMATION The latest audited ﬁnancial information is for ﬁscal years 2012 and 2013 (period from January 1 to December 31, 2012 and January 1 to December 31, 2013). DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Pursuant to Article 28 of Regulation (EC) No. 809/2004 of the European Commission, the following information is included by reference in this Registration Document: n the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 incorporated herein by reference have been audited by the Statutory Auditors. The statement and the report THE REFERENCE DOCUMENTS may be found on pages 90 to 147 and 176 and 177, respectively, AND PRESS RELEASES of the 2011 Registration Document filed with the AMF on MENTIONED ARE AVAILABLE ON : March 28, 2012 under No. D.12-0227; n the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 incorporated herein by reference have been audited by the Statutory Auditors. The statement and the report may be found on pages 90 to 151 and 152, respectively, of the @ Investors / Publications page at www.essilor.com 2012 Registration Document ﬁled with the AMF on April 2, 2013 under No. D.13-0252. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR INTERIM PERIODS The Company has elected not to repeat financial information for interim periods in this Document. For the record, the consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2013 results were published on August 29, 2013. The ﬁnancial release, the consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet and consolidated cash ﬂow statement as of June 30, 2013 and the presentation of results for the ﬁrst half of 2013 are available on the Essilor website. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 85 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the Company’s ﬁnancial position and earnings 3.1 Comments on the Company’s financial position and earnings 3.1.1 Operating results Income statement € millions 2013 2012(c) Change Revenue 5,065 4,989 1.5% Gross proﬁt 2,838 2,784 2.0% as a % of revenue 56% 55.8% Contribution from operations(a) 917 893 2.6% as a % of revenue 18.1% 17.9% Other income (expenses), net (73) (62) 17.2% Operating proﬁt 843 831 1.5% Financial income (21) (18) 17.3% Income tax expense (199) (207) -4.0% effective tax rate (%) 24.2% 25.5% Share of proﬁts of associates 22 24 -6.2% Attributable to minority interests (53) (46) 15.0% Proﬁt attributable to Group equity holders 593 584 1.6% as a % of revenue 11.7% 11.7% Net earnings per share (in €) 2.82 2.80 0.6% (b) Adjusted net earnings per share (in €) 2.82 2.72 3.5% (a) Operating proﬁt before compensation costs of share-based payments, restructuring costs, other income and expense, and before goodwill impairment. (b) The 2012 net earnings per share ﬁgures have been revised downwards to reﬂect for the non-recurring gain arising from the change in corporate governance at Nikon Essilor and Essilor Korea. (c) Figures have been adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the retrospective application of IAS 19 (revised). Signiﬁcant factors affecting operating proﬁt ■ Operating expenses Operating expenses totaled €1,921 million and were stable as ■ Revenue a percentage of revenue, at 37.9%. Sales force investments, marketing spend and expenditure to strengthen the Company’s For more information on revenue, refer to Section 1.5 “2013” of structures in fast-growing markets, were offset by tight control of this Registration Document. distribution costs. Research and development spending increased by €2 million to €164 million, and continued to represent 3.2% of revenue. ■ Gross margin: up from 55.8 to 56% of revenue In 2013, the gross margin ratio (revenue less cost of sales) rose by 20 basis points, to 56% of revenue. This increase reﬂected an ■ Contribution from operations improved product mix due to the success of new products on the In all, the contribution from operations (a) amounted to €917 million, one hand, and manufacturing productivity gains, on the other. up 2.6% on 2012. The increase translated into a 20bps improvement in contribution margin, to 18.1%. Excluding the non-cash impacts of applying acquisition accounting (mainly purchase price allocations) and, in particular, the application of IFRS 3 (revised), the contribution from operations stood at 18.8% of revenue. Contribution from operations (a) 2013 2012 Change € millions 917 893 +2.6% As a % of revenue 18.1% 17.9% (a) Operating proﬁt before compensation costs of share-based payments, restructuring costs, other income and expense, and before goodwill impairment. 86 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the Company’s ﬁnancial position and earnings 3 Effect of changes On a like-for-like in the scope Currency Change in contribution from operations (a) 2013 Actual change basis of consolidation effect € millions 23 39 20 -36 As a % +2.6% +4.3% +2.3% -4.0% (a) Operating proﬁt before compensation costs of share-based payments, restructuring costs, other income and expense, and before goodwill impairment. The procedures for calculating the changes in this aggregate are explained in Note 2.3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. ■ Other income and expenses from operations n €22 million in restructuring costs, mainly related to the rationalization of the prescription laboratory network. These This item represented net income of €73 million. The total costs were lower than in 2012; includes: n €11 million in acquisitions-related consultancy fees, the bulk of n €32 million in compensation costs for share-based payment which concerned the Transitions Optical acquisition. plans (versus €28 million in 2012), of which €27 million for stock option and performance share plans (including €4 million Adjusted for the 2012 gain on asset disposals arising from the in employer payroll tax contributions), with the balance change in consolidation method used for joint ventures Nikoncorresponding to the cost of the discount offered to employees Essilor and Essilor Korea, “Other income and expenses from participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan; operations” improved by €6 million. 3 ■ Operating proﬁt In 2013, operating proﬁt (corresponding to contribution from operations plus or minus other income and expenses from operations and gains and losses on asset disposals) totaled €843 million, representing 16.6% of revenue, unchanged from 2012. Effect of changes Change on a likein the scope Currency Change in 2013 operating proﬁt Actual change for-like basis of consolidation effect € millions 12 26 20 -34 As a % +1.5% +3.1% +2.4% -4% The procedures for calculating the changes in this aggregate are Policies and other external factors explained in Note 2.3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The Company is not aware of any governmental, economic, ﬁscal, monetary or political policies or factors that could materially Signiﬁcant changes to net sales or revenues affect, directly or indirectly, its future operations. There were no signiﬁcant changes to net sales or revenues. 3.1.2 Net profit Net proﬁt attributable to Group equity holders to €593 million, holding net margin at the same 11.7% reported in 2012. and earnings per share As a result of a small increase in the number of outstanding Minority interests’ share in Essilor’s profit rose by 15 % to shares, earnings per share grew at a slower rate, rising 0.6% to €53 million, mainly reflecting growth in the profits of existing €2.82, and by 3.5% after adjusting 2012 earnings per share for partnerships, notably as a result of the implementation of the non-recurring gain arising from the change of consolidation programs to unleash synergies. method applied to joint ventures Nikon-Essilor and Essilor Korea. Net profit attributable to Group equity holders climbed 1.6% Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 87 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comments on the Company’s ﬁnancial position and earnings Net proﬁt also reﬂects the following costs and expenses: the favorable change in the geographic mix of results generated by the different subsidiaries, as well as to the reversal of provisions. ■ Cost of gross debt and other ﬁnancial income and expenses ■ Share of proﬁts of associates Cost of gross debt and other financial income and expenses represented a net expense of €21 million, versus €18 million in This item mainly corresponds to Essilor’s share of the profit 2012. The increase resulted from the higher interest payments derived from sales by Transitions Optical (which was still following the increase in average net debt. 49%-owned by Essilor in 2013) to third-party lens casters. The 6.2% decline to €22 million in 2013 resulted from the slight contraction in Transitions sales to these external customers, as ■ Income tax expense well as from the negative impact of the US dollar’s decline against Income tax expense amounted to €199 million, reflecting a the euro. reduction in the effective tax rate to 24.2% of pre-tax proﬁt due to 3.1.3 Financial position Balance sheet Cash ﬂow statement As shown by the table below, Essilor’s business model continued ■ Goodwill and other intangible assets to demonstrate its ability to generate strong cash ﬂow in 2013. Net cash from operating activities (before changes in working capital Goodwill increased by €389 million to €2,476 million requirements(a)) amounted to €912 million, up 7.3% compared at December 31, 2013, mainly reﬂecting the acquisitions made during with 2012. the year. Intangible assets represented €110 million more than a year earlier, primarily due to the increase in value of brands held in the Working capital requirements increased by €69 million but portfolio. remained stable as a percentage of revenue, at around 20%. After taking into account the non-recurring cash outflows from the capital expenditure program (including acquisitions of intangible ■ Investments assets), free cash flow (net cash from operating activities less change in working capital requirements(a) less net capital See Section 1.5.5 of this Registration Document expenditure) came to €546 million. This amount helped to ﬁnance: n sharply higher net ﬁnancial investments(b) at €375 million; ■ Inventories n an increase in dividends paid to Essilor shareholders and the Inventories amounted to €869 million at December 31, 2013, an Company’s minority partners in joint ventures to €218 million; increase of €39 million over the year-earlier ﬁgure that was also n purchases of treasury stock totaling €169 million, representing mainly due to acquisitions for the year. On a like-for-like basis, close to 2.2 million shares. inventories increased slightly faster than sales, due to the launch of a new generation of Transitions products. The the 2013 ﬁscal year-end, the Group’s net debt increased by €132 million to €369, representing gearing of less than 10%. ■ Equity Consolidated equity amounted to €4,041 million at end-2013, up 3.2% from the year-earlier ﬁgure. Changes in equity are detailed in Section 3.3.3 of this Registration Document. (a) Working capital requirements. (b) Financial investments net of cash acquired, plus debt of newly acquired companies. 88 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Trend information 3 Simpliﬁed cash ﬂow statement (€ millions) 297 Capital expenditure 69 Change in WCR Cash ﬂow from operating activities (excluding WCR(a)) 912 218 Dividends 375 Financial investments, net(b) Capital increase 68 Increase in net debt 132 Other 16 169 Purchase of treasury shares (a) Working capital requirements. (b) Financial investments net of cash acquired, plus debt of newly acquired companies. 3 3.2 Trend information 3.2.1 Recent trends The company is not aware of any trends affecting production, sales, inventory, costs or selling prices since the end of the last ﬁscal year. 3.2.2 Outlook The Company is not aware of any trends, uncertainties, claims, population in the world still needs glasses, the world’s population commitments or events that would be reasonably likely to is aging and these lenses represent the least expensive option for materially affect its medium-tern outlook. correcting faulty vision and recent advances have made lenses even more attractive in relation to competing technologies. We believe that the medium and long-term growth outlook in the ophthalmic lens market is good, as a large portion of the Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 89 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Trend information 3.2.3 Subsequent events Costa Inc. Essilor is offering CAD 12.45 per Coastal.com share, which represents a premium of approximately 20% to the closing Essilor ﬁnalized the acquisition of all outstanding shares of Costa share price of CAD 10.39 per share on February 26, 2014 Inc., a US leader in high-performance sunglasses. and approximately 42% to the weighted average price of CAD The transaction, announced on November 8, 2013, was approved 8.74 quoted on the Toronto Stock Exchange over the last 60 by Costa Inc. shareholders in the Special Meeting of Shareholders trading days. The transaction represents a net equity value of held on January 30, 2014. It has also received all required approximately CAD 430 million. regulatory approvals. Costa Inc. shares have ceased to be publicly The transaction will be structured as an arrangement under the traded on Nasdaq. Canada Business Corporations Act and is subject among others Based in Lincoln, Rhode Island (USA), Costa Inc. designs, to the approval of the Competition Bureau in Canada and to that assembles and markets sunglasses under the Costa® and Native® of Coastal.com’s shareholders. The transaction is expected to be brands. Costa has become the fastest growing performance completed by the end of April 2014. sunglass brand in the United States. The company generated revenue of nearly $100 million in 2013. Other acquisitions Costa Inc. has been included in Essilor’s scope of consolidation since February 1, 2014. Based on current estimates and In the United States, Essilor acquired a majority stake in the excluding the impact of the one-time transaction-related costs, Arkansas-based prescription laboratory Plunkett Optical, which the acquisition will be accretive to Essilor’s earnings per share generates annual revenue of $3.3 million. in 2014. Financing Coastal.com To optimize management of its short-term financing, Essilor On February 27, 2014, Essilor announced that it had entered into International has obtained on February 27, 2014 the following a binding agreement to acquire all of the outstanding common solicited credit ratings from Moody’s Investors Service and stock of Coastal Contacts (Coastal.com), one of the world’s leading Standard & Poor’s for its commercial paper programs: online vision care retailers. Based in Vancouver, British Columbia (Canada), Coastal.com is Short-term listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and on NASDAQ and reported Standard & Poor’s A-1 revenue of CAD 218 million for the ﬁscal year ended October 31, Moody’s P-1 2013. Founded in 2000, the company designs and distributes one of the widest online selections of optical equipment, including contact lenses, prescription and non-prescription eyeglasses, These ratings were issued with a “stable” outlook, attesting sunglasses and various accessories. Products are sold through to the strength of Essilor’s model for growth and its financial several local websites covering mainly North America and Europe strength. They will enable the Company to optimize its borrowing as well as the Asia-Paciﬁc region and Brazil. costs whilst diversifying its sources of ﬁnancing, by broadening its investor base. In this context, and in addition to the €2 billion EMTN program set up in December 2013 (in which no issuances have been made to date), the Company has launched a $1.5 billion US commercial paper (USCP) program and made its ﬁrst issuances in March 2014. 3.2.4 2014 Outlook In a market led by powerful structural drivers, several trends growing countries, sunwear, consumer brands and online sales. are taking hold . Distribution is becoming more segmented and This redeployment will help to drive faster organic growth in the eye care networks more structured, online sales are growing coming years. and consumers are becoming increasingly demanding. These In 2014, Essilor is aiming for 10% to 12% revenue growth at developments are creating many new opportunities and leading to constant exchange rates and a contribution margin of between increasingly pronounced differences in growth potential between 18.2% and 18.6% (excluding new strategic acquisitions) depending the world’s major regions. on the effective date of consolidation of Transitions Optical and Essilor is responding to these shifts by strengthening its ﬁnal IFRS adjustments. positioning in several promising segments , including fast90 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements 3 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements Main consolidated ﬁnancial data € millions, excluding per share data 2013 2012* Income statement Revenue 5,065 4,989 Contribution from operations 917 893 Operating proﬁt 843 831 Proﬁt attributable to Group equity holders 593 584 Earnings (Group share) per ordinary share (in €) 2.82 2.80 Earnings (Group share) per share (in €) 2.78 2.77 Balance sheet Share capital 39 39 Group equity 3,756 3,657 3 Net debt 369 237 Total assets 7,577 6,907 Cash ﬂow statement Cash ﬂow from operating activities 843 840 Cash ﬂow from investing activities (621) (416) Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities (38) (252) Change in net cash 184 172 Cash at year end 749 580 * Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 91 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements 3.3.1 Consolidated income statement € millions, excluding per share data Note 2013 2012* Revenue 3 5,065 4,989 Cost of sales (2,227) (2,205) GROSS PROFIT 2,838 2,784 Research and development costs (164) (162) Selling and distribution costs (1,145) (1,140) Other operating expenses (612) (589) CONTRIBUTION FROM OPERATIONS 917 893 Restructuring costs, net 5 (22) (25) Impairment of goodwill 11 Compensation costs on share-based payments 5 (32) (28) Other income from operations 5 5 11 Other expenses from operations 5 (24) (36) Gains and losses on asset disposals, net 5 (1) 16 OPERATING PROFIT 3 843 831 Cost of gross debt (26) (24) Income from cash and cash equivalents 18 17 Foreign exchange income 6 (1) (7) Other ﬁnancial income and expenses 7 (11) (4) Share of proﬁts of associates 15 22 24 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 845 837 Income tax expense 8 (199) (207) NET PROFIT 646 630 Attributable to Group equity holders 593 584 Attributable to minority interests 53 46 Basic earnings attributable to Group equity holders per share (€) 2.82 2.80 Weighted average number of shares (thousands) 9 210,156 208,264 Diluted earnings attributable to Group equity holders per share (€) 10 2.78 2.77 Diluted weighted average number of shares (thousands) 10 213,057 211,015 * Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. 92 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements 3 Statement of consolidated comprehensive income 2013 2012* Attributable Attributable to Group Attributable to Group Attributable equity to minority equity to minority € millions holders interests Total holders interests Total NET PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD (A) 593 53 646 584 46 630 Items of comprehensive income that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Actuarial gains and losses on pension obligations 6 6 (31) (31) Tax on items that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently (6) (6) 6 6 Items of comprehensive income that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Cash ﬂow hedges, effective portion (5) (5) (2) (2) Hedges of net investment in foreign operations, effective portion 1 1 Increase (decrease) in fair value of long-term ﬁnancial investments (1) (1) 2 2 Translation reserves (238) (18) (256) (50) (6) (56) 3 Other (6) (6) Tax on items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently 2 2 0 0 TOTAL INCOME (EXPENSE) FOR THE PERIOD RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY, NET OF TAX (B) (242) (18) (260) (80) (6) (86) TOTAL RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES, NET OF TAX (A) + (B) 351 35 386 504 40 544 * Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 93 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements 3.3.2 Consolidated balance sheet Assets € millions Note December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012* Goodwill 11 2,476 2,087 Other intangible assets 12 732 622 Property, plant and equipment 13 998 1,000 Investments in associates 15 113 110 Non-current ﬁnancial assets 16 97 119 Deferred tax assets 8 112 117 Long-term receivables 17 25 Other non-current assets 20 1 1 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 4,546 4,081 Inventories 17 869 830 Prepayments to suppliers 16 16 Short-term receivables 18 1,192 1,148 Current income tax-assets 67 56 Other receivables 33 36 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 23 17 34 Prepaid expenses 46 39 Marketable securities 22 5 6 Cash and cash equivalents 19 786 661 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 3,031 2,826 TOTAL ASSETS 7,577 6,907 * Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. 94 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements 3 Equity and liabilities € millions Note December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012* Share capital 39 39 Additional paid-in capital 302 311 Consolidated reserves 3,340 2,934 Treasury stock (304) (239) Hedging and revaluation reserves (83) (79) Translation difference (131) 107 Proﬁt attributable to Group equity holders 593 584 Equity attributable to Group equity holders 3,756 3,657 Minority interests 285 257 TOTAL CONSOLIDATED EQUITY 4,041 3,914 Provisions for pensions 20 209 213 Long-term borrowings Deferred tax liabilities 22 8 607 165 526 147 3 Other non-current liabilities 24 517 233 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,498 1,119 Provisions 21 131 127 Short-term borrowings 22 567 390 Customer prepayments 28 17 Short-term payables 18 1,060 1,015 Taxes payable 63 76 Other current liabilities 24 156 208 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 23 17 30 Deferred income 16 11 CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,038 1,874 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,577 6,907 * Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 95 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements 3.3.3 Statement of changes in equity Fiscal year 2013 Proﬁt Equity attributable attributable Additional Translato Group to Group Share paid-in Revaluation tion diffeTreasury equity equity Minority Total € millions capital capital reserves Reserves rence stock holders holders interests equity EQUITY AT JANUARY 1, 2013* 39 311 (79) 2,934 107 (239) 584 3,657 257 3,914 Capital increases n FCP Mutual funds 23 23 23 n Stock subscription options 45 45 45 n Capitalization of reserves Capital increases subscribed by minority interests 2 2 Cancellation of treasury stock (77) 77 Share-based payments 27 27 27 Purchases of treasury stock (net of sales) (27) (142) -169 (169) Allocation of proﬁt 584 (584) Effect of changes in scope of consolidation 8 8 23 31 Dividends paid (186) (186) (32) (218) TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS (9) 406 (65) (584) (252) (7) (259) Total income (expense) for the period recognized directly in equity (4) (4) (4) Net proﬁt for the ﬁscal year 593 593 53 646 Translation differences and other (238) (238) (18) (256) TOTAL RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE (4) (238) 593 351 35 386 EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 39 302 -83 3,340 (131) (304) 593 3,756 285 4,041 * Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. 96 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements 3 Fiscal year 2012 Proﬁt Transattributable Additional Revalation to Group Share paid-in luation diffeTreasury equity Group Minority Total € millions capital capital reserves Reserves rence stock holders equity interests equity EQUITY AT JANUARY 1, 2012 – PUBLISHED 39 307 (49) 2,629 157 (264) 506 3,325 133 3,458 Restatement arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised) (7) (7) (7) EQUITY AT JANUARY 1, 2012 – RESTATED 39 307 (49) 2,622 157 (264) 506 3,318 133 3,451 Capital increases n FCP Mutual funds 22 22 22 n Stock subscription options 95 95 95 n Capitalization of reserves Capital increases subscribed 3 by minority interests Cancellation of treasury shares (113) 113 Share-based payments 23 23 23 Purchases of treasury stock (net of sales) (23) (88) (111) (111) Allocation of proﬁt 506 (506) Effect of changes in scope of consolidation (8) (8) 109 101 Dividends paid (177) (177) (25) (202) TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 4 321 25 (506) (156) 84 (72) Total income (expense) for the period recognized directly in equity (30) (30) (30) Proﬁt for the period 584 584 46 630 Translation differences and other (9) (50) (59) (6) (65) TOTAL RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE (30) (9) (50) 584 495 40 535 EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31, 2012* 39 311 (79) 2,934 107 (239) 584 3,657 257 3,914 * Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 97 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements 3.3.4 Consolidated cash flow statement € millions December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012* (a) NET PROFIT 646 630 Share of proﬁts of associates, net of dividends received 42 45 Depreciation, amortization and other non-cash items 247 230 Proﬁt before non-cash items and share of proﬁts of associates, net of dividends received 935 905 Provision charges (reversals) (2) (24) Gains and losses on asset disposals, net 1 (15) Cash ﬂow after income tax and ﬁnance costs 934 866 Finance costs, net 8 7 (a) Income tax expense (current and deferred taxes) 199 207 Cash ﬂow before income tax and ﬁnance costs 1,141 1,080 Income taxes paid (222) (224) Interest (paid) and received, net (7) (6) Change in working capital (69) (10) NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 843 840 Purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (297) (241) Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of the cash acquired (330) (158) Purchases of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets (3) (13) Change in other non-ﬁnancial assets (5) (16) Effect of changes in scope of consolidation 2 1 Proceeds from the sale of other non-current assets 12 11 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (621) (416) Capital increase(b) 68 118 (b) Net sale (net buyback) of treasury shares (169) (112) Dividends paid: n to equity holders of Essilor(b) (186) (177) n to minority shareholders of the consolidated subsidiaries(b) (32) (25) Increase/(Decrease) in borrowings other than ﬁnance lease liabilities 281 (55) (c) Acquisition of marketable securities 19 0 2 Repayment of ﬁnance lease liabilities (1) (2) Other movements 1 (1) NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (38) (252) NET (DECREASE) INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 184 172 Net cash and cash equivalents at January 1 19 580 363 Effect of changes in the method of consolidation of joint ventures 49 Effect of changes in exchange rates (15) (4) NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT DECEMBER 31 749 580 Cash and cash equivalents 19 786 661 Bank credit facilities 22 (37) (81) * Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. (a) See income statement. (b) See statement of changes in equity. (c) Units in money market UCITS not qualiﬁed as cash equivalents under IAS 7. 98 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 3.4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements NOTE 1. Accounting policies 100 NOTE 2. Exchange rates and scope of consolidation 112 NOTE 3. Segment information 118 NOTE 4. Personnel costs, depreciation and amortization 119 NOTE 5. Other income and expenses 119 NOTE 6. Foreign exchange gains and losses 121 NOTE 7. Other ﬁnancial income and expenses 122 NOTE 8. Income tax 122 NOTE 9. Change in number of shares 123 NOTE 10. Diluted earnings per share 124 NOTE 11. Goodwill 124 NOTE 12. Other intangible assets 126 NOTE 13. Property, plant and equipment 127 NOTE 14. Property, plant and equipment: ﬁnance leases 128 3 NOTE 15. Investments in associates 128 NOTE 16. Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 130 NOTE 17. Inventories 130 NOTE 18. Short-term receivables and payables 131 NOTE 19. Cash and cash equivalents 131 NOTE 20. Pension and other post-retirement beneﬁt obligations 132 NOTE 21. Provisions 135 NOTE 22. Net debt and borrowings 136 NOTE 23. Financial instruments 138 NOTE 24. Other current and non-current liabilities 141 NOTE 25. Off-balance sheet commitments 142 NOTE 26. Market risks 142 NOTE 27. Environmental risks 147 NOTE 28. Litigation 147 NOTE 29. Number of employees and personnel costs 148 NOTE 30. Related party transactions 148 NOTE 31. Subsequent events 149 NOTE 32. List of fully-consolidated companies 150 NOTE 33. List of proportionately-consolidated companies 156 NOTE 34. List of associates 156 NOTE 35. List of non-consolidated companies 156 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 99 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 1. Accounting policies 1.1 General information Essilor International (Compagnie Générale d’Optique) is a société The 2013 consolidated ﬁnancial statements were approved by the anonyme (public limited company) with a Board of Directors, Board of Directors on February 26, 2014. governed by the laws of France. Its registered office is at 147 rue The ﬁnancial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. de Paris – 94220 Charenton-le-Pont. The Company’s main business activities consist of the design, manufacture and sale of The Group’s functional and reporting currency is the euro. All ophthalmic lenses and ophthalmic optical instruments. amounts are expressed in millions of euros, unless otherwise speciﬁed. The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the responsibility of the Board of Directors and presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting for approval. 1.2 Basis of preparation of the financial statements In accordance with European Regulation 1606/2002 of July 19, Standards) as well as their interpretations since January 1, 2005, 2002, the Essilor group has applied, since January 1, 2005, all as approved in the European Union, with mandatory application international accounting standards including IFRS (International at December 31, 2013. International accounting standards can be Financial Reporting Standards), IAS (International Accounting accessed on the European Commission website(1). 1.3 Change of accounting methods and presentation There were no changes to the Group’s accounting policies for relating to the standards, amendments and interpretations with the 2013 consolidated ﬁnancial statements, apart from changes mandatory application as of January 1, 2013 described below. 1.4 IFRS, amendments to IFRS and interpretations with mandatory application as of January 1, 2013 Amendment to IAS 1 – Presentation of Items of past service costs arising from changes to pension plans over the remaining service lives of the employees in question; Other Comprehensive Income This amendment, applicable to annual periods beginning on or n the expected return on plan assets is measured using the same after July 1, 2012, involves the presentation of items comprising rate as the discount rate used for employee beneﬁts. “items of other comprehensive income” (OCI). Such items are now n the possible impact of plan changes is recognized immediately required to be presented as two separate sub-totals, one for items in proﬁt or loss. that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss, the other The removal of the “corridor” option had no impact on the Group for items that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or which had already opted to apply the SORIE method prior to the loss. Taxes relating to items of other comprehensive income must entry into force of IAS 19 (revised). be reported separately for each of these two groups. Due to the retrospective nature of the standard, the 2012 ﬁnancial The impact of the amendment to IAS 1 on the presentation of statements were restated in accordance with IAS 19 (revised): the Group’s ﬁnancial statements is shown in the “Statement of consolidated comprehensive income.” n actuarial gains and losses and non-provisioned past service costs at December 31, 2011 were recognized in consolidated reserves at their amount, net of tax, at January 1, 2012; IAS 19 revised – Employee Beneﬁts This revised standard, applicable to annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, introduces the following main changes: n the Group’s obligations to employees are recognized, in full, at the end of each ﬁscal year. The “corridor” option is removed, as well as the option to amortize actuarial gains and losses and (1) http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/accounting/ias_en.htm#adopted-commission. 100 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 n actuarial gains and losses relating to post-employment beneﬁts n the effects of pension plan changes made as of January 1, 2012, and arising after January 1, 2012 were recognized under are recognized, in full, in proﬁt or loss for the period in which “Items of other comprehensive income”. They are reported on they arose, under “Other operating expenses”. the balance sheet, net of tax, under “Hedging and revaluation reserves”; they will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss; The impacts of applying IAS 19 (revised) to the Essilor group’s 2012 balance sheet and income statement are shown below: Impact of change of policy introduced by IAS 19 (revised) on the Group’s balance sheet December 31, 2012 € millions Restated Impact of IAS 19R Published Consolidated reserves 2,934 (7) 2,941 Hedging and revaluation reserves (79) 0 (79) Translation difference 107 0 107 Proﬁt attributable to Group equity holders 584 0 584 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO GROUP EQUITY HOLDERS 3,657 (7) 3,664 Minority interests 257 0 257 TOTAL CONSOLIDATED EQUITY 3,914 (7) 3,921 Provisions for pensions 213 8 205 3 Deferred tax liabilities 147 (1) 148 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,119 7 1,112 Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent was reduced by impact on the Group, given the quality of the counterparties €0.5 million for the full 2012 ﬁscal year following the entry into selected; force of IAS 19 (revised). n with regard to non-ﬁnancial assets and liabilities: the Group does not have any non-ﬁnancial assets or liabilities that have IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement been remeasured at fair value subsequent to their initial The objective of IFRS 13 is to define the concept of fair value, recognition. as well as the disclosures required in the notes to the ﬁnancial This standard has not had any signiﬁcant impact on the Group’s statements, for each individual IFRS. This standard deﬁnes fair consolidated ﬁnancial statements. value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid The levels and methods used to measure the fair value of ﬁnancial to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction on the principal assets and liabilities is shown in Note 1.17. The fair value of market or the most advantageous market at the measurement ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is shown in Note 23.2. date, under current market conditions. Amendments to IAS 12 – Income taxes – Deferred tax: recovery of The fair value of a non-financial asset corresponds to the underlying assets. economic benefit generated by a market participant using the asset in its highest and best use. Amendments to IFRS 7 – Financial instruments: Disclosures – offsetting ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities. The Group analyzed the impact of the entry into force of this new standard on its consolidated ﬁnancial statements: Amendments to IFRS 1 – First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards – Severe Hyperinflation and n with regard to financial assets and liabilities: The Group Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters. calculated the fair value of its ﬁnancial instruments, recognized at fair value, by incorporating the credit risk of the various The Group is not affected by these amendments. counterparties. The results obtained showed an insigniﬁcant Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 101 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1.5 Published IFRS, IFRS amendments and interpretations with non-mandatory application The Group has decided not to early-adopt the following standards, n IAS 27 revised – Separate ﬁnancial statements; amendments and interpretations, applicable from January 1, 2014 n IAS 28 revised – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; or later: n Amendments to IAS 32 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures – n IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements; Offsetting ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities. n IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements; The impact of these standards on the consolidated financial n IFRS 12 – Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities; statements is currently being assessed. 1.6 Use of estimates The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires Management’s n fair values in relation to business combinations and put options use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported granted to minority shareholders (Note 1.21); amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the ﬁnancial n risk assessment to determine the amount of provisions (Notes statements as well as the disclosures in the notes concerning 1.32 and 1.21); contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date. The most signiﬁcant estimates and assumption concern, in particular: n measurement of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (Notes 1.31 and 20). n the recoverable amount of goodwill (Notes 1.21 and 11); The ﬁnal amounts may differ from these estimates. 1.7 Basis of consolidation Companies over which the Group has direct or indirect exclusive The criteria applied to determine the scope of consolidation are control are fully consolidated. described in “Changes in the scope of consolidation” (Note 2.2). Jointly-controlled companies are consolidated by the The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are proportionate method. included in the consolidated income statement as from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal. In the case of a change Associates, deﬁned as companies over which the Group exercises in percent interest during the year, the Group’s share of proﬁt is signiﬁcant inﬂuence, are accounted for by the equity method. calculated by applying: The accounting policies and methods applied by associates n the former percentage to income earned up to the date on which comply with IFRS and are the same as the Group’s accounting the Group’s interest changes; and policies. n the new percentage to income earned between that date and The Transitions group is consolidated by the equity method. the year-end. Based on an economic analysis of the flows between Essilor and Transitions, between Transitions and Essilor, and of sales of In the event of a dilution of its ownership interest in a subsidiary, Transitions products by Essilor to third parties: the transaction is treated as a sale and the change in the share of the subsidiary’s equity is recorded in equity in accordance with the n revenue from transactions between Essilor and Transitions has revised IAS 27 if there has been no loss of control, and in proﬁt if been canceled from Essilor consolidated revenue and cost of there has been a loss of control. sales, in accordance with IAS 18; All intragroup profits and transactions are eliminated in n the cost of subcontracting services provided by Transitions consolidation. to Essilor has been reallocated between cost of sales and Transitions brand selling and distribution costs. 102 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 1.8 Information by operating segment Since the adoption of IFRS 8 with effect from January 1, 2009, the professionals throughout the world. This network is centrally Group’s segment information is presented in accordance with the managed, along with Group research & development, marketing, information provided internally to management for the purpose of intellectual property and engineering functions. managing operations, taking decisions and analyzing operational In view of the streamlining of international flows between the performance. various subsidiaries, their interdependence and the increasing Such information is prepared in accordance with the IFRS used by percentage of sales to multinationals, the performance of the the Group in its consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Lenses & Optical Instruments business is now managed and monitored by Group Management on an international level. The Group has three operating segments: Lenses & Optical Consequently, the Group decided to harmonize its segment Instruments, Equipment, and Readers. reporting to reﬂect the way in which its organization has changed. The Lenses & Optical Instruments business segment comprises The Equipment business segment comprises the production, the Group’s Lens business (production, ﬁnishing, distribution and distribution and sale of high capacity equipment, such as digital trading) and the Instruments business (small equipment used by surfacing machines and lens polishing machines, used in opticians and relating to the sale of lenses). The end customers manufacturing plants and prescription laboratories for ﬁnishing for this business are eye care professionals (opticians and operations on semi-ﬁnished lenses. The end customers for this optometrists). business segment are optical lens manufacturers. The Lenses & Optical Instruments business chain is now The Readers business segment comprises the production, designed as a complete network with multiple interactions. The distribution and sale of non-prescription reading glasses and segment has a global network of plants, prescription laboratories, sunglasses. The end customers for this segment are retailers that edging centers and distribution centers serving eye-care sell non-prescription reading glasses to consumers. 3 1.9 Consolidated cash flow statement The cash flow statement has been prepared by the indirect The effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash method, whereby net proﬁt is adjusted for the effects of non-cash equivalents corresponds to the effect of (i) changes in exchange transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of rates between the beginning and end of the period and (ii) past or future operating cash receipts or payments, and items of differences between the closing exchange rate and the average income or expense associated with investing or ﬁnancing cash rate for the period on movements for the period. ﬂows. The amounts reported for acquisitions (sales) of subsidiaries Proﬁt before non-cash items and share of proﬁts of associates, correspond to the purchase price (sale proceeds) less the cash net of dividends received, is deﬁned as proﬁt of fully-consolidated and cash equivalents of the acquired (sold) subsidiary at the companies before depreciation, amortization and provisions (other transaction date. than provisions for impairment of current assets) and other nonCash corresponds to cash and marketable securities qualifying cash items (mainly the costs of stock option plans, share grants as cash equivalents less short-term bank loans and overdrafts. and employee stock ownership plans), plus dividends received from associates. n Marketable securities, consisting mainly of units in money market UCITS, are qualified as cash equivalents when the Working capital comprises inventories, receivables and payables, investment objectives fulﬁll the criteria speciﬁed in IAS 7. other receivables and payables, deferred income and prepaid expenses. Changes in working capital are stated before the effect n Marketable securities that do not fulﬁll these criteria are not of changes in scope of consolidation. classiﬁed as cash equivalents. Purchases and sales of these securities are treated as cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities. Cash ﬂows of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average exchange rate for the period. 1.10 Foreign currency translation The ﬁnancial statements of foreign companies are prepared in the n income statement items and cash ﬂows are translated at the entity’s functional currency. The functional currency is deﬁned as average exchange rate for the period. the currency of the primary economic environment in which the The difference between equity translated at the closing rate and subsidiary operates. the historical rate, and that resulting from the translation of net Financial statement items measured in the functional currency proﬁt at the average rate for the period are recorded in equity, are translated into euros as follows: under “Translation difference,” and reclassiﬁed to proﬁt when the foreign subsidiary is sold or wound up. n balance sheet items are translated at the closing rate; Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 103 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1.11 Revenue Revenue corresponds to revenue from the sale of products and to, and accepted by, the customer and the related receivable is the provision of services. It is stated net of volume discounts, reasonably certain of being collected. cash discounts, returned goods and certain revenue-based Revenue from laboratory equipment sales is recognized when commissions and deferred revenue associated with awards the risks and rewards of ownership of the equipment have been granted under customer loyalty programs. transferred to the buyer, generally corresponding to the date of Revenue from Lens sales and Readers (non-prescription reading physical and technical acceptance by the buyer. glasses) is recognized when the product has been delivered 1.12 Cost of sales Cost of sales corresponds mainly to the cost of goods sold, less any cash discounts received from suppliers. 1.13 Contribution from operations and operating profit Contribution from operations corresponds to revenue less cost of costs are not included in contribution from operations but in the sales and operating expenses (research and development costs, Group’s operating proﬁt. These items are non-recurring and not selling and distribution costs, other operating expenses). considered to contribute to the Group’s current operations. Equity-settled share-based payments, restructuring costs, gains and losses on asset disposals, and strategic acquisition 1.14 Share-based payments Stock subscription options and performance share The model parameters are determined at the grant date. grants n Share price volatility is determined by reference to historical The fair value of stock options and performance shares is volatilities. determined as follows: n The risk-free interest rate corresponds to the government bond n performance-based stock subscription options granted since rate. 2006, which are subject to vesting conditions based on the n The impact of dividends is taken into account in the model by share performance, are measured using the Monte Carlo model; applying a yield assumption determined by reference to the n performance shares granted since 2006, which are subject dividend paid in the previous year. to vesting conditions based on the change in the share price n The options’ expected life is determined based on the vesting compared with the reference price on the grant date, are period and the exercise period. measured using the Monte Carlo model. n In line with French Accounting Authority (CNC) guidelines The fair value of stock subscription options on the grant date dated December 21, 2004, the lock-up discount applied to is recognized as an expense over the option acquisition period, the November 2012 and November 2013 performance share taking into account the probability of the option being exercised plans was determined based on the cost for the employee of early, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. a two-step strategy consisting of selling the shares forward For performance shares, the acquisition period is considered for delivery at the end of the lock-up period and purchasing as being the most probable period over which the performance the same number of shares for immediate delivery, with the conditions will be fulfilled, determined using the Monte Carlo purchase ﬁnanced by a loan. model. At each period-end, the probability of options or performance For the November 2012 and November 2013 performance share shares being forfeited is assessed by the Group. The impact of plans, a lock-up discount was applied to the portion of shares any adjustments to these estimates is recognized in proﬁt, with a that will be granted after the plan’s performance conditions have corresponding adjustment to equity. been fulﬁlled. This portion will be unavailable to grantees for an estimated ﬁve years. 104 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Employee share issues National de la Comptabilité) issued a press release containing measurement guidelines. For employee share issues, the difference between the market price of the shares on the transaction date and the price at which A discount has been taken into account since the secondhalf the shares are offered to employees is recognized directly in proﬁt 2007. In line with CNC guidelines, the discount was determined and loss when the shares are issued. based on the cost for the employee of a two-step strategy consisting of selling the shares forward for delivery at the end of IFRS 2 allows for the effect of any post-vesting transfer the lock-up period and purchasing the same number of shares for restrictions to be taken into account, but does not provide immediate delivery, with the purchase ﬁnanced by a loan. any guidance on measuring the corresponding discount. On December 21, 2004, the French accounting authorities (Conseil 1.15 Net interest income Dividend income is recognized when the amount has been Cost of gross debt consists of interest on ﬁnancing, realized gains approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of the company making or accrued interest on interest rate derivatives, and non-utilization the distribution. fees on credit facilities. Interest receivable or payable is recognized on an accruals basis Income from cash and cash equivalents includes interest received in the period in which it is earned or due, by the effective interest and accrued on investments made by Group companies: bank method. deposits, investments in marketable securities, etc. 1.16 Foreign currency transactions 3 On initial recognition of foreign currency transactions, the Foreign currency income and expenses are measured at receivable or payable is translated into the entity’s functional the exchange rate on the transaction date. When the foreign currency at the exchange rate on the transaction date. At the currency transaction is part of a hedging relationship qualifying period-end, they are re-translated at the closing rate. The as a cash flow hedge under IAS 39, the income or expense resulting gains and loss are recognized in “Other ﬁnancial income is adjusted for the effective portion of the gain or loss from and expenses”. remeasurement at fair value of the currency hedging instrument at the transaction date. 1.17 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value In accordance with IAS 39, derivative instruments (including ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognized in “Other forward purchases and sales of foreign currencies) are initially ﬁnancial income and expenses”; recognized at cost and subsequently measured at fair value at n fair value hedges: the gain or loss from remeasurement at fair each period-end. value is recognized in proﬁt or loss on a symmetrical basis with Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments are the gain or loss from remeasurement at fair value of the hedged accounted for as follows: asset or liability; n cash ﬂow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss from n instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting: certain remeasurement at fair value is recognized directly in equity derivatives that in substance represent hedges do not qualify under “Hedging reserves” until the effective completion of for hedge accounting under IAS 39. Gains and losses from the scheduled transaction. When the scheduled transaction the fair value measurement of these derivative instruments is completed, the amount recognized in equity is reclassiﬁed are recognized directly in financial income and expenses, in to profit: the income or expense is adjusted for the effective accordance with the criteria of IAS 39. portion of the gain or loss from remeasurement at fair value In accordance with IFRS 13, ﬁnancial income and expenses at fair of the hedging instrument. The ineffective portion of the gain value are classiﬁed according to the following hierarchy: or loss is recognized in “Other ﬁnancial income and expenses”; n level 1: inputs for the asset or liability that are quoted prices on n hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation: the effective an active market; portion of the gain or loss from remeasurement at fair value is recognized directly in equity under “Hedging reserves” and n level 2: inputs for the asset or liability that are based on transferred to the “Translation difference” when the hedging observable market data; instrument expires. The amount transferred to the “Translation n level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on difference” is reclassified to profit when the investment in observable market data. the foreign operation is sold or the entity is wound up. The Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 105 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements The fair values of the main ﬁnancial assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheet are determined according to the methods summarized below. Consolidated Fair value measurement balance Notes Market data sheet Input levels to the valuation under ﬁnancial Exchange Interest Financial instruments principles IFRS 13 statements Valuation model rate rate Volatility Available-for-sale ﬁnancial Fair value 1 16 Share price N/A assets (listed securities) Market value UCITS units Fair value 1 22 (net asset value) N/A Forward foreign exchange Fair value 2 23 Discounted ECB rate Zero Coupon N/A contracts cash ﬂows curves Currency option Fair value 2 23 Black Forward Zero Coupon At the and Scholes curves, curves money ECB rate, Spot rate Interest rate swaps Fair value 2 23 Discounted Zero Coupon N/A N/A cash ﬂows curves Cross-currency swaps Fair value 2 23 Discounted ECB rate Zero Coupon N/A cash ﬂows curves Liabilities relating to Fair value 3 23 Under IAS 32, contingent considerations payable to minority business combinations or interests or within the scope of business combinations minority interests constitute ﬁnancial liabilities. The fair value of these liabilities is measured by reviewing obligations on the reporting date using the method described in Note 1.21. The fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is shown in Note 23.2. 1.18 Income tax Deferred taxes are recognized by the liability method for Deferred taxes are charged or credited directly to equity when the temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets tax relates to items that are recognized directly in equity, such and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and their tax base. as gains and losses on cash ﬂow hedges and hedges of certain ﬁnancial assets, and actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned beneﬁt They are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply plan obligations. to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or Deferred tax assets and liabilities are set off when they are levied substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. on the same taxable entity (legal entity or tax group) by the same taxation authority and the entity has a legally enforceable right Adjustments to deferred taxes resulting from changes in tax of set off. rates are recognized in proﬁt or loss. However, when the deferred tax relates to items recognized in equity, the adjustment is also Deferred taxes are recognized for all temporary differences recognized in equity. associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of A deferred tax asset is recognized for all deductible temporary the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilized. The Group is subject to taxation on earnings in several countries under various tax regulations. Calculation of taxes on a global At each period-end, the Group reviews the recoverable value scale requires the use of estimates and assumptions developed of deferred tax assets of tax entities holding significant loss based on the information available at the balance sheet date. carryforwards. This value is based, by tax entity, on the strategy for medium-term recoverability of the tax loss carryforwards. 106 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 1.19 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share n Stock subscription options: the dilution arising from stock subscription options is calculated based on the weighted Basic earnings per share correspond to profit attributable to average number of shares plus the number of shares that Group equity holders divided by the weighted average number of would be issued or sold if the options were issued at market shares outstanding during the year, excluding treasury stock. price instead of at the adjusted exercise price. Performance-based bonus share grants are taken into account to The adjusted exercise price corresponds to the exercise price the extent that the performance criteria have been met before the as adjusted for the cost to be recognized in future periods for balance sheet date. options that have not yet vested at the period-end; n Performance share grants: the number of shares used for the Diluted earnings per share calculation is determined based on the number of shares that Diluted earnings per share are calculated by taking into account would have been granted if the performance criterion had been dilutive potential shares, as follows: applied at the balance sheet date. 1.20 Research and development costs Research costs are recognized as an expense for the period in n how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic which they are incurred. beneﬁts; Research and development costs recognized in operating expense n the availability of technical, ﬁnancial and other resources to include the operating costs of the Group’s research centers complete the intangible asset; and 3 and engineering costs for the development of new production n the reliable measurement of development expenditures. processes. Due to the risks and uncertainties concerning market Development costs are recognized as an intangible asset if the developments and the large number of projects undertaken, the following can be demonstrated: above criteria are considered as not being fulﬁlled for ophthalmic n the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so lens development projects. Consequently, development costs for that it will be available for use or sale; these projects are recognized as an expense. n the Group’s intention to complete the intangible asset and use Instrument and laboratory equipment development costs are or sell it; recognized as an intangible asset when the above criteria are fulﬁlled. n its ability to use or sell the intangible asset; 1.21 Goodwill Recognition of acquisitions made Acquisitions of non-controlling interests or sales without loss of controlling interests are considered to be transactions between after January 1, 2010 shareholders and are recognized directly in equity without Business combinations recorded after January 1, 2010 are impacting goodwill. recognized by the acquisition method, in accordance with the revised IFRS 3, Business combinations, applicable to periods For step acquisitions, the difference between the carrying amount starting on or after July 1, 2009. of the investment held before the acquisition and its fair value at the acquisition date is recognized in operating proﬁt (“Other The revised IFRS 3 deﬁnes the method for recognizing business expenses from operations” and “Other income from operations”), combinations according to the acquisition method, and introduces along with the components of other comprehensive income that the possibility of measuring non-controlling interests (minority may be reclassiﬁed subsequently. interests) either at the full fair value (full goodwill method) or at the fair value of the proportion of identiﬁable net assets of the Where put options have been granted to minority shareholders acquired entity (partial goodwill method). This option applies on of subsidiaries, the amount recognized in liabilities is measured an individual transaction basis. at the present value of the option exercise price. This liability is reclassified from “Minority interests” to “Other non-current Costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition are liabilities” or “Other current liabilities” in the consolidated recognized as expenses for the period. Costs related to major balance sheet according to its due date. The balance is allocated to strategic acquisitions (i.e. that represent highly significant Goodwill (full goodwill method) or equity (partial goodwill method). amounts or correspond to a new area of business) are included in operating profit, under “Other expenses from operations.” Discounting adjustments to reflect the passage of time are Costs related to lower-value acquisitions are included in “Other recorded in the income statement. operating expenses” as part of “Contribution from operations.” Subsequent changes in the liability’s fair value are recognized through Group equity. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 107 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Recognition of acquisitions made before the Middle East, was grouped into a single CGU “Asia Oceania Middle East Africa”. January 1, 2010 Business combinations recorded after the IFRS transition date This grouping reﬂects the change in the Group’s organization, in (January 1, 2004), and before January 1, 2010, are recognized particular, the centralization of management in the AMERA zone, by the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3, Business the dramatic growth of intra-segment trade ﬂows giving rise to combinations. significant synergies within the zone, as well as the goodwill management and monitoring procedure introduced in 2013. Goodwill is the excess of: Consequently, impairment tests are now conducted on these n the acquisition cost, including any directly attributable costs of seven groups of CGUs: the business combination; n Lenses Europe; n over the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the acquisition date. n Lenses North America; Under this method, the acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities n Lenses South America; and contingent liabilities meeting the recognition criteria of n Lenses Asia Oceania Middle East Africa; IFRS 3 are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date, with the n Plants; exception of non-current assets classiﬁed as held-for-sale which are measured at fair value less costs to sell. Only identifiable n Readers; liabilities that meet the criteria for recognition as a liability in the n Equipment. acquiree’s accounts are recognized in the business combination. In line with this principle, a liability for terminating or reducing The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less the activities of the acquiree is recognized as part of allocating costs to sell and its value in use. The value in use is based on the cost of the combination only when the acquiree has, at the forecast cash ﬂows less a pretax discount rate. acquisition date, an existing liability for restructuring. Plants that conduct manufacturing operations for several groups Where put options have been granted to minority shareholders of CGUs form a separate group of CGUs whose cash flows are of subsidiaries, their interest in the equity of the subsidiaries reallocated to the other CGUs of the Group based on unit sales. concerned is reclassiﬁed from “Minority interests” to “Non-current In line with this principle, the Asian plants are considered as liabilities” or “Other current liabilities” in the consolidated balance a shared resource allocated to the other groups of CGUs for sheet. impairment testing purposes. The amount recognized in liabilities is measured at the present Future cash ﬂows are estimated as follows: value of the option exercise price. Discounting adjustments to n the last ﬁscal year for the reference year (Y); reflect the accretion of discount are recorded in the income n annual budget for the year Y+1; statement. n cash ﬂows for the years Y+2 to Y+5 are estimated by applying With regard to the accounting treatment in the consolidated to Y+1 data growth rates that are consistent with the Company’s balance sheet of the difference between the present value of projections and with the budgeted Y+1 growth rate. the option exercise price and minority interests in the equity of the subsidiaries concerned, Essilor has elected to record this These data are approved in advance by Management and take difference in “Goodwill.” Future changes in the recognized liability account of past experience. will be reported as an adjustment to goodwill. The discount rate applied in all cases is the Company’s weighted In certain cases, the fair values used for the assets and liabilities average cost of capital (WACC). A risk premium is added to the of acquisitions for the period may be temporary and changed at a WACC for some CGUs, to reﬂect speciﬁc country risk exposures later date, after a ﬁnal expert assessment or additional analyses. and local conditions. Note 11 summarizes the assumptions used. Any discrepancies resulting from the final valuation shall be Impairment tests are routinely performed on each CGU once a recognized as a retrospective adjustment to goodwill if they year at the time of the interim closing at the end of June. However, take place within twelve months from the acquisition date. Any all sensitive items are tested again at the year end and any adjustments made more than twelve months after the acquisition impairment losses are increased if necessary. date will be recognized directly in profit and loss, unless they correspond to corrections of errors. CGU testing does not exempt the Group from testing subsidiaries’ assets on an individual basis in the event of an indication of Goodwill arising on acquisition of associates is included in the impairment. Once these tests are complete, the necessary carrying amount of the investment. provisions are recorded. Impairment of goodwill Goodwill subject to impairment tests is grouped into groups of cash-generating units (CGUs) that correspond to the analytical focus of senior management. As of January 1, 2013, goodwill formerly allocated to 7 individual CGUs i.e. ASEAN, Japan, Korea, India, China, Oceania, Africa and 108 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 1.22 Other intangible assets Other intangible assets consist mainly of trademarks, contractual Trademarks with an indefinite life are not amortized. They are customer relationships, technologies, concessions, patents and considered as having an indeﬁnite life when: licenses. Trademarks, contractual customer relationships and n it can be demonstrated, based on an analysis of the life of the certain technologies constitute purchase accounting adjustments underlying products, the market and the competition, that there recognized in connection with business combinations (see is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the products Note 1.21). sold under the trademark are expected to generate net cash Other intangible assets are recognized at cost or fair value at the inﬂows; date of the business combination, net of accumulated amortization n the Group has the intention and ability to support the trademark. and impairment losses. Intangible assets with a ﬁnite life are tested for impairment when They are amortized on a straight-line basis over the assets’ useful the occurrence of an event or a change of circumstances indicates lives. that their recoverable amount may be less than their carrying n Software is amortized over periods ranging from 1 to 5 years. amount. n Patents are amortized over the period of legal protection. Trademarks with an indefinite life are tested for impairment annually, along with goodwill (see Note 1.21). n Trademarks with a ﬁnite life are amortized over periods ranging from 10 to 20 years. When the test shows that an asset’s recoverable amount is less than its carrying amount, a provision for impairment is recorded. n Contractual customer relationships are amortized over periods Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less ranging from 5 to 20 years. costs to sell and value in use. n Technology is amortized over periods ranging from 5 to 15 years. The directly attributable costs of producing identifiable and separable intangible assets are recognized as an intangible 3 asset when they are controlled by the Group and it is probable that they will generate future economic beneﬁts in excess of their cost over a period of more than one year. They are reported under “Intangible assets in progress” until the asset is completed. 1.23 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less The main useful lives are as follows: accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Buildings 20 to 33 years Finance leases, defined as leases that transfer to the Group Building improvements 7 to 10 years substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset, are recognized in assets at amounts equal to the fair Machinery, equipment and tooling 3 to 10 years value of the leased property or, if lower, the present value of Other 3 to 10 years the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The leased assets are depreciated by the methods described below. The ﬁnance lease liability is included in debt. Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises several parts with different useful lives, each part is recognized Lease payments under operating leases, deﬁned as leases where as a separate item and depreciated over its useful life. substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are retained by the lessor, are recognized as an expense on Useful life and residual value of property, plant and equipment a straight-line basis over the lease term. are reviewed at each period-end. As necessary, the occurrence of changes to the useful life or residual value is recognized The directly attributable costs of producing identifiable and prospectively as a change in accounting estimates. separable items of property, plant and equipment are recognized as property, plant and equipment when they are controlled by the Where there are any internal or external indications that the value Group and it is probable that they will generate future economic of an item of property, plant and equipment may be impaired, the beneﬁts in excess of their cost over a period of more than one recoverable amount of the group of CGUs to which it belongs is year. calculated. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount of the group of CGUs, a provision for impairment is recorded. A review is carried out at each period-end to determine Depreciation whether any such indications exist. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost of the assets less any residual value over the assets’ useful life. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 109 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1.24 Other long-term financial investments Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets The fair value of financial assets traded in an active market corresponds to their market price. The fair value of assets not In accordance with IAS 39, investments in non-consolidated traded in an active market is determined by reference to the companies and other long-term ﬁnancial investments qualifying market value of similar securities or the prices of recent arm’s as “available-for-sale financial assets” under IAS 39 are length transactions, or by the discounted cash ﬂows method. measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized directly in equity. The change in fair value of such assets is recognized in equity. The Other assets measured using the cost model amount recorded in equity is restated when the asset is disposed Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost. of or liquidated, or if there exists objective evidence of lasting A provision is recorded for any other-than-temporary impairment impairment of such asset. in value or any collection risk. Whenever unrecognized losses are deemed to be signiﬁcant or lasting, they are recognized directly in income. 1.25 Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets held for sale are assets that the Group has and fair value net of selling costs, with an impairment charge undertaken to sell. When they are being classiﬁed, non-current recorded as necessary. Assets classiﬁed as held-for-sale are not assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount amortized. 1.26 Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of weighted average cost probability of the items being sold and the risk of obsolescence, and net realizable value. assessed by reference to objective inventory levels. Net realizable value takes into account market prices, the 1.27 Trade receivables Trade receivables due within one year are classiﬁed as current Provisions are recorded to cover any collection risk. Risk of assets. Trade receivables due beyond one year are classiﬁed as recovery is determined based on the various types of Group non-current assets. clients, most often on a statistical basis but also by taking into account speciﬁc situations if necessary. 1.28 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents correspond to cash and marketable calculation of net debt (see Note 22, “Net Debt and Borrowings” securities qualiﬁed as cash equivalents under IAS 7. appended to these ﬁnancial statements”). Marketable securities held by the Group that do not qualify as cash In accordance with IAS 39, investment securities are recognized at equivalents under IAS 7 are reported under “Other marketable market value at the balance sheet date. Changes in market value securities” and are taken into account by the Group for the are recorded as ﬁnancial proﬁt or losses. 1.29 Equity Additional paid-in capital Treasury stock Additional paid-in capital is the excess of the issue price of capital Treasury stock is deducted from equity at cost, including directly increases over the par value of the shares issued. attributable transaction expenses. Capital gains and losses on sales of treasury stock are recorded directly in equity, for their amount net of tax. 110 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Hedging and revaluation reserves Negative equity Hedging and revaluation reserves comprise: Where a consolidated company has negative equity, minority interests are treated as being attributable to the Group unless the n the effective portion of the gain or loss arising from minority shareholders are liable for their share of the losses and remeasurement at fair value of ﬁnancial instruments acquired are capable of fulﬁlling this obligation. as cash ﬂow hedges or hedges of the net investment in foreign operations, net of deferred tax; n the difference between the cost of available-for-sale ﬁnancial Minority interests assets and their fair value, which is recognized directly in equity Minority interests represent the portion of the net assets and net in accordance with IAS 39, net of deferred tax; proﬁt of a consolidated entity that is not attributable to the Group, directly or indirectly. n actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, net of deferred tax. Where minority shareholders of consolidated companies acquired before or after January 1, 2010 have been granted put options, their amount is valued at the fair value of the put option. That Dividends amount is reclassified in the consolidated balance sheet from Dividends are deducted from equity when they are approved by “Minority interests” to “Other non-current liabilities” or “Other the Shareholders’ Meeting. current liabilities” based on their expiration date. 1.30 Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognized at an amount corresponding Any difference between this amount and the redemption price to the issue proceeds net of directly attributable transaction costs. is recognized in profit and loss over the life of the debt by the 3 effective interest method. 1.31 Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations The Essilor group companies may have obligations for the average duration of the benefit obligation. Discounting payment of pensions, early-retirement beneﬁts, length-of-service adjustments are recognized in operating expense. awards, jubilees and other post-employment beneﬁts under the n in cases where all or part of the obligation is funded under an laws and practices applicable in their host country. external plan, a provision is recorded for the difference between Where these benefits are payable under defined contribution the projected beneﬁt obligation and the fair value of the plan plans, the contributions are expensed as incurred. assets; In the case of defined benefit plans, provisions are booked to n actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in cover the unfunded projected beneﬁt obligation as determined by assumptions and experience-based adjustments are recognized independent actuaries, as follows: in equity, under “Hedging and revaluation reserves”; n the projected beneﬁt obligation, corresponding to the vested n if a company introduces a deﬁned beneﬁt plan or changes the rights of active and retired employees, is determined by the benefit formula under an existing defined benefit plan, the projected unit credit method, based on estimated ﬁnal salaries. related change in the Company’s obligation (“past service cost”) The actuarial assumptions used differ depending on the country is recognized in proﬁt or loss; (discount rate, inﬂation rate) and the Company (staff turnover n provisions recorded in the balance sheet correspond to the rates, rate of future salary increases); projected beneﬁt obligation less the market value of any plan n the discount rate corresponds to the prime interest rate in the assets. country concerned for periods corresponding to the estimated 1.32 Provisions A provision is recognized when the Group has a present obligation Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the balance sheet – (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable except in connection with business combinations (see Note 1.21) – that an outﬂow of resources embodying economic beneﬁts will but are disclosed in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements unless be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be the probability of an outﬂow of resources embodying economic made of the amount of the obligation. beneﬁts is very remote. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 111 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Provisions are determined based on facts and circumstances, No provision is recognized for future operating losses. historical risk data and the information available at the balance Provisions for warranty costs are recognized when the products sheet date. are sold. The corresponding charge is recognized in cost of sales. Restructuring provisions are recognized when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has announced its main features to those affected by it. 1.33 Other current and non-current liabilities When put options have been granted to minority shareholders liability are reported in goodwill for companies acquired before of subsidiaries, their interest in the equity of the subsidiaries January 1, 2010. concerned is reclassified from “Minority interests” to other Following application of IFRS 3 (revised), future changes in the liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. Depending on recognized liability are reported in equity for companies acquired maturity, the liabilities are divided between “Other current after January 1, 2010. liabilities” and “Other non-current liabilities”. Contingent consideration must be recognized at its acquisitionThe amount recognized in liabilities is measured at the present date fair value as part of the consideration transferred in exchange value of the option exercise price. Discounting adjustments to for the acquiree, whether or not its payment is considered reflect the accretion of discount are recorded in the income probable. For companies acquired before January 1, 2010, statement. future changes in the additional price are recognized in goodwill. The accounting treatment in the consolidated balance sheet of the Following application of IFRS 3 (revised), future changes in the difference between the present value of the option exercise price additional price are recognized in other income and expenses and minority interests in the equity of the subsidiaries concerned from operations for companies acquired after January 1, 2010. is presented in “Goodwill”. Future changes in the recognized NOTE 2. Exchange rates and scope of consolidation 2.1 Exchange rates of the main functional currencies Closing rate Average rate For €1 2013 2012 2013 2012 CAD 1.47 1.31 1.37 1.28 GBP 0.83 0.82 0.85 0.81 CNY 8.35 8.22 8.16 8.11 JPY 144.72 113.61 129.66 102.49 INR 85.37 72.56 77.93 68.60 BRL 3.26 2.70 2.87 2.51 USD 1.38 1.32 1.33 1.28 2.2 Changes in the scope of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial if their consolidation has a material impact on the Company’s statements of holding companies, asset management companies ﬁnancial statements. and entities meeting one of the following two criteria: Moreover, companies acquired at the very end of the year that do n annual revenue in excess of €1 million; not have the resources to produce ﬁnancial statements according to Group standards within the time allotted shall be entered into n or property, plant and equipment in excess of €9 million. the scope of consolidation the following January 1, if the impact of Entities that do not fulﬁll these criteria may also be consolidated, their consolidation is not material for the Group. 112 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Newly consolidated companies The following companies were consolidated for the ﬁrst time in 2013: Consolidation % % Name Country Consolidated from method interest consolidated Leicester(a) United Kingdom January 1, 2013 Full 80 100 (a) Easy Vision Pty Ltd South Africa January 1, 2013 Full 100 100 Evolution Optical(a) South Africa January 1, 2013 Full 51 100 Essilor Israel Laboraties Ltd (Optiplas) Israel January 1, 2013 Full 50 100 (a) Chemilens Vietnam Vietnam January 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Optics India Equipement(a) India January 1, 2013 Full 50 100 (a) Essilor Lens & Spec India January 1, 2013 Full 60 100 Entreprise ophtalmics Pvt Ltd(a) India January 1, 2013 Full 50 100 (a) Global Lens Lanka Sri Lanka January 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Shanghai NVG Optical(a) China January 1, 2013 Full 100 100 (a) Essilor Laos Laos January 1, 2013 Full 100 100 Shamir Canada Canada January 1, 2013 Full 50 100 3 MOC BBGR Russia March 1, 2013 Full 51 100 Megalux Chile March 1, 2013 Full 51 100 Servioptica Colombia April 18, 2013 Full 51 100 Impasoles Luxembourg April 18, 2013 Full 100 100 Ivortest Colombia April 18, 2013 Full 100 100 Optiminas Brazil May 1, 2013 Full 70 100 Isbir Turkey May 1, 2013 Full 73 100 Prodigy United States May 1, 2013 Full 100 100 Shih Heng Optical Taiwan Branch Taiwan May 1, 2013 Full 70 100 Deepak Lens Pvt Ltd India May 13, 2013 Full 60 100 Onbitt Korea May 14, 2013 Full 51 100 India New Vision Generation India May 17, 2013 Full 100 100 E.magine United States June 1, 2013 Full 80 100 PSA Nilo Brazil June 10, 2013 Full 51 100 Classic Optical United States July 1, 2013 Full 95 100 VIP Optical United States July 1, 2013 Full 100 100 PT Polyvisi Rama Optik Indonesia July 1, 2013 Full 49 100 PT Supravisi Rama Optik Manufacturing Indonesia July 1, 2013 Full 49 100 Polycore Optical (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 B.V. Nederlandse Optische Industrie Netherlands July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Polycore Optical (HK) Limited Hong-Kong July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Polyvision Inc. United States July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Polycore Optical (Pte) Ltd Singapore July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Brazil 2.5 New vision Generation Brazil July 22, 2013 Full 100 100 Shamir Optical Co Ltd China July 30, 2013 Full 50 100 Riverside Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 Active Vision Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 Clearlen Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 SuperLab Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 (a) Companies acquired or set up in prior years, consolidated for the ﬁrst time in 2013. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 113 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidation % % Name Country Consolidated from method interest consolidated UTMC Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 AN Optical Canada August 31, 2013 Full 31 100 Benson Edwards Canada August 31, 2013 Full 50 100 Laboratoire d’Optique de Hull Canada August 31, 2013 Full 100 100 CPS 360 Optical Canada August 31, 2013 Full 50 100 Technologies Humanware Inc. Canada September 1, 2013 Full 63 100 Humanware Europe Ltd United Kingdom September 1, 2013 Full 63 100 Humanware USA Inc United States September 1, 2013 Full 63 100 Humanware Australia Pty Ltd. Australia September 1, 2013 Full 63 100 Katz & Klein United States September 4, 2013 Full 100 100 Essilor Management North & West Africa Morocco September 3, 2013 Full 100 100 Essilor Management Turkey Turkey October 10, 2013 Full 100 100 Xiamen Yarui Optical Co. Ltd China October 31, 2013 Full 50 100 Artgri Group International Pte Ltd Singapore October 31, 2013 Full 50 100 Xiamen Artgri Optical Co. Ltd. China October 31, 2013 Full 50 100 Cordless Network Service (Frame Displays) United States November 1, 2013 Full 80 100 Suntech Optics Inc. Canada November 25, 2013 Full 100 100 Bugaboos Eyewear Corporation Canada November 25, 2013 Full 100 100 Bugaboos Eyewear Inc. United States November 25, 2013 Full 100 100 Naked Eye Enterprises Inc. Canada November 25, 2013 Full 100 100 PureLab DLP Inc Canada December 2, 2013 Full 26 100 Comprol Brazil December 2, 2013 Full 51 100 R&D Cherry United States December 2, 2013 Full 80 100 114 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 The 2012 income statement also includes the contribution over the full year of the following companies that were consolidated for the ﬁrst time in 2011: Consolidation % % Name Country Consolidated from method interest consolidated Incheon Optics South Korea February 22, 2012 Full 40 100 Blue Optics United States February 29, 2012 Full 80 100 Cristal y Plastico S.A. de CV Mexico March 12, 2012 Full 51 100 Central Optical United States April 2, 2012 Full 60 100 Essilor Optica International Holding S.L Spain June 1, 2012 Full 100 100 Yeda Tora Turkey June 1, 2012 Full 70 100 Ipek Turkey June 1, 2012 Full 70 100 Optovision S.A. Argentina July 2, 2012 Full 51 100 Opak Turkey August 1, 2012 Full 51 100 Shamir Brasil Comercial Ltda. Brazil August 1, 2012 Full 50 100 Riachuelo Brazil August 10, 2012 Full 70 100 Balester Optical United States September 1, 2012 Full 100 100 Carskadden Optical United States October 1, 2012 Full 100 100 Hirsch Optical United States October 1, 2012 Full 100 100 3 Shamir Russia LLC Russia October 1, 2012 Full 50 100 Essiholding France November 1, 2012 Full 100 100 Essilor – Sivo Tunisia November 1, 2012 Full 55 100 Sicom Tunisia November 1, 2012 Full 55 100 Essilor Distribution Thailand Co. Ltd. Thailand November 1, 2012 Full 100 100 Sivo Togo Togolese Republic November 1, 2012 Full 28 100 Laboratoires Sivo Abidjan Ivory Coast November 1, 2012 Full 50 100 Codi – Sivo Cameroon November 1, 2012 Full 28 100 Sivom Morocco November 1, 2012 Full 28 100 Eye Buy Direct US United States November 1, 2012 Full 61 100 Eye Buy Direct HK Hong Kong November 1, 2012 Full 61 100 Eye Buy Direct China China November 1, 2012 Full 61 100 Eyewear LLC United States November 1, 2012 Full 61 100 Tian Hong China November 28, 2012 Full 50 100 X-Cell United States December 7, 2012 Full 80 100 Interactif Visual System France December 21, 2012 Full 68 100 IVS Technical Center France December 21, 2012 Full 68 100 Activ Screen France December 21, 2012 Full 68 100 Lenstech Optical Lab United States December 31, 2012 Full 80 100 Other movements n O’Max, from 85% to 100% on June 14, 2013; The Group’s holding in the following companies has changed as a n Optiben, from 65% to 80% on June 28, 2013; result of put options exercised by partners: n VST Lab, from 65% to 80% on June 28, 2013; n GBO, from 51% to 74% on January 22, 2013; n Horizon Optical Company from 95% to 100% on June 28, 2013; n Unilab, from 71% to 75% on March 5, 2013; n Precision Optics from 60% to 100% on July 8, 2013; n Spherical Optics from 25.5% to 100% on May 1, 2013; n Frames and Lenses from 80% to 90% on July 12, 2013; n Focus Optical Labs from 90% to 100% on May 3, 2013; n Shamir Polska from 43% to 50% on August 1, 2013; Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 115 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements n Advance Optical Sales Co. from 90% to 95% on December 23, n Future Optical from 80% to 100% on December 27, 2013; 2013; n Opti Matrix from 80% to 100% on December 27, 2013. n Pech Optical Corp. from 90% to 100% on December 23, 2013; n Optics East from 80% to 100% on December 27, 2013; 2.3 Impact of changes in scope of consolidation and exchange rates Balance sheet The impact of changes in the scope of consolidation on the consolidated balance sheet is analyzed below: € millions Newly consolidated companies 2013 Intangible assets 103 Property, plant and equipment 58 Investments in associates 0 Investments and other non-current assets (5) Other non-current assets 3 Current assets 96 Cash 34 TOTAL ASSETS ACQUIRED AT FAIR VALUE 289 Minority interests in equity 34 Long-term borrowings 31 Other long-term liabilities 21 Short-term borrowings 12 Other current liabilities 64 TOTAL LIABILITIES ASSUMED AT FAIR VALUE 162 NET ASSETS ACQUIRED(a) 127 Acquisition cost 639 (a) Fair value of net assets acquired 127 Post-acquisition retained earnings 0 Recognized goodwill 512 (a) Or consolidated during the period. The amount recognized as goodwill is supported by projected Impact of changes in consolidation scope: synergistic benefits and the growth outlook of the acquired n impact of changes in the scope of consolidation arising from companies within the Group. acquisitions during the year is recorded in the subsidiaries’ The fair value used for the assets and liabilities of acquisitions income statements, from their consolidation date, until for the period is temporary and may be changed at a later December 31 of the current ﬁscal year; date, after a final expert assessment or additional analyses. n impact of changes in scope for companies acquired during the Any discrepancies resulting from the final valuation shall be previous year consist of the subsidiaries’ income statements recognized as a retrospective adjustment to goodwill if they take for the year, since January 1 of the current ﬁscal year until the place within twelve months from the acquisition date. anniversary date of their consolidation; n divested companies do not impact the change in scope of Income statement consolidation since no subsidiaries consolidated in full The methods for determining the impact of changes in scope of consolidation or proportionate consolidation were sold by the consolidation and exchange rates on the income statement are Group; explained below. n major strategic acquisitions, i.e., those that represent highly Changes in performance indicators (revenues, contribution from signiﬁcant amounts or correspond to a new area of business, operations, and operating proﬁt) are apparent when broken down are distinguished from “organic” acquisitions related to by their impact on the Group’s acquisitions (scope of consolidation lower-value acquisitions within the Group’s core businesses impact), on currency changes (foreign exchange impact) and on (prescription laboratories or factories). intrinsic operations, or growth on a like-for-like basis. 116 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Impact of foreign exchange changes: n as a result, the effects on the financial statements of subsidiaries stem from the currency conversion, rather than n this is determined on a per-subsidiary basis by applying the the currency itself. average conversion rate from the previous year to the income statement for the current year for non-euro subsidiaries, Like-for-like growth is determined as the residual difference restated for scope of consolidation impacts as above, and in apparent growth, less the impact of changes in the scope of by calculating the change in this value relative to the income consolidation and changes in exchange rates. Organic growth is statement of the previous year for each subsidiary; growth on a like-for-like consolidation and exchange rate basis. The overall effect of changes in scope of consolidation and exchange rates on revenue, contribution from operations and operating proﬁt was as follows: Changes in scope of consolidation Like-foro/w foreign o/w organic o/w strategic Reported As a % like growth exchange impact acquisitions acquisitions(a) growth Revenue 1.5 (3.9) 3.2 0.1 2.1 Contribution from operations 2.6 (4.0) 2.1 0.2 4.3 Operating proﬁt 1.5 (4.0) 2.2 0.2 3.1 (a) Change in consolidation method for “Essilor Korea”. If the companies consolidated during the year (see Note 2.2 – Newly consolidated companies) were consolidated at January 1, 2013, the Group’s 2013 revenue and proﬁt attributable to Group equity holders could be estimated to have been as follows: 3 € millions 2013 pro forma Revenue 5,288 Proﬁt attributable to Group equity holders 597 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 117 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 3. Segment information 3.1 Information by business segment 2013 Lenses and Optical € millions Instruments Equipment Readers Eliminations Group total External revenue 4,505 205 355 5,065 Intra-segment revenue 4 60 (64) TOTAL REVENUE 4,509 265 355 (64) 5,065 Operating proﬁt 764 33 46 843 Non-cash income and expenses (32) (32) Interest income 18 18 Interest expense (25) (1) (26) Income tax expense (177) (10) (12) (199) Share of proﬁt of associates 22 22 Amortization, depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (204) (10) (39) (253) Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment & intangible assets 240 4 55 299 Non-current assets 2,947 331 928 4,206 Total assets 5,971 471 1,135 7,577 Provisions & retirement funds 306 20 14 340 Borrowings and payables 2,931 67 198 3,196 2012 Lenses and Optical € millions Instruments Equipment Readers Eliminations Group total* External revenue 4,446 199 344 4,989 Intra-segment revenue 4 61 (65) TOTAL REVENUE 4,450 260 344 (65) 4,989 Operating proﬁt 753 36 42 831 Non-cash income and expenses (28) (28) Interest income 17 17 Interest expense (23) (1) (24) Income tax expense (185) (11) (11) (207) Share of proﬁt of associates 24 24 Amortization, depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (204) (10) (35) (249) Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment & intangible assets 194 8 39 241 Non-current assets 2,700 346 663 3,709 Total assets 5,629 480 798 6,907 Provisions & retirement funds 309 24 7 340 Borrowings and payables 2,429 65 159 2,653 * Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. 118 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 3.2 Information by geographical area Revenue is shown by origin (billing country). Revenue Non-current assets(a) € millions Year 2013 Year 2012 December 2013 December 2012 North America 2,197 2,203 859 814 Europe 1,651 1,644 450 465 Asia Oceania Middle East Africa 850 808 566 517 Latin America 367 334 83 81 TOTAL 5,065 4,989 1,958 1,877 (a) Non-current assets comprise property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, investments in associates, long-term ﬁnancial investments, long-term receivables and other non-current assets. The Group’s top 20 customers accounted for 20.6% of revenue in 2013, and 21.1% in 2012. No single customer accounts for more than 10% of the Group’s revenue. 3 NOTE 4. Personnel costs, depreciation and amortization Personnel costs totaled €1,597 million in 2013 compared with Depreciation and amortization expenses amounted to €253 million €1,550 million in 2012 (see also Note 29 – Number of employees in 2013 compared with €244 million in 2012. and personnel costs). NOTE 5. Other income and expenses 5.1 Restructuring costs and other income and expenses from operations Net restructuring costs totaled €22 million in 2013 (€25 million In 2013, income from assets disposals showed a loss of €1 million. in 2012). As in 2012, these costs resulted from the streamlining For 2012, income from disposals of assets showed a gain of of plants in the United States and in Europe, and correspond to €16 million, primarily consisting of the capital gain produced provisions, impairment losses or scrapping of non-current assets. when the “Nikon-Essilor” and “Essilor Korea” joint ventures In 2013, other net operating income and expenses totaled were fully consolidated, having previously been proportionately €19 million (€25 million in 2012). These included fees related consolidated. to disputes amounting to €5 million (€20 million in 2012) and strategic acquisition costs of €11 million (€2 million in 2012). Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 119 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5.2 Share-based payments Compensation costs on share-based payments are measured by the method described in Note 1.14. € millions 2013 2012 Stock subscription options 1 3 (a) Performance shares 31 24 Employee share issues 1 COMPENSATION COSTS ON SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 32 28 (a) Including the employer contribution. Stock subscription options Stock subscription options granted between November 2008 and November 2013 are subject to vesting conditions based on the The exercise price of stock subscription options corresponds to share performance over a period of 2 to 6 years, as well as to the the average of the share prices quoted over the 20 trading days 100% cap on gains. preceding the date of the Board Meeting at which the grants are decided. The main assumptions used to measure compensation costs on stock options granted in 2013 are as follows: Gains on options granted since 2004 (corresponding to the difference between the average share price during the three n share volatility: 18.40% (2012 grants: 17.61%); calendar months prior to the month of exercise of the option and n risk-free interest rate: 1.03% (2012 grants: 2.14%); the exercise price) are capped at 100% of the exercise price. n yield: 1.44% (2012 grants: 1.55%). Stock subscription options granted in 2006, 2007 and January 2008 are subject to vesting conditions based on the share Based on these assumptions, the fair value of options granted in performance over a period of 2 to 4 years, as well as to the 100% 2013 amounted to €10.13 (€11.32 in 2012). cap on gains. The following table analyzes changes in the number of outstanding options: Weighted average Quantity exercise price (€) STOCK SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONS AT JANUARY 1, 2013 2,774,285 42.15 Options exercised (1,098,051) 40.98 Options canceled and expired (60,679) 42.16 Options granted 87,880 77.29 STOCK SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONS AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 1,703,435 44.72 Stock subscription options at January 1, 2012 5,473,086 38.41 Options exercised (2,700,390) 35.51 Options canceled and expired (80,171) 40.42 Options granted 81,760 71.35 Stock subscription options at December 31, 2012 2,774,285 42.15 The average remaining life of outstanding options at December 31, of shares originally granted, depending on the performance of the 2013 was 3.1 years (2012: years): 3.9 years). Essilor share compared with the reference price on the grant date (corresponding to the average of the prices quoted over the 20 The weighted average price of Essilor shares in 2013 was €80.6 trading days preceding the Board Meeting at which the grant is (2012: €68.9). decided). The maximum number of performance shares that would vest Performance shares assuming that the vesting conditions were met is as follows: Since 2006, the Essilor group has launched performance share grants. n 2013 grants: 1,376,340 shares; The number of shares vested at the end of a period of 2 to 6 years n 2012 grants: 1,274,980 shares. based on the grant date ranges from 0% to 100% of the number 120 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 The following table analyzes changes in the number of performance shares at each period-end: Quantity PERFORMANCE SHARES AT JANUARY 1, 2013 2,848,274 Performance shares vested (625,369) Performance shares cancelled (68,660) Grants for the ﬁscal year 1,376,340 PERFORMANCE SHARES AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 3,530,585 Performance shares at January 1, 2012 2,203,447 Performance shares vested (578,008) Performance shares cancelled (52,145) Grants for the ﬁscal year 1,274,980 Performance shares at December 31, 2012 2,848,274 Plans dated November and December 2011 were ﬁnally granted n risk-free interest rate: 1.09% (2012 grants: 2.14%); during 2013 after performance conditions were met. n yield: 1.44% (2012 grants: 1.55%). The main assumptions used to measure compensation costs on Based on these assumptions, the fair value of the shares granted performance shares granted in 2013 are as follows: in 2013 was €33.80 for non-residents of France (€36.33 in 2012) n share volatility: 18.40% (2012 grants: 17.61%); and €25.26 for French residents (€26.95 in 2012). 3 Employee share issues The main parameters used to measure the cost of employee share issues recognized in 2013 are as follows: Plan date December 2013 December 2012 Share subscription price (€) 61.83 57.08 Total discount (€) 15.46 14.27 Number of shares subscribed 377,407 385,354 Discount on the share cash price on grant date represented by the lock-up clause 16.6% 22.1% Share cash price on grant date (€) 74.30 75.66 Risk-free interest rate on the grant date 1.2% 0.6% Reﬁnancing cost 5.0% 6.0% Cost recognized in proﬁt or loss (€ thousands) 56 709 Based on these assumptions, the fair value of the shares subscribed in 2013 was €61.98 (€58.92 in 2012). NOTE 6. Foreign exchange gains and losses € millions 2013 2012 Foreign exchange gains 84 85 Foreign exchange losses (86) (93) Change in fair value of exchange rate instruments 1 1 FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAINS AND LOSSES (1) (7) Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 121 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 7. Other ﬁnancial income and expenses € millions 2013 2012 By nature Change in fair value of ﬁnancial instruments 1 Provisions for impairment of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets (3) Dividends from available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 1 Other ﬁnancial income and expenses (9) (5) OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES (11) (4) Other ﬁnancial income and expenses mainly include discounting adjustments to ﬁnancial expenses related to put options granted to minority shareholders, which amounted to €10 million in 2013 (versus €5 million in 2012). NOTE 8. Income tax 8.1 Income tax gain (loss) for the period € millions 2013 2012(a) Current tax (200) (221) Deferred taxes 1 14 TOTAL (199) (207) (a) Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. 8.2 Income tax expense analysis As a % of pre-tax proﬁt 2013 2012 Standard French income tax rate 34.4 34.4 Differences in foreign tax rate impact (6.5) (8.0) Impact of reduced rates and permanent differences between book and taxable proﬁt (3.2) 0.1 Other non-deductible/non-taxable items under local tax rules (0.5) (1.0) EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATE 24.2 25.5 Since most of the deferred tax bases for French companies were for a term of over two years, the tax rate was not changed with regard to the exceptional contribution deﬁned by the 2013 Supplementary Budget Act. 8.3 Change in deferred taxes recognized in the balance sheet The change in net deferred taxes (assets – liabilities) recognized in the balance sheet can be analyzed as follows: € millions 2013 2012(a) AT JANUARY 1 (30) (47) Deferred taxes recognized in equity (4) Deferred tax income (expense) for the period, net 1 14 Effect of changes in scope of consolidation, exchange rate impacts and other movements (20) 3 AT DECEMBER 31 (53) (30) (a) Adjusted to reﬂect the restatements arising from the application of IAS 19 (revised), as explained in Note 1. 122 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 8.4 Unrecognized deferred tax assets € millions 2013 2012 Tax loss carryforwards 49 54 Other unrecognized deferred tax assets 25 19 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 74 73 8.5 Deferred taxes by type (net position) € millions 2013 2012 Elimination of intercompany proﬁts 40 38 Differences in depreciation periods (6) (6) Temporarily non-deductible provisions 9 25 Actuarial gains and losses 14 10 Assets and liabilities recognized on an acquisition (147) (126) Assets and liabilities recognized on tax loss carryforwards Other 38 (1) 37 (8) 3 TOTAL (53) (30) Deferred taxes on share-based payments with ESSILOR, TIKAI Vision (ex-Barbara), BBGR, BNL, DELAMARE, ESSIDEV, INVOPTIC, NOVISIA, OMI, OPTIM, FGX Holding France, On July 17, 2008, the French auditing authorities (Compagnie Essiholding, OSE (not consolidated), and VARILUX UNIVERSITY (not Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes – CNCC) issued guidance consolidated) and pays the corporate income tax due by the tax requiring companies to recognize in income any tax savings group. In 2013, the subsidiaries in the tax group generated a tax realized on share-based payment plans, whether cash or equitybeneﬁt of €3 million (2012: €4 million). settled. The deferred tax asset recognized as from 2008 is limited to the tax saving that the Company expects to realize on current share Provision for tax risks grant plans. Following various tax audits and proceedings underway within the Group, provisions totaling €21 million were recognized at December 31, 2012. These provisions were adjusted to €17 million Tax consolidation at December 31, 2013. In France, Essilor International files a consolidated tax return NOTE 9. Change in number of shares The shares have a par value of €0.18. 9.1 Change in real number of shares, excluding treasury stock 2013 2012 NUMBER OF SHARES ATJANUARY 1 210,336,563 208,675,170 Exercise of stock subscription options 1,098,051 2,700,390 Subscription of the Essilor group FCP mutual fund 377,407 385,354 Sales of treasury shares held for performance share grants 625,369 578,008 (Purchases) and sales of treasury stock (2,192,298) (2,002,359) NUMBER OF SHARES AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 210,245,092 210,336,563 Number of treasury shares eliminated 4,454,406 4,387,477 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 123 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 9.2 Change in weighted average number of shares, excluding treasury stock 2013 2012 NUMBER OF SHARES AT JANUARY 1 210,336,563 208,675,170 Exercise of stock subscription options 612,602 1,210,098 Subscription of the Essilor group FCP mutual fund 11,374 10,529 Sales of treasury shares held for performance share grants 49,441 44,362 (Purchases) and sales of treasury stock (854,430) (1,676,004) WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 210,155,550 208,264,155 In 2013, 1,500,000 treasury shares were canceled, compared with 2,400,000 in 2012. NOTE 10. Diluted earnings per share Proﬁt used for the calculation of diluted earnings per share is €593 million (€584 million in 2012). The weighted average number of shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share is as follows: 2013 2012 Weighted average number of shares 210,155,550 208,264,155 Dilutive effect of stock subscription options 747,179 1,056,070 Dilutive effect of performance share grants 2,154,245 1,695,218 DILUTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES 213,056,974 211,015,443 NOTE 11. Goodwill Other changes in Provisions for Opening Newly scope and other Translation impairment € millions value consolidated movements difference losses Closing value 2013 Gross amount 2,101 512 34 (158) 2,489 Provisions 14 (1) 13 NET AMOUNT 2,087 512 34 (157) 2,476 2012 Gross amount 1,897 198 40 (34) 2,101 Impairment losses 14 14 NET AMOUNT 1,883 198 40 (34) 2,087 The main increases in goodwill resulted from: Goodwill for companies acquired during the year is based on the provisional accounting for the business combination and may be n in 2013, acquisitions of Xiamen Yarui Optical, Humanware adjusted during the 12-month period from the acquisition date. and Polycore, and of lens distribution companies and various laboratories, in particular, in Colombia, Turkey, the United Since January 1, 2010, the Essilor group has for the most part States, Brazil, South Africa and Taiwan; applied the so-called “full goodwill” method for acquisitions for which there was a commitment to redeem minority interests. The n in 2012, acquisitions of several laboratories in Latin America, fair value of the minority interests is determined by estimating the the United States and Asia, distribution companies in China and future price to be paid for said minority interests. instrument companies in France. 124 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 When there is an acquisition with no option to redeem minority interests, the Group usually applies the so-called “partial goodwill” method. The carrying amount of goodwill breaks down as follows by group of CGUs: € millions 2013 2012 Lenses – Europe 282 280 Lenses – North America 769 707 Lenses – South America 193 138 Lenses – Asia Oceania Middle East Africa 431 353 Equipment 267 273 Readers 534 336 TOTAL 2,476 2,087 N.B.: the assets of the CGU plants are reallocated to other groups of CGUs for testing purposes. Goodwill impairment tests were conducted on June 30, 2013, and of CGUs in 2013. Given the risk premiums calculated, the actual reviewed on December 31, 2013 in line with the principles and discount rates applied to the groups of CGUs of the Group were methods deﬁned in Note 1.21. as follows: The Company’s weighted average cost of capital for 2013 was 7% 3 (2012: 7%). As shown in Note 1.21, the Group had seven groups As a % 2013 2012 Lenses – Europe 8 8 Lenses – North America 7 7 (a) Lenses – South America 14 16 Lenses – Asia, Oceania, Middle East, Africa 10 N.A.(b) ASEAN N.A. 7 Japan N.A. 7 Korea N.A. 9 India N.A. 14 China N.A. 9 Australia and New Zealand N.A. 9 Africa and the Middle East N.A. 11 Laboratory equipment 7 7 Readers 7 7 (c) Plants 8 8 (a) Primarily Brazil. (b) Not applicable. (c) Group of CGUs reallocated to various other groups of CGUs depending on sales volumes. The perpetuity growth rate was estimated at 0% to 2% (2012: 0% A 0.5% increase in the benchmark discount rate would not to 2%), with the highest rates applied to emerging markets. generate any impairment loss on the net carrying amount of goodwill as of 31 December 2013. No impairment losses were recognized on goodwill in 2012 and 2013. A 0.5% decrease in the growth rate at inﬁnity would not generate any impairment loss on in the carrying amount of goodwill as of Changes that must be made to parameters of revenue growth 31 December 2013. and the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) in order to compare the assets’ recoverable amount with their carrying amount do not correspond to the deﬁnition of reasonable change within the meaning of IAS 36. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 125 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 12. Other intangible assets At the Changes Amortization Beginning in scope of Disposals depreciation and At the end of the ﬁscal consolidation and retiTranslation and impairment of the ﬁscal € millions year movements Acquisitions rement difference losses year 2013 Trademarks 232 53 27 (11) 301 Concessions, patents and licenses 306 1 38 2 (12) 331 Contractual customer relationships 285 51 6 (14) 328 Other intangible assets 132 11 36 (8) 171 GROSS AMOUNT 955 116 107 2 (45) 1,131 Accumulated depreciation 333 7 1 (15) 75 399 NET AMOUNT 622 109 107 1 (30) (75) 732 2012 Trademarks 236 (4) 232 Concessions, patents and licenses 265 34 14 2 (5) 306 Contractual customer relationships 227 63 1 (4) 285 Other intangible assets 119 (10) 28 3 (2) 132 GROSS AMOUNT 847 87 42 6 (15) 955 Accumulated depreciation 265 9 5 (5) 69 333 NET AMOUNT 582 78 42 1 (10) (69) 622 Intangible assets in progress amounted to €8 million at Trademarks with an indeﬁnite useful life are not amortized. They December 31, 2013 (€9 million in 2012). are tested for impairment at least once a year or whenever an adverse event occurs. Trademarks with an indeﬁnite useful life are mainly: The discounted cash ﬂow method is used, generally with a royaltyn the Lens business segment in North America for a net carrying based approach. This method involves estimating the value of amount of €38 million at December 31, 2013 (2012: €35 million); the trademark by applying a royalty rate to forecast revenue n the Lens business segment in Asia – Oceania – Middle East – that is consistent with the rates usually demanded for the use of Africa for a net carrying amount of €15 million at December 31, similar trademarks. The discount rate and long-term growth rates 2013 (2012: €15 million); employed are determined based on the economic environment in n the Equipment business segment for a net carrying amount of which the trademark operates. €8 million at December 31, 2013 (2012: €8 million); Brand evaluation tests during the year did not cause a depreciation n the Readers business segment for a net carrying amount of of assets. €155 million at December 31, 2013 (2012: €162 million). 126 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 NOTE 13. Property, plant and equipment At the Changes Provisions beginning in scope Disposals amortization At the end of the ﬁscal and other and retiTranslation and impairment of the ﬁscal € millions year movements Acquisitions rement difference losses year 2013 Land 49 4 1 (4) 48 Buildings 606 41 31 9 (35) 634 Plant and equipment 1,592 62 76 44 (97) 1,589 Other 457 (13) 85 30 (25) 474 GROSS AMOUNT 2,704 94 192 84 (161) 2,745 Accumulated depreciation 1,704 34 69 (100) 178 1,747 CARRYING AMOUNT 1,000 60 192 15 (61) (178) 998 2012 Land 42 8 (1) 49 Buildings 549 55 23 11 (10) 606 Plant and equipment 1,497 96 79 67 (13) 1,592 3 Other 420 (27) 99 29 (6) 457 GROSS AMOUNT 2,508 132 201 107 (30) 2,704 Accumulated depreciation 1,553 84 94 (19) 180 1,704 NET AMOUNT 955 48 201 13 (11) (180) 1,000 The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment – including n production plant and equipment include machines and assets under ﬁnance leases – held by consolidated companies equipment for producing semi-finished and finished lenses was €998 million at the end of 2013 (€1,000 million at the end of in plants located mainly in Asia (Thailand, China, and the 2012). These assets consist mainly of buildings and production Philippines) and in the United States. plant and equipment: The prescription laboratories also have machines and equipment n buildings consist mainly of plants, prescription laboratories for surfacing, coating, edging and mounting lenses. Their locations and administrative offices. Their locations reﬂect the Group’s are extremely diverse. The largest sites are in France and in the broad international presence. The main plants, laboratories United States. and administrative offices are located in France and the United Assets under construction amounted to €60 million at States, while other plants are located primarily in Ireland, December 31, 2013 (€80 million at the end of 2012). Thailand and the Philippines; Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 127 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 14. Property, plant and equipment: ﬁnance leases At the Changes Provisions beginning in scope Disposals amortization At the end of the ﬁscal and other and retiTranslation and impairment of the ﬁscal € millions year movements Acquisitions rement difference losses year 2013 Land 1 1 2 Buildings 14 (1) 13 Other 23 2 1 24 GROSS AMOUNT 38 2 1 39 Accumulated depreciation 26 1 3 28 NET AMOUNT 12 2 (3) 11 2012 Land 1 1 Buildings 14 14 Other 21 2 1 1 23 GROSS AMOUNT 36 2 1 1 38 Accumulated depreciation 24 1 1 2 26 CARRYING AMOUNT 12 1 1 (2) 12 NOTE 15. Investments in associates Investments in associates are as follows: 2013 2012 Company Country % Interest % Control % Interest % Control (a) Transitions group 49 49 49 49 Shamir Optispeed South Africa 25 25 13 25 Shamir Emerald South Africa 0 0 14 28 VisionWeb United States 44 44 44 44 (a) See Note 34 for more details. The accounting policies and methods applied by associates comply with IFRS and are the same as the Group’s accounting policies. 128 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Essilor’s share of these companies’ equity – corresponding to the carrying amount of its investment – and of their after-tax proﬁts is as follows (the amounts shown correspond to the ownership interest held): 2013 2012 Share of Share of net Share of Share of net € millions equity proﬁt equity proﬁt Transitions group 124 22 121 24 Shamir Optispeed & Shamir Emerald 0 0 0 0 (a) VisionWeb (11) 0 (11) 0 TOTAL 113 22 110 24 (a) In addition to its original investment, the Company holds long-term interests that form an integral part of its net investment in VisionWeb. In accordance with IAS 28.29 and IAS 28.30, if the Company’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, it discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. If the associate subsequently reports proﬁts, the Company resumes recognizing its share of those proﬁts only after its share of the proﬁts equals the share of losses not recognized. Essilor International’s share of associates’ combined balance sheets € millions December 2013 December 2012 3 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, net 47 48 Other non-current assets 10 27 Current assets 145 114 Non-current liabilities 3 8 Current liabilities 86 73 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 129 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 16. Other non-current ﬁnancial assets Long-term ﬁnancial investments fulﬁll the criteria for classiﬁcation as “available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets” under IAS 39 (see Note 1.24). At the Changes Net beginning in scope of Disposals, Translaallocation At the of ﬁscal and other Acquisitions, repaytion diffeto end of the € millions year movements new loans ments rence Reeval. provisions ﬁscal year 2013 Investments and other noncurrent assets at fair value 39 (22) 3 (1) (2) 17 Non-consolidated interests 37 (22) 3 (1) (2) 15 Other available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 2 2 Investments and other noncurrent assets at amortized cost 80 (3) 10 4 (3) 80 Loans, including accrued interest 81 (2) 10 4 (3) 82 Provisions 1 1 0 0 0 2 Other long-term ﬁnancial assets 119 (25) 13 4 (3) (1) (2) 97 2012 Investments and other noncurrent assets at fair value 32 (7) 13 1 2 39 Non-consolidated interests 29 (7) 13 2 37 Other available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 3 1 2 Investments and other noncurrent assets at amortized cost 61 4 18 2 (1) 80 Loans, including accrued interest 61 5 18 2 (1) 81 Provisions 1 1 Other long-term ﬁnancial assets 93 (3) 31 3 (1) 2 119 NOTE 17. Inventories € millions 2013 2012 Raw materials and other supplies 327 339 Goods for resale 194 172 Finished and semi-ﬁnished products and work in progress 496 463 GROSS AMOUNT 1,017 974 Valuation allowance (148) (144) NET AMOUNT 869 830 130 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 NOTE 18. Short-term receivables and payables Short-term receivables break down as follows: € millions 2013 2012 Trade receivables Gross amount 1,152 1,112 Valuation allowance (65) (57) Net amount of trade receivables 1,087 1,055 Other short-term receivables Gross amount 106 93 Valuation allowance (1) Net amount of other operating receivables 105 93 TOTAL SHORT-TERM RECEIVABLES, NET 1,192 1,148 Short-term payables break down as follows: € millions 2013 2012 3 Trade payables 502 489 Accrued taxes and personnel expense 276 267 Other short-term payables 282 259 TOTAL SHORT-TERM PAYABLES 1,060 1,015 NOTE 19. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents break down as follows: € millions 2013 2012 Cash 396 381 Money market funds 304 135 Bank deposits 70 100 Other cash equivalents 16 45 TOTAL 786 661 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 131 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 20. Pension and other post-retirement beneﬁt obligations Due to the retrospective nature of the entry into force of the n retirement beneﬁts granted to employees in France and other revised IAS 19 (Employee benefits), the 2012 financial data European countries; appearing in this note have been restated in accordance with the n other long-term beneﬁts, consisting mainly of length-of-service standard (see Note 1.4). awards granted in France and other countries. The Group’s pension and other post-retirement beneﬁt obligations mainly include: n supplementary pension plans in France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States; Provisions for pensions € millions 2013 2012 Non-current assets (plan surpluses) 1 1 Provisions for pensions in liabilities 209 213 Analysis of changes in net recognized beneﬁt obligations Fair value Net recognized € millions Obligation of funds Other beneﬁt obligations AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 326 (114) 212 Cost of services rendered in the period 11 11 Interest expense on discounting 9 9 Interest income for the period (3) (3) Cost of past services (1) (1) Employee contributions 1 (1) 0 Contributions to plan assets (12) (12) Beneﬁts paid (18) 18 0 Actuarial gains and losses (5) (1) (6) Plan reduction and liquidation (2) 2 0 Other movements 0 0 Changes in scope of consolidation 2 2 Translation difference (10) 6 (4) AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 313 (105) 208 of which Obligations funded in whole or in part by a fund 160 160 of which Obligations not funded by a plan assets 153 153 132 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Fair value Net recognized € millions Obligation of funds Other beneﬁt obligations AT JANUARY 1, 2012 268 (83) 185 Cost of services rendered in the period 10 10 Interest expense on discounting 11 11 Interest income for the period (3) (3) Cost of past services 0 0 Employee contributions 1 (1) 0 Contributions to plan assets (27) (27) Beneﬁts paid (17) 17 0 Actuarial gains and losses 38 (8) 30 Plan reduction and liquidation (1) (1) Other movements 3 (2) 1 Changes in scope of consolidation 16 (8) 8 Translation difference (3) 1 (2) AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 326 (114) 212 of which Obligations funded in whole or in part by a fund 168 168 of which Obligations not funded by a plan assets 158 158 3 Analysis of change in actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity € millions 2013 2012 Actuarial gains (losses) recognized in equity at opening 98 68 Gains (losses) recognized over the period (6) 30 Translation difference (2) 0 Actuarial gains (losses) recognized in equity at closing 90 98 Analysis of rights € millions Obligation Funds Net obligation 2013 Pensions (supplementary and guaranteed income plans) 231 (97) 134 Retirement beneﬁts 57 (7) 50 Other beneﬁts 25 (1) 24 TOTAL 313 (105) 208 € millions Obligation Funds Net obligation 2012 Pensions (supplementary and guaranteed income plans) 244 (106) 138 Retirement beneﬁts 57 (8) 49 Other beneﬁts 25 0 25 TOTAL 326 (114) 212 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 133 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Actuarial assumptions used to estimate the term of the plans, or the return on government bonds when the private market has insufficient liquidity. commitments in the main countries concerned A major assumption taken into account in the valuation of pensions The return on plan assets is determined based on the allocation of and similar obligations is the discount rate. In accordance with the assets and the discount rates used. IAS 19, the rates were determined by monetary zone by referring The main rates used by the Group are on follows: to the return on premium private bonds with a maturity equal to 2013 2012 United United United United As a % Euro zone States Kingdom Euro zone States Kingdom Discount rate 3.3 5.0 4.4 3.2 3.8 4.1 Inﬂation rate 2.0 3.5 3.5 2.0 3.5 3.0 Weighted average rate of return on plan assets 3.7 4.2 Weighted average rate of salary increases 2.0 1.9 The discount rate used for length-of-service awards in France was the total obligation of the Group at December 31, 2013 would have 3.3% in 2013 (3.2% in 2012). been €4 million higher. Additionally, had the discount rate been 25 basis points lower The recognized actuarial gains or losses correspond to experience than the rate actually applied, the total obligation of the Group adjustments (differences between assumptions used and actual at December 31, 2013 would have been €11 million higher. If data) and changes in ﬁnancial and demographic assumptions. the discount rate had been 25 basis points higher than the rate In 2013, actuarial gains or losses in terms of projected actually applied, the total obligation of the Group at December 31, benefit obligations at closing were -€1 million as a result of 2013 would have been €13 million lower. experience adjustments, -€6 million as a result of changes in Additionally, had salaries been 25 basis points lower than the ﬁnancial assumptions and +€1 million as a result of changes in salaries actually applied, the total obligation of the Group at demographic assumptions. December 31, 2013 would have been €3 million lower. If salaries had been 25 basis points higher than the salaries actually applied, Composition by type of plan assets As a % 2013 2012 Shares 18 18 Bonds 33 32 General insurance funds 49 50 Actual returns on plan assets were €4 million in 2013 (2012: Assets associated with funded obligations are invested in pension €11 million). funds or insurance companies. Investments comply with local regulations in the countries in question. At December 31, 2013, plan assets did not include any Group shares. Invested assets are managed directly by pension fund managers or insurance companies. They determine appropriate investment strategies and funding allocations. 134 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Expenses for the year Income (expenses) € millions 2013 2012 Cost of services rendered in the period (11) (11) Interest expense on discounting and interest income (6) (7) Actuarial gains and losses on short-term beneﬁts 0 0 Plan reduction and liquidation 1 Expenses for the year (17) (17) Contributions to plan assets 4 20 Beneﬁts paid 8 7 TOTAL INCREASE (DECREASE) IN PROVISIONS (5) 10 NOTE 21. Provisions At the beginning Provisions Utilizations for Reversals Translation At the end 3 of the for the the ﬁscal not diffeOther of the ﬁscal € millions ﬁscal year ﬁscal year year applicable rence Scope movements year 2013 Provisions for losses in subsidiaries and affiliates 1 1 Restructuring provisions 8 5 (5) (1) 7 Warranty provisions 25 3 (3) (1) 1 25 Other 93 12 (5) (13) (1) 12 98 TOTAL 127 20 (13) (13) (3) 13 131 2012 Provisions for losses in subsidiaries and affiliates 1 1 Restructuring provisions 9 7 (9) (1) 1 1 8 Warranty provisions 24 3 (1) (1) (1) 1 25 Other 108 27 (19) (20) (1) (2) 93 TOTAL 141 37 (29) (22) (1) 2 (1) 127 Provisions for other risks at December 31, 2013 include in for potential violations of the cartel laws in Germany (€51 million particular provisions for tax audits and litigation affecting income at December 31, 2012, see Note 28 – Litigation). Other provisions tax and other taxes for a total amount of €17 million (€21 million recognized in this item are individually not signiﬁcant. at December 31, 2012), and the provision of €51 million created Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 135 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 22. Net debt and borrowings 22.1. Net debt The Group’s net debt can be analyzed as follows: € millions(a) 2013 2012 Long-term borrowings 607 526 Short-term borrowings 525 306 Short-term bank loans and overdrafts 37 81 Accrued interest 5 3 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,174 916 Cash and cash equivalents (786) (661) Marketable securities(b) (5) (6) TOTAL ASSETS (791) (667) CROSS CURRENCY SWAP (c) (14) (12) NET DEBT 369 237 (a) Sign convention: + debt/excess cash or securities. (b) Marketable securities are included by the Group in net debt (Note 1.28). (c) The Cross Currency Swap is valued at fair market value at December 31 of every year (see Note 23.2). Long-term borrowings At December 31, 2013, the Group’s long-term ﬁnancing structure was as follows: € millions 2013 2012 Issue date Maturity Bank loan 250 2007 2014 US private placement (2 tranches) 217 227 2012 2017/2019 US private placement (7 tranches) 363 2013 2017/2023 Other 27 49 LONG-TERM BORROWINGS 607 526 Private placements are subject to a ﬁnancial covenant, which was met on December 31, 2013. Short-term borrowings At December 31, 2013, the Group’s short-term ﬁnancing structure was as follows: € millions 2013 2012 Issue date Maturity Bank loan 250 2007 2014 Commercial paper (program) 215 130 2013 2014 Syndicated credit facility 148 2007 2013 Bank overdraft 37 81 Other 65 31 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS 567 390 136 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 22.2 Borrowings Financial debt by maturity Borrowings can be analyzed as follows by maturity: € millions 2013 2012 Due within one year 567 390 Due in 1 to 5 years 316 450 Due beyond 5 years 291 76 TOTAL 1,174 916 Financial debt by currency Borrowings break down as follows by currency: € millions 2013 2012 US dollar 877 643 Euro 234 172 Other currencies 63 101 3 TOTAL 1,174 916 Fair value of debt The fair value of borrowings is as follows: € millions 2013 2012 Long-term borrowings 626 514 Short-term borrowings 543 305 Short-term bank loans, overdrafts and accrued interest 42 85 TOTAL 1,211 904 Finance lease liabilities 2013 2012 € millions Principal Interest Principal Interest Due within one year 0 0 2 0 Due in 1 to 5 years 4 0 4 0 Due beyond 5 years TOTAL FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES 4 0 6 0 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 137 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 23. Financial instruments 23.1 Financial instruments recognized in the balance sheet Financial instruments carried in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2013 and 2012 fall into the following categories: Category of instruments Fair value Fair value Debts at 2013 Balance sheet recognized in recognized in Loans, amortized Derivative € millions value proﬁt or loss equity(a) receivables cost instruments Non-current ﬁnancial assets 97 17 80 Long-term receivables 17 17 Prepayments to suppliers 16 16 Short-term receivables 1,192 1,192 Tax receivables 67 67 Other receivables 33 33 Derivative ﬁnancial assets 17 17 Marketable securities 5 5 Cash and cash equivalents 786 786 FINANCIAL ASSETS 2,230 786 22 1,405 17 Long-term borrowings 607 607 Other long-term liabilities 517 331 186 Short-term borrowings 567 567 Customer prepayments 28 28 Short-term payables 1,060 1,060 Tax payables 63 63 Other current liabilities 156 64 92 Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 17 17 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 3,015 395 2,603 17 (a) Assets available for sale as deﬁned by IAS 39, liabilities revalued in accordance with the accounting policies described in Note 1.33. 138 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Category of instruments Fair value Fair value Debts at 2012 Balance recognized in recognized in Loans, amortized € millions sheet value proﬁt or loss equity(a) receivables cost Derivatives Non-current ﬁnancial assets 119 40 79 Long-term receivables 25 25 Prepayments to suppliers 16 16 Short-term receivables 1,148 1,148 Tax receivables 56 56 Other receivables 36 36 Derivative ﬁnancial assets 34 34 Marketable securities 6 6 Cash and cash equivalents 661 661 FINANCIAL ASSETS 2,101 661 46 1,360 34 Long-term borrowings 526 526 Other long-term liabilities 233 229 4 Short-term borrowings 390 390 Customer prepayments 17 17 3 Short-term payables 1,015 1,015 Tax payables 76 76 Other current liabilities 208 65 143 Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 30 30 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2,495 294 2,171 30 (a) Assets available for sale as deﬁned by IAS 39, liabilities revalued in accordance with the accounting policies described in Note 1.33. Financial assets and liabilities (including operating receivables and payables) at December 31, 2013 break down as follows by contractual maturity: Less than 1 to Beyond Total € millions one year 5 years 5 years Treasury Financial liabilities other than ﬁnancial instruments (1,875) (756) (367) (2,998) Financial assets other than ﬁnancial instruments 2,141 57 15 2,213 Net fair value of ﬁnancial instruments 5 (5) 0 0 NET POSITION 271 (704) (352) (785) Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 139 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 23.2 Market value of derivative instruments Certain derivatives and certain types of transactions that in of these derivative instruments are recognized directly in ﬁnancial substance represent hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting income and expenses, in accordance with the criteria of IAS 39. under IAS 39. Gains and losses from the fair value measurement The market value of Group derivatives is presented below: Market value by instrument type 2013 2012 € millions Nominal Fair value Nominal Fair value Forward Currency transactions 1,182 (9) 550 (1) Currency options 68 0 1 0 Cross currency swap EUR/USD 250 14 250 12 Interest rate swaps USD 109 (5) 114 (7) Interest rate options (caps) 86 0 88 0 TOTAL DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 1,695 0 1,003 4 Market value by hedge type € millions 2013 2012 Cash ﬂow hedges: n Forward exchange contracts (7) n Interest rate swaps (5) (7) Fair value hedges: n Forward exchange contracts 0 0 n Cross currency swaps 14 12 Instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting: n Forward exchange contracts (2) (1) n Currency options 0 n Interest rate options (caps) 0 MARKET VALUE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 0 4 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments recognized in assets 17 34 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments recognized in liabilities (17) (30) In 2007, Essilor of America set up a fixed-rate borrowing of US dollars at a variable rate. This transaction is classiﬁed as a €250 million with maturity in 2014. This transaction is hedged via fair value hedge. a cross-currency swap, which converted the initial borrowing into 140 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Forward foreign exchange transaction details at December 31, 2013 (nominal amount) Currency purchased € millions EUR USD THB GBP JPY MXN PHP PLN SGD INR AUD CHF Other TOTAL Currency sold EUR 483 22 58 21 18 1 4 2 2 611 USD 37 58 14 25 12 14 8 168 GBP 156 18 174 CAD 73 9 82 AUD 21 25 46 BRL 29 29 INR 13 13 SEK 11 11 SGD 9 9 THB 8 8 CHF 7 7 KRW 4 4 MXN 4 4 3 NZD 1 2 3 ZAR 3 3 TRY 3 3 Other 7 0 7 TOTAL 332 581 80 58 43 25 12 18 15 8 6 2 2 1,182 23.3 Profit (loss) on settling cash flow hedges The effects on the gross margin of settling cash ﬂow hedges set up at the end of the prior year are as follows: -€1 million for 2013, compared with +€2 million for 2012. NOTE 24. Other current and non-current liabilities € millions 2013 2012 Liabilities related to long-term put options granted to minority shareholders 331 229 Trade payables and liabilities on long-term ﬁnancial investments 186 4 TOTAL OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 517 233 Liabilities to suppliers related to tangible and intangible ﬁxed assets 6 5 Liabilities related to long-term ﬁnancial investments 57 110 Liabilities related to short-term put options granted to minority shareholders 64 65 Other 29 28 TOTAL OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 156 208 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 141 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 25. Off-balance sheet commitments € millions 2013 2012 Commitments given Guarantees and endorsements 89 95 Debt secured by collateral: n Liabilities 0 0 n Carrying amount of collateral 3 2 Commitments received Guarantees, endorsements and sureties received 2 6 Commitments under operating leases and for royalties Within one year 26 23 In 1 to 5 years 64 69 Beyond 5 years 6 14 TOTAL OPERATING LEASING COMMITMENTS 96 106 NOTE 26. Market risks Market risks are managed by the Group Treasury Department. The head of this Department reports to the Chief Financial Officer, who is a member of the Executive Committee. 26.1 Liquidity risk The Company’s ﬁnancing strategy is based on security: security functioning of Group business activity and reﬁnances the great over time through long-term ﬁnancing, security in terms of the majority of its subsidiaries in the short and medium term through amounts available, and security in the diversity of its ﬁnancing cash pooling and inter-company loans. sources. The Group has the following conﬁrmed credit facilities or bank Generally speaking, the parent company negotiates with loans with leading banks. its banking partners for the lines necessary for the proper € millions Amount 2013 Issue date Maturity Syndicated credit facility 850 2013 2018(a) Bilateral bank facilities 703 2012/2013 2015/2017 Acquisition loan 326 2013 2016 (a) With the option to extend for another 2 years. Drawing down on these lines is not subject to any particular At December 31, 2013, none of these lines had been drawned. covenant. 142 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 The distribution of the Group’s net ﬁnancial debt and available credit lines by contractual maturity at December 31, 2013 was as follows: (Please also refer to Note 22 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, Net debt and net borrowings) € millions 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 >2020 Total (a) Commercial paper 215 215 Bank loans(b) 295 9 3 9 316 US private placements 199 91 170 98 22 580 Bank overdraft 37 Other liabilities 6 5 1 12 GROSS DEBT 338 14 3 208 306 171 98 22 1,160 Cash (786) (786) Marketable securities (4) (1) (5) NET DEBT(C) (448) 14 (1) 208 306 171 98 21 369 Available committed credit facilities 235 476 318 850 (d) 1,879 (a) Commercial paper is set to mature in 2018 (maturity of credit facilities). (b) Including cross currency swaps. (c) > to 0: net debt; < to 0: net cash surplus. (d) With the option to extend for another 2 years 3 26.2 Currency risk In view of the fact that the Group operates in numerous countries, Commercial transactions, the payment of dividends, royalties it is exposed to currency ﬂuctuations. Exposures to currency risk and management fees from the subsidiaries are hedged within a are routinely hedged by the appropriate market instruments: range of 80 to 100% of the identiﬁed risk position. forward currency purchases and sales or currency options. Currency risks on financial transactions, such as business Foreign exchange market transactions are entered into solely to acquisitions and disposals and capital increases, are managed hedge risks arising on business operations. The Company does on a case-by-case basis according to the probability that the not carry out any currency trading transactions without any transaction will take place, using the most appropriate ﬁnancial underlying commercial transaction. instruments. Invoicing in local currency of importing or exporting companies The Group applies hedge accounting to currency transactions. allows the concentration of the bulk of foreign exchange risk on Sometimes, even though the transactions are justified a small number of entities. Those companies that are exposed to economically, they do not meet the conditions for being recorded signiﬁcant currency risk are hedged with the support of the Group as hedge accounting. In this case, the revaluation of currency Treasury Department. The risk to other subsidiaries, if reduced, is transactions impacts the income statement. nonetheless monitored centrally. The Group’s total net currency exposure at December 31, 2013 All foreign exchange transactions are processed within represented an amount equivalent to some €108 million. predetermined management limits with the purpose of optimizing exchange rate risk hedging. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 143 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidated exposure to currency risk on assets and liabilities at December 31, 2013 (assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity concerned) Balance sheet Hedges on amount before balance sheet Net exposure Cash ﬂow € millions hedging(a) items(b) after hedging(c) hedges(d) Exposed currency USD 78 18 96 60 EUR (16) 0 (16) 2 JPY (6) 8 2 42 GBP 11 (2) 9 (45) CAD 3 0 3 (7) Other 6 8 14 22 TOTAL 76 32 108 74 (a) > to 0: Assets to be hedged; < to 0: liabilities to be hedged. (b) > to 0: Net currency purchases; < to 0: net currency sales. (c) > to 0: Unhedged assets; < to 0: unhedged liabilities. (d) > to 0: Currency purchase hedges; < to 0: currency sale hedges. Sensitivity of equity and proﬁt to changes in the fair value of derivatives at December 31, 2013 Sensitivity is calculated solely on the valuation of derivatives at the end of the year. The impact of a change in fair value of the derivatives following a rise or fall in the euro versus all other currencies is presented below: ■ Impact of change (€ millions) On equity On Proﬁt before tax +5% increase -5% increase +5% increase -5% increase 0.0 (1.2) 0.1 0.7 The impact of the change in equity would be generated by foreign The impact of the change in financial income is generated by exchange and interest rate instruments eligible to be recorded as foreign exchange instruments not eligible to be recorded as cash ﬂow hedges. hedges and by the change in the ineffective portion of the cash ﬂow hedges. 144 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 26.3 Interest rate risk The objective of the interest rate risk management policy is to minimize ﬁnancing costs while protecting the Group from an adverse change in interest rates. Since the great majority of Group ﬁnancing is concentrated on the parent company, interest rate risk management is also centralized there. The interest rate position before and after hedging is as follows: Before hedging Hedges(a) After hedging(a) Capped Variable Variable Variable variable € millions Fixed rate rate Fixed rate rate Cap Fixed rate rate rate Gross debt 824 350 (141) 41 86 683 391 86 Cash and similar (5) (786) (5) (786) SUB-TOTAL 819 (436) (141) 41 86 678 (395) 86 NET DEBT 383 (14) 369 (a) Including fair value of cross currency swap. The interest rate position, by currency, before and after hedging is as follows: Before hedging Hedges(a) After hedging(a) 3 Capped Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable variable € millions rate rate rate rate Cap rate rate rate EUR 255 (171) (250) (10) 50 5 (181) 50 USD 547 (41) 109 (53) 36 656 (94) 36 Other 17 (224) 104 17 (120) SUB-TOTAL 819 (436) (141) 41 86 678 (395) 86 NET DEBT 383 (14) 369 (a) Including fair value of cross currency swap. As of December 31, 2013, 58% of gross debt after hedging was at ﬁxed rate (versus 41% in 2012). The actual average weighted interest rate was 2.10% at the end of 2013 (1.68% at the end of 2012). A parallel shift by 1% of the interest rate curves at December 31, 2013 applied to the components of net debt would have the following impact: € millions Cash effect on income statement 1% increase 3 1% decrease (3) Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 145 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements The distribution of the net ﬁnancial debt by currency is as follows : Net debt after € millions Gross debt Cash and similar Hedges(a) hedging(a) EUR 484 (400) (210) (126) USD 627 (121) 92 598 BRL 2 (20) (18) KRW (28) (28) JPY (31) (31) GBP (7) 45 38 CNY 2 (26) 0 (24) CAD 0 (25) 63 38 SGD 2 (27) 9 (16) Other 57 (106) (13) (62) SUB-TOTAL 1,174 (791) (14) 369 NET DEBT 383 (14) 369 (a) Including market value of cross currency swap. 26.4 Counterparty risk Available cash is invested in accordance with the two overarching Department were all rated at least A-2 (short-term) and A(longprinciples of security and liquidity. term) by Standard & Poor’s. At that date, 71% of investments made by Group subsidiaries had a minimum Standard & Poor’s The Group sets limits on investment periods and vehicles, as well long-term rating of A-. as on concentrations of counterparty risks. At December 31, 2013, all the banks providing Essilor International At December 31, 2013 , counterparties for investment and with credit facilities had a minimum Standard & Poor’s long-term capital markets transactions carried out by the Group Treasury rating of A-. 26.5 Credit risk Non-provisioned outstanding customer accounts receivable due totaled €169 million at December 31, 2013 (€122 million at December 31, 2012). This was comprised mostly of receivables due in less than 3 months (88.8% in 2013; 85.9% in 2012) that were slightly past due. € millions 2013 2012 Trade receivables due within one year, net 1,087 1,055 Trade receivables due beyond one year, net 17 25 TRADE RECEIVABLES, NET 1,104 1,080 Trade receivables not yet due 897 917 Past-due trade receivables, net 207 163 Guarantees received, recoverable VAT (38) (41) Past-due trade receivables, net of provisions and guarantees 169 122 Information relating to the twenty largest Group clients is presented in Note 3, Segment Information. 146 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 NOTE 27. Environmental risks The Company is not exposed to any material environmental risks. NOTE 28. Litigation The accounting principals applied to provisions for contingencies Since that date, there have been no further developments in is presented in Note 1.32 of the accounting principles in the notes proceedings, other than the appointment of a new prosecutor to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Moreover, Note 5.1 to in charge of the case. The provisions initially created were these consolidated ﬁnancial statements as at 31 December 2013 maintained in the accounts at December 31, 2013. presents the details of the other operating income and expenses and Note 21 presents activity in provisions. United States and Canada The main disputes facing the Company are: Following the settlement of charges brought by the Federal Trade Commission after an investigation into Transitions Optical Germany Inc’s business practices in 2009, around twenty motions for authorization to bring class actions have been filed since late At the end of 2008, the German competition authorities, the March 2010 against Transitions Optical Inc, Essilor International, “Bundeskartellamt” (“BKA”), launched an investigation into possible breaches of German competition law by major players Essilor of America and Essilor Laboratories of America before US and Canadian courts. The plaintiffs in these motions are alleging 3 in the ophthalmic optics market, including two of our subsidiaries, that the companies concerned endeavored to jointly monopolize Essilor GmbH and Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH. the market for the development, manufacture and sale of Following this investigation, on June 10, 2010, the BKA sent formal photochromic lenses between 1999 and March 2010. notification of fines to the major ophthalmic optic companies Joinder of the US cases in a federal court in Florida was authorized in Germany. Accordingly, our two subsidiaries were officially in late 2010. The plaintiffs’ admissibility proceedings began in notiﬁed of violations representing an aggregate amount of around the first half of 2011 and the discovery phase was completed €50 million. in late 2012. A court decision is awaited to conﬁrm or deny the Essilor GmbH and Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH are contesting qualiﬁcation of the motions as class actions and determine the both the grounds for the BKA’s conclusions and the amount of procedure’s next steps. The claims received contain no claims the fine, which they deem to be disproportionate. Two appeals for damages. For this reason, the Group had not recorded any were therefore lodged against the BKA’s decisions on June 15 and provisions at December 31, 2013. 16, 2010. None of the ﬁnes will be paid while these appeals are pending. The Group is not currently in a position to forecast their outcome or timetable. Other disputes To the knowledge of the Company, there is no other dispute, Following the receipt of the notices from the BKA, the Group governmental or legal proceedings, or arbitration that may have booked provisions of €51 million in its December 31, 2010 or recently had significant impacts on the financial position, consolidated ﬁnancial statements. earnings, profitability, business activity, and assets of the Company or the Group. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 147 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 29. Number of employees and personnel costs Number of employees 2013 2012 Managerial personnel 6,541 6,262 Supervisors and administrative 16,721 14,061 Production 29,700 29,889 TOTAL AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES FOR THE PERIOD 52,962 50,212 € millions 2013 2012 PERSONNEL COSTS 1,597 1,550 (Salaries, payroll taxes and compensation costs on share-based payments) Number of employees 2013 2012 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 55,129 50,668 including employees of proportionately consolidated companies (on a 100%-basis) 18 14 NOTE 30. Related party transactions Senior management compensation € millions 2013 2012 Total compensation and beneﬁts paid to the Executive Committee(a) 14 13 Directors’ fees paid to the Executive Committee TOTAL SENIOR MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION 14 13 (a) Gross amount before payroll and other taxes paid to current members of the Executive Committee at December 31. The Executive Committee had 24 members at December 31, 2013 compared with 23 at December 31, 2012. Post-employment benefits for Executive Committee members n Deﬁned-beneﬁt obligations: €34.8 million at December 31, 2013 categories. The obligations are funded under insured plans, with (€29.6 million at December 31, 2012). any unfunded portion covered by provisions. In addition, these obligations are fully funded by retirement provisions recorded in n Length-of-service awards: €1.6 million at December 31, 2013 the Group ﬁnancial statements. (€1.7 million at December 31, 2012). These obligations are payable under Group plans set up by Essilor International for all employees or for certain employee Stock options and performance shares granted to Executive Committee members The cost of these plans shown below reflects the recognition The costs recognized in 2013 for stock options and performance over the acquisition period of the fair value of stock options and shares granted to Executive Committee members are as follows: performance shares at the grant date (see Note 1.14 for more n €0 (2012: €1.1 million) for stock subscription options. details). n €7.5 million (2012: €5.6 million) for performance shares. 148 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 Related party transactions Related parties are companies accounted for by the equity n Groupe Transitions, 49%-owned by Essilor. method: Essilor sells stock lenses to the Transitions group, for n Vision Web, 44%-owned by Essilor. transformation into variable-tint lenses. Essilor also distributes Transitions products across its networks. Essilor of America laboratories use the Vision Web ordering system in the United States; Balances and related party transactions € millions 2013 2012 Product sales 110 102 Product purchases (424) (398) Trade receivables 25 15 Trade payables 62 59 Other related party transactions 3 There were no non-current transactions with members of Senior management. NOTE 31. Subsequent events Material changes in Essilor’s financial or trading position No material change in Essilor’s ﬁnancial or trading position has occurred since December 31, 2013. New acquisitions Essilor ﬁnalized the acquisition of all outstanding shares of Costa sunglass brand in the United States. The company generated Inc., a US leader in high-performance sunglasses. revenue of nearly US$100 million in 2013. The transaction, announced on November 8, 2013, was approved Costa Inc. has been included in Essilor’s scope of consolidation by Costa Inc. shareholders in the special meeting of shareholders since February 1, 2014. Based on current estimates and held on January 30, 2014. It has also received all required excluding the impact of the one-time transaction-related costs, regulatory approvals. Costa Inc. shares have ceased to be publicly the acquisition will be accretive to Essilor’s earnings per share traded on Nasdaq. in 2014. Based in Lincoln, Rhode Island (USA), Costa Inc. designs, In the United States, Essilor acquired a majority stake in the assembles and markets sunglasses under the Costa® and Native® Arkansas-based prescription laboratory Plunkett Optical, which brands. Costa has become the fastest growing performance generates annual revenue of US$3.3 million. Transitions Optical Inc. On July 29, 2013, Essilor announced the signing of an agreement of which around US$310 million with lens manufacturers other to acquire the 51% stake in Transitions Optical owned by PPG. than Essilor. Under the agreement, Essilor will also acquire Transitions Optical is a leading provider of photochromic lenses 100% of the capital of Intercast, a high-performance sun lens to optical manufacturers worldwide. Following the transaction, manufacturer based in Parma, Italy. In 2012, Intercast revenue Essilor will own 100% of the capital of Transitions Optical. stood at nearly US$34 million. Transitions Optical generated revenue of US$814 million in 2012, Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 149 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements The consideration for the transaction amounts to US$1.73 billion Based on current estimates, the transaction should have a at closing, as well as a deferred payment of US$125 million over positive impact on Essilor’s ﬁnancial indicators and, in particular, ﬁve years, for 51% of the capital of Transitions Optical and 100% an accretive impact on earnings per share as of year one of the of Intercast. integration and of at least 5% in subsequent years. Subject to various regulatory approvals, the transaction is Following the transaction, the consolidated debt-to-equity ratio expected to close during the ﬁrst half of 2014. will remain below 40%. NOTE 32. List of fully-consolidated companies % % % % Company Country control interest Company Country control interest FRANCE Signet Armorlite Germany Activ Screen France 68 68 Holding GmbH Germany 100 100 BBGR France 100 100 Signet Armorlite Optic Germany 100 100 BNL Eurolens France 100 100 Essilor Austria GmbH Austria 100 100 BNL Polyofta France 100 100 De Ceynunck & Co. NV Belgium 100 100 Dac Vision SAS France 60 60 Essilor Belgium S.A. Belgium 100 100 Delamare Sovra France 100 100 Essilor Optika doo Croatia 100 100 Domlens France 65 65 Essilor Danmark A.S. Denmark 100 100 Essidev France 100 100 BBGR Lens Iberia S.A. Spain 100 100 Essiholding France 100 100 Essilor Espana S.A. Spain 100 100 Essilor Optica International Essor France 65 65 Holding S.L Spain 100 100 FGX Holding SASU France 100 100 Satisloh Iberica Spain 100 100 Fred Management (Holding) France 100 100 Shamir Optical Espana, SL Spain 100 50 Invoptic France 100 100 Signet Armorlite Iberica Spain 100 100 Interactif Visual System France 68 68 Essilor OY Finland 100 100 IVS Technical Center France 68 68 United Mega Optic Design France 75 75 BBGR United Kingdom Kingdom 100 100 Mont-Royal France 64 64 United Novacel Ophtalmique France 75 75 Crossbows Optical Ltd Kingdom 100 100 Novisia France 100 100 Essilor European Shared United Service Centre Ltd. Kingdom 100 100 Omi France 100 100 United Optim France 100 100 Essilor Ltd Kingdom 100 100 Satisloh SAS France 100 100 United Shamir France SARL France 100 50 FGX Europe Limited Kingdom 100 100 Tikai Vision (formerly Barbara) France 100 100 United Horizon Optical Company Ltd. Kingdom 100 100 EUROPE United BBGR GmbH Germany 100 100 Humanware Europe Kingdom 63 63 Essilor GmbH Germany 100 100 United Inﬁeld Safety GmbH Germany 100 100 Inﬁeld Safety UK, Ltd. Kingdom 100 100 Neckarsee GmbH Germany 100 100 United Leicester Kingdom 80 80 Nika Optics Germany 100 100 United Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH Germany 100 100 Nikon Optical UK Kingdom 50 50 Satisloh GmbH Germany 100 100 United Shamir Optic GmbH Germany 100 50 Shamir UK Limited Kingdom 100 50 150 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 % % % % Company Country control interest Company Country control interest United Moc BBGR Russia 51 51 Sight Station Ltd Kingdom 100 100 Shamir Russia LLC Russia 100 50 United Essilor Slovakia Slovakia 100 100 Signet Armorlite Europe Ltd Kingdom 100 100 Omega Optix S.R.O. (Slovakia) Slovakia 100 100 United Sinclair Optical Laboratories Kingdom 100 100 Essilor D.O.O Slovenia Slovenia 100 100 United BBGR Skandinaviska Sweden 100 100 United Optical Laboratories Kingdom 100 100 Essilor AB Sweden 100 100 Wholesale Lens Corporation United Essilor (Switzerland) S.A. Switzerland 100 100 Limited Kingdom 100 100 Reize Switzerland 65 65 Essilor Optika Kft Hungary 100 100 Satisloh AG Switzerland 100 100 Athlone Ireland 100 100 Satisloh Holding AG Switzerland 100 100 Essilor Ireland (Sales) Ltd Ireland 100 100 Satisloh Photonics AG Switzerland 100 100 Organic Lens Manufacturing (branch) Ireland 100 100 Vaco Holding S.A. Switzerland 100 100 Essilor Italia S.p.A. Italy 100 100 NORTH AND CENTRAL Inﬁeld Safety Italia, SRL Italy 100 100 AMERICA Active Vision Canada 100 61 3 LTL S.p.A. Italy 100 100 AN Optical Canada 51 31 Oftalmika Galileo Spa Italy 100 100 Aries Optical Ltd. Canada 100 100 Optilens Italia s.r.l. Italy 100 100 Benson Edwards Optica Canada 50 50 Polinelli SRL Italy 100 100 BBGR Optique Canada Inc. Canada 100 100 Satisloh Italy Spa Italy 100 100 Bugaboos Eyewear Shamir RX Italia SRL Italy 100 50 Corporation Canada 100 100 Impasoles Luxembourg 100 100 Canoptec Inc. Canada 100 100 Essilor Norge A.S. Norway 100 100 Cascade Optical Ltd Canada 60 60 Sentralslip Norway 100 100 Clearlen Canada 100 61 Essilor Nederland BV Netherlands 100 100 CPS 360 Optical Canada 50 50 Essilor Nederland Holding BV Netherlands 100 100 Custom Surface Ltd. Canada 100 100 Holland Optical Corp. BV Netherlands 100 100 Eastern Optical Laboratories Holland Optical Instruments BV Netherlands 100 100 Ltd. Canada 100 100 B.V. Nederlandse Optische Econo Optics Canada 60 60 Industrie E.N.O.T. Netherlands 50 50 Essilor Canada Ltd. Canada 100 100 O’Max BV Netherlands 100 100 FGX Canada Corp Canada 100 100 Shamir Nederland B.V Netherlands 100 50 Fundy Vision Canada 80 80 Signet Armorlite (Holland) BV Netherlands 100 100 Groupe Vision Optique Canada 100 100 Essilor Optical laboratory K & W Optical Ltd. Canada 100 100 Polska Sp. Z.o.o. Poland 100 100 Imperial Laboratories Inc Canada 60 60 Essilor Polonia Poland 100 100 Laboratoire d’Optique de Hull JZO Poland 98 98 Inc Canada 100 100 Shamir Polska Sp. zo.o Poland 100 50 Laboratoire d’Optique SDL Canada 97 97 Essilor Portugal Portugal 100 100 Metro Optical Ltd. Canada 100 100 Shamir Portugal, LDA Portugal 100 50 Morrison Optical Canada 100 100 Signet Armorlite Portugal – Naked Eye Enterprises Inc. Canada 100 100 Unipessoal, LDA Portugal 100 100 Nikon Optical Canada Inc. Canada 50 50 Essilor Optika Spol s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 100 OMICS Software Inc Canada 100 100 Omega Optix S.R.O. (Czechia) Czech Republic 100 100 OPSG Ltd. Canada 100 100 Essilor Romania SRL Romania 100 100 Optique Cristal Canada 70 70 Essilor Optika OOO Russia 100 100 Optique de l’Estrie Inc. Canada 100 100 Luis Optica Russia 80 80 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 151 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements % % % % Company Country control interest Company Country control interest Perspectics Canada 100 100 Essilor Laboratories of Pioneer Optical Inc. Canada 100 100 America Corporation United States 100 100 Essilor Laboratories of Pro Optic Canada Inc. Canada 100 100 America Holding Co Inc. United States 100 100 Essilor Laboratories of Purelab DLP INC Canada 50 25 America, Inc (including US R & R Optical Laboratory Ltd. Canada 100 100 laboratories) United States 100 100 Riverside Opticalab & Essilor Laboratories of Subidiaries Canada 61 61 America, LP (including Avisia, Omega, Duffens) United States 100 100 SDL Canada 90 90 Shamir Canada Canada 100 50 Essilor Latin America & Signet Armorlite Canada, Inc Canada 100 100 Caribbean Inc. United States 100 100 Stylemark Canada Canada 100 100 Essilor of America Holding Co Suntech Canada 100 100 Inc. United States 100 100 Superlab Canada 100 61 Essilor of America Inc. United States 100 100 Technologies Humanware Canada 63 63 Eye Care Express Lab Inc United States 95 95 UTMC Canada 100 61 Eyewear LLC United States 61 61 Westlab Canada 100 100 FGX Direct LLC United States 100 100 21st Century Optics Inc. United States 100 100 FGX International Holdings Limited United States 100 100 Accu Rx Inc United States 95 95 FGX International II Limited United States 100 100 Advance Optical United States 95 95 FGX International, Inc United States 100 100 AG Opticals Inc United States 100 100 Focus Optical Labs, Inc United States 90 90 Apex Optical Company Inc. United States 100 100 Frames For America United States 70 43 Balester Optical United States 100 100 Future Optics FL Inc United States 92 92 Barnett & Ramel Optical Co. of Nebr. United States 80 80 Future Optics TE Inc United States 100 100 Bazell United States 70 70 Gentex Optics Inc. United States 100 100 Beitler Mc Kee Company United States 90 90 Gulfstates Optical Laboratories Inc. United States 80 80 Blue Optics United States 80 80 Hawkins Optical Laboratories Inc United States 100 100 BSA Industries United States 100 100 Hirsch Optical United States 100 100 Bugaboos Eyewear Inc. United States 100 100 Homer Optical United States 100 100 Carskadden Optical United States 100 100 Humanware USA United States 63 63 Central Optical United States 60 60 Interstate Optical United States 80 80 Classic Optical United States 95 95 Jorgenson Optical Supply Cy. United States 95 95 Collard Rose United States 95 95 Katz & Klein United States 100 100 Cordless Network Service Lenstech Optical Lab Inc. United States 80 80 (Frame Displays) United States 80 80 Mc Leod Optical Company Inc. United States 80 52 Custom Optical United States 100 100 MGM United States 85 85 Dac Vision Inc United States 60 60 MOC Acquisition Corporation United States 84 84 Deschutes United States 80 80 Nassau Lens Co Inc. United States 100 100 Dibok Aspen Optical United States 100 100 NEA Optical LLC United States 80 80 Dioptics Medical Products United States 100 100 Next generation United States 100 100 Eye Buy Direct US United States 61 61 Nikon Optical US United States 50 50 ELOA California Acquisition NOA United States 100 100 Corp. United States 100 100 OOGP United States 100 100 E-Magine Optical United States 80 80 Optical One United States 80 80 Empire United States 85 85 Optical Suppliers Inc. (Hawaii) United States 85 85 Encore LLC United States 50 50 Optical Venture Inc United States 80 80 Epics Labs Inc United States 80 80 152 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 % % % % Company Country control interest Company Country control interest Optics East United States 100 100 Optimatrix United States 100 100 AR Coating S.A. Argentina 96 96 Optisource International Inc. United States 90 90 Essilor Argentine S.A. Argentina 100 100 Opt. Lab. Software Solutions United States 100 100 Optovision S.A. Argentina 51 51 Ozarks Optical Laboratories United States 80 80 City Optical Pty Ltd. Australia 100 100 Pasch Optical Laboratory Inc. United States 50 40 Essilor Australia Pty Ltd. Australia 100 100 Pech Optical United States 100 100 Essilor Laboratory South Australia Pty Ltd. Australia 100 100 Peninsula Optical Lab. United States 80 80 Essilor Lens Australia Pty Ltd. Australia 100 100 Perferx Optical Co Inc United States 94 94 Eyebiz Australia 70 70 Personnal Eyes United States 100 100 Humanware Australia Australia 63 63 Polyvision INC United States 50 50 Precision Optics Pty Ltd. Australia 100 100 Precision Optical Co. (Connecticut) United States 80 80 Prescription Safety Glasses Pty Ltd Australia 51 51 Precision Optical Lab. (Tennessee) United States 95 95 Shamir Australia (Pty) Ltd. Australia 66 33 Premier Optics Corp United States 90 90 Sunix Computer Consultants Prodigy United States 100 100 Pty Ltd Australia 50 50 3 Tasmanian Optical Cy Pty LTD Australia 100 100 Professional Opthalmic Lab United States 80 80 Wallace Everett Lens RD Cherry United States 80 80 Technology Australia 66 66 Satisloh North America United States 100 100 Brazil 2.5 New Vision Shamir Insight, Inc. United States 100 50 Generation Brazil 100 100 Shamir USA United States 100 50 Brasilor Participacoes Sc Ltda. Brazil 100 100 Signet Armorlite Inc United States 100 100 Canto e Mello Brazil 70 70 Signet Armorlite USA United States 100 100 Ceditop Brazil 76 76 Skaggs and Gruber, Ltd d.b.a Comopticos Brazil 70 70 Trucker Meadows United States 80 80 Comprol Brazil 51 51 Southwest lens United States 65 65 Embrapol Sul Brazil 73 73 Speciality Lens Corp. United States 100 100 Essilor Da Amazonia Industria Stereo Optical Co. Inc. United States 100 100 e Commercio Ltda. Brazil 100 100 Stylemark United States 100 100 Farol Brazil 70 70 SunStar Inc. United States 80 80 GBO Brazil 74 74 Sutherlin Optical Company United States 100 100 Grown Brazil 51 51 Tri Supreme Optical LLC United States 100 100 Mult Block Brazil 51 51 Ultimate Optical Lab United States 100 100 Mult Laboptical Brazil 51 51 VIP Optical United States 100 100 Multi Optica Distribuidora Ltda. Brazil 100 100 Vision-Craft Inc. United States 100 100 Optiminas Brazil 70 70 Winchester Optical Company United States 80 80 Orgalent Brazil 51 51 X-Cell United States 80 80 PSA Nilo Brazil 51 51 Rainbow Optical Puerto Rico 100 100 Riachuelo Brazil 70 70 OTHER Repro Brazil 70 70 Easy Vision Pty Ltd South Africa 100 100 Satisloh do Brasil Brazil 100 100 Essilor South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 100 100 Shamir Brasil Commercial LTDA Brazil 100 50 Evolution Optical South Africa 51 51 Styll Brazil 51 51 Spherical Optics (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 100 100 Sudop Industria Optica Ltda. Brazil 100 100 Vision & Value South Africa 80 80 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 153 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements % % % % Company Country control interest Company Country control interest Technopark Comercio de United Arab Artigos Opticos S.A Brazil 51 51 GKB Emirates Emirates 50 50 Tecnolens Brazil 71 71 Eye Buy Direct HK Hong Kong 61 61 Unilab Brazil 75 75 Essilor Hong Kong Hong Kong 100 100 YTT Holding Brazil 51 51 Foster Grant Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100 100 Essilor Cambodia Cambodia 51 51 Polycore Optical (HK) Ltd Hong Kong 50 50 Codi Sivo Cameroon 55 28 Polylite Hong Kong Hong Kong 51 51 Megalux Chile 51 51 Satisloh Asia and Trading Ltd Hong Kong 100 100 Chemilens Co. Ltd China 50 50 20 20 Optics India 70 70 Danyang China 80 80 Beauty Glass Pvt Ltd. India 88 88 Eye Buy Direct China China 61 61 Deepak Lens Pvt Ltd India 60 60 Essilor China Holding Co Ltd China 100 100 FGX International Limited Delta CNC India 76 39 China China 100 100 Delta Lens Pvt Ltd India 51 51 Nikon Beijing Co. Ltd China 50 50 Enterprise Ophtalmics Pvt Ltd India 50 50 Satisloh Trading Shenzen China 100 100 Essilor India Pvt Ltd (exEsssilor SRF Optics Ltd) India 100 100 Satisloh Zhongshan China 100 100 Essilor Lens & Specs India 60 60 Seeworld Optical Co. China 51 51 Essilor Manufacturing India Shamir Optical (Shanghai Co. Pvt Ltd (exIndian Ophtalmic Ltd) China 100 50 Lenses Manuf.) India 100 100 Shanghaï Essilor Optical Co. Ltd. China 100 100 GKB Hi Tech India 50 50 Shanghaï NVG Optical China 100 100 GKB Optic Tech Private Ltd India 51 51 Tian Hong China 50 50 GKB Rx Lens Private Ltd. India 76 76 India New Vision Generation Wanxin China 50 50 Pvt Ltd India 100 100 Xiamen Artgri Optical Company Ltd China 50 50 Optics India Equipment Pvt Ltd India 50 50 Xiamen Yarui Optical Company OSD Optics India 100 100 Ltd China 50 50 Sankar India 70 70 Youli Optics Co Ltd. China 51 51 Vijay Vision Pvt Ltd. India 88 88 Essilor Colombia Colombia 100 100 P.T Optical Support of Ivortest Colombia 100 100 Indonesia Indonesia 70 70 Servioptica Colombia 51 51 P.T. Essilor Indonesia Indonesia 100 100 Signet Armorlite Columbia SA Colombia 96 96 P.T. Polyvisi Rama Optik Indonesia 50 49 P.T. Supravisi Rama Optik Chemiglas South Korea 50 50 Manufacturing Indonesia 50 49 Dekovision South Korea 50 50 Essilor Israel Holding Israel 100 100 Essilor Korea South Korea 50 50 Essilor Israel Laboratories Ltd Incheon Optics South Korea 80 40 (Optiplas) Israel 100 50 Onbitt South Korea 51 51 Shamir Holding Optical Israel 50 50 Laboratoires Sivo Abidjan Ivory Coast 90 50 Shamir Optical Industry Israel 50 50 United Arab Shamir Special Optical Essilor Amico LLC Emirates 50 50 Products Ltd. Israel 100 50 Essilor Amico Middle East United Arab Shamir Eyal Ltd. Israel 100 50 FZCO Emirates 50 50 Shamir Israel Optical United Arab Marketing Ltd. Israel 100 50 Essilor Middle East Limited Emirates 100 100 Shamir Or Ltd. Israel 100 50 United Arab Osme Emirates 100 100 Inray Ltd. Israel 100 50 United Arab Aichi Nikon Co. Ltd. Japan 50 50 Ghanada Emirates 80 40 Nasu Nikon Co. Ltd. Japan 50 50 Nikon – Essilor Co. Ltd Japan 50 50 Essilor Amico Kuwait Kuwait 100 50 154 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor % % FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements % % 3 Company Country control interest Company Country control interest Essilor Lao Co Ltd Laos 100 100 Integrated Lens Technology Singapore 100 100 Essilor Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Kaleido Vision Pte Ltd (ex Unique Ophtalmic) Singapore 100 100 Frames and Lenses Malaysia 90 90 OSA Investments Holdings Pte Ltd Singapore 100 100 ILT Malaysia Malaysia 81 81 Polycore Optical (Malaysia) Polycore Optical (SG) Pte Ltd Singapore 50 50 Sdn Bhd Malaysia 50 50 Polilyte Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd Singapore 51 51 Essilor Management North and Seeworld Holding Pte Ltd Singapore 51 51 West Africa Morocco 100 100 Signet Armorlite Asia (ex L’N Optics Morocco 51 51 Visitech) Singapore 100 100 Optiben Morocco 80 80 SMJ Holding Pte Ltd Singapore 70 70 Sivom Morocco 51 28 Trend Optical Singapore Singapore 70 70 VST Lab Morocco 80 80 Global Lens Lanka Sri Lanka 50 50 Aai Joske’s S de RL de CV Mexico 100 100 SHIH Heng Optical Taïwan Centro Integral Optico S.A de Branch Taiwan 70 70 C.V Mexico 51 26 Trend Optical Taiwan Branch Taiwan 70 70 Cristal y Plastico S.A. de CV Mexico 51 51 Polylite Taiwan Optilab Taiwan 51 51 Essilor Mexico Mexico 100 100 SMJ Holding Pte Ltd Taiwan Branch Taiwan 70 70 Shalens S.A C.V Mexico 51 26 Signet Armorlite de Mexico, Essilor Distribution Thailand Co. Ltd. Thailand 100 100 3 SA et CV Mexico 99 99 Essilor Manufacturing Soﬁ de Chihuahua Mexico 100 100 (Thaïland) Co Ltd. Thailand 100 100 Essilor Laboratories New Essilor Optical Laboratory Zealand Ltd. (formerly OHL Thailande Thailand 100 100 Lenses Ltd) New Zealand 100 100 Eyebiz Laboratory Co Ltd Thailand 70 70 Essilor New Zealand Ltd. New Zealand 100 100 K-T Optic Co., Ltd. Thailand 98 24 Optical Laboratories New Zealand 100 100 ShamirLens Thailand Co., Ltd. Thailand 49 24 Prolab New Zealand 100 100 Essilor Sivo Tunisia 55 55 Epodi Philippines 51 51 Sicom Tunisia 100 55 Essilor Manufacturing Philippines Inc. Philippines 100 100 Altra Optik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S Turkey 100 50 Optodev Philippines 100 100 Essilor Management Turkey Turkey 100 100 Amico Qatar Qatar 98 49 Ipek Turkey 70 70 Dominican Isbir Turkey 73 73 Opti Express Republic 51 51 Opak Turkey 51 51 Togolese Yeda Tora Turkey 70 70 Sivo Togo Republic 51 28 Chemilens Vietnam Vietnam 50 50 Artgri Group International Pte Ltd Singapore 50 50 Essilor AMERA Pte Ltd. Singapore 100 100 Essilor Philippines Holding Singapore 51 51 ETC South East Asia Pte Ltd. Singapore 70 70 ILT To Latin america Singapore 51 51 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 155 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 33. List of proportionately-consolidated companies % % Company Country control interest Nikon and Essilor International Joint Research Center Co. Ltd Japan 50 50 This proportionately-consolidated company’s contribution to the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statement was immaterial. NOTE 34. List of associates % % Company Country control interest Transitions group n Transitions Optical Pty Ltd. Australia 49 49 n Transitions Optical Do Brazil Limitada Brazil 49 49 n Transitions Optical Inc. United States 49 49 n Transitions Optical India India 49 49 n Transitions Optical Limited Ireland 49 49 n Transitions Optical Japan Japan 49 49 n Transitions Optical Holdings BV Netherlands 49 49 n Transitions Optical Philippines Inc. Philippines 49 49 n Transitions Optical Singapore Singapore 49 49 n Transitions Optical Thailande Thailand 49 49 Shamir Optispeed South Africa 25 25 Vision Web United States 44 44 NOTE 35. List of non-consolidated companies Combined financial data for non-consolidated companies Combined ﬁnancial data for the main non-consolidated companies held by consolidated companies are as follows (based on a theoretical 100% holding): Carrying amount of the shares € millions Equity Revenue Net proﬁt Gross Net Total non-consolidated companies 23 99 1 22 14 N.B.: As allowed under Article 24(11) of French Decree 83.1020 of November 29, 1983, detailed information by subsidiary is not provided as its disclosure would be prejudicial to the Company’s interests. 156 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3 List of non-consolidated companies % % Company Country control Company Country control FRANCE Tianjing vx Technical School China 100 Distrilens France 100 Polylite Shanghai China 15 Optical Supply of Europe France 100 Shandong Xin Yi Trading Ltd. Co China 30 Essilor Academy Europe France 100 Shangai Global Optical Lens Distribution China 100 EUROPE Zheng Zhou Fang Yuan China 51 Essilor Logistik GmbH Germany 100 ILT Costa Rica Costa Rica 100 Essilor Bulgaria Bulgaria 100 Dac Vision Hong Kong 100 AVS Spain 25 CP Services PVT Ltd. India 100 ANFAO (association) Spain 14 Essilor Australia Advance Optical Australia 35 OHO Estonia 100 Top Con Vision Care Japan Japan 10 Itallenti Italy 5 Nikon Optical Shop Co. Japan 50 UAB JZP Optika Lituania Lithuania 100 Xtra Vision India 51 Mec & Ciesse Optical Italy 70 Rhein Vision BV Netherlands 33 Nemkul Essilab Philippines Inc Nepal Philippines 51 40 3 Optika JZO Zoo Poland 100 Eyeland Philippines 39 Optikos SP Zoo Poland 100 Optoland Philippines 40 Neolens SP Zoo Poland 100 Essilor South Thailand Thailand 49 Essilor Optics d.o.o Serbia 100 Lab. South Thailand Thailand 87 JZO Optika Ukraina Ukraine 100 Polylite Taiwan Co Ltd. Taiwan 11 AFRICA OSA Ltd. Liability Co. Vietnam 33 Simex Côte d’Ivoire 73 Essilor Maroc Management Morocco 100 Movisia Morocco 51 NORTH AMERICA Superior Optical Lab. United States 45 e-vision LLC United States 17 AOS United States 4 Shamir Eyesware Service Inc. United States 50 REST OF THE WORLD Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 157 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Auditors on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3.5 Report of the Auditors on the consolidated financial statements Fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your n the speciﬁc veriﬁcation required by law. General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended These consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been approved by December 31, 2013, on: the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these n the audit of the accompanying consolidated ﬁnancial statements consolidated ﬁnancial statements based on our audit. of Essilor International; n the justiﬁcation of our assessments; I. Opinion on the consolidated financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements give a true standards applicable in France. Those standards require that and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance position of the Group at December 31, 2013 and of the results about whether the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are free of of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to European Union. obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to Note 1.4 the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes to the consolidated financial statements, which describes the evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and impact of the mandatory application of new standards and their the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the amendments to existing standards from January 1, 2013 and, in overall presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We particular, the amended version of IAS 19 “Employee Beneﬁts”. believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. II. Justification of our assessments In accordance with the requirements of Article L.823-9 of the used to carry out these impairment tests and we veriﬁed that Note French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the 11 provides appropriate disclosures. justiﬁcation of our assessments, we bring to your attention the These assessments were made as part of our audit of the following matters: consolidated ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole, and therefore Goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with the contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the accounting principles described in Note 1.21 to the consolidated ﬁrst part of this report. ﬁnancial statements. We reviewed the methods and assumptions III. Specific verification As required by law and in accordance with professional standards We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its applicable in France, we have also verified the information consistency with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. presented in the Group’s Management Report. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 11, 2014 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Christine Bouvry Daniel Escudeiro 158 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fees paid to the Auditors and the members of their networks 3 3.6 Fees paid to the Auditors and the members of their networks Fiscal years covered: 2013 and 2012. PricewaterhouseCoopers Mazars Amount (net of VAT) As a % Amount (net of VAT) As a % Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal year year year year year year year year € thousands, except for percentages 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 AUDIT Statutory and contractual audit services: n Parent company 447 447 10% 14% 282 282 10% 11% n Fully consolidated subsidiaries 2,318 2,257 52% 69% 2,017 1,776 71% 66% Other audit-related services n n Parent company Fully consolidated subsidiaries 922 611 325 170 21% 14% 10% 5% 162 314 171 404 5% 11% 6% 15% 3 SUB-TOTAL 4,298 3,199 97% 98% 2,775 2,633 97% 98% OTHER SERVICES PROVIDED TO CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Legal and tax advice 128 75 3% 2% 49 41 2% 2% Other 0 0 0% 0% 32 1% 0% SUB-TOTAL 128 75 3% 2% 82 41 3% 2% TOTAL 4,426 3,274 100% 100% 2,857 2,673 100% 100% The other work and services directly linked to the duties of the Statutory Auditor correspond principally to the work conducted within the context of acquisition transactions of companies to be included in the scope of consolidation. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 159 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual ﬁnancial statements of Essilor International 3.7 Annual financial statements of Essilor International The 2013 annual ﬁnancial statements comprise the income statement, balance sheet, cash ﬂow statement and notes, presented below. The Auditors Report on the 2013 annual ﬁnancial statements is presented in Section 3.9 of this Registration Document. 3.7.1 Key financial data at December 31, 2013 € thousands, except per share data which is in € 2013 2012 Income statement Revenue 800,847 737,543 Operating proﬁt 103,583 17,233 Proﬁt before non-operating items and tax 339,269 383,657 Net proﬁt 326,184 407,376 Balance sheet Share capital 38,646 38,650 Equity 2,366,655 2,232,155 Net debt 456,519 275,815 Non-current assets, net 2,837,898 2,632,632 TOTAL ASSETS 3,857,618 3,363,034 Net dividend per ordinary share, in € 0.94(a) 0.88 (a) Subject to the decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. Essilor International’s revenue excluding the Puerto Rico branch was up 9.2% on 2012. Sales of lenses were up by 10% in France and by 14.6% in the export market. Sales of instruments remained stable in France and were up 14.2% in the export market. After a 35.7% rise in 2012, the Logistics business was down by 10.4%, particularly be examined. Without prejudging the ﬁnal position of the French in the export market. Finally, the Puerto Rico branch recorded a tax authorities, a provision for tax risk was recorded in the 2013 slowdown in business reﬂected by a drop in revenue of 7.9%. ﬁnancial statements. As a result, extraordinary income amounted to -€12 million and included, in addition to the provision for the Operating income was up €86.3 million compared to 2012. 2009 to 2011 tax audit, the impact of excess tax depreciation. In addition to the sales-related rise in operating income, the Company reviewed its service provision and chargeback practices The tax liability recognized in the ﬁnancial statements for ﬁscal in respect of Group entities. This work resulted in various year 2013 amounted to €1 million. This amount reﬂects a number adjustments to chargeback amounts based on recommendations of factors: from external consultants. This generated additional revenue n the impact of a reduced tax rate on taxable income; for Essilor International. Certain operational changes in Essilor International’s supply chain also made a positive contribution to n tax income corresponding to the tax credits applicable operating income. (especially the research tax credit), and to the tax savings from fiscal consolidation (the Company posting negative taxable After a 54.4% increase in financial income in 2012, there was income on its earnings taxable at the ordinary rate); a 35.7% decrease in 2013. This change in ﬁnancial income was largely the result of signiﬁcant dividend payments in 2012 which n tax income corresponding to an additional tax loss carryback were not repeated in 2013 (in particular, by the Essilor of America claim resulting from the 2006 to 2008 tax audit. and Essilor AMERA Ltd subsidiaries). Net profit totaled €326.2 million, down 19.9% compared to the Essilor International was the subject of a tax audit for 2009 to previous ﬁscal year. 2011 inclusive. The Company received a notiﬁcation which will 160 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual ﬁnancial statements of Essilor International 3 3.7.2 Income statement at December 31, 2013 € thousands Note 2013 2012 Revenue 2 800,847 737,543 Production transferred to inventory (5,127) 565 Production of assets for own use 5,348 5,953 Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions 13 69,753 68,597 Other income 3 255,727 203,537 TOTAL OPERATING PROFIT 1,126,547 1,016,195 Purchases of materials and change in inventories 391,745 363,930 Other external purchases and expenses 4 205,307 210,935 Taxes other than income tax 27,800 25,706 Personnel expense 16 336,223 330,858 Depreciation, amortization and provisions, net 56,369 61,441 Other expenses 13 5,519 6,092 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 1,022,964 998,962 OPERATING PROFIT Net ﬁnancial income 5 103,583 235,685 17,233 366,424 3 PROFIT BEFORE NON-OPERATING ITEMS AND TAX 339,269 383,656 Net non-operating income (expenses) 6 (12,019) 35,013 Income tax expense 7 1,066 11,294 NET PROFIT 326,184 407,376 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 161 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual ﬁnancial statements of Essilor International 3.7.3 Balance sheet at December 31, 2013 Assets 2013 2012 Depreciation, Gross amortization, € thousands Note amount provisions Net amount Net amount Intangible assets 8 140,802 91,189 49,613 47,926 Property, plant and equipment 9 363,341 240,079 123,262 115,056 Investments and other non-current assets 10 2,722,614 57,591 2,665,023 2,469,650 NON-CURRENT ASSETS, NET 3,226,757 388,860 2,837,898 2,632,632 Inventories 11.1 70,286 17,673 52,613 60,464 Suppliers prepayments 11.2 2,074 8 2,066 1,411 Trade receivables 11.2 286,702 3,886 282,815 224,556 Other receivables 11.2 285,095 10,833 274,263 161,112 Marketable securities 11.3 374,888 374,888 247,219 Cash 10,905 10,905 18,677 CURRENT ASSETS 1,029,949 32,400 997,549 713,439 Prepaid expenses 11.4 16,174 16,174 16,720 Conversion losses 5,998 5,998 244 TOTAL ASSETS 4,278,878 421,260 3,857,618 3,363,034 Equity and liabilities € thousands Note 2013 2012 Share capital 12.1 38,646 38,650 Additional paid-in capital 302,160 311,622 Legal reserve 3,879 3,879 Other reserves 1,646,408 1,428,408 Retained earnings 15,601 11,558 Net proﬁt 326,184 407,376 Government grants 95 236 Untaxed provisions 36,042 32,138 Translation reserve 1.12 (2,361) (1,713) EQUITY 12.2 2,366,655 2,232,155 PROVISIONS 13.1 114,220 81,460 Convertible bond issue 0 0 Other bonds 14.1 583,294 229,260 Bank borrowings and current account advances from subsidiaries 14.1 229,081 306,593 Total borrowings 14.1 29,937 5,858 BORROWINGS 14 842,312 541,711 Trade payables 14.1 136,007 127,239 Accrued taxes and personnel expense 14.1 96,422 89,333 Other liabilities 14.1 301,033 290,458 TOTAL PAYABLES AND ACCRUALS 533,461 507,031 Deferred income 129 506 Conversion gains 841 171 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,857,618 3,363,034 162 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual ﬁnancial statements of Essilor International 3 3.7.4 Cash flow statement at December 31, 2013 € thousands 2013 2012 Net proﬁt for the ﬁscal year 326,184 407,376 Elimination of non-cash items 68,780 21,242 Cash ﬂow 394,964 428,618 Change in working capital(a) (142,025) (11,699) NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 252,939 416,918 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (37,761) (33,845) Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates and other investments (131,610) (54,125) New loans extended (939,604) (863,714) Proceeds from disposals of ﬁxed assets (12,692) 461 Repayment of long-term loans and advances 871,407 853,276 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (250,260) (97,947) Issue of share capital 67,291 4,191 Purchases and sales of treasury stock (64,480) 25,066 Dividends paid Increase/(Decrease) in borrowings (185,339) 314,289 (176,619) (57,622) 3 NET CASH FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 131,761 (204,984) Change in cash and cash equivalents 134,440 113,987 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 236,740 122,753 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 371,180 236,740 (a) Changes in working capital are as follows: € thousands 2013 2012 Change Prepayments to suppliers 2,066 1,411 (655) Inventories 52,613 60,464 7,851 Operating receivables 305,118 245,367 (59,751) Other receivables 251,381 139,558 (111,823) Accrued interest on loans and dividends receivable 1,962 1,901 (61) Advances and deposits from customers 0 0 0 Operating liabilities (322,355) (302,941) 19,414 Other liabilities (210,528) (203,451) 7,077 Accrued interest (2,405) (1,566) 839 Deferred income, prepaid expenses and conversion gains and losses 21,202 16,287 (4,915) WORKING CAPITAL 99,054 (42,971) (142,025) Cash and cash equivalents correspond to cash and short-term deposits, less short-term bank loans and overdrafts. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 163 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3.8 Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements NOTE 1. Accounting principles 165 NOTE 2. Revenue 169 NOTE 3. Other income 170 NOTE 4. Other external purchases and expenses 170 NOTE 5. Financial income 171 NOTE 6. Extraordinary income 171 NOTE 7. Corporate income tax 171 NOTE 8. Intangible assets 173 NOTE 9. Property, plant and equipment 174 NOTE 10. Investment and other non-current assets 175 NOTE 11. Current assets 176 NOTE 12. Equity 178 NOTE 13. Provisions 180 NOTE 14. Liabilities 181 NOTE 15. Off-balance sheet commitments 183 NOTE 16. Employee data 185 NOTE 17. Fees paid to the auditors and members of their networks 187 NOTE 18. Subsequent events 187 NOTE 19. Five-year ﬁnancial summary 188 The following notes provide additional information about items The parent company is Essilor International, hereinafter referred reported in the balance sheet at December 31, 2013, which shows to as “Essilor.” total assets of €3,857,618 thousand, and the income statement, All amounts are presented in thousands of euros, unless which shows a net proﬁt of €326,184 thousand. otherwise speciﬁed. The ﬁnancial statements cover a 12-month period from January1 to December 31, 2013. Significant events of the year Commercial revenue conducted by Essilor since 2003, the goal of which is to limit the dilutive effects related to the granting of stock subscription Essilor International’s revenue excluding the Puerto Rico branch options and performance shares. By decision of the Board of was up 9.2% on 2012. Sales of lenses were up by 10% in France Directors of January 24, 2013 and November 25, 2013, Essilor and by 14.6% in the export market. Sales of instruments remained conducted a share capital increase of €265,582.44, representing stable in France and were up 14.2% in the export market. After a the issuance of 1,475,458 new shares and the cancellation 35.7% rise in 2012, the Logistics business was down by 10.4%, of 1,500,000 shares, resulting in a share capital reduction of particularly in the export market. Finally, the Puerto Rico branch €270,000. recorded a slowdown in business reﬂected by a drop in revenue of 7.9%. Finally, 625,369 shares were delivered from the pool of treasury shares due to the exercise of stock purchase options and following the completion of the performance of the performance share Financial transactions plans of 11/24/2011 and 12/21/2011. At December 31, 2013, there were 4,454,406 treasury shares. ■ Treasury stock transactions In 2013, Essilor bought back 2,192,298 treasury shares. This transaction took place as part of the share buyback policy 164 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 Acquisitions (which may last from 2 to 6 years). These new grants caused a provision to be created. As part of its acquisitions policy, Essilor International continues to strengthen its presence in high-growth countries. In addition, all of the commitments of the Company with respect to its employees are recorded in the ﬁnancial statements (which n In South Korea, Essilor acquired a majority stake in Onbitt, a correspond for the most part to retirement bonuses, retirement manufacturer of polarizing ﬁlms for ophthalmic lenses. pension supplements, and length-of-service awards). n In Morocco, Essilor acquired Movisia, a Nikon ® and Kodak®distributor. Income tax The tax liability recognized in the ﬁnancial statements for ﬁscal New ﬁnancing year 2013 amounted to €1.1 million. This amount reflects a In November 2013, Essilor International concluded a number of factors: USD500 million private placement (7 tranches maturing in a n the impact of a reduced tax rate on taxable income; range of between 3.5 and 10 years). This enabled the Company to strengthen its financial structure by extending the average n tax income corresponding to the tax credits applicable maturity of its debt. (especially the research tax credit), and to the tax savings from fiscal consolidation (the Company posting negative taxable The Company also renewed its €850 million syndicated bank income on its earnings taxable at the ordinary rate). credit facility for another 5 years and agreed on additional option to extend for a further 2 years. At the same time, several bilateral Essilor International was also the subject of a tax audit for 2009 credit facilities were agreed for periods of between 3 and 5 years. to 2011 inclusive. The Company received notifications for the 2009 to 2011 fiscal years which will be examined by Essilor International. Without prejudging the ﬁnal position of the French Human resources On November 25, 2013, the Board of Directors decided to grant tax authorities, a provision for tax risk was recorded in the 2013 ﬁnancial statements. 3 1,376,340 performance shares. These shares will vest only if the annualized growth rate of the share is greater than or equal to 2% of the reference price of €77.29 after the legal acquisition periods NOTE 1. Accounting principles 1.1 General The annual ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the French 1999 General Accounting Plan and generally accepted accounting principles. 1.2 Intangible assets Intangible assets correspond primarily to purchased goodwill, parameterization and the preparation of the software for its concessions, patents, licenses and software. Intangible assets intended use, that are evidenced by invoices (external developers) are measured at acquisition or production cost and are amortized: or time sheets (internal developers). n by work unit; Intangible assets are tested for impairment when the occurrence of an event or a change of circumstances indicates that their n or on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful recoverable amount may be less than their carrying amount. lives: When the test shows that an asset’s recoverable amount is less Software 1 to 10 years than its carrying amount, a provision for impairment is recorded. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value Patents Period of legal protection and value in use. The initial cost of the asset includes related transaction costs. Qualifying software development costs are capitalized only Conversely, the Company has not used the option to record when it is probable that they will generate future economic borrowing expenses in the initial cost of the intangible assets. benefits. Qualifying costs include the costs of organic analyses, programming, tests and test decks, documentation, Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 165 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 1.3 Research and development costs Research costs are recognized as an expense for the period in n the availability of adequate technical, financial and other which they are incurred. resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset; Development costs are capitalized if, and only if the following are demonstrated: n the reliable measurement of development expenditures. n the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so Due to the risks and uncertainties concerning market that it will be available for use or sale; developments and the large number of projects undertaken, the above criteria are considered as not being fulﬁlled for ophthalmic n the Group’s intention to complete the intangible asset and use lens development projects. Consequently, development costs for or sell it; these projects are recognized as an expense. n its ability to use or sell the intangible asset; Instrument development costs are recognized as an intangible n how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic asset when the above criteria are fulﬁlled. beneﬁts; 1.4 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition or All internal and external costs of producing items of property, production cost. plant and equipment are capitalized, with the exception of administrative, start-up and pre-operating costs. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives: Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when the occurrence of an event or a change of circumstances indicates Buildings 20 to 33 years that their recoverable amount may be less than their carrying amount. Building improvements 7 to 10 years When the test shows that an asset’s recoverable amount is less Machinery, equipment and tooling 3 to 20 years than its carrying amount, a provision for impairment is recorded. Other 3 to 10 years The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value and value in use. Land is not depreciated. The initial cost of the asset includes related transaction costs. Differences between straight-line depreciation and reducing Conversely, the Company has not used the option to record balance depreciation charged for tax purposes are included in borrowing expenses in the initial cost of the intangible assets. untaxed provisions on the liabilities side of the balance sheet (regulated provisions). 1.5 Investments and other non-current assets Investment securities are recognized at acquisition cost. Own shares bought back by the Company are recorded under Acquisition costs for the investment securities are included in the “Other long-term investments” at cost. A provision for impairment initial costs. is recorded for any shares whose cost is greater than their average price for the last month of the ﬁscal year, except where The value in use of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates is the shares have been bought back in order to be canceled and estimated each year, generally on the basis of the investee’s net those shares covered by a provision for risks because they were assets and earnings outlook. In this case, the discount rate used intended to hedge performance share plans and stock options. is the weighted average cost of the capital. For other investments, a provision for impairment is recorded Loans and receivables are stated at nominal value. Foreign when their recoverable amount, deﬁned as the higher of fair value currency loans and receivables are converted into euros at or value in use, is less than their carrying amount. year-end at the closing exchange rate or the hedging rate. Provisions are recorded to cover any risk of non-recovery. 1.6 Inventories Raw materials and goods inventories are stated at cost, including At each period-end, inventories are written down to net realizable incidental expenses, determined by the weighted average cost value where applicable. Net realizable value is determined method. Finished products, semi-ﬁnished products and work in by reference to market prices, sales prospects and the risk of progress are stated at actual production cost, which includes the obsolescence, assessed on the basis of objective inventory levels. cost of raw materials and direct and indirect production costs. 166 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 1.7 Receivables and payables Receivables and payables are stated at nominal value. Receivables in prepayments and accrued income or deferred income and and payables are converted as follows: accrued expenses (translation difference); n translation of all receivables and payables denominated in n creation of a provision for unrealized exchange losses. foreign currencies, including hedged receivables and payables, Receivables are written down when their net realizable value, at the closing rate; estimated by reference to the risk of non-recovery, is less than n gains or losses in relation to original values are recognized their carrying amount. 1.8 Marketable securities Marketable securities, consisting primarily of units in SICAV A provision is recorded if the net asset value of the mutual fund mutual funds and bank deposits, are recognized at cost. units represents less than their cost. This item also includes own shares acquired under the liquidity contract. 1.9 Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used only to hedge risks loss or gain on the hedged item. They are based on the forward on commercial transactions and identified foreign currency receivables and payables via forward exchange contracts and rate at the balance sheet date for the remaining period to maturity. 3 The Company’s interest rate management policy consists of currency options. hedging interest rate risks. To hedge interest rate risks, the The Company uses derivative financial instruments solely Company uses interest rate and option swaps (Caps). for hedging purposes. All foreign exchange transactions are Financial expenses and proﬁt related to interest-rate derivatives processed within predetermined management limits with the are recognized in income symmetrically to the gain or loss on the purpose of optimizing exchange rate risk hedging. hedged item. Gains and losses on hedging instruments are recognized in the year in which they are settled, on a symmetrical basis with the 1.10 Foreign currency transactions Any transactions that are not hedged are converted at the “Conversion gains” on the assets or liabilities side of the balance exchange rate on the transaction date. sheet. At year-end, unhedged foreign currency receivables and payables A provision is booked for conversion losses. are converted at the closing exchange rate. Differences arising Foreign currency bank balances are hedged at the month-end on conversion are recorded under “Conversion losses” or exchange rate. 1.11 Pensions, length-of-service and other obligations The Company has obligations towards employees for the payment inflation, staff turnover rates and the rate of future salary of pensions, early-retirement beneﬁts, length-of-service and other increases, and an appropriate discount rate; awards. n the discount rate corresponds to the prime interest rate in the Where these benefits are payable under defined contribution country concerned for periods corresponding to the estimated plans, the contributions are expensed as incurred. average duration of the beneﬁt obligation; In the case of deﬁned beneﬁt plans, provisions are booked to cover n in cases where all or part of the obligation is funded under an the unfunded projected beneﬁt obligation, as follows: external plan, a provision is recorded for the difference between the projected beneﬁt obligation and the fair value of the plan n the projected beneﬁt obligation, corresponding to the vested assets; rights of active and retired employees of the Company, is determined by the projected unit credit method, based on n actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in estimated final salaries, actuarial assumptions concerning assumptions and experience-based adjustments are recognized Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 167 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements in profit by the corridor method. This method consists of straight-line basis over the expected average remaining service amortizing over the expected average remaining service lives lives of the plan participants. If rights under the new or modiﬁed of plan participants only the portion of the net cumulative gain plan vest immediately, the resulting change in the Company’s or loss that exceeds the greater of 10% of either the projected obligation is recognized in proﬁt immediately; beneﬁt obligation or the fair value of the plan assets; n provisions recorded in the balance sheet correspond to the n if a company introduces a deﬁned beneﬁt plan or changes the projected benefit obligation less the fair value of any plan benefit formula under an existing defined benefit plan and assets, the value of unrealized actuarial gains and losses and rights under the new or modiﬁed plan are unvested, the related unrecognized past service cost. change in the Company’s obligation is recognized in proﬁt on a 1.12 Foreign currency translation The Essilor Industries ﬁnancial statements are prepared in US n b alance sheet amounts were converted into euros, at the dollars. balance sheet closing date rate, except for: The financial statement conversion process for the Essilor — equity items, which are translated at the historical rate, Industries branch, which is considered an autonomous institution, — net proﬁt, which is translated at the hedging rate. is as follows: The difference arising on translation is recorded in equity under n income statement items are translated at the average hedging “Translation reserve.” rate for the year; 1.13 Corporate income tax (Group relief) Essilor International ﬁles a consolidated tax return with ESSILOR, Each company in the tax group records the income tax charge that BBGR, OPTIM, INVOPTIC, ESSILOR ACADEMY EUROPE, NOVISIA, would apply if it were not a member of the tax group (with no ESSIDEV, OSE, TIKAI VISION, BNL EUROLENS, FGX HOLDING, impact on the Parent company ﬁnancial statements). DELAMARE SOVRA, OMI and ESSIHOLDING and pays the corporate The tax savings arising from the use of the tax losses of tax group income tax due by the tax group. members, which are returnable to them by Essilor are recognized as a liability through the recognition of a debt in the Company’s balance sheet. 1.14 Recognition and measurement of provisions Untaxed provisions n when the estimated product return period is shorter, by multiplying revenue for the estimated return period by a These mainly comprise provisions for excess tax depreciation. percentage corresponding to the ratio of average annual warranty costs to annual revenue. Provisions for contingencies and charges A provision is recognized when there is an obligation towards ■ Provisions for treasury shares a third party and it is probable or certain that an outflow of resources generating economic benefits will be necessary to n Shares held under stock option plans: Parent company shares settle the obligation without any benefit of at least equivalent held for stock option plans granted to Group employees are value being expected in return. carried at cost under “Other long-term investments”. They are recognized at acquisition cost. Where applicable, a provision is Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the balance sheet recorded to cover the difference between the option exercise but are disclosed in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements unless price and the weighted average price of the corresponding the probability of an outﬂow of resources generating economic shares held at the year-end. beneﬁts is remote. n Grant of performance shares: A provision is recorded for the cost of performance shares, corresponding to the number of ■ Provisions for customer warranties shares that are expected to vest multiplied by the weighted The provision is calculated: average price of our own treasury stock at the ﬁscal year-end. The estimate takes into account staff turnover rates and share n by multiplying revenue for the warranty period by a percentage price assumptions. corresponding to the ratio of average annual warranty costs to annual revenue; or 168 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 Effective from 2008, this provision is recognized over the ■ Provisions for losses from subsidiaries and affiliates performance share vesting period in accordance with Regulation CRC 2008-15 of December 4, 2008; one of the vesting conditions is An impairment loss is recognized for investments whose current the grantee’s continued employment by the Company. value is less than their net asset value. As necessary, the provision is allotted in the following order: securities, current account, longSince the granting of stock options and performance shares term receivables and provision for risk for up to the contingent constitute a compensation item, these provisions are recognized amount. However, this provision for risk is recognized only under as personnel expenses. the following conditions: n the legal form implies that Essilor is indefinitely and jointly responsible for the liability; or n for the amount of the commitments undertaken by Essilor, for the other legal forms. 1.15 Loan issuance charges Loan issuance charges may be: The choice between these two methods is made when a loan is issued and cannot be changed subsequently for that same loan. n kept in expenses in their entirety in the year they are incurred; n or distributed over the term of the loan. 3 NOTE 2. Revenue 2.1 Net revenue by business segment 2013 % Change € thousands France Export Total Treasury 2013/2012 Corrective lenses 338,404 279,869 618,273 12.0% Optical instruments 32,246 58,762 91,008 9.1% Industrial equipment 133 16,709 16,841 -25.3% Other 14,963 59,762 74,725 -6.1% TOTAL 385,746 415,101 800,847 8.6% 2012 % Change € thousands France Export Total Treasury 2012/2011 Corrective lenses 307,738 244,215 551,953 8.0% Optical instruments 32,015 51,438 83,453 4.0% Industrial equipment 186 22,356 22,542 35.7% Other 15,391 64,204 79,595 12.8% TOTAL 355,330 382,213 737,543 8.7% Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 169 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 2.2 Breakdown between intercompany and external sales, France and export % Change € thousands 2013 2012 2013/2012 France: n Group 68,097 45,180 50.7% n external 317,649 310,151 2.4% SUB-TOTAL 385,746 355,330 8.6% Export: n Group 397,015 349,904 13.5% n external 18,085 32,309 -44.0% SUB-TOTAL 415,101 382,213 8.6% TOTAL 800,847 737,543 8.6% NOTE 3. Other income € thousands 2013 2012 Royalties and rebilling of expenses to Group companies 255,448 203,512 Other 280 24 TOTAL 255,727 203,537 NOTE 4. Other external purchases and expenses € thousands 2013 2012 Outsourcing 52,221 49,663 Rentals, maintenance and Insurance 24,399 26,164 Studies, research and documentation 28,014 28,678 Temporary staff 13,867 13,222 Fees 27,203 27,620 Communication and advertising 26,361 28,243 Telecommunications, commissions and business travel 31,311 35,392 Other 1,931 1,953 TOTAL 205,307 210,935 170 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 NOTE 5. Financial income € thousands 2013 2012 Interest expense (12,765) (13,369) Interest income n Dividends 231,640 360,369 n Investment income 3,381 5,041 n Interest income from loans 21,104 20,114 Net discounts (3,676) (3,437) Provisions for losses (1,116) (912) Exchange gains and losses, net 2,542 (688) Other (5,424) (695) TOTAL 235,685 366,424 NOTE 6. Extraordinary income 3 € thousands 2013 2012 REVENUE TRANSACTIONS (2,533) (5,709) Other income and expenses from revenue transactions (2,533) (5,708) Restructuring costs (1) CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS 112 21,372 Disposal of investments Other extraordinary income and expenses from capital transactions(a) 112 21,372 PROVISION MOVEMENTS (9,597) 19,350 Untaxed provisions (3,904) (1,276) Other(b) (5,694) 20,626 TOTAL (12,018) 35,013 (a) In 2012, other non-operating ﬁnancial income and expenses mainly include the sale of intellectual property rights. (b) “Other” mainly includes the provision reversal for tax audits. NOTE 7. Corporate income tax 7.1 Profit excluding overriding tax assessments € thousands 2013 2012 Net proﬁt 326,184 407,376 Income tax expense 1,066 11,294 Pre-tax proﬁt 327,250 418,670 Change in regulated provisions 3,904 1,276 Proﬁt before tax, excluding overriding tax assessments 331,154 419,946 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 171 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements Besides a tax charge of €30,117 thousand, taxes recognized additional tax loss carryback claim which generated tax at Essilor include income related to the research tax income of €5,167 thousand. Essilor tax income ended up totaling credit of €16,000 thousand and tax consolidation income €1,066 thousand. of €5,478 thousand. In addition, the Company filed an 7.2 Breakdown of income tax expense Income tax expense breaks down as follows between operating and non-operating items: 2013 € thousands Before tax Corresponding tax After tax (a) Proﬁt before non-operating items and tax 339,269 1,948 341,216 Non-operating income (expense), net (12,019) (3,014) (15,033) NET PROFIT 326,184 (a) Of which €231,640 thousand in dividends subject to the parent company-subsidiary treatment and €155,076 thousand in royalties taxed at the reduced rate of 15%. 2012 € thousands Before tax Corresponding tax After tax Proﬁt before non-operating items and tax 383,657 (5,991) 377,666 Non-operating income (expense), net 35,013 (5,303) 29,710 NET PROFIT 407,376 7.3 Unrecognized deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets No deferred tax assets are recognized in the balance sheet. € thousands 2013 2012 Pension plan 29,514 30,050 Provisions for paid vacation(a) 12,349 12,002 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 56,098 62,662 Other 19,231 12,494 TOTAL 117,192 117,208 TAX LOSS CARRYFORWARD(b) 241,030 242,638 Or a tax of 38% (36.10% in 2012) 136,124 129,904 (a) The Company has elected to apply the provisions of Article 8 of the 1987 French Finance Act, allowing the deduction of vacation pay on a cash basis. The provision is therefore not deductible, giving rise to a future tax saving. (b) This cumulative tax loss carryforward corresponds to the tax loss carryforward of the tax group. The tax savings arising from the use of the tax losses of tax group members, which are returnable to them by Essilor are recognized as a liability through the recognition of a debt in the Company’s balance sheet. The amount of this tax loss is €3,535 thousand at December 31, 2013. The Company believes it will be able to use its tax loss carryforwards. 172 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 Equity and liabilities No deferred tax liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet. Recognition of deferred taxes on the timing differences shown below would have the effect of increasing income tax expense by €13,732 thousand. At 2011 2012 2012 At 2012 2013 2013 At 2013 € thousands year-end increase decrease year-end increase decrease year-end Provisions for: n Excess tax depreciation 30,863 7,457 6,181 32,138 10,438 6,535 36,042 n Other 124 112 236 (141) 95 TOTAL 30,987 7,568 6,181 32,374 10,298 6,535 36,137 Future tax liability (38%) 11,186 11,687 13,732 NOTE 8. Intangible assets Value at the start of Provisions Reversals for Value at 3 € thousands the year Acquisitions Disposals Movements for the year the year year-end 2013 R&D expenditure 4,752 2,714 0 7,466 Patents, trademarks, licenses 117,659 7,709 648 2,776 127,496 Goodwill 434 434 Other intangible assets 8,153 0 0 (2,746) 5,406 GROSS AMOUNT 130,998 10,423 648 29 140,802 Amortization, depreciation and impairment 83,072 8,765 648 91,189 NET AMOUNT 47,926 49,612 2012 R&D expenditure 3,551 9 1,191 4,752 Patents, trademarks, licenses 99,591 2,580 121 15,611 117,659 Goodwill 434 434 Other intangible assets 20,873 5,055 968 (16,807) 8,153 GROSS AMOUNT 124,449 7,644 1,089 (5) 130,998 Amortization, depreciation and impairment 74,410 9,751 1,089 83,072 NET AMOUNT 50,039 47,926 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 173 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements NOTE 9. Property, plant and equipment Value at the start of Provisions Reversals for Value at € thousands the year Acquisitions Disposals Movements for the year the year year-end 2013 Land 13,894 73 10 0 13,957 Buildings 116,204 14,877 406 27,807 158,482 Plant and equipment 137,922 7,973 6,904 353 139,344 Other Property, plant and equipment 45,072 1,998 1,303 30 45,797 Property, plant and equipment in progress 32,067 2,522 (28,950) 5,640 Advances and deposits 120 33 (33) 120 GROSS AMOUNT 345,279 27,477 8,623 (792) 363,341 Amortization, depreciation and impairment 230,224 18,044 8,188 240,079 NET AMOUNT 115,056 123,262 2012 Land 13,881 21 (8) 13,894 Buildings 117,980 424 3,434 1,234 116,204 Plant and equipment 135,927 3,373 2,600 1,222 137,922 Other Property, plant and equipment 44,447 1,258 703 69 45,072 Property, plant and equipment in progress 13,860 21,066 (2,858) 32,067 Advances and deposits 9 120 (9) 120 GROSS AMOUNT 326,103 26,262 6,736 (350) 345,279 Amortization, depreciation and impairment 218,639 18,398 6,813 230,224 NET AMOUNT 107,464 115,056 174 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 NOTE 10. Investment and other non-current assets 10.1 Analysis Value at the 2013 start of the Provisions Reversals Value at € thousands year Increases Decreases Movements for the year for the year year-end Subsidiaries and affiliates(a) 1,811,968 43,873 13,941 805 1,842,706 (b) Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates (Loans to subsidiaries/Advances on share issues) 476,264 1,007,225 924,069 559,420 Other long-term investments (own shares) 241,057 251,465 186,985 305,537 Other loans 44 44 Other long-term ﬁnancial investments(c) 6,463 10,207 957 (805) 14,908 GROSS AMOUNT 2,535,796 1,312,771 1,125,953 2,722,614 Impairment 66,147 17,243 25,799 57,591 NET AMOUNT 2,469,650 2,665,023 (a) Increases: 3 – Essilor Middle East, Essilor South Africa, Canoptec, O’Max, FGX Holding, Optiben and Ophtalmica Galiléo capital increases totaling €17.7 million; – acquisition of 51% of Onbitt, 51% of Movisia and 10% of Top Con with total increases amounting to €4.2 million; – acquisition of a further 60% of Armgol Holding bringing the total stake to 80%, a further 30% of Optika Hulgikaubanduse Oü bringing the total stake to 100%, a further 10% of Frames ‘N’ Lenses bringing the total stake to 90% with total increases amounting to €20.8 million; – additional price for IVS of €0.6 million. Decreases: – Disposal of 60% of Ophtalmica Galiléo shares. Movements: – Long-term assets of various acquisition fees (€0.8 million). (b) Increases and decreases are for the most part connected to renewals of loans to subsidiaries. (c) Balance comprising various acquisition fees attached to ongoing acquisitions. Value at the 2012 start of the Provisions Reversals Value at € thousands ﬁscal year Increases Decreases Movements for the year for the year year-end Equity interests 1,771,360 49,398 9,945 1,155 1,811,968 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates (Loans to subsidiaries/Advances on share issues) 465,870 883,105 872,711 476,264 Other long-term investments (own shares) 266,983 230,436 256,362 241,057 Other loans 44 44 Other long-term ﬁnancial investments 4,375 5,584 2,341 (1,155) 6,463 GROSS AMOUNT 2,508,631 1,168,524 1,141,359 2,535,796 Impairment 74,966 14,157 22,977 66,147 NET AMOUNT 2,433,665 2,469,650 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 175 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 10.2 Subsidiaries and affiliates Subsidiaries and affiliates whose gross value as a percentage of Essilor International’s share capital is Carrying amount Loans and Dividends of shares held advances Guarantees and cashed by Other granted endorsements Net revenue Proﬁt for the Company Share Other by the given by the for the last the last over the € thousands capital equity Gross Net Company Company ﬁscal year ﬁscal year ﬁscal year A – MORE THAN 1% French companies 113,523 270,309 268,380 252,902 404,324 38,441 46,033 International subsidiaries 484,559 1,328,984 1,572,870 1,532,598 278,160 319,380 5,097,684 492,209 185,361 B – LESS THAN 1% French companies International subsidiaries 4,941 26,221 1,456 1,109 83,727 149,316 18,488 250 10.3 Analysis of long-term loans and receivables by maturity € thousands 2013 2012 More than one year 319,034 329,793 Less than one year 255,337 152,978 TOTAL 574,371 482,771 NOTE 11. Current assets 11.1 Inventories € thousands 2013 2012 Raw materials and other supplies 37,452 39,657 Goods for resale 8,464 8,971 Finished and semi-ﬁnished products and work in progress 24,369 29,498 SUB-TOTAL 70,286 78,126 Provisions: n Raw materials and other supplies (11,591) (11,713) n Goods for resale (2,422) (1,278) n Finished and semi-ﬁnished products and work in progress (3,660) (4,671) SUB-TOTAL (17,673) (17,662) TOTAL 52,613 60,464 176 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 11.2 Analysis of operating receivables by maturity € thousands 2013 MORE THAN ONE YEAR 24,385 Trade receivables 24,385 (b) Other receivables 0 LESS THAN ONE YEAR 549,486 Prepayments to suppliers 2,074 (a) Trade receivables 262,317 Other receivables(b) 285,095 TOTAL 573,871 (a) The portion related to commercial paper represents €455.3 thousand. (b) The “Other receivables” line primarily includes current accounts with regard to subsidiaries of €225 million. 11.3 Marketable securities 2013 2012 € thousands Gross Net Gross Net 3 SICAV(a) 304,119 304,119 146,174 146,174 Currency options 482 482 1,045 1,045 TOTAL 304,601 304,601 147,219 147,219 Bank deposits 70,287 70,287 100,000 100,000 TOTAL 374,888 374,888 247,219 247,219 (a) Money market funds held at closing are comprised solely of money market funds. Cash investments are subject to a policy that encourages safety for investment and capital markets transactions carried out by and liquidity on the return. Available cash is invested only in shortthe Group Treasury Department were all rated at least A-2 (shortterm money-market funds, which limit the risk of capital loss and term) and A(long-term) by Standard & Poor’s. are immediately available. At December 31, 2013, counterparties 11.4 Prepaid expenses € thousands 2013 2012 Prepaid expenses: n Operating proﬁt 12,046 15,887 n Financial income 4,128 833 TOTAL 16,174 16,720 11.5 Accrued income € thousands 2013 2012 Investments and other non-current assets Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 1,962 1,901 Receivables Trade receivables(a) 63,639 22,924 Other receivables 3,697 1,895 TOTAL 69,298 26,721 (a) The change in trade receivables was mainly due to an increase in intra-Group receivables. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 177 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements NOTE 12. Equity 12.1 Share capital Number of shares At the start of the ﬁscal Par value Number of shares, except per share data year Issued Canceled Traded At year-end (in €) Ordinary shares 214,724,040 1,475,458 (1,500,000) 214,699,498 0.18 TOTAL 214,724,040 1,475,458 (1,500,000) 214,699,498 0.18 Of which own shares: Number of shares at the Exercises Number of start of the Share Exercises of Performance shares at Number of securities ﬁscal year purchases Cancellation Options shares year-end Long-term Investments 4,387,477 2,192,298 (1,500,000) (625,369) 4,454,406 TOTAL 4,387,477 2,192,298 (1,500,000) (625,369) 4,454,406 12.2 Statement of changes in equity Reserves and Share Issue retained Untaxed Government Translation Total € thousands capital premiums earnings Net proﬁt provisions grants reserve(a) equity EQUITY AT JANUARY 1, 2013 38,650 311,622 1,443,845 407,376 32,138 236 (1,713) 2,232,155 Capital increase n FCP Mutual funds 68 23,267 23,335 n Subscription options 198 44,800 44,998 Capital reduction (270) (77,530) (77,800) Other movements over the ﬁscal year 6 3,904 (141) (648) 3,121 Allocation of proﬁt 407,376 (407,376) 0 Dividends paid (185,339) (185,339) Net proﬁt for the ﬁscal year 326,184 326,184 EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 38,646 302,160 1,665,888 326,184 36,042 95 (2,361) 2,366,655 (a) The translation difference relates to the Puerto Rico branch. 2013 2012 Capital totaled €38,646 thousand, corresponding to a decrease of Capital totaled €38,650 thousand, corresponding to an increase 24,542 ordinary shares following: of 685,744 ordinary shares following: n a reduction of capital via cancellation of treasury shares n a reduction of capital via cancellation of treasury shares (-1,500,000 shares); (-2,400,000 shares); n subscriptions to Essilor group FCP mutual funds (377,407 n subscriptions to Essilor group FCP mutual funds (385,354 shares); shares); n stock subscription options (1,098,051 shares). n stock subscription options (2,700,390 shares). New shares were entitled to dividends starting January 1, 2013. New shares were entitled to dividends starting January 1, 2012. 178 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 12.3 Stock subscription and purchase options, performance shares and employee share issues Stock subscription and purchase options option and the exercise price) are capped at 100% of the exercise price. The exercise price of stock subscription or purchase options corresponds to the average of the share prices quoted over the Stock subscription options granted in 2006, 2007 and 20 trading days preceding the date of the Board Meeting at which January 2008 are subject to vesting conditions based on the the grants are decided. Gains on options granted since 2004 share performance over a period of 2 to 4 years, as well as to (corresponding to the difference between the average share price the 100% cap on gains. Stock subscription options granted since during the 3 calendar months prior to the month of exercise of the November 2008 are subject to vesting conditions based on the share performance over a period of 2 to 6 years, as well as to the 100% cap on gains. The following table analyzes changes in the number of performance shares at each period-end: Number of stock Options Number of stock subscription options Exercise canceled and Options subscription options at January 1, 2013 of options forfeited granted at December 31, 2013 Stock subscription options 2,774,285 (1,098,051) (60,679) 87,880 1,703,435 TOTAL 2,774,285 (1,098,051) (60,679) 87,880 1,703,435 3 Performance shares of shares originally granted, depending on the performance of the Essilor share compared with the reference price on the grant date Since 2006, the Essilor group has launched performance-based (corresponding to the average of the prices quoted over the 20 bonus share allotment plans. trading days preceding the Board Meeting at which the grant is The number of shares vested at the end of a period of 2 to 6 years decided). based on the grant date ranges from 0% to 100% of the number The following table analyzes changes in the number of performance shares at each period-end: Performance Number of performance Number of performance Performance shares shares at shares at January 1, 2013 shares vested canceled Grants December 31, 2013 Performance shares 2,848,274 (625,369) (68,660) 1,376,340 3,530,585 TOTAL 2,848,274 (625,369) (68,660) 1,376,340 3,530,585 Employee share issues The main features of the employee share issues are: € 2013 2012 Share subscription price 61.83 57.08 Total discount amount 15.46 14.27 Number of shares subscribed 377,407 385,354 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 179 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements NOTE 13. Provisions 13.1 Provisions for contingencies and charges Value at the Reversals Reversals 2013 start of the Provisions for the ﬁscal for the ﬁscal Value € thousands ﬁscal year for the year year (used) year (unused) at year-end Provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts 30,050 4,196 4,731 29,514 Provisions for losses in subsidiaries and affiliates 300 300 Provision for losses on performance shares 36,166 55,231 35,631 55,767 Provisions for restructuring 15 15 Other provisions(a) 14,927 18,507 4,207 589 28,638 TOTAL 81,460 77,934 44,570 604 114,220 (a) At December 31, 2013, “Other provisions” were comprised primarily of the provision for tax audits, provision for product risk and provision for exchange rate loss. Value at the Reversals Reversals 2012 start of the Provisions for the ﬁscal for the year Value € thousands ﬁscal year for the year year (used) (unused) at year-end Provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts 32,535 8,751 11,200 35 30,050 Provisions for losses in subsidiaries and affiliates 300 300 Provision for losses on performance shares 13,566 57,029 34,428 36,166 Provisions for restructuring 15 15 (a) Other provisions 34,038 10,549 16,980 12,710 14,927 TOTAL 80,469 76,344 62,608 12,745 81,460 (a) At end 2012, “Other provisions” were comprised primarily of the provision for tax audits, provision for legal disputes, provisions for operating risks and other provisions. 180 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 13.2 Provisions for impairment Value at the start Provisions for the Reversals for the € thousands of the year year year Value at year-end 2013 PROVISIONS FOR IMPAIRMENT 108,276 38,473 56,758 89,991 Inventories 17,662 17,673 17,662 17,673 Receivables 24,460 3,557 13,298 14,719 Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 62,662 17,077 23,641 56,098 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 3,485 2,158 1,327 Other long-term investments 166 166 Other 8 8 2012 PROVISIONS FOR IMPAIRMENT 112,577 39,008 43,310 108,277 Inventories 17,914 17,662 17,914 17,662 Receivables 19,689 7,189 2,419 24,460 Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 74,966 10,672 22,977 62,662 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 3,485 3,485 3 Other long-term investments Other 8 8 NOTE 14. Liabilities 14.1 Maturities of liabilities Analysis of total liabilities by maturity and by category € thousands 2013 2012 DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR 790,335 815,217 Borrowings 262,224 314,335 Operating liabilities (b) 322,933 303,684 (a) and (b) Other liabilities 205,179 197,198 DUE IN ONE TO FIVE YEARS 295,393 157,733 Borrowings 290,044 151,584 Operating liabilities Other liabilities 5,349 6,149 DUE IN MORE THAN FIVE YEARS 290,044 75,792 Borrowings 290,044 75,792 Operating liabilities Other liabilities TOTAL 1,375,773 1,048,742 (a) The “Other payables” line primarily includes current accounts with regard to subsidiaries of €190 million. (b) The portion related to commercial paper was zero in 2013. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 181 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements Analysis by maturity (total liabilities) € thousands 2013 2012 2013 815,217 2014 790,335 4,498 2015 5,349 1,652 2017 199,405 151,584 2018 90,639 75,792 2019 170,401 2020 97,890 2023 21,753 TOTAL 1,375,773 1,048,743 Analysis by currency (ﬁnancial debt) € thousands 2013 2012 EUR 205,433 160,038 USD 608,664 377,080 GBP 600 613 THB 21,082 MXN 942 1,001 PLN 5,591 2,978 TOTAL 842,312 541,711 Covenants The Company’s ﬁnancing is not subject to special ﬁnancial covenants. Only the USD 300 and USD 500 million US private placements issued in 2012 and 2013 are subject to a special ﬁnancial ratio. This was complied with at December 31, 2013. 14.2 Accrued charges € thousands 2013 2012 Accrued interest 4,067 2,714 Trade payables 51,375 49,070 Accrued taxes and personnel expense n Vacation pay 36,055 33,911 n Discretionary proﬁt sharing 5,975 5,172 n Other 29,666 28,415 Other operating liabilities n Discounts and allowances to be granted 83,816 82,005 n Amounts due to customers 578 743 n Credit notes to be issued 6,111 4,363 n Affiliates, dividends to be paid 4 Liabilities on long-term assets and related accounts 3,528 1,833 TOTAL 221,170 208,229 182 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 14.3 Related party transactions Related parties are companies that are fully consolidated in the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Businesses with which the Company has capital ties correspond to other Group companies. Net amount concerning other companies with which Balance sheet the Company has € thousands Related parties capital ties Other Total assets Equity interests 1,708,854 77,754 0 1,786,608 Receivables from companies in which an equity interest is held 553,458 5,300 662 559,420 TOTAL LONG-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS (NET) 2,262,312 83,054 662 2,346,028 Trade receivables 213,688 15,879 53,248 282,816 Other receivables 217,242 358 56,663 274,263 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS (NET) 430,930 16,237 109,912 557,078 TOTAL ASSETS 2,693,242 99,291 110,574 2,903,106 Trade payables 64,368 4,313 67,325 136,007 Other operating liabilities 2,926 4 183,996 186,926 Other liabilities 202,289 0 8,239 210,528 3 TOTAL LIABILITIES 269,584 4,317 259,560 533,461 Net amount concerning other companies with which Income statement the Company has Total income € thousands Related parties capital ties Other statement Financial expense(a) 46,531 826 56,301 103,658 Financial income(b) 189,519 87,292 62,532 339,344 (a) Financial expense breaks down as follows: Financial expense reported under “Related parties” corresponds mainly to impairment losses on shares in subsidiaries, interest on advances from the cash pool and interest on borrowings; Financial expense reported under “Other companies with which Essilor has capital ties” corresponds mainly to impairment losses on shares in affiliates; Financial expenses reported under “Others” mainly concern conversions of transactions at the end-of-month rate, interest on borrowings, discounts granted. (b) Financial income breaks down as follows: Financial income reported under “Related parties” corresponds mainly to dividend income, reversals of impairment losses on shares in subsidiaries, and interest on loans; Financial income reported under “Capital ties” mainly concern deposited dividends; Financial income reported under “Others” mainly concern conversions of transactions at the end-of-month rate, capital gains on investments (SICAVs, certiﬁcates of deposit), interest on borrowings and provisions for risks “exchange rate losses”. NOTE 15. Off-balance sheet commitments 15.1 Financial commitments Commitments given and received € thousands 2013 2012 Commitments given Guarantees and endorsements(a) 342,335 341,080 Commitments received Guarantees, endorsements and sureties received 0 0 (a) Mainly consisting of guarantees given by Essilor International to ﬁnancial institutions in favor of Group subsidiaries. Conﬁrmed lines of credit not drawn down at December 31, 2013 amounted to €1,553 million. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 183 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements Forward foreign exchange contracts At December 31, 2013, forward foreign exchange transactions (excluding cross currency swaps) were as follows: Contractual amounts Fair value at € thousands (initial price) December 31, 2013 Foreign currency sell position 386,139 1,957 Foreign currency buy position 651,312 (9,105) TOTAL (7,148) The Company is a net seller of GBP, SGD, AUD and CAD for the most part and is a net buyer of USD, JPY and THB. Currency options At December 31, 2010, currency options were as follows: Nominal amount (valuation Premiums received Fair value at € thousands at exercise price) (paid) at inception December 31, 2013 Foreign currency put purchases 45,000 837 91 Foreign currency put sales 22,500 367 (53) Foreign currency call purchases 202 8 TOTAL 1,211 39 Cross-currency swap In 2007, the Company implemented a ﬁnancing transaction for its subsidiary Essilor of America for €250 million. This transaction was hedged by internal and external cross currency swaps which obtained the classiﬁcation of hedges of existing assets or liabilities. This ﬁnancing and the related cross currency swaps mature on February 24, 2014. Fair value at In thousands of currency units Notional amount (USD) Notional amount (EUR) December 31, 2013 External cross-currency swaps 328,375 250,000 13,383 Internal cross-currency swaps 328,375 250,000 (13,414) Interest rate swaps 150,000 (4,502) EUR interest rate caps 50,000 3 USD interest rate caps 50,000 2 TOTAL (4,527) 15.2 Finance lease commitments There have been no commitments under ﬁnance leases since 2006. 15.3 Commitments under non-cancelable operating leases and other contracts Future minimum payments Contractual obligations 2013 € thousands up to 1 year 1 to 5 years over 5 years Total Treasury Non-cancelable operating leases 4,029 2,360 197 6,586 TOTAL 4,029 2,360 197 6,586 184 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 15.4 Commitment relating to the sale of put options on minority interests Essilor granted put options to the minority shareholders of various of all of these put options if they were fully exercised totaled controlled subsidiaries. At December 31, 2013, the valuation €62,690 thousand. NOTE 16. Employee data 16.1 Pension, length-of-service and other obligations Supplementary pensions as follows: inﬂation rate (2%), staff turnover rate, rate of future salary increases (2.75%) and discount rate (3.3%). The Company’s obligation to management and management-level employees for supplementary pensions was updated in 2013, Measured in this way, the obligation totaled €41,953 thousand, of using a retrospective method. 2013 actuarial assumptions were which €9,843 thousand already paid into pension funds managed by an independent insurance company at December 31, 2013. € thousands 2013 2012 Projected beneﬁt obligation 41,953 43,760 3 Fair value of plan assets (9,843) (18,913) Deferred items(a) (25,176) (17,257) PROVISIONS RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET 6,934 7,590 (a) Deferred items correspond to actuarial losses or gains and costs for past services. In 2013, these items included a reversal of €4.1 million corresponding to the reclassiﬁcation to assets of an Article 39 tax surplus. The balance of €6.9 million corresponds to obligations under Article 83. Length-of-service awards The Company’s obligation for the payment of length-of-service €2,355 thousand at December 31, 2013 based on a discount rate awards in application of French labor laws, collective bargaining of 3.3%. agreements and trade union agreements was estimated at € thousands 2013 2012 Projected beneﬁt obligation 2,355 2,400 Fair value of plan assets 0 0 PROVISIONS RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2,355 2,400 Retirement beneﬁts The Company’s obligation for the payment of retirement beneﬁts retrospective method, at €34,100 thousand at December 31, 2013 for all types of retirement was estimated, according to a based on a discount rate of 3.3%. € thousands 2013 2012 Projected beneﬁt obligation 34,100 34,619 Fair value of plan assets 0 0 Deferred items(a) (14,894) (16,262) PROVISIONS RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET 19,206 18,357 (a) Deferred items correspond to actuarial losses or gains and costs for past services. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 185 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements Expenses for the year € thousands 2013 2012 Cost of services rendered in the period (4,025) (3,637) Interest expense on discounting (2,458) (3,011) Contributions paid 0 16,800 Beneﬁts paid 3,790 3,469 Expected return on plan assets 516 282 Actuarial losses (gains) (3,319) (2,268) Cost of past services (302) (302) EXPENSES FOR THE YEAR (5,798) 11,333 16.2 Average workforce Breakdown of average number of employees 2013 2012 Managerial personnel 1,327 1,293 Supervisors and administrative 1,268 1,299 Production 830 865 TOTAL 3,425 3,457 16.3 Management compensation € thousands 2013 2012 Executive bodies Compensation received(a) 1,791 1,661 Length-of-service award payable on retirement (actuarial value) 740 585 Supplementary retirement beneﬁt obligations (actuarial value) 10,040 9,119 Value of performance share rights granted during the year(b) 1,521 1,213 TOTAL 14,092 12,578 Administrative bodies Compensation received 462 371 TOTAL 462 371 (a) Compensation paid by Essilor International SA or any other consolidated subsidiary. (b) The amounts indicated are the fair-value accounting amounts of the options and stocks in accordance with IFRS. These are, therefore, not real amounts which may be realized upon acquisition of the stock, if vested. It should also be noted that awards of shares are subject to employment and performance conditions. 16.4 Other employee information Individual Training Entitlement (“DIF”) The cumulative number of hours for which no training request had been received at the balance sheet date was 303,660. The cumulative number of hours training available to employees under the “DIF” incentive was 321,645. 186 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements 3 NOTE 17. Fees paid to the auditors and members of their networks PricewaterhouseCoopers Mazars Amount As a % Amount As a % € thousands, except for percentages 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Audit Statutory and contractual audit services 447 447 282 282 Other audit-related services 922 325 162 171 SUB-TOTAL 1,369 772 100% 100% 444 453 100% 100% Other services Legal and tax advice Other SUB-TOTAL 0 0 0% 0% 0 0 0% 0% TOTAL 1,369 772 100% 100% 444 453 100% 100% The other work and services directly linked to the duties of the Statutory Auditor correspond principally to the work conducted within the context of acquisition transactions of companies to be included in the scope of consolidation. 3 NOTE 18. Subsequent events Acquisition of Transitions On July 29, 2013, Essilor announced the signing of an agreement transaction amounts to USD1.73 billion at closing, as well as a to acquire the 51% stake in Transitions Optical owned by PPG. deferred payment of USD125 million over ﬁve years, for 51% of Transitions Optical is a leading provider of photochromic lenses the capital of Transitions Optical and 100% of Intercast. to optical manufacturers worldwide. Following the transaction, Subject to various regulatory approvals, the transaction is Essilor will own 100% of the capital of Transitions Optical. expected to close during the ﬁrst half of 2014. Based on current Transitions Optical generated revenue of USD814 million in estimates, the transaction should have a positive impact on 2012, of which around USD310 million with lens manufacturers Essilor’s ﬁnancial indicators and, in particular, an accretive impact other than Essilor. Under the agreement, Essilor will also on earnings per share as of year one of the integration and of at acquire 100% of the capital of Intercast, a high-performance least 5% per year in subsequent years. Following the transactions, sun lens manufacturer based in Parma, Italy. In 2012, Intercast the consolidated debt-to-equity ratio will remain below 40%. revenue stood at nearly USD34 million. The consideration for the Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 187 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the 2013 Annual Financial Statements NOTE 19. Five-year ﬁnancial summary Capital at the ﬁscal year-end € thousands 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Share capital 38,646 38,650 38,527 38,098 38,792 Number of ordinary shares outstanding 214,699,498 214,724,040 214,038,296 211,655,342 215,509,972 o/w treasury stock 4,454,406 4,387,477 5,363,126 2,894,112 4,630,653 Number of preferred, non-voting shares outstanding (without voting rights) 0 0 0 0 0 Results of operations € thousands 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net revenue 800,847 737,543 678,430 680,533 670,474 Proﬁt before tax, depreciation, amortization and provisions 373,329 445,205 300,219 362,900 246,094 Income tax expense 1,066 11,294 (14,408) (5,077) (14,111) Employee proﬁt-sharing due for the year Proﬁt after tax, depreciation, amortization and provisions 326,184 407,376 273,061 341,947 214,753 Total dividends 197,630 185,096 177,374 173,272 147,616 Per share data € thousands 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Earnings per share, after tax and employee proﬁtsharing, but before depreciation, amortization and provisions, excluding treasury stock 1.77 2.06 1.51 1.76 1.23 Earnings per share, after tax, employee proﬁt-sharing, depreciation, amortization and provisions, excluding treasury stock 1.55 1.94 1.31 1.64 1.02 (a) Net dividend per ordinary share 0.94 0.88 0.85 0.83 0.70 Net dividend per preferred, non-voting share (a) Subject to the decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. Employee data € thousands, except for the average number of employees 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Average number of employees in the year 3,425 3,457 3,464 3,528 3,584 Total payroll 172,407 167,943 161,028 157,673 151,855 Total beneﬁts 97,673 96,729 81,492 79,270 76,982 188 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statutory Auditors’ Report on the annual ﬁnancial statements 3 3.9 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the annual financial statements Fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your n the justiﬁcation of our assessments; General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended n the speciﬁc veriﬁcations and information required by law. December 31, 2013, on: These ﬁnancial statements have been approved by the Board of n the audit of the accompanying ﬁnancial statements of Essilor Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these financial International; statements based on our audit. I Opinion on the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards well as the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. We applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ﬁnancial statements are free of material misstatement. An appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 3 In our opinion, the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the Company at December 31, 2013 and of the results of its operations amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements. An audit also for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies principles. used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as II Justification of our assessments In accordance with the requirements of Article L.823-9 of the and correct application of these accounting methods and ensured French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the that the notes to the ﬁnancial statements contained appropriate justiﬁcation of our assessments, we bring to your attention the disclosures. following matters: These assessments were made as part of our audit of the Note 1.5 to the ﬁnancial statements describes accounting policies ﬁnancial statements, taken as a whole, and therefore contributed and methods applied to investment securities. to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the ﬁrst part of this report. As part of our assessment of the accounting principles and policies applied by the Company, we veriﬁed the appropriateness III Specific verifications and information In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, officers and any other commitments made in their favor, we have we have also performed the specific verifications required by veriﬁed its consistency with the ﬁnancial statements, or with the French law. underlying information used to prepare these ﬁnancial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the Company from companies controlling it or controlled by it. Based consistency with the ﬁnancial statements of the information given on this work, we attest to the accuracy and fair presentation of in the Management Report of the Board of Directors, and in the this information. documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to the ﬁnancial position and the ﬁnancial statements. In accordance with French law, we have veriﬁed that the required information concerning the identity of shareholders and holders of Concerning the information given in accordance with the the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the Management requirements of Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Report. Code relating to remuneration and beneﬁts received by corporate Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 11, 2014 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Christine Bouvry Daniel Escudeiro Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 189 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4 4.1 INTRODUCTION 192 4.4.2 Relationships with persons or organizations interested in the company’s 4.2 SOCIAL INFORMATION 193 business activities, particularly inclusion associations, educational establishments, 4.2.1 Employment 193 environmental protection associations, 4.2.2 Organization of labor 195 consumer associations, and neighboring 4.2.3 Labor/management relations 195 populations 212 4.2.4 Health and Safety 197 4.4.3 Subcontractors and suppliers 213 4.2.5 Training 198 4.4.4 Fair practices 214 4.2.6 Equal opportunities 200 4.4.5 Other initiatives undertaken 4.2.7 Promotion and upholding of the to promote human rights 216 Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization 201 4.5 NOTE ON METHODOLOGY 217 4.3 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 202 4.6 INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY 4.3.1 General environmental policy 202 REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED 4.3.2 Pollution and waste management 204 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.3.3 Sustainable use of resources 206 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 4.3.4 Climate change 208 INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT 4.3.5 Safeguarding biodiversity 209 REPORT 221 4.4 INFORMATION ON SOCIETAL 4.7 LOCATION OF GRI ELEMENTS 223 COMMITMENT TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 210 4.4.1 Regional, economic and social impact of the Company’s activities 210 190 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4 IN BRIEF TO IMPROVE LIVES BY IMPROVING SIGHT IS OUR BIGGEST COMMITMENT IN TERMS OF SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT “We are fortunate at Essilor to be driven by a strong social purpose: to improve people’s lives and create a positive impact on the world by ensuring that each individual is aware of the importance of good vision and has access to the eyeglasses he or she needs. Our mission represents our biggest commitment in terms of sustainable and responsible development. It also sets the tone for our approach to doing business in an ethical and equitable manner that pays due attention to all our stakeholders and to the communities in which we operate. In 2013, the Group reinforced its innovative transversal approach to sustainability and social responsibility with the creation of the Chief Corporate Mission Officer function and of a CSR Committee within its Board of Directors. This unique two-tier governance will enable Essilor to explore new territories and pioneer inclusive business models that will foster the continued growth of the company and its contribution to global social and economic development. In this context I am pleased to renew Essilor’s long-term commitment to integrate the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact both in its strategy and day-to-day operations and to share in this chapter of our 2013 Registration Document our annual Communication on Progress report.” Hubert Sagnières Chairman and Chief Executive Officer SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC FOOTPRINT OF THE GROUP Shareholders Employees €218 M €1,597M Income and other taxes Revenue €199M €5,065M Other Suppliers €147M €2,904M Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 191 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Introduction 4.1 Introduction The 2013 ﬁscal year is the second year of formal introduction of Consequently, the Group’s annual Registration Document now Law 2010-788 of July 12, 2010, better known as the “Grenelle 2 combines the Grenelle 2 Law format with the Global Reporting Law,” and its Implementing Decree 2012-557 of April 24, 2012, Initiative (GRI) guidelines, which the Group has applied for many Article L.225-105-2. Essilor International is continuing to years. broaden the reporting perimeter of the Group’s financially The Group is unable to commit to 100% coverage and wishes to consolidated companies to meet its targeted coverage by 2017. maintain a reserve of 15% to anticipate a situation where one Refer to the “Methodology” Section in this Chapter. or more companies with a large workforce are acquired within Essilor International has been reporting on its corporate, social a single ﬁscal year, but are unable to report their non-ﬁnancial and environmental performance for 11 years (since ﬁscal year and ﬁnancial information within the same period when included 2002). At the beginning, this information was provided in the in Essilor’s ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁrst time. Annual Report. In 2003 it was published in a separate report Following the entry into force of Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law entitled “Seeing the world better/2003. Our contribution to and its application decree of April 24, 2012, and as from ﬁscal sustainable development.” That report was distributed at the 2013, the reports issued by KPMG Audit include a certification Essilor International Shareholders’ General Meeting and made of inclusion and reasoned opinion on the fairness of the CSR available to all stakeholders. It was primarily intended for internal information published in the Management Report and in Chapter 4 use as a means of making employees aware of sustainable of the Registration Document. development in action issues and the Company’s social and societal responsibility. As the audit relates to all published CSR information, we have discontinued the use of the  symbols that appeared in the 2012 In 2004 and 2005, reporting on these matters was included in the Registration Document identifying information subject to detailed Annual Reports for those years. In 2006, the Group published a tests. second, separate report entitled “Seeing the world better/2006. Our contribution to sustainable development.” The purpose of that The numerous corporate, social and environmental data included document was to take stock of the progress achieved in the three in this report are generally collected over a period of 12 months years since the initiative was formally implemented and review from October 1, 2012 to September 30, 2013. the Group’s sustainable development actions. The report was The few data collected for the January 1, 2013 to mainly targeted at an external audience and distributed in large December 31, 2013 ﬁscal year are followed in the text or in the quantity to stakeholders worldwide following distribution at the indicator tables by an «at» symbol in superscript: @ Shareholders’ General Meeting. Since the 2007 ﬁscal year, reporting on these matters has been included in the annual Registration Document in an effort to produce an integrated report. Lastly, since the 2012 fiscal year, Essilor International has continued to use the Global Reporting Intitiative (GRI) guidelines and to gradually extend the reporting perimeter, which covers most of Essilor’s day-to-day operations. Eventually this will cover all legal entities ﬁnancially consolidated by Essilor. 192 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Social information 4 4.2 Social information Essilor’s policy is to contribute to its employees’ personal development and fulﬁllment by offering them career opportunities in a global, multi-cultural and decentralized organization; to provide a working environment that respects employees’ physical and moral integrity, whatever their origins; to treat all employees fairly, in all circumstances; to enhance their employability, inside and outside the organization by facilitating their access to training throughout their career and increasing their empowerment and responsibilities in order to enrich their work and deepen their experience; and to help them become Company shareholders by implementing a responsible employee stock ownership policy. Essilor’s employee shareholding structure is a key characteristic of the Group’s social policy. It is not only of beneﬁt to employees but also shareholders by aligning their common interests regarding the Company’s performance and the value created as a result. It brings the Group a particularly positive affectio societatis, which goes well beyond a simple sense of pride or of belonging. Essilor’s social policies have followed the Group’s international orientation. They were implemented in the early decades by expatriate French executives. The policies then followed, and continue to follow, the Group’s ongoing globalization through an approach to human resources management generally applied by local executives who are responsible for running operations in their respective countries. 4.2.1 Employment Total workforce and breakdown of employees by gender, age and geographical area As of December 31, 2013, Essilor had 55,129 employees Essilor does not employ many temporary workers (European worldwide (including all those of proportionately consolidated Regulation 809/2004/EC, Appendix 1, Paragraph 17.1). companies). The average workforce for 2013 was 52,962 (employees corresponding to the amount reported for consolidated employee beneﬁts expense for the period). 2013 2012 2011 (@) LA 01 Workforce at the end of the 55,129 50,668 48,700 period for the entire year 2013(@) LA 01 Average workforce for the 52,962 (@) 50,212 44,952 4 entire year 2013(@) LA 01 Breakdown of workforce by North America 12,548 (@) (22.7%) 12,875 (25.6%) 14,481 (32.2%) geographical region (out of Europe 10,768 (@) (19.6%) 11,613 (23.1%) 11,454 (25.5%) 55,129 employees at year end (@) entire year in 2013)(@) Latin America/Africa/ 31,813 (57.7%) 25,724 (51.3%) 19,017 (42.3%) Asia/Australia/Middle East/Russia LA 01 Workforce covered by 2013 39,937 34,075 33,530 reporting on the period Coverage 72.4% 67.3% 68.9% LA 01 Breakdown of workforce by Women 22,061 (55.2%) 18,998 (55.8%) 17,809 (53.1%) gender (out of 39,937 reported Men 17,876 (44.8%) 15,077 (44.2%) 15,721 (46.9%) for the period) LA 01 Breakdown of workforce by Production 29,700 (@) (56.1%) 29,888 (59.5%) 27,082 (60.2%) category(@) (out of 52,962 an Supervisors and 16,721(@) (31.6%) 14,062 (28.0%) 12,170 (27.1%) average workforce for the employees entire year 2013) (@) Managerial personnel 6,541(@) (12.3%) 6,262 (12.5%) 5,700 (12.7%) Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 193 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Social information 2013 2012 2011 LA 01 Breakdown of workforce by age Under 18 years 128 (0.32%) 50 (0.15%) N/C group (out of 39,937 reported 18 to 24 years 4,095 (10.25%) 3,451 (10.13%) N/C for the period) 25 to 34 years 11,936 (29.89%) 10,265 (30.12%) N/C 35 to 44 years 10,649 (26.66%) 8,907 (26.14%) N/C 45 to 54 years 7,700 (19.28%) 6,651 (19.52%) N/C 55 to 59 years 2,963 (7.42%) 2,572 (7.55%) N/C 60 years and over 2,466 (6.18%) 2,179 (6.39%) N/C New hires and layoffs Workforce at the end of the period for the entire year in 2013: 55,129(@) play and vary from year to year, one of the most important being the Group’s growth. For the same reasons, just comparing total Workforce at the end of the period for the entire year in 2012: 50,668 workforce year on year does not provide sufficiently detailed Workforce at the end of the period for the entire year in 2011: 48,700 information with regard to the number of new hires and layoffs. 2013/2012 change: +9%(@) This is why one of the ways for Essilor International to resolve The staff turnover calculation is known and measured in each this complex issue and better assess the number of new hires and legal entity but is currently not consolidated. That would not be layoffs worldwide is to refer to staff turnover. relevant at the worldwide level since too many factors come into 2013 2012 2011 LA 02 Staff turnover 8.9% 8.5% 8.3% Note: for entities not yet reporting this data, the turnover rate is assessed on the basis of the entities’ own multi-pronged assessment. Salary changes Total salaries in 2013: €1,597 million(@) Average weighted salary changes could be calculated but this would not be relevant globally since there are too many variants Total salaries in 2012: €1,550 million from one year to the next (the Group’s growth being one of the Total salaries in 2011: €1,288 million major variants). 2013/2012 change: +3%(@) Employees – Essilor’s main shareholder Since its founding, Essilor has been committed to a strong internal aligned with those of shareholders. The employee shareholding is shareholding policy, and today nearly one in four employees is a multi-faceted and tailored to the legal framework of each country. company shareholder. Employees are Essilor’s main shareholder, It has a unique structure comprising more than seven thousand and this has given rise to an original method of governance that employees and is managed by non-profit group Valoptec encourages dialogue and involves employees in the Group’s Association which is governed by the French law of 1901. key decisions. It also means that the interests of employees are 2013 2012 2011 Number of employee shareholders 12,041 N/A N/A Percentage of employee shareholders 22.7% N/A N/A Note: Percentage calculation based on an average workforce of 52,962 for the entire year 2013 194 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Social information 4 Essilor International’s Employee Shareholders’ Department sets In 2013, new plans were set up in Brazil, China, Finland, Germany, up and manages employee share ownership plans in all Essilor Hungary, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United companies. Kingdom. Performance shares were also distributed. With eight multilingual employees, the Department helps establish As of December 31, 2013, active and retired employees held 8.4% rules for these plans and manages shareholder transactions of the share capital and 14.6% of voting rights. on a daily basis. It provides regular information to employee Note that all Essilor International shareholders who keep their shareholders, as it does for other shareholders. registered shares for at least two years have a double voting right. 4.2.2 Organization of labor Organization of working hours When it comes to working hours, decisions are made locally based on at least the following main principles, which are just four of Working hours vary considerably within the Essilor group. Each many others either existing or possible: legal entity has the autonomy to decide the most appropriate working hours. Essilor International is unable to prepare a n meeting customer requirements; comprehensive document listing the working hours at each n discussion with employees either via their representatives establishment. through any possible means, or directly, for smaller entities; n compliance with all local laws relating to the organization of working hours; n optimal operating efficiency. Absenteeism 2013 2012 2011 LA 07 Rates of injury, occupational illnesses, lost days, Rate of absenteeism 4.7% 4.8% 4.7% absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities See LA 07 indicator table below for details Note: the rate of absenteeism at entities not yet reporting this data is assessed on the basis of the entities’ own multi-faceted assessment. 4 4.2.3 Labor/management relations Organization of dialogue between management Labor-related dialogue is generally organized by employee representatives through any possible means or directly for the and employees, especially procedures for smallest entities or those not wishing to be represented by one providing information to employees and the or more third parties. Such dialogue covers more than 90% of the consulting and negotiation process Group’s total workforce. Dialogue between management and employees varies widely at Representative bodies include: Optical Union in Brazil; Shanghai Essilor. Each legal entity has complete autonomy to decide on the Essilor Optical Company Limited Trade Union in China; Essilor most appropriate labor-related dialogue. Essilor International is European Dialogue and Information Committee (EEDIC) in Europe; unable to prepare a comprehensive document listing labor-related Karmika Sangha in India; Confederation of Filipino Workers, dialogue at each establishment. Essilor Manufacturing Philippines Incorporated Chapter in the Philippines; Essilor Workers’ Union of Thailand in Thailand; and When it comes to dialogue between management and employees, numerous activity committees, communication committees, Essilor promotes listening, discussion and transparency in local employee committees, factory committees, safety committees, decision-making. It also encourages open communication with welfare committees and similar bodies. employees and strives to ensure that everyone can participate without hierarchical boundaries. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 195 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Social information The European Works Council, which at Essilor International is The key goal of all of these initiatives, which result from the efforts called the Essilor European Dialogue and Information Committee of members of the EEDIC Board and Management, is to make (EEDIC), holds an annual plenary meeting. In 2013 this took place EEDIC more visible and more active in Europe. This obviously in the Paris region on May 23, 24 and 25. complies with the new EU directive but most of all it demonstrates how genuinely committed the Essilor group has always been to There are two important points to note from this meeting: high-quality labor-related information and dialogue. n 2013 was the year for membership renewal, which must be Like every year, the Board met three times in ordinary session and done every four years. Of a total of 19 members, 11 joined the twice in extraordinary session. committee for the ﬁrst time in 2013. All members then elected a new Board, which comprised six members, two of whom were, Reporting procedures can vary from one legal entity to another by law, French nationals. It should be noted that the Board’s depending on the nature of the information, but Essilor secretary is himself a newly elected member; consistently promotes these procedures throughout the world as a key factor in operating success and strategic alignment. n the EEDIC Board, along with management, had decided to offer a training session to all members so that those new to One of the many examples is the reporting procedure relating the committee would have a better understanding of EEDIC’s to the minimum notification period required in the event of a role and their duties, rights and obligations, and longer-serving substantial change to operating activity. See GRI indicator LA 05. members could be reminded of these points. This half-day Staff consultation also takes on a wide variety of forms depending training, held immediately before the plenary session and on the legal entity, but Essilor consistently promotes this conducted by a training ﬁrm specializing in European Works throughout the world as a key factor of success, performance and Councils, was greatly appreciated. strategic alignment. In line with a strong, ongoing commitment to improve information Global staff opinion polls are regularly conducted within the sharing and access, the EEDIC intranet migrated to a Google® site, Group. providing better access not only to EEDIC members but also to all employees of the various European entities. Similarly, staff negotiations vary from one establishment to another, but Essilor consistently promotes these throughout the At the same time, EEDIC members themselves proposed and then world as a key factor in employee satisfaction. voted for a new committee logo to raise its proﬁle. LA 04 Percentage of employees covered Essilor’s management style is deeply rooted in the Group’s history and its twofold by collective bargaining agreements economic and humanitarian objective, and underpinned in particular by the distribution, understanding and application of the rules contained in a document translated into 27 languages and entitled Essilor Principles. It encourages dialogue between management and employees, whether or not the employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. All Group employees have access to health and social security cover, which varies according to local characteristics and is the result of communication between employees and management. The Group’s well-developed employee shareholder structure fosters an understanding of subjects linking economic and employee-related issues, and aligns the interests of salaried associates with those of shareholders. LA 05 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Notice is generally provided more than six months in advance. signiﬁcant operational changes, including whether speciﬁed in collective agreements Collective bargaining agreements performance by virtue of their expertise and/or talent. The vast majority of collective bargaining agreements pertain to There are a vast number of collective bargaining agreements the introduction of both long-term benefits (medical coverage, per establishment or group of establishments, or per country. pensions, health and disability insurance, life insurance, etc.) as Each legal entity has the autonomy to implement collective well as short-term beneﬁts (performance bonuses, distribution of bargaining agreements. Essilor International is unable to provide performance shares, shareholding, etc.). the complete list of collective bargaining agreements in a comprehensive document. Most collective bargaining agreements are renewed at regular intervals, often after being reviewed and improved. Essilor promotes collective bargaining agreements as a way to attract and retain employees who contribute to the Group’s The 2013 collective bargaining agreements generally ﬁt this trend. 196 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Social information 4 4.2.4 Health and Safety Health and safety in the workplace Action plans have been implemented with speciﬁc objectives and targets for better prevention and reduction of occupational health With a staff that includes experts in occupational health and safety, and safety risks. chemical management and ergonomics, the Global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Department provides the network of EHS OHSAS 18001 guidelines represent an entry point to occupational correspondents throughout the organization with assistance and health and safety policies at all facilities. One of the goals of these support in these areas. policies is to improve occupational health and safety awareness, training and communication. In line with Essilor’s decentralized management policy, which focuses on empowering local front-line managers, the individual In 2013, the ad hoc working group continued to implement entities have their own health, safety and environment experts. action plans that successfully brought Essilor into compliance with REACH. The Group is made up of managers and/or experts Occupational health and safety management systems that in purchasing, legal affairs, sustainable development, the address local objectives have been set up and are maintained environment, workplace health and safety, and research and at Essilor’s 13 upstream plants. Production facilities in Brazil development. It also uses an external consultant and the Technical (1), China (1), France (3), Ireland (1), Mexico (1), the Philippines Center of a professional body. It will continue to monitor REACH (2), Puerto Rico (1), Thailand (1) and the United States (2) were compliance over the long term, undertaking upgrade programs as OHSAS 18001-certified as of December 31, 2013 and, in fact, required. The working group members include representatives of have been since December 31, 2008. The certification ratio of the Instruments Division and other Essilor subsidiaries and legal the occupational health and safety management systems of the entities. Group’s upstream production facilities remains at its maximum level of 100% (13/13). The Global EHS Department also uses a tool to manage safety data sheets worldwide. The tool applies the directives of the Globally In 2013, inspection audits were carried out as planned. Harmonized System (GHS) and is used in combination with an HSE In addition to the mass production sites mentioned above, some guide for new products and projects, which was updated in 2013 of the larger prescription and service laboratories in terms of and is a further means of improving EHS risk management. volume handled have set up and maintain occupational health and safety systems. They are OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed whenever relevant. Occupational health and safety agreements signed with trade unions or employee representatives Other prescription and service laboratories and smaller entities for which the formal installation of an occupational To our knowledge, there are strictly speaking no agreements to health and safety management system is not justified ensure date signed with trade unions or employee representatives limited that occupational health and safety and working conditions solely to occupational health and safety issues. 4 are handled in a similar fashion. This is done by their ad hoc Agreements signed on such issues typically have a broader committees, typically a local version of France’s committee for framework in respect of general working conditions and therefore hygiene, safety and working conditions (CHSCT), as part of a include occupational health and safety. continuous improvement process, much like the Plan-Do-CheckAct (PDCA) cycle. Please also refer to the above description of the health and safety management systems. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 197 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Social information Workplace accidents, particularly frequency and seriousness 2013 2012 2011 LA 07 Rates of injury, occupational illnesses, Accidents wth lost 192 216 156 lost days, absenteeism and total number work time of work-related fatalities Accidents without 386 638 387 lost work time Fatal accidents 0 0 0 Lost work days 4,179 2,735 3,772 Rate of absenteeism 4.7% 4.8% 4.7% Frequency rate for the period 2.6(@) 3.5 3.8 (@) Severity rate for the period 0.06 0.08 0.11 Occupational illnesses Identifying and monitoring the possible occurrence of occupational disorders (MSDs). An ergonomics position has been created within illnesses is the task of each establishment but to date their the Global EHS Department to initiate and monitor programs quantification has not been consolidated. It is therefore not set up to reduce the existing number of cases and prevent the included in GRI indicator LA 07. The vast majority of reported occurrence of new ones. These programs were strengthened occupational illnesses fall within the category of musculoskeletal in 2013. LA 08 Education, training, counseling, The Group takes action in this area whenever necessary. In 2005, it formed a health prevention, and risk-control watch unit tasked in particular with monitoring avian ﬂu. In 2009, the unit established programs in place to assist an action plan to monitor changes in inﬂuenza type A (H1N1) and provide support as workforce members, their families, necessary. Still on the alert in 2013, the watch unit continues to work closely with or community members in the event contracted health experts who follow the recommendations of the World Health of serious illness Organization. The watch unit can be activated immediately in the event of a new crisis. 4.2.5 Training Training policies other companies help acquire new know-how and offer openings beyond the boundaries of the Company. In-house programs are Throughout the world, Essilor entities invest in training. Such adapted according to local need. Programs where employees investment underpins the Group’s operational excellence, take responsibility for their own development are also offered. ensures ongoing employee training and increases employees’ Communication with line management is fully transparent and knowledge, experience and professional proﬁle. Training policies new skills are approved so that progress can be recorded. vary enormously from one establishment to another, depending on the main business activity. However, they have many elements in In 2013 a substantial number of training courses were held on common, the three key elements being: quality management, both for products and processes, customer service and satisfaction, the environment, and occupational n training tailored to the activity of the facility and focused on the health and safety. Essilor continued to invest in the professional facility’s operating strategies (mass production, prescription development of its managers, with the help of training programs and service laboratories, distribution centers, distribution created in 2012, as part of its ongoing goal to support the Group’s subsidiaries, etc.) that the Human Resource Departments growth momentum. translate into new skills; In connection with its talent management policy, Essilor focused n individual support provided to employees to improve their on Group managers who are key to its success and whose performance within their business area; and professional development is important. The programs have been n development of talent and employability. constructed to apply to several management levels: The main goal of training policies is to help staff successfully n the General Management Program (GMP) is aimed at those perform their daily work in the short and medium term. These who primarily work with their teams to perform strategypolicies follow changes in the Company and are tailored to related operational tasks. It offers a selection of business its strategies. Particular attention is paid to offering training topics (strategy, marketing, operations, finance) as part of programs that use all methods of learning. The use of the continuous learning program underpinned by Harvard independent trainers, or courses and exchange programs with ManageMentor®. Organized in three major regions, the program 198 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Social information 4 is run in partnership with three management schools and has awareness of the Group’s culture and values, which are regularly a common curriculum to which is added an appropriate local enriched by new partners joining the Group. Essilor’s principles component. Leadership is an integral part of the program are widely communicated at these sessions. Two such programs which prepares managers to constantly steer change in a more were organized during the year, which is a remarkable investment effective manner; by the Group’s top management in the professional development of its managers. More than 200 people from different geographical n the Advanced Management Program (AMP) is aimed at those regions and business groups took part. who are primarily involved in transforming key strategic objectives and then sharing them with their operating teams. With regard to diversity, 32% of participants in these programs This program has a dual purpose. Firstly, it develops a strategic were women, with more than 30 different countries represented approach for steering change, and secondly, it develops the in an accurate reﬂection of the Group’s diversity. qualities needed to lead teams in this context of change. A To support the Group’s strategy, training has been developed portion of the program is held in a high-growth country for speciﬁcally for our partners, combining academic and in-house greater insight into the growth opportunities such markets content. The ﬁrst participants were a group of 30 managers from offer; China. n a Senior Management Program (SMP) is currently being Close attention has also been paid to bringing together the developed for managers with a direct role in strategy training community and creating a genuine proactive dialogue that development. With the emergence of new roles in the beneﬁts everyone. organization, aligning the content of this program with the Group’s strategy demands careful and serious thought. Essilor has also strengthened the role of e-learning in the professional development of its managers and employees. In 2013, three groups took part in the GMP (one per region) and Modules now feature customized corporate content (Essilor one new group began the AMP, for a total of 165 managers. Principles and compliance), business-line content (products and The 2012 AMP group (35 managers) ﬁnished its training course sales), and management-speciﬁc content (developed in the United in Indonesia as the next group began its program, which will States in collaboration with the Center for Creative Leadership) terminate in India in early 2014. and they fully complement the training sessions organized around A leadership program has also been established to complement the world. the GMP and AMP and better prepare future leaders. Based on In 2013, more than 2,000 managers and other staff attended at the principles of self-assessment and joint development, this least one of these e-learning modules, and the plan for 2014 is program has had a major impact on our managers who not only to continue the program with the help of a globally available tool. get immediate beneﬁt from the training but can use it to develop their future careers. Two sessions have been held attended by 55 Lastly, the Group’s global approach to capitalizing on its knowmanagers. how was recognized by the Trophée du Capital Humain human resources awards. Over the last ﬁve years the Group has trained Meanwhile, Vision Essilor is an orientation program for new managers consisting of an entire week dedicated to direct more than 14,000 employees, directly encouraging staff members to become trainers and to share their knowledge with the support 4 discussions with general management. The purpose is to identify of digital technology. challenges, seize opportunities, share good practices, and instill Total number of training hours The number of employee training hours was down considerably substantially increasing the number of supervisory staff (+17%) (-29%) compared with the previous ﬁscal year. This was because required in particular by the new talent management programs. the largest laboratories are now at “cruising speed” and are 2013 2012 2011 LA 10 Average number of training Number of employee hours 282,969 399,438 506,762 hours per year, per employee Number of management hours 161,895 138,083 209,526 TOTAL 444,864 537,521 716,288 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 199 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Social information 4.2.6 Equal opportunities Measures taken to promote gender equality Anti-discrimination policy Essilor entities have introduced various measures to preserve In the case of indicator HR 04, Essilor complies in particular with gender equality. Aware of the value that diversity brings to the Fundamental Conventions Nos. 100, covering equal pay, and 111, Company’s performance, Essilor offers the same promotional covering discrimination (employment and occupation). The few opportunities to men and women. Job-related decisions are allegations brought to us each year and which have triggered a based on merit, qualiﬁcations and individual ability. Essilor does procedure to classify incidents of discrimination (on average two not engage in any discrimination based on a person’s gender in to ﬁve a year Group-wide) have not been proven. There was no respect of employment, the job itself or promotional opportunities. procedure leading to sanctions in 2013. Essilor entities fight all forms of discrimination. Aware of the Measures taken to promote the employment and value that diversity brings to the Company’s performance, Essilor offers everyone the same promotional opportunities. Job-related integration of people with disabilities decisions are based on merit, qualiﬁcations and individual ability. Similarly, Essilor entities have introduced measures to promote Essilor does not engage in any discrimination based, for example, the employment and integration of people with disabilities. on a person’s color, religion, gender, disability, nationality, age Recruitment procedures allow such individuals real and or sexual orientation in respect of employment, the job itself or interesting job opportunities. All reasonable efforts are made to promotional opportunities. adjust work stations so that they are accessible to persons with disabilities whose performance might otherwise be affected. Essilor does not engage in any discrimination based on a person’s disability in respect of employment, the job itself or promotional opportunities. 2013 2012 2011 HR 04 Total number of incidents of discrimination 0 0 0 and corrective actions taken. LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Currently, this diversity indicator is known and per employee category according to gender, age group, measured locally when the laws permit, but is not minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity consolidated as a whole. The Essilor International Board of Directors is composed of four women and 11 men (27% and 73% respectively). LA 14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category Currently, this diversity indicator is known and measured locally but is not consolidated as a whole. 200 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Social information 4 4.2.7 Promotion and upholding of the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization As a signatory to the Global Compact, Essilor supports, promotes In the case of GRI indicators HR 05 and LA 04, Essilor complies in and complies with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights particular with Article 20 of the Universal Declaration of Human corresponding to the ﬁrst and second of its ten principles, and the Rights, namely that: eight Conventions of the ILO, corresponding to the third, fourth, n everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and ﬁfth and sixth of its ten principles. association; and n no one may be compelled to belong to an association. Compliance with the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining In the case of GRI indicators HR 05 and LA 04, Essilor complies in right to organize and collective bargaining. To date, no activity has particular with Fundamental Conventions Nos. 87, covering union been identiﬁed as presenting a compliance risk in this area. freedom and the protection of union rights, and 98, covering the 2013 2012 2011 HR 05 Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association 0 0 0 and collective bargaining may be at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation In the case of indicator HR 04, Essilor complies in particular with to ﬁve a year Group-wide) have not been proven. There was no Fundamental Conventions Nos. 100, covering equal pay, and 111, procedure leading to sanctions in 2013. covering discrimination (employment and occupation). The few See also “Anti-discrimination policy” above in the “Equal allegations brought to us each year and which have triggered a opportunities” Section. procedure to classify incidents of discrimination (on average two HR 04 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 2013 0 2012 0 2011 0 4 Elimination of forced or compulsory labor In the case of indicator HR 07, Essilor complies in particular with covering the abolition of forced labor. To date, no activity has been Fundamental Conventions Nos. 29, covering forced labor, and 105, identiﬁed as presenting a compliance risk in this area. 2013 2012 2011 HR 07 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced 0 0 0 or compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. The effective abolition of child labor In the case of indicator HR 06, Essilor complies in particular with 182, covering the worst forms of child labor. To date, no activity Fundamental Conventions Nos. 138, covering minimum age, and has been identiﬁed as presenting a compliance risk in this area. 2013 2012 2011 HR 06 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor, 0 0 0 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 201 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Environmental information 4.3 Environmental information As a signatory to the Global Compact, and in its desire to comply with, support and promote within its sphere of inﬂuence the seventh, eighth and ninth of the Compact’s 10 principles in particular (although not restricted to those), Essilor adopts a precautionary approach vis-à-vis the environment, researching initiatives to promote environmental responsibility and encouraging the development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies. The Group is committed to participating in sustainable development initiatives by helping to protect the environment and by promoting recyclable products. It also complies fully with all applicable environmental regulations, regardless of application scope or geographical region. By its very nature, Essilor’s business has only a limited impact on the environment. Nevertheless, a voluntary process has long been in place to accurately determine the environmental impact, however slight, of its activities. Essilor manages several hundred thousand stock-keeping units and its products must be kept immaculately clean throughout the production process. By optimizing the use of natural resources (water and energy, for example) on an ongoing basis, and by keeping premises clean and orderly, the Group’s environmental management systems contribute signiﬁcantly to plant efficiency. Essilor’s “green revolution” began in the middle of last century with the introduction of the famous ORMA® (ORganic MAterial) lens to replace mineral lenses. This technological breakthrough paved the way to the abandonment of traditional manufacturing methods which consisted of extracting silica, treating it with heavy minerals (potash, soda, metal oxides, etc.) and melting it in high-temperature furnaces. Today this substitution is almost complete in mature markets but requires further encouragement in most emerging markets if the same levels of success are to be achieved. To convince eyeglass wearers of the beneﬁts of this simple solution to the integrity, health and safety of the eye, Essilor is now promoting only the lightest, most resistant and most environmentally friendly corrective lenses made of thermoset resins or thermoplastics. Corrective lenses made from thermoplastic materials can be recycled to manufacture new items, but may not be used again in the manufacture of corrective lenses. This means that it is not possible to introduce a circular economy in the optics businesses. One pair of corrective lenses does not represent signiﬁcant ﬁnal waste for the environment. Against this backdrop, the Group is still steadily reducing its use of resources per corrective lens produced and delivered, and working hard to make even more improvements in this area. In 2013, Essilor opened its new French Innovation and Technology Center (CIT) in Créteil. It is the world’s largest research center entirely dedicated to ophthalmic optics. Its goal is to strengthen the capacity for innovation at Essilor, which has a global network in keeping with its ambitions as market leader. The French Center for Innovation and Technology is home to almost 900 employees from R&D, Engineering, Worldwide Operations, Logistics, Purchasing, and Quality. It is a multi-disciplinary organization that will strengthen the teams’ operational efficiency. The project was architecturally ambitious and designed to be environmentally friendly. It includes a four-level, 15,000 m2 building entirely dedicated to research, development and engineering, with space divided into research laboratories, high-tech facilities and offices. Most importantly, the building was constructed to high-quality environmental standards and is certified under France’s HEQ (High Environmental Quality) system. Essilor chose to make the building energy efficient through the use of renewable energies such as geothermal energy, the installation of 700 m2 of solar panels, and optimized consumption of resources. The building’s upper levels operate at “positive energy,” meaning that they produce more energy than they consume. Planted terraces and green spaces complement these new facilities to provide a modern, pleasant work environment. 4.3.1 General environmental policy Organization of the Company to take into account ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems addressing local targets and objectives have been set up and are environmental issues and, where appropriate, maintained at Essilor’s 13 upstream plants. All of the production processes for environmental assessment or facilities worldwide, i.e. in Brazil (1), China (1), France (3), Ireland certiﬁcation (1), Mexico (1), the Philippines (2), Puerto Rico (1), Thailand (1) and the United States (2) were ISO 14001-certiﬁed as of December 31, Staffed in particular with experts in the environment and chemical 2013 and, in fact, have been since December 31, 2005. The management, the Global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) certification ratio of the environmental management systems Department provides the network of EHS correspondents at the Group’s upstream production facilities remains at its throughout the organization with assistance and support in these maximum level of 100% (13/13). areas. In 2013, inspection audits were carried out as planned. In line with Essilor’s decentralized management policy, which focuses on empowering local front-line managers, the individual In addition to the mass production sites mentioned above, entities have their own health, safety and environment experts. and whenever relevant, some of the largest prescription and service laboratories in terms of volume handled have also set up environmental management systems that are ISO 14001-certiﬁed. 202 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Environmental information 4 Other prescription and service laboratories, as well as smaller The goal is to help site employees implement the principles of entities for which the formal installation of an environmental the Group’s EHS policy both locally and practically. This teaching management system is not justified, ensure that preventative is usually done in the presence of a team or site manager who environmental impact management is handled in similar fashion uses these modules to support training and interaction on local by their ad hoc committees, composed of general service or speciﬁcities. The modules can also be used individually as part of maintenance experts, as part of a continuous improvement an online training course. process, much like the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle. Available in English, they are distributed to the entire EHS network In 2013, Essilor’s prescription laboratories stepped up their for on-site use and made available to new entities joining the efforts to reduce water and energy consumption, continuing the Group during their ﬁrst meeting with the Global EHS Department. initiatives already well under way at mass production plants. A total of 112 laboratories in North America (USA and Canada), South America (Brazil), Europe and the AMERA (Asia-Pacific, Means employed to prevent environmental Middle East, Russia, Africa) region (effectively, the rest of the and pollution risk world) have been singled out to create speciﬁc action plans and For the 12-month reporting period from October 1, 2012 to set themselves targets for 2014. September 30, 2013, a total of €3,710,000 (versus €1,460,000 in 2012) was spent or invested to help prevent environmental Employee training and information risk and pollution. Two exceptional investments were made during the period for €1,200,000 and €800,000 respectively. on environmental protection These two amounts alone accounted for 54% of the Group total The ISO 14001 program provides for the introduction of an and correspond to the renewal of facilities at the end of their environmental policy at each site. One of the recurring aims of amortization period. this policy is to improve training and internal communication on Annual target-based action plans are drawn up to help prevent environmental issues. and reduce environmental risks. Lastly, and despite the very In 2013 numerous training courses were held on aspects of low risk, each site has set up a structure to deal with pollution environmental management in the various entities. The Global incidents that could have consequences – however small – on the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Department continued the environment beyond the Company’s facilities. roll-out of a program developed in 2012 to raise awareness of the EHS policy and the tools for managing EHS risks. It comprises ﬁve modules: Amount of provisions and guarantees for n “When everyone plays their part, we all win”; environmental risk, except in cases where such information is likely to cause serious damage to n “Dealing with the problem at its source”; the Company in an ongoing dispute n “Observe and understand”; Essilor made no provision for environmental risk in 2013. Such 4 n “Taking action”; risks are self-insured. n “EHS management: essential guidelines.” Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 203 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Environmental information 4.3.2 Pollution and waste management Measures to prevent, reduce or repair air, water essentially CO 2 related to power consumption, by controlling energy consumption and streamlining logistics and shipping. and soil discharges that seriously impact the environment The prevention and reduction of water discharges are taken into account whenever relevant. This involves investing in waste Environmental impact assessments of Essilor’s operations water treatment systems, from single or combined filtering, are the basis for the environmental management systems that neutralization, settling and degreasing processes to complete use ISO 14001. They help identify the risk of air, water and soil processing units, puriﬁcation plants or similar treatment facilities. discharge. To date, no risk of air, water or soil discharge has been These measures are designed to reduce loads in existing effluent, identiﬁed as likely to have signiﬁcant impact on the environment. which, in the case of prescription laboratories, are essentially The prevention and reduction of air discharges are taken into suspended solids related to surfacing that are ﬁltered at the job account whenever relevant. For example, the Group’s entities site and sent to a dump as solid waste. invest in devices to treat volatile organic compound (VOC) The possibility of soil discharges likely to impact the emissions, ranging from simple on-site extractors to computerenvironment, even slightly, has been assessed and has led to the controlled bioﬁlters and activated carbon ﬁlters or similar devices implementation of appropriate prevention measures, such as adapted as needed. They set reduction objectives and targets retention devices to deal with accidental spills or the outﬁtting for existing discharges and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, and special management of chemical storage premises. EN21 Total water discharges by quality The Group controls the quality of its water discharges. Suspended materials, COD, and destination ﬁve-day BOD, heavy metals and other general criteria like pH or more speciﬁc ones depending on the requirements of local water agencies are monitored through the environmental management systems. The consolidation of the local data reported in EN21 is not considered relevant information. The Group’s water discharges are treated in compliance with local regulations. Measures to prevent, recycle and dispose of waste ■ Emissions, effluents and waste 2013 2012 EN22 Total weight of waste by type Total quantity of solid waste 22,727t 22,676t and disposal method Of which: Ordinary waste: 17,111t (still called non-hazardous) Special waste: 5,616t (still called hazardous) EN23 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills 2 1 Note: Relates to a ﬁrst accidental spill in October 2012 of 150 liters of monomer and a second in April 2013 of 150 kilograms of preparation for polymerization. These spills ﬂowed by gravity into retention areas provided for this purpose and were then recovered by the HSE services according to established procedures. No effect was observed on either personnel present at the time of the incident, personnel involved in remedying the situation, or on the environment. A procedural review was conducted following the report of the incident and a causal tree analysis. 204 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Environmental information 4 ■ Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental The wide range of Airwear® ophthalmic lenses includes corrective lenses made from impacts of products and services, thermoplastic recyclable material. For reasons of quality, the use of this recycled and extent of impact mitigation material is not possible in the manufacture of new lenses. Such materials are used for other products. The objectives and targets regularly deﬁned in the environmental management systems are essentially designed to reduce the environmental impacts, and in particular to reduce, recycle and reuse resources as much as possible. EN27 Percentage of products sold and In 2007 Essilor Worldwide Operations launched an excellence initiative called the their packaging materials that are Change Accelerating Program (CAP) based on the fundamentals of the EFQM model. reclaimed by category A key strategic initiative, CAP makes it possible to structure and update economic, customer, supplier, human (social and societal) and environmental targets over three years and to develop systems to achieve them. The results are shared with all employees through meetings and other communications tools, such as booklets, which are distributed to all employees in all languages. The program has led to solid strategies, especially concerning the development of human capital, relationships and partnerships with customers, and environmental safeguarding. The Group has initiated permanent measures to reduce, reuse and recycle its packaging materials. All of Essilor’s ranges of ophthalmic lenses are delivered to eye care professionals in cardboard boxes or envelopes made of recycled paper. Cupless® packaging, which has been used for several years and received an innovation award when it was launched at a packaging materials trade show, has made it possible to eliminate the use of several hundred million plastic cups. The elimination of eyewear at the end of the life cycle is not a signiﬁcant environmental nuisance. ■ Compliance 2013 2012 (@) EN28 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes 0 0 EN28 Total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 0 (@) 0 4 with environmental laws and regulations Preventing waste generation starts with consistently good results Essilor entities have a waste sorting system to manage their from quality-control management systems, which signiﬁcantly ordinary and special industrial waste. This waste is recorded and limits the potential occurrence of manufacturing defects. This is taken away by certiﬁed specialist companies. followed by recycling and reusing materials and/or components whenever appropriate. Two good examples of this are: Consideration of noise pollution and any n the recycling of more than 95% of elastomer joints used in large-scale manufacturing and which are cleaned, ground and other form of pollution speciﬁc to an activity ﬁnally mixed with 5% new material to produce new joints; and No complaints about noise, odor or any other form of specific n the use of Cupless boxes, an innovation in cardboard packaging pollution were received in 2013. that offers a number of beneﬁts, including dispensing with the plastic cup previously used to protect the lens inside, without altering the level of protection. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 205 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Environmental information 4.3.3 Sustainable use of resources Water used The targets set for 2014 by the environmental management systems apply worldwide and are part of the Worldwide Operations Change Accelerating Program (CAP) which aims to further reduce water consumption by approximately 10% at equal produced volume. 2013 2012 3 EN 08 Total water withdrawal Total water use 4,061,716 m 2,993,065 m3 Note: The increase in water use in absolute value (1,068,651 m3) and as a percentage (35.7%) is due to the addition of entities to the reporting perimeter, a portion of which comes from entities from the previous period whose water use had not been disclosed in the ﬁrst year of reporting as a precaution. Overall, the average amount of water used per lens produced at Essilor continues to decrease. Water supply based on local restrictions upstream production facilities, prescription and service laboratories, and distribution centers. Where appropriate, these Most Essilor sites are generally located in industrial or urban systems are ISO 9001-certified, such as those at the Group’s areas where access to water is provided by local authorities. As upstream production facilities. They operate in a number of part of its Environment, Health and Safety medium-term rolling different ways, depending on the activity. The Group also conducts action plan, the Group has incorporated the reduction of water a more general EFQM process across all disciplines. and energy consumption into its Change Accelerating Program (CAP) and made this a priority. Within the Group’s worldwide This continuous improvement in total quality management helps scope, targets have been set regarding the overall reduction optimize returns and minimize manufacturing waste. in the amount of water used per lens produced. This reduction The quality of Essilor’s logistics operations is also particularly corresponds to an ongoing improvement under the “three Rs crucial: every day the Group delivers around a million corrective program,” introduced to “reduce, reuse and recycle” this resource. lenses to eye care professionals (its customers) around the world. These lenses are then passed on to some 500,000 customers, who not only have different names but also different prescriptions. Consumption of raw materials and measures Thanks to the vast array of methods used by Essilor to manage taken to improve the efficiency of their use the quality of its products and services, the Company delivers products to its customers that have the correct name and are medically exact, thus limiting the risk of dissatisfaction, returns ■ Materials and re-manufacture. One of the key measures employed by Essilor on a daily basis Lastly, Essilor uses all methods to streamline the use of its for more efficient use of raw materials is the quality-control consumable goods, reduce factory waste, and recover, reuse or management systems set up and maintained at the Group’s recycle materials whenever possible. 2013 2012 EN 01 Materials used Raw materials – 7,547 t (@) 7,188t standard substrates Raw materials – 8,025 t (@) 7,602t other substrates EN 02 Percentage of materials used In general, the Group cannot use recycled materials to manufacture its that are recycled input materials corrective lenses. It recycles all input materials that can be realistically recycled, sometimes in very signiﬁcant proportions (95% for elastomer joints, for example). For reasons of quality, the use of recycled organic materials cannot be considered in the manufacture of ophthalmic lenses. Such materials are used for other products. 206 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Environmental information 4 Energy consumption and measures taken To date it is still difficult for most sites to use renewable energies, except in countries where these are available and offered as an to improve energy efficiency and the use option to industrial customers by energy providers. of renewable energies One of the three online training sessions available on the Essilor Essilor has been steadily improving energy efficiency at its sites Academy to Save Energy (EASE) intranet site is designed to for many years, consistently introducing objectives and targets provide training and a continuous flow of information on good as part of programs to control energy consumption related to the practices, and monitor energy-saving technological developments. medium-term rolling action plan, which is reviewed annually by The targets set for 2014 by the environmental management the Global EHS Department. The ﬁrst nine sections of this plan systems apply worldwide and are part of the Worldwide are devoted to energy. Operations Change Accelerating Program (CAP) which aims to Gains have been made in the most traditional areas and the further reduce energy consumption by approximately 10% at general need now is to continue to make strides in at least two equal produced volume. directions that are less immediately practical and feasible, This Worldwide Operations strategy is built on the fundamental namely: concepts of the EFQM excellence model. It makes it possible to n improving energy efficiency in existing buildings with a view to organize three-year program targets into areas of economics and possibly rebuilding them; and ﬁnance, customers, people (employees and the community) and n producing detailed energy studies of proven production the environment, and to develop strategies to achieve them. processes in view of making changes in the future while continuing to adhere to strict manufacturing quality criteria. 2013 2012 EN 03 Direct energy Electricity 518.0 GWh 461.5 GWh consumption by Gas 68.9 GWh 65.5 GWh primary energy source Liquid fuel 8.6 GWh 7.7 GWh TOTAl 595.5 GWh 534.7 GWh EN 04 Indirect energy consumption by primary Transportation is assessed for energy consumption in four separate energy source categories: primary (from manufacturing unit to distribution center), secondary (from distribution center to subsidiary), tertiary (from subsidiary to customer) and business travel. In 2013, the ﬁrst two categories were calculated and translated into tons of CO2 equivalent emitted, which are provided under EN17. 4 A second assessment of emissions of CO2 equivalent from tertiary transportation, of the order of a thousand tons, was once again performed in 2013. Its reporting perimeter included measuring ﬂows directly to the end customers of six high-volume global prescription laboratories plus the ﬂows from the last kilometer of prescription laboratories in France and the United States. Emissions related to business travel recorded for a population group of 1,500, of whom at least half are considered “major travelers,” are also reported in EN17. The use of corrective lenses does not require any energy source. Their end-of-life impact is negligible. Note: The increase in energy use in absolute value (60.4 GWh) and as a percentage (11.3%) year-on-year is due to the addition of entities to the reporting perimeter, a portion of which come from entities from the previous period whose energy use had not been disclosed in the ﬁrst year of reporting as a precaution. Overall, the average amount of energy used per lens produced at Essilor is constantly decreasing. Use of soil Essilor carries out its business in industrial buildings, usually is therefore not used in the Group’s operations per se, but rather located in existing industrial zones or commercial premises. Soil is associated with the buildings the Group occupies. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 207 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Environmental information 4.3.4 Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions This made a total for 2013 of 22,620t (2012: 23,900t). CO2 emissions related to energy consumption (electricity, liquid The assessment of CO2 emissions related to tertiary transportation and gaseous fuel) provided under EN 03 in the above table were (the so-called last-kilometer deliveries to eye care professionals) assessed at 60,908 t for 2013 (2012: 55,100t). This figure is was further refined in 2013 by expanding the measurements provided in the EN16 indicator table below, under “Total direct and to cover a broader perimeter, including deliveries to Group indirect greenhouse gas emissions.” customers across a large portion of the United States, France, part of the rest of Europe, and part of Asia. For more than seven The following three headings are totaled in the EN17 indicator years, this ﬁrst calculation has been adding approximately 2,000 table below, under “Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas tons to the quantities measured and documented for primary and emissions.” These include: secondary transportation. It is still too early to publish a ﬁgure n CO 2 emissions related to primary transportation (from a with a sufficiently signiﬁcant scope. However, it underscores once production unit to a distribution center) were assessed at again that the ﬁnal kilometer tends to have relatively little impact 4,830t for 2013 (2012: 4,680t); on the total. The reason, which is counterintuitive but applies across all Group businesses, is that the products transported n CO 2 emissions related to secondary transportation (from a are light and compact and delivery schedules are streamlined. distribution center to a subsidiary) were assessed at 10,980t Throughout the world, no truck leaves with only one pair of lenses for 2012 (2011: 11,230t); for delivery to a single eye care professional if it is to return n CO2 emissions related to a signiﬁcant portion of professional empty. Deliveries are made via all means of transport available travel were assessed at 6,810t in 2013 (2012: 7,990t). at a Group supplier, including in some cases electric vehicles and cargo tricycles. 2013 2012 (@) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tCO2eq) 60,908t 55,100t EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tCO2eq) 22,620t(@) 23,900t Note 1: For ﬁscal year 2013, Essilor uses the following conversion factors: 86 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour of electricity; 200 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour of gas; 300 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour of fuel oil. They have been applied to the total consumption of the entities that report it. The same factors were applied for ﬁscal year 2012, which makes the comparison easier. Note 2: Essilor was late in receiving the new 2009-2011 data from the International Energy Agency announcing a conversion factor of 71 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour of electricity for France, and 533 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour in electricity for the world average. The Group wanted to keep the conversion factor of 86 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour of electricity. Listed in the Low Carbon 100 Europe® Index, Essilor International In general, it is kept. When it is ﬁnally thrown away, the end-of-life is already in the low carbon economy thanks to the light impact is negligible. environmental footprint of its products and services, particularly Corrective lenses from the Airwear® range of products are made with regard to greenhouse gases. from thermoplastic material which can be recycled at the end of The Group’s greenhouse gas emissions are largely indirect its life cycle to produce items other than corrective lenses. The emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) generated by the manufacture logistics involved in the recovery of this material are complicated and distribution of corrective lenses and the Group’s peripheral and the economic and ecological tally remains negative to date. activities. However, they are limited to a few hundred grams per Recovery initiatives are currently being developed by the recycling lens produced. In most countries, the service life of a lens far centers with which the Group works. These initiatives to recycle exceeds one year. old spectacles for re-use are gradually being discontinued because of their complexity, ineffectiveness and limits in terms of In terms of an analysis of the ecological life cycle, a corrective visual accuracy and aesthetic acceptance. lens delivered to a customer by an eye care professional requires no energy to “function.” Contrary to any logic, an old pair of spectacles is only rarely thrown away when a new pair is received. 208 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Environmental information 4 2013 2012 EN16 + EN17 Total emissions related to EN16 and EN17 83,528t 79,000t EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 0t 0t EN 20 NOx, SOx and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight t(@) t Note: The Group’s NOx and SOx emissions are negligible and therefore a negligible amount is reported as in the table for indicator EN20. Adapting to the consequences of climate change As a signatory to the United Nations Caring for Climate initiative, risks, including those of natural disasters related to climate Essilor International is aware of the challenges related to climate change. Essilor wants to protect against such risks as much as change in general. possible and react early and optimally should they occur. From the first stages preceding a potential acquisition to the To this end, the Group pays particular attention to the locations of implementation of specific action plans in environmental its manufacturing plants. management systems, the Company strives to identify all possible 4.3.5 Safeguarding biodiversity Measures taken to safeguard or develop biodiversity 2013 2012 2 EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 0m 0 m2 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN 12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services See note below See note below on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity outside protected areas Note: Finding potential signiﬁcant impacts on biodiversity is one of the aims of the environmental management systems. No such signiﬁcant impact has been identiﬁed at this time. Should a potential signiﬁcant impact come to be identiﬁed following a change in existing conditions, the environmental management systems making 4 such a discovery will also be used immediately to conduct analyses and then implement target and objective-based action plans. This new information will be automatically incorporated into the continuous system improvement process to ﬁnd an effective solution. Essilor uses biodiversity mapping at all of its sites around the world. This method supplements the Group’s traditional reporting procedures and provides information on indicator EN11 in particular. The mapping is updated at regular intervals and is extremely useful for characterizing a location’s biodiversity during the due diligence process. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 209 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Information on societal commitment to promote sustainable development 4.4 Information on societal commitment to promote sustainable development Essilor’s products and services have great social utility and a light environmental footprint. The Company’s mission therefore ﬁts very naturally with the economic, human and environmental objectives of sustainable development and several of the Millennium Development Goals. Giving everyone access to visual health is Essilor’s main sustainable development challenge and opportunities. It combines the Group’s economic operations and its contribution to society, since the principle of good sight for a better life has a very strong positive impact and is a major societal challenge. This mission, summed up in the Group’s motto (“Seeing the world better®”) and in that of its Foundation (“Better life through better sightSM”), is geared toward eye care professionals and is what drives the Group to serve an ever increasing number of countries, given that equal sight for all is still not guaranteed around the world for those who were not born with perfect eyes and perfect sight. The Company’s strategy and mission, along with the commitment of its employees, is therefore entirely dedicated to this goal, which is both economic and human. 4.4.1 Regional, economic and social impact of the Company’s activities Impact on employment and regional development The production and distribution of corrective lenses, which are a The Group’s global purchasing guidelines pertain to materials, useful product by their very nature, has only a light environmental components or equipment used directly in the manufacture footprint. As a rule, it does not bother local populations, who of corrective lenses. This controlled, sound approach ensures greatly welcome these products. compliance with the international quality criteria established by the Group, their reproducibility and the ease with which sites can The Group’s activities generate direct and indirect jobs. On diversify their production as needed. average, local suppliers and subcontractors represent around 50% of a production site’s purchasing, a percentage that is often In addition to the development generated by the Group’s activities, considerably higher for a prescription laboratory or distribution products are often distributed regionally. subsidiary. EC 01 Direct economic value generated The Group’s economic value breaks down into many components (revenue, operating and distributed, including revenues, expenses, employee expenses, donations, income and payroll taxes, dividends, etc.) operating costs, employee that are itemized herein. Refer to the corresponding pages. compensation, donations and other Essilor’s socio-economic footprint for ﬁscal year 2013 can be summarized by the community investments, retained following items in descending order of importance: earnings and payments to capital providers and governments n revenue: €5,065 million; n trade payables: €2,904 million; n employees: €1,597 million; n income and payroll taxes: €199 million; n shareholders: €218 million; and n ﬁnancial expenses: €8 million. EC 02 Financial implications and other The Group is not usually exposed to natural risks. It is not concerned by emission risks and opportunities for the permits. Nevertheless, the Group is participating in the “Carbon Disclosure Project” organization’s activities due to and “Water Disclosure Project” initiatives and is signatory to the “Caring for Climate” climate change initiative. Opportunities relating to the protection of eyes through corrective lenses in a context where climate change may inﬂuence the quantity and/or the nature of harmful rays have not yet been evaluated with enough precision. However, the protection function of the corrective lens may be included here, particularly against harmful ultraviolet rays in general (Xpério® and several other lens ranges) and a particular type of blue ray (the Preventia® lens). 210 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Information on societal commitment to promote sustainable development 4 EC 03 Coverage of the organization’s The Group offers employees a wide variety of pension and savings plans in countries deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations. around the world. Refer to the corresponding pages of this 2013 Registration Document. EC 04 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance The Group enjoys total operational independence. received from government. Impact on local and neighboring populations oversight of its customers and prescribers, followed by eyesight tests and equipment manufacturing. Essilor’s activities generate employment directly and indirectly. These activities beneﬁt employees and their families, and extend Alongside these initiatives, which focus on Essilor’s core to the entire community. business and the skills of its employees, Essilor spearheads other charitable actions usually related to solving problems By providing training, the Group helps raise the skill levels and seeking opportunities related to what is most needed in the and employability of local workers. The association and close community. They are conducted under the aegis of the Essilor correlation between Vision and Development allows Essilor to Vision Foundation network. undertake initiatives that link education professionals with eye care professionals. For Essilor, most of these initiatives consist in conducting screening campaigns (mostly in schools) under the EC 06 Policy, practices, and proportion of Essilor has a centralized purchasing policy to ensure consistency of supplies, high spending on locally based suppliers quality throughout the world, and compliance with universal good manufacturing at signiﬁcant locations of operation practices. This policy is generally applied to raw materials and key products or services used in the composition or manufacture of corrective lenses. The Group also generates signiﬁcant business ﬂows with its suppliers of generally consumable products and local services on a quasi-exclusive basis for all purchases outside the scope of this central referencing. Local distributors of centrally referenced products also beneﬁt from the Group’s proximity, which results in a balanced situation. The Group has a responsible purchasing policy which includes items featured in a Responsible Purchasing Charter based essentially on the goal of complying with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. EC 07 Procedures for local hiring and The Group encourages the local recruitment of management teams in its subsidiaries proportion of senior management hired at signiﬁcant locations of and, more generally, enforces the principle of local decision-making. The proportion of senior managers hired locally at the main operational sites is greater than 80%. 4 operation EC 08 Development and impact of The global indicator EC 08 is not relevant to the Group’s industry segment. infrastructure investments and It is therefore not reported. services provided primarily for public beneﬁt through a commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 211 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Information on societal commitment to promote sustainable development 4.4.2 Relationships with persons or organizations interested in the company’s business activities, particularly inclusion associations, educational establishments, environmental protection associations, consumer associations, and neighboring populations Conditions for interacting with the above In general, Essilor does not have a direct relationship with the end consumer. Its products and services require a prescription, set-up The Group’s key stakeholders are its employees, customers, and adjustment by an eye care professional. Therefore, it is to eye prescribers, shareholders, suppliers and various local authorities care professionals that consumer associations turn. However, if in the countries in which it operates. Relationships with these and Essilor customers or prescribers have insufficient information to other stakeholders are generally handled locally by the facilities, answer questions from consumer associations about corrective departments, services and individuals concerned, under the lenses, Essilor will provide these eye care professionals with supervision of the Legal Entity Department. additional details on its products and services. Inclusion associations are managed by local departments as It is also essentially these professionals who manage relationships part of their relationships with stakeholders. When a program with corrective lens wearers, relationships that lead to innovation is initiated or developed and has global scope, it is managed at and improvements or additions to the Group’s range of products the Group level. One such example would be Special Olympics, and services. Essilor’s consumer relations departments typically an international charitable association operating in 170 countries refer consumer questions to the professionals who have helped and which supports some 200 million mentally disabled people, them individually. both adults and children, offering them sporting activities and educational and health programs, including visual health. Essilor Relationships with neighboring populations are handled locally, supports all Special Olympics events and provides athletes with usually through resident associations. A number of the Group’s corrective lenses. plants organize open days where local residents can visit the site to see how it operates. The visits are arranged so that circulation Relationships with educational establishments also fall under within workshops is limited, intellectual property is protected and the responsibility of local departments. These logically pertain safety and security are maintained. to establishments teaching topics related to jobs in the eye care industry but are not solely limited to this field. Again, when a program aimed at an educational establishment is initiated or Partnership or sponsorship initiatives developed and has global scope, it is managed at the Group level. Partnership or skills sponsorship initiatives at Essilor take on An example of a program managed at Group level is the Vision a variety of forms and may be local or international. When a and Development International Forum, which was organized partnership is initiated or developed and has international scope, in partnership with UNESCO in 2004, 2005 and 2006 for World it is managed at the Group level. Sight Day. It brought together educational professionals and sight One such partnership is that set up by Essilor International professionals. There is in fact a close correlation between good with the Lions Clubs International Foundation. The partnership sight and an individual’s development when they have access has a number of targeted actions, the key one being the longto education, science and culture. To the extent possible, Essilor term establishment of self-sufficient, long-lasting optics and makes a modest contribution to UNESCO’s Education for All eyewear dispensaries in ophthalmic hospitals, whose activity had movement and to achieving the second Millennium Development previously been largely limited to cataract operations. Goal: universal primary education. In addition to helping individuals, this support fosters the harmonious development of The program began in 2005 in one country, Madagascar, at the societies as a whole. Antananarivo Ophthalmology Hospital. It was co-financed by the Sight First program and the Madagascan Lions Clubs, which A good example of a program managed by Group employees at the teamed up with Sight First Madagascar. The pilot project had all Foundation level is the Adopt-A-School program. the elements for success, from training eye care professionals to Relationships with environmental protection associations are managing the optics and eyewear center. Support was provided in also handled locally by local departments and their environmental large part by the Group’s retired specialists, who provided training experts. These relationships are part of local environmental for a career as an optician. The center became self-sufficient management systems. The Group’s Corporate Sustainability within ﬁve years. Department represents Essilor International on official bodies For the Lions Clubs International Foundation and Essilor, the and associations or in global initiatives, particularly, although not experience was mutually beneficial and demonstrated how a limited to, those related to United Nations environmental actions. traditional charitable, humanitarian approach can gradually be To the extent possible, Essilor makes a modest contribution to transformed into an inclusive-economy model in which local achieving the seventh Millennium Development Goal: ensuring responsibility consists in generating an economy based on environmental sustainability. building entrepreneurial skills. This success led the two partners to extend their collaboration by signing a long-term agreement aimed at developing this model in other countries. To the extent possible, Essilor makes a modest contribution to achieving the eighth Millennium Development Goal: instituting a global partnership for development. 212 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Information on societal commitment to promote sustainable development 4 In 2013, the two partners created two new centers on the African The Foundation was created in 2007 in the United States based continent, one in Cameroon and the other in Kenya. Essilor on two programs, Adopt-A-School and Kids Vision for Life. Its International offered each center an initial inventory of 10,000 goal is to eliminate poor sight and its consequences throughout lenses under the aegis of the Essilor Vision Foundation. a person’s lifetime. It provides expertise to Essilor entities and supervises projects that fall within its selection standards. It also As in Africa, Essilor’s strictly charitable initiatives throughout consistently studies the impact of actions undertaken. the world are carried out under the aegis of the Essilor Vision Foundation. In 2013, Essilor Vision Foundations were created in Brazil and Colombia. SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness The Group is aware of its role in the communities in which its employees live and of any programs and practices that work. Its presence generates business for local entrepreneurs and jobs for local assess and manage the impacts populations. of operations in communities, Environmental commitments and impacts are assessed in the context of the including entering, operating Group’s environmental management systems. The many examples of the Group’s and exiting contributions to communities are provided on the Company’s website (www.essilor. com) and on the website of the Essilor Foundation (www.essilorvisionfoundation.org). Refer to the above. 4.4.3 Subcontractors and suppliers Social and environmental challenges incorporated This strategy is communicated to suppliers and to Group employees involved in purchasing and supply. Speciﬁc awarenessinto the Company’s purchasing policy raising modules have been created. They contain methods Since 2003, Essilor has included environmental and social criteria enabling those involved to link elements of the Responsible in its general purchasing conditions. Purchasing Charter with supplier evaluation. Essilor’s purchasing and supply policy is aligned with the Essilor Principles and contains a Responsible Purchasing Charter based Importance of subcontracting and taking account on the principles of the Global Compact signed by Essilor in 2003. The policy is based on compliance of its suppliers and the quality of the social and environmental responsibility of 4 suppliers and subcontractors of their products and services. Adherence to the Responsible Purchasing Charter and compliance with its principles are an Subcontracting is largely limited to activities outside the core integral part of supplier evaluation, on a par with the assessment business of manufacturing and distributing corrective lenses. of their competitiveness and control over the quality of their These range from building maintenance to contracts with local products or services. The purpose behind supplier dialogue is to or international shippers. Like suppliers, subcontractors are achieve continuous improvement. subject to Essilor’s purchasing and supply policy, its Responsible Purchasing Charter and its general purchasing conditions. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 213 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Information on societal commitment to promote sustainable development 4.4.4 Fair practices To promote fair practices in its business, one of the many steps identify and prevent legal risk upstream by ensuring that our taken by Essilor International is the dissemination, understanding actions comply with the rules of law. The new division deﬁnes and and use of various documents based on its existing Guide to Group carries out awareness and information campaigns, performs legal Standards. For example, the document entitled Minimum Control audits, and assists Group employees in their compliance effort. Standards serves as a point of reference for internal control. It is To fulﬁl its remit, the Legal Compliance Division focuses as much part of the following series of documents: on company stakeholders as it does on compliance with the rules n Essilor Principles; of law in order to: n Minimum Control Standards; n educate stakeholders about the fact that compliance depends on their behavior; n Guide to Group Standards; n provide information on compliant behavior; n Detailed Rules and Policies (local, regional and/or Group level). n make the basic concepts of law easier to understand; It is divided into 19 sections as follows: n shape, in consequence, judgment to promote best practices; n Group requirements – general guidelines; n instill reﬂection and vigilance. n Information systems; To achieve the above, the division has to be familiar with practices, n Roles and responsibilities; and therefore it: n Business continuity plan; n performs legal audits to understand and improve behavior; n Purchasing and supplies; n identiﬁes risks and the compliance actions to be implemented; n Fixed assets; n deploys the Group’s compliance policy in collaboration with n Inventories; local legal advisors and reports on this policy along with the n Sales and receivables; associated legal risks; n Cash and ﬁnancing; n formalizes and disseminates the rules of conduct in legal matters. n Reporting and consolidation; n Legal affairs and tax laws; Anti-corruption initiatives n Tax policy; The sector in which Essilor operates is not considered a sector n Insurance policy; in which corruption is a characteristic challenge. This does not n Intellectual property policy; prevent the Group from taking action within its sphere of inﬂuence n Legal compliance; against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. As a signatory to the Global Compact and member of Transparency n Personnel management and human resources; International®, Essilor complies with, supports and promotes the n Health, safety and the environment; UN convention against corruption. n Acquisitions; One of the documents on the list of Rules and Policies speciﬁed at local, regional and/or Group level is dedicated to corruption n Capital transactions. issues. Translated into more than 30 languages, it is available on the Translated into local languages, it is formally presented to staff, Group’s Internal Audit portal. usually by managers and/or local and global experts. AwarenessIn addition, the increasingly strict legal and regulatory contexts raising modules, called “audio-video kits,” have been developed to have required compliance efforts to be stepped up to protect adapt the document to the local culture and legal environment of against legal risk. each country. Legal compliance consists in implementing procedures for Group employees receive regular information and education internal control and preventing the legal risk posed by the on the Group’s gifts policy and conﬂicts of interest, and speciﬁc company’s activities. training has been introduced for Group buyers. Anti-corruption The Group Legal Affairs and Development Department therefore information is provided on a regular basis on the Group Legal created a Legal Compliance Division in January 2009 that meets Affairs and Development Department’s intranet site, in the section the new legal requirements. Its cross-disciplinary role is to reserved for the Legal Compliance Division. 214 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Information on societal commitment to promote sustainable development 4 ■ Corruption 2013 2012 SO 02 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for % % risks related to corruption SO 03 Percentage of employees trained in the organization’s antiCurrently, the number of employees trained as a percentage corruption policies and procedures is not reported. Training in the local language follows educational programs rolled out gradually by the Group’s Executive Committee. All Group senior managers received training, except for a few rare exceptions due to being hired too recently or other exceptional circumstances. SO 04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Termination for cause. Sanctions are listed in the Internal Regulations and/or other relevant documents. Note: As needed, certain areas of strategic activities, including but not limited to acquisitions, are analyzed for corruption risks, hence the negligible percentage () in the table for indicator SO2. ■ Public policies SO 05 Public policy positions and The Group is not involved in political activities. It collaborates with public sector participation in public policy stakeholders as and when necessary. It participates in the compilation of international development and lobbying standards and in other global activities of interest to its business. It is a member of professional associations related to its industry. ■ Compliance 2013 2012 SO 08 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total Signiﬁcant ﬁnes 0(@) 0 number of non-monetary sanctions for non(@) SO 08 Non-monetary sanctions 0 0 compliance with laws and regulations 4 Measures taken regarding consumer health Consequently, Essilor assesses the quality of its corrective lenses in tests conducted on human wearers only. Wearers are asked to and safety compare several lenses being assessed. This process, which takes Essilor International prescription ophthalmic lenses are several months and calls for hundreds of people, allows Essilor’s considered a Class 1 medical device. Neither invasive nor in direct Research and Innovation Departments to continually enhance and contact with human tissue, they are first prescribed and then, perfect the visual experience. after measuring the patient’s parameters in order for an exact Furthermore, no new chemical component requiring toxicology mount, inserted into spectacle frames that are adjusted to the tests is used in the Group’s innovations. Should this be the patient’s face by an eye care professional. case in the future, alternatives to animal testing would be used Essilor International believes that as a precaution it is important systematically, such as OECD cell culture tests, since Essilor does to gather all relevant information concerning the non-toxic and not perform any toxicology tests on animals. safe nature of each of its new products before they are placed on The Group invests heavily in research and development and its the market so that the end wearer is assured of safe use even in international teams develop new, innovative and sophisticated unpredictable situations. products that people enjoy wearing and that offer benefits in Essilor International does not conduct any tests on animals. terms of visual comfort, eye safety and improved vision. In Sight is a combination of optical factors and unique neurological its mission to enable people to “see the world better,” Essilor and sensory factors resulting in parameters of visual comfort, International is constantly concerned about protecting the acuity and wonder, which can in no way be replicated in animal integrity, health and safety of the eye. testing. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 215 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Information on societal commitment to promote sustainable development ■ Consumer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Hygiene, health and safety aspects are taken into products and services are assessed for improvement, and consideration both upstream and downstream for all percentage of signiﬁcant products and services categories categories of products and services. The HSE Charter for subject to such procedures products and the HSE project guide to which it refers have been established on the basis of knowledge and analysis of steps in the life cycle. ■ Products and services labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by This information is in multiple forms based on the products procedures, and percentage of signiﬁcant products and and services offered as a whole. Each Group distribution services subject to such information requirements subsidiary has information in the local language and complies with these information requirements. ■ Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Each of the distribution subsidiaries monitors its own codes related to marketing communications, including compliance with local current applicable laws, standards and advertising, promotion and sponsorship voluntary codes. ■ Compliance 2013 2012 (@) PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations 0 0 concerning the provision and use of products and services. 4.4.5 Other initiatives undertaken to promote human rights Other initiatives undertaken to promote is communicating for the beneﬁt of their health and who is being offered a selection of new products of world-class quality. human rights Most of these initiatives are designed to facilitate access to good The sector in which Essilor operates is not considered a sector in sight through vision screening, eye examinations and spectacle which human rights are usually a challenge. However, this does manufacture. A number of other initiatives are being led outside not prevent the Group from respecting human rights and ensuring the world of ophthalmic optics. All beneﬁt populations in need. they are respected within its sphere of inﬂuence. Essilor pays very close attention to the selection of its local suppliers in countries More specifically, the success of the long-time partnership considered more exposed to human rights challenges. with Special Olympics is due to the involvement of Essilor employees, customers, prescribers and suppliers, as well as All charitable activities in which Essilor group entities are other stakeholders who are equally generous in offering “better involved around the world under the auspices of the Essilor life through better sightSM” to a minority group among the world’s Vision Foundation can be considered to make a modest, indirect most disadvantaged populations, which has often been ignored. contribution to promoting, respecting and enforcing the protection Discovering or recovering the beneﬁts of good or improved sight of international law relating to human rights within its sphere of has certainly contributed to the life-changing power and joy of inﬂuence. sport for mentally disabled children and adults. In addition to promoting good sight, these activities restore a This partnership is helping to change the world’s view of this good or better sense of wellbeing in day-to-day living. They are community, enhancing its visibility, and giving it importance and also designed to be accompanied by the respect, recognition and respect. dignity inherent in any relationship with someone with whom one 216 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Note on methodology 4 4.5 Note on methodology Reference to the Global Compact Essilor International has been a signatory to the Global Compact Essilor International summarized its sustainable development since 2003 and assiduously follows its recommendations for policy as one of the key components of its overall performance providing information about progress (COP). in the long term and in providing transparency in the economic, human (social and societal), and environmental aspects of its With the publication of its 2013 Communication on Progress, businesses. The report on its non-ﬁnancial information, which has Essilor International renewed its commitment to make the been published since 2002, is therefore an important part of this 10 principles of the Global Compact an important part of its summary of the Group’s contribution to sustainable development strategy and daily operations. This will continue the success of its and the progress it continues to make when carrying out its corporate mission and ensure that one day each and every person operations. on our planet can enjoy a “Better Life through Better SightSM,” to quote the Essilor Foundation’s motto, and appreciate “Seeing the World Better®,” to quote the Group’s motto. Reference to the Millennium Development Goals Because of the nature of its products and services, which in and uncorrected refractive errors in the case of visual health]), addition to daily wellbeing offer evident utility and social beneﬁts, seventh (protect the environment) and eighth (institute a global Essilor International contributes indirectly to the achievement of partnership for development). several Millennium Development Goals, particularly the second (universal primary education), sixth (combat diseases [blindness Reference to the Company’s contribution to Sustainable Development 4 The ultimate goal of this non-financial reporting is therefore A major competition to award sustainable development medals to ensure that each and every employee working for the Group is held on a regular basis and has contributed to the sharing and takes into consideration the many elements and aspects that dissemination of best practices. constitute sustainable development. Created in 2002, the The existence of management systems in quality control and Group’s Corporate Sustainability Department was designed as environmental and occupational health and safety has led to a simple organizational structure at the corporate level backed the establishment of virtuous circles as part of a process of by the operational divisions, corporate support functions and continuous improvement. Anticipating and preventing risks has management teams of Business Units around the world. These resulted in innovation and the constant discovery of new areas of teams have all learned the issues and conveyed them to their opportunity and savings. staff, creating over time sustainable development ambassadors who today act as an example in their daily life and work, in their The presence of a strong employee shareholder structure communities and in the Company’s sphere of inﬂuence, very often encourages this sense of buy-in of sustainable development well beyond its traditional boundaries. issues that are frequently forward-looking. This goes well beyond a sense of belonging and is very closely correlated with the The publication of the Essilor Principles in all of the Group’s Company’s economic and human objectives. languages is part of the effort to ensure compliance with the Group’s fundamental principles, to share its key values, and adapt to the Group’s many different global cultures. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 217 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Note on methodology Goal and quality of reporting In addition to an annual publication that marks progress and n duplicate the same reporting tool in two very specific is useful on a daily basis as an integral part of a continuing applications but whose common thread, features, activation improvement process, non-ﬁnancial reporting provides the reader and control procedures, user-friendliness, tool knowledge, with information that supplements what is normally provided in continuous training to keep up with changes, and updates of ﬁnancial reporting. In this respect, very careful attention has been general shared information are identical or similar; paid to the quality of the non-ﬁnancial reporting, the aim being n include the report of its non-ﬁnancial information, often called to put it on a par with ﬁnancial reporting. This explains Essilor a “Corporate Sustainability Report,” in the annual Registration International’s decision to: Document, thus making it easier to consolidate data and n rely on the Group’s Finance Departments to produce these two review all useful information so that the reader can judge the reports; Company’s overall performance in a single document. Reporting standards used Until the 2012 fiscal year, Essilor International published its known as the “Grenelle 2 Law,” and continues to adhere to version non-financial information in accordance with two very distinct G3 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) regarding guidelines and standards. The ﬁrst complied with the structure in Article 116 of performance indicators. the French New Economic Regulations (NRE) Law, known as the The new presentation of the Registration Document with this “NRE Law,” and the second followed the guidelines of the Global dedicated fourth Chapter means that the information using Reporting Initiative (GRI). these two standards can be coordinated, streamlined and better Since the fiscal year 2012, Essilor has complied with the Law integrated. of July 12, 2010 on “national commitment to the environment,” Selection and relevance of the indicators The core indicators used are those of the GRI. Only certain relevant The Company’s main sustainable development challenge is that of indicators are published. In some cases, indicators are divided into access. We believe that 4 billion or more out of a little over 7 billion many sub-categories. For example, the indicator for “Materials people on Earth need visual correction. To date, approximately used” (EN 01) collects information on several dozen products 1.5 billion can see well. By contrast, approximately 2.5 billion selected on the basis of their role in the production process of cannot. corrective lenses. The Group’s mission is summarized in its motto, “Seeing the World Essilor belongs to one of the speciﬁc sub-sectors in the APE/NAF better®,” and in the motto of its Foundation, “Better Life through 33 sector, which covers the manufacture of medical, precision and Better SightSM.” optical instruments, and to sub-sector 4537, “Medical Supplies,” The Group’s Corporate Sustainability policy is perfectly aligned of the “Industry Classification Benchmark” (ICB). In terms of with its mission, the ideal pairing of its economic, strategic and sustainable development, Essilor deals with speciﬁc aspects that human objectives, and is the foundation for its position as a are directly linked to the nature of its products and services. It responsible business. is consequently difficult to make a comparative evaluation of the Group. Viewed from this standpoint, the economic indicators of sustainable development take on added importance. This is To overcome this difficulty, Essilor uses the main GRI indicators why the Group decided to closely align all the ﬁnancial and nonthat are most relevant to its operations. ﬁnancial indicators. Speciﬁc methodologies for the indicators The calculation methodologies used for certain social indicators Thus, absenteeism under the social assessment definition may differ widely because of the variation of deﬁnitions in France (business days not worked/number of business days × average and the rest of the world. For the “Absenteeism” indicator in full-time eq. employees) results in absentee data reported in particular, French sites use the social assessment definition, business days, and the average number of employees as “fullwhich is different from the deﬁnition recommended by the Group’s time equivalent,” while Group procedures recommend reporting reporting procedures. absenteeism in calendar days based on the average number of employees (calendar days absent/365 × average number of employees). 218 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Note on methodology 4 Consequently, for entities not yet reporting this data, the Turnover Lastly, some data are obtained from estimates, for instance when (LA 02) and Absenteeism (LA 07) indicators are subject to a multithey are from billing that has a date other than that of the year pronged assessment. end, or when such data are difficult or impossible to collect. In such cases, calculations corresponding to best estimates are The “Frequency rate” and “Severity rate” indicators published recorded and kept by the reporting unit. If the situation changes in 2013 are generated by a tool developed by the Global so that estimates are no longer necessary, the normal procedure Environment, Health and Safety Department and cover a different will be reverted to and advised accordingly. The same applies to reporting perimeter to that of the other indicators. This year, that all other types of changes in data collection, such as when data perimeter was extended for the ﬁrst time. In the long term, the is read directly from a meter on a given date rather than taken Global Environment, Health and Safety Department will continue from billing. to collect data in this monthly reporting tool, which is used for direct operational management. Eventually the data will be automatically loaded into the Hyperion® Sustainability reporting tool. Reporting perimeter Until ﬁscal year 2011, the affiliated companies were not included The amount of data reported in ﬁscal year 2013 is only slightly in the non-financial reporting. Only the companies whose up on that reported in ﬁscal year 2012. Data from entities that operations were managed directly by Essilor on a day-to-day were part of the 2012 reporting and audit process are only being basis reported their non-ﬁnancial data. The Group is continuing published as from this report, following four consistency checks to pursue a process initiated in 2011 that consists in gradually performed at the end of March and September 2012, and the end adding existing or future ﬁnancially consolidated companies to its of March and September 2013. non-ﬁnancial reporting. The reporting perimeter for 2013 was 72.4% (versus 67.3% in Joint ventures were not included in the non-ﬁnancial reporting 2012). perimeter. They will now be progressively included. Reporting period 4 To streamline the organization, coordination and integration of the Interim reporting is done each year at the end of March and Financial and Non-Financial Reports in the ﬁnance departments aggregates the non-financial results from October 1 of the of Group entities, Essilor collected most of its corporate, social previous year to March 30 of the current year. This provides an and environmental information over a period of 12 months from update and allows the Group to identify and perform with enough October 1, 2012 to September 30, 2013. time any corrective actions that may be necessary in the entities that are reporting their data for the ﬁrst time, and to prepare them Information collected for the ﬁscal year from January 1, 2013 to for the ﬁrst real reporting at the end of the year for the period December 31, 2013 is followed in the text or in GRI indicator tables aggregating non-ﬁnancial results from October 1 of the previous by an “at” symbol in superscript: (@). year to September 31 of the current year. Reporting tool Non-financial data is collected and consolidated for reporting daily operational management duties. The decision to use existing purposes through a dedicated reporting application that has been reporting channels, aside from guaranteeing simplicity, reliability based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines since and efficiency, presents the following four main advantages: ﬁscal year 2003 and on the G3 Guidelines since ﬁscal year 2006. n each unit’s ﬁnance and accounting teams are the best equipped The application is a twin version of the application used for to handle non-ﬁnancial data reporting, due to their familiarity financial reporting. It is a financial closing application from with the Group’s reporting systems and procedures; the Oracle group, known as Hyperion®, which has been copied n the finance and accounting teams have the skill sets and in Hyperion ® Figures for financial reporting and Hyperion ® experience to report the necessary data in compliance with Sustainability for non-ﬁnancial reporting. standard quality criteria; The Group’s Finance Departments are responsible for entering n each unit’s ﬁnance teams, working in close cooperation with the data that they collect from specialists within each unit. These senior management, are no longer conﬁned to working solely specialists rely on local reporting systems to process nonon financial data. These teams, which are better informed, ﬁnancial data, which they measure and monitor as part of their involved and aware, participate in the search for new ways Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 219 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Note on methodology to improve the economic, human (social and societal) and Essilor International has already begun taking the necessary environmental aspects of sustainable development and enable steps to implement the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting the Group’s legal entities to learn the issues; Initiative (GRI) to be used for reports published after December 31, 2015. These essentially concern the full review of the indicators’ n experts in each unit continue to use the day-to-day operational current materiality criteria and the broadening of the potential management tools that are familiar to them and are often impact perimeter, which presents sufficient materiality beyond designed for and always geared to their speciﬁc needs. the Group’s own boundaries by including, for example, relevant supply chain stakeholders. Procedures for collecting, consolidating and controlling data Collection is performed by the Group’s Finance Departments performed using a speciﬁc data application, a twin of the one used from specialists in each unit, generally the Human Resources for ﬁnancial reporting, the non-ﬁnancial reporting tool has similar Department or the Health, Hygiene and Safety Department for the functionalities. social information, from Management or the Finance Departments Ultimately, it is the Corporate Sustainability Department that is themselves for societal information, and from the Purchasing responsible for the general control and publication of the nonDepartment in collaboration with the Environment Department or ﬁnancial reporting. General Services Department for the environmental information. As consolidation and control of non-financial information is Independent veriﬁcation Following the entry into force of Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law As the audit relates to all published CSR information, we have and its application decree of April 24, 2012, and as from ﬁscal discontinued the use of the R symbols that appeared in the 2012 2013, the reports issued by KPMG Audit include a certification Registration Document identifying information subject to detailed of inclusion and reasoned opinion on the fairness of the CSR tests. information published in the Management Report and in Chapter 4 of the Registration Document. Conclusion The non-financial reporting of the Essilor group is part of a Our contribution to sustainable development” and “Seeing the world process of ongoing improvement anchored in the following better/2006. Our contribution to sustainable development.” The objectives: corresponding information for 2002, 2004 and 2005 was provided in the Annual Reports for those years. n to continue to make sustainable development one of the fundamentals supporting the Group’s development strategy; Since 2007, it has been provided in the annual Registration Document. For future ﬁscal years, Essilor reserves the right to n not to isolate its economic aspects from its human (social and publish all or part of this information in another communications societal), environmental or governance aspects; document. n to integrate it accordingly within a single document that For any information, please contact the Corporate Sustainability provides ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information. Department. Note that for 2003 and 2006, this information was presented in separate documents entitled “Seeing the world better/2003. 220 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Independent third-party report on the consolidated corporate, social and environmental information included in the Management Report 4 4.6 Independent third-party report on the consolidated corporate, social and environmental information included in the Management Report Fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as an independent third party appointed by Essilor information for the year ended December 31, 2013 presented International S.A. (hereinafter “the Group”), whose application for in the Management Report (hereinafter the “CSR Information”) accreditation was declared admissible by COFRAC, we present our pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-102-1 of the French report on the consolidated corporate, social and environmental Commercial Code. Company’s responsibility It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to prepare a “Protocol”), a summary of which is contained in the Management management report that includes the CSR information mentioned R eport in the S ection “Human (social and societal) and in Article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. It was environmental information” available on request at the company’s prepared according to the protocol used by the Company (the headquarters. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by the rules and regulations, the policies and procedures to ensure compliance with ethical ethical code of the profession, and by the provisions of Article L.822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have rules, professional practice standards and applicable laws and regulations. 4 implemented a quality control system that includes documented Responsibility of the independent third party It is our role, on the basis of our work, to: 1. Certiﬁcation of disclosure of CSR Information n certify that the CSR information required is disclosed in the We reviewed, based on interviews with officials of the relevant Management Report or, if omitted, an explanation pursuant to departments, the presentation of guidelines for sustainable Article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Certiﬁcation development based on the social and environmental of presence of CSR Information) is provided; consequences related to the company’s activities and its social n conclude that we are moderately assured of the fact that the commitments and, where appropriate, the actions or programs CSR information, considered as a whole, is presented honestly arising from them. in all material respects in accordance with the Protocol We compared the CSR Information presented in the Management (reasoned opinion on the accuracy of CSR Information). Report with the list mentioned in Article R. 225-105-1 of the Our work was carried out by a team of about ﬁve people between French Commercial Code; October 2013 and February 2014 for a period of about ten weeks. In the event that some consolidated information was omitted, We conducted the work described below in accordance with we veriﬁed that explanations were provided in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the decree of 13 May Article R. 225-105-3 of the French Commercial Code. 2013 determining the manner in which independent third parties We verified that the CSR Information covered the scope of conducts their missions and, concerning reasoned opinion of consolidation, this is to say, the company and its subsidiaries accuracy, ISAE 3000 (1). within the meaning of Article L. 233-1 and the controlled entities within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial (1) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 221 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Independent third-party report on the consolidated corporate, social and environmental information included in the Management Report Code, based on the limits specified in the methodological note analytical procedures for the quantitative information and in the Section “Human (social and societal) and environmental verified, on the basis of surveys, the calculations and data information” of the Management Report; consolidation and we veriﬁed its consistency and agreement with the other information contained in the Management Report; On the basis of our work and in light of the limits mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information is disclosed in n for a representative sample of sites we selected based on their the Management Report. activity(3), their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location, and risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify the correct application of procedures and implemented detailed 2. Reasoned opinion on the accuracy of the CSR tests on the basis of sampling, which consisted of verifying Information calculations and reconciling data in supporting documents. The sample selected is 22% of employees and 26 to 43% of environmental data. ■ Nature and scope of work For other CSR information, we assessed their consistency with our We conducted about a dozen interviews with the persons knowledge of the company. responsible for the preparation of the CSR Information from the Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations, if any, of departments in charge of the process of gathering information the total or partial absence of certain information. and, if applicable, responsible for internal control procedures and risk management in order to: We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we selected exercising professional judgment allow us to formulate n assess the suitability of the Protocol regarding its relevance, a conclusion of limited assurance; a higher level of assurance completeness, neutrality, understandability and reliability, by would have required more extensive review. Because of the use taking into consideration, if need be, the best practices of the of sampling techniques as well as other limits inherent in the sector; operation of any information and internal control system, the risk n verify the implementation of a process of collecting, compiling, of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information processing and auditing for the completeness and consistency cannot be completely ruled out. of the CSR information and to review the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the development of the CSR Information. Conclusion We determined the nature and extent of the tests and controls In our work, it became apparent that for the Turnover rate and depending on the nature and importance of the CSR information Absenteeism rate indicators, in the absence of reporting by some in relation to the characteristics of the company, the social entities, the information from them is based on a ﬂat rate and not and environmental challenges of its business, its sustainable on onsite ﬁndings . development guidelines and best practices of the sector. Based on our work and with this reservation, we did not identify For the CSR information that we considered most important(2): any material anomalies likely to call into question the fact that the CSR information, considered as a whole, is presented truthfully, n at the parent company, we consulted the documentary sources in accordance with the Protocol. and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organization, policies, actions), we implemented Paris La Défense, 11 March 2014 KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Alphonse Delaroque Philippe Arnaud Partner Partner Department of Climate Change & Sustainable Development (2) Social information Quantitative information: Total workforce (distribution by sex and age), Turnover rate, Absenteeism rate, Rate of frequency accidents with lost time, Total number of hours of training; Qualitative information: Gender equality. Environmental information Quantitative information: Energy consumption (electricity, gas, liquid fuel), Greenhouse gas emissions related to energy consumption, Water consumption, Materials used, Total quantity of waste products (of which non-hazardous and hazardous); Qualitative information: Environmental evaluation or certiﬁcation processes, Resources dedicated to the prevention of environmental and pollution risks. Social information: Qualitative information: Purchases, Consumer health and safety, Conditions of dialogue with stakeholders (3) JZO and EOLP (Poland), Essilor India Private Ltd and EMIL (India), Multioptica Distribuidora et Essilor Da Amazonia (Brazil), Essilor Manufacturing Thailand Co Ltd (Thailand), SEOCL Operations (China) 222 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor CORPORATE, SOCIAL, AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Location of GRI elements 4 4.7 Location of GRI elements Strategy and Analysis 1-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization page 250 Chap. 6.1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities pages 17 § 1.3.4 Chap. 1.7 and 29 Organizational proﬁle 2-1 Name of organization page 226 Chap. 5.1 2-2 Primary brands, products and/or services page 9 Chap. 1.3 2-3 Operational structure of the organization page 10 Chap. 1.3 2-4 Location of the organization’s headquarters page 226 Chap. 5.1 2-5 Number of countries where the organization operates page 13 §1.3.3 2-6 Nature of ownership and legal form page 226 Chap. 5.1 2-7 Markets served page 9 Chap. 1.3 2-8 Scale of the reporting organization page 9 Chap. 1.3 2-9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period […] page 7 § 1.1.4 2-10 Awards received during the reporting period page 199 §4.2.5 Report parameters 3-1 Reporting period for the information provided page 219 Chap. 4.5 3-2 Date of the most recent previous report (if any) page 219 Chap. 4.5 3-3 Reporting cycle page 219 Chap. 4.5 3-4 Person to contact page 220 Chap. 4.5 3-5 Process for deﬁning report content page 218 Chap. 4.5 3-6 Report scope and boundary page 219 Chap. 4.5 3-7 State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope […] page 219 Chap. 4.5 3-8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures page 219 Chap. 4.5 3-9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations […] page 220 Chap. 4.5 4 3-10 Explanation of the effects of any re-statements […] Provided as needed 3-11 Signiﬁcant changes page 219 Chap. 4.5 3-12 Table identifying the location of the GRI Standard Disclosures page 223 Chap. 4.7 3-13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report page 220 Chap. 4.5 Governance, commitments and engagement 4-1 Governance structure of the organization page 34 Chap. 2.1 4-2 Indicate if the Chairman of the Board of Directors is also an Executive Officer page 36 Chap. 2.1 4-3 [...] indicate the number of independent and/or Non-Executive Board members page 34 Chap. 2.1 4-4 Mechanisms [...] recommendations or direction to the Board of Directors page 36 Chap. 2.1 4-5 Linkage between compensation […] and the organization’s performance page 68 Chap. 2.3 4-6 Processes in place for the Board of Directors to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided page 64 Chap. 2.3 4-7 Process for determining the […] qualiﬁcations and expertise […] page 51 §. 2.2.1.4 4-8 [...] statements of mission or values, Codes of Conduct and principles […] page 59 § 2.2.3 4-9 Procedures of the Board of Directors for overseeing […] page 59 § 2.2.3 4-10 Processes for evaluating the Board of Directors’ own performance […] page 59 § 2.2.3 4-11 How the precautionary approach is addressed by the organization page 215 §4.4.4 4-12 Externally developed […] charters, principles or other initiatives […] page 191 Chap 4 4-13 Memberships in associations […] page 212 §4.4.2 4-14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization pages 210-216 Chap 4.4 4-15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage pages 210-216 Chap 4.4 4-16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement […] pages 210-216 Chap 4.4 4-17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement […] pages 210-216 Chap 4.4 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 223 INFORMATION ABOUT THE 5 COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.1 COMPANY 226 5.2 SHARE CAPITAL 228 5.1.1 Company name and registered office 226 5.2.1 Change in share capital 228 5.1.2 Date of formation and term 5.2.2 Essilor shares 233 of the Company 226 5.2.3 Essilor shares and stock subscription 5.1.3 Legal form 226 options held by members of the 5.1.4 Corporate purpose 226 management, governance and supervisory bodies 237 5.1.5 Conditions governing changes in capital 226 5.2.4 Stock subscription options 237 5.1.6 Fiscal year 227 5.2.5 Performance shares 238 5.1.7 Shareholders’ Meetings 227 5.2.6 Stock ownership 244 5.1.8 Disclosure threshold provisions 228 5.2.7 Dividend policy 247 224 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5 IN BRIEF BREAKDOWN OF SHARE CAPITAL BREAKDOWN OF VOTING RIGHTS at December 31, 2013 at December 31, 2013 Treasury stock 2.1% Institutional Public Employee, non-resident(a) 85.4% retiree and 54.7% partner shareholder Employee, retiree and 8.4% partner Institutional shareholders Individual resident(a) shareholders(a) 14.6% 24.8% 10% (a) Estimates as of December 31, 2013. DIVIDEND In euros 1.0 0.94 * 15 492 Employee shareholding* 0.8 in 39 countries representing: 0.6 8.2% of share capital 0.4 14.3% of voting rights 0.2 On November 22, 2013, 0.0 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Essilor received the 2013 * Subject to shareholders' approval at the May 7, 2014 Annual Meeting. Grand Prix Employee SHARE PRICE Shareholders award The CAC40 graph has been rebased to the Essilor share price at January 1, 2004 Essilor caught the attention of In euros the jury with actions focused 100 on expanding its employee Essilor : +77% shareholder base internationally, with its presence across 5 80 continents and 10 new countries added in the last four years. Quality was also underscored 60 in relation to the information, guidance and training provided to employee shareholders, in 40 particular through the use of a dedicated internal department 20 and the Valoptec Association, an international employee CAC 40 : +21% shareholders association. 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * Current, former and retired employees Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 225 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Company 5.1 Company 5.1.1 Company name and registered office The Company’s name is Essilor International (Compagnie Générale The phone number of the headquarters is +33 (0)1 49 77 42 24. d’Optique), hereinafter “Essilor”, the “Company” or the “Group”. The registered office of the Company is located at 147 rue de Paris – 94220 Charenton-le-Pont – France. 5.1.2 Date of formation and term of the Company The Company was formed on October 6, 1971 for a 99-year term Companies Register under No. 712 049 618. The APE business expiring on October 6, 2070. identiﬁer codes are 3250B (Essilor) and 7010Z (Headquarters). Essilor International is registered with the Crèteil Trade and 5.1.3 Legal form Essilor is a joint stock company (société anonyme) with a Board of Directors under French law, governed by Book II of the French Commercial Code. 5.1.4 Corporate purpose In accordance with Article 2 of the bylaws, the Company’s n provide any and all services and assistance related to the above corporate purpose, in any and all countries, is to: activities, including consulting, accounting, audit, logistics and cash management services. n design, manufacture, purchase, sell and trade in any and all eyewear and optical products, including the manufacture, More generally, the Company may perform any financial, purchase and sale of frames, sunglasses, protective lenses and commercial or industrial transactions or any transactions other protective equipment, and eyeglass and contact lenses; involving either real estate or securities directly or indirectly related to the above-mentioned purposes or any similar or related n design and/or manufacture, purchase, sell and/or market any purposes, or that would facilitate their extension or development and all ophthalmic optical instruments and materials as well as or make them more proﬁtable. any and all material and equipment for the screening, detection, diagnosis, measurement or correction of physiological It may perform such transactions for itself, on behalf of third disabilities, for professional or private use; parties or through any and all forms of participation, including creating new companies, acquiring shares in existing companies, n design and/or develop, purchase and/or sell computer software forming partnerships, merging companies, advancing funds, applications and programs and related services; purchasing or selling securities and rights to equity instruments, n perform research, clinical trials, wearer tests, training, selling or leasing out all or part of its real estate, securities or technical assistance and engineering services in relation to the related rights, or otherwise. above activities; 5.1.5 Conditions governing changes in capital The Company’s bylaws do not contain any restrictions over and above the applicable legal provisions in relation to capital increases. 226 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Company 5 5.1.6 Fiscal year The Company’s ﬁscal year runs from January 1 to December 31. 5.1.7 Shareholders’ Meetings Notice of Meeting Shareholders who are not resident in France, within the meaning of Article 102 of the French Civil Code, may ask their custodian All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to participate in institution to transmit their votes in accordance with the applicable Shareholders’ Meetings, regardless of the number of shares they laws and regulations. own, provided such shares have been paid up to the extent called. Shareholders’ Meetings are called and conduct business in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Pre-meeting disclosure of temporary holdings Since the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2012, “pure” or Pursuant to their legal obligations, any individual or legal entity “administered” registered shareholders will have the option (with the exception of those referred to in Article L.233-7-IV-3 of receiving their invitation and/or the Shareholders’ Meeting of the French Commercial Code) who, as a result of one or more preparatory documents by email. temporary sales or similar transactions in the sense of Article L.225-126 of the French Commercial Code, individually or jointly owns shares representing more than 0.5% of the voting rights of Right to attend meetings the Company, must inform the Company as well as the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) of the number of shares owned To attend a Shareholders’ Meeting in person or by proxy: temporarily, no later than midnight (Paris time) of the third n holders of “pure” registered or “administered” registered business day before the Shareholders’ Meeting. shares must be listed as the shareholder of record at midnight, Disclosures and statements can be sent to the Company at the Paris time, on the third business day before the meeting date; following address: Invest@essilor.com n holders of bearer shares must be listed as the shareholder of Any undisclosed temporarily held shares as deﬁned above will be record at midnight, Paris time, on the third business day before stripped of voting rights for that Shareholders’ Meeting and at all the meeting date. Ownership of the shares will be evidenced other Shareholders’ Meetings until the temporarily held shares by a certiﬁcate of ownership (attestation de participation) issued are sold or returned. by the custodian institution that keeps the shareholder’s securities account, to be submitted with the postal voting The email must contain the following information: form/proxy or the request for an attendance card issued in n name or company name and a contact person (name, position, the shareholder’s name. A certiﬁcate of ownership can also be telephone, email address); issued to shareholders wishing to attend the meeting who have not received their attendance card by midnight, Paris time, on n identity of the seller (name or company name); the third business day before the date of the meeting. n type of transaction; Shareholders may give proxy only to their spouse, to another n number of shares acquired in the transaction; shareholder or to an individual or legal entity of their choosing n ISIN code of the shares listed on NYSE Euronext Paris; in accordance with laws and regulations, particularly those stipulated in Article L.225-106 I of the French Commercial Code. n transaction expiration date; Each shareholder present or represented at the meeting has a number of votes equal to the number of shares represented, n voting agreement (if any). 5 directly or by proxy, without limit. This information will be published on the Company’s website. Shareholders who have sent in a postal voting form or proxy or requested an attendance card via their custodian institution can 2014 Shareholders’ Meeting nevertheless sell all or some of their shares before the meeting. The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting In this case, the custodian institution will be required to notify the will be convened on May 7, 2014. Company or the Company’s registrar of the transaction, including all necessary information. For information about the ﬁnancial authorizations to be put to the vote at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting on May 7, 2014, However, the custodian institution will not be authorized to notify see Section 5.2.1.4. the Company or the registrar of any transactions carried out after midnight, Paris time, on the third business day preceding the For information about the proposed renewal of the share buyback meeting, and no such transactions will be taken into account by program, to be put to the vote at the Ordinary Shareholders’ the Company, regardless of any agreement to the contrary. Meeting on May 7, 2014, see Section 5.2.2.3, “Share buyback programs.” Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 227 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5.1.8 Disclosure threshold provisions In addition to the statutory disclosures, the Company’s bylaws Disclosure is also required, within the same maximum period, of state that any individual or legal entity who, acting alone or any reduction in the percentage of voting rights held to below any in concert with others, directly or indirectly, owns 1% of the of the above thresholds. voting rights must inform the Company thereof within ﬁve days, Any undisclosed shares in excess of the above disclosure by registered letter with return receipt requested, sent to the thresholds will be stripped of voting rights in accordance with the Company’s registered office. The same formalities are required law at the request of one or several shareholders together holding whenever a shareholder exceeds or falls below the threshold in at least 5% of the capital at the time of the meeting. further increments of 2%. 5.2 Share capital 5.2.1 Change in share capital 5.2.1.1 Breakdown of share capital in 2013 Number Number of At December 31, 2013 of shares % voting rights % Employee shareholding (current, former and retired employees) n FCPE Valoptec International 5,592,064 2.6% 11,171,131 4.9% n Essilor group 5 and 7-year FCPE 4,969,207 2.3% 9,492,757 4.2% n Funds for employees outside France 736,958 0.3% 749,621 0.3% n Registered shares held directly by employees 6,332,600 2.9% 10,960,386 4.8% SUB-TOTAL 17,630,829 8.1% 32,373,895 14.3% (a) Partner shareholders Registered or administered shares held by partners 343,240 0.2% 686,480 0.3% SUB-TOTAL 17,974,069 8.4% 33,060,375 14.6% Treasury stock n Own shares 4,454,406 2.1% n Liquidity contract SUB-TOTAL 4,454,406 2.1% PUBLIC 192,271,023 89.6% 193,751,842 85.4% TOTAL 214,699,498 100% 226,812,217 100% (a) Partner Shareholders refers to the proportion of Essilor International shares held by employees, senior managers and, if applicable, former employees and senior managers of companies in which Essilor International held a stake that have subsequently been sold in full. 228 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 At December 31, 2013, the share capital amounted to a par value of €0.18 subscribed by the Essilor group ﬁveand €38,645,909.64, divided into 214,699,498 fully paid-up ordinary seven-year FCPE; shares, each with a par value of €0.18. n €197 ,646 .18 increase, excluding original issue premium, Taking into account the double voting rights attached to registered corresponding to the issue of 1,098,051 new shares, each with shares held for at least two years and the absence of voting rights a par value of €0.18 on exercise of stock options; attached to treasury shares, the total number of exercisable n cancellation of 1,500,000 shares. voting rights attached to the Company’s shares at December 31, 2013 was 226,812,217. There were no material changes in the share ownership position as of February 28, 2014. Changes in share capital during the ﬁscal year were as follows: n €67 ,933.26 increase, excluding original issue premium, corresponding to the issue of 377,407 new shares, each with ■ Maximum dilution at ﬁscal year-end Taking into account all shares that could be issued after December 31, 2013 due to the exercise of the existing options, regardless of their strike prices, the maximum dilution would be as follows: Number Number of At December 31, 2013 of shares % voting rights % Position at year end 214,699,498 226,812,217 Outstanding stock subscription options 1,703,435 0.8% 1,703,435 0.8% Outstanding performance share rights 3,530,585 1.6% 3,530,585 1.6% TOTAL POTENTIAL DILUTION 5,234,020 2.4% 5,234,020 2.3% Total capital diluted at year end 219,933,518 232,046,237 The breakdown of changes in share capital in 2013 is presented in Note 9 Section 3.4 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and Note 12 Section 3.8 of the annual ﬁnancial statements. 5.2.1.2 Breakdown of share capital in 2012 Number Number of At December 31, 2012 of shares % voting rights % Employee shareholding (current, former and retired employees) n FCPE Valoptec International 5,762,620 2.7% 11,496,529 5.1% n Essilor group 5 and 7-year FCPE 5,014,279 2.3% 9,580,964 4.2% n Funds for employees outside France 710,944 0.3% 720,420 0.3% n Registered shares held directly by employees 5,988,153 2.8% 10,047,121 4.5% SUB-TOTAL 17,475,996 8.1% 31,845,034 14.1% 5 Partner shareholders(a) Registered or administered Shares held by partners 343,240 0.2% 386,480 0.2% SUB-TOTAL 17,819,236 8.3% 32,231,514 14.3% Treasury stock n Own shares 4,387,477 2.0% n Liquidity contract SUB-TOTAL 4,387,477 2.0% PUBLIC 192,517,327 89.7% 193,777,630 85.7% TOTAL 214,724,040 100% 226,009,144 100% (a) Partner Shareholders refers to the proportion of Essilor International shares held by employees, senior managers and, if applicable, former employees and senior managers of companies in which Essilor International held a stake that have subsequently been sold in full. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 229 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5.2.1.3 Changes in share capital New New number Changes in share capital over the last ﬁve years Number issued of shares € thousands of shares Par value Premium capital outstanding SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2008 37,984 211,019,922 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 662,646 119 18,329 38,103 211,682,568 Exercise of subscription options 778,714 140 18,497 38,243 212,461,282 Cancellation of treasury shares (1,500,000) (270) (54,179) 37,973 210,961,282 Issuance of shares on conversion of OCEANE bonds 4,548,690 819 120,909 38,792 215,509,972 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,792 215,509,972 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2009 38,792 215,509,972 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 541,767 98 20,192 38,889 216,051,739 Exercise of subscription options 1,912,549 344 56,201 39,234 217,964,288 Cancellation of treasury shares (6,312,636) (1,136) (267,115) 38,097 211,651,652 Issuance of shares on conversion of OCEANE bonds 3,690 1 98 38,098 211,655,342 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,098 211,655,342 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 38,098 211,655,342 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 521,316 94 21,708 38,192 212,176,658 Exercise of subscription options 1,861,638 335 60,996 38,527 214,038,296 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,527 214,038,296 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 38,527 214,038,296 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 385,354 69 21,927 38,596 214,423,650 Exercise of subscription options 2,700,390 486 95,417 39,082 217,124,040 Cancellation of treasury shares (2,400,000) (432) (113,122) 38,650 214,724,040 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,650 214,724,040 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 38,650 214,724,040 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 377,407 68 23,267 38,719 215,101,447 Exercise of subscription options 1,098,051 198 44,800 38,916 216,199,498 Cancellation of treasury shares (1,500,000) (270) (77,530) 38,646 214,699,498 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,646 214,699,498 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 38,646 214,699,498 5.2.1.4 Delegations and authorizations granted to the Board of Directors ■ Summary of delegations by the General Shareholders’ Meeting In relation to capital increases or decreases, with or without pre-emptive subscription rights, in effect and in use. Date of the Shareholders’ Meeting authorization May 11, 2012 Type of authorization and ceiling Duration Expiration date 2012 and 2013 usage th 10 resolution Decrease of share capital through 24 months May 10, 2014 Cancellation of 1,500,000 treasury shares cancellation of treasury shares (nominal amount of €270,000) Ceiling: 10% of the total number of in November 2013 shares comprising the capital per 24-month period. 230 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 Date of the Shareholders’ Meeting authorization May 11, 2012 Type of authorization and ceiling Duration Expiration date 2012 and 2013 usage th 11 resolution Issue of shares to members of the 21 months February 10, 2012 issue of 385,354 shares with a par value Essilor employee stock ownership plan 2014 of €0.18, a capital increase (excl. premium) or plans set up by related companies. of €69,363.72; Maximum: 1.5% of share capital(a) subscribed by the Essilor group 5 and 7-year Article L.225-129 and L.225-138 of the FCPE, 0.18% of the capital. French Commercial Code and Article L.3332-18 et seq. of the Labor Code. The shares may not be offered at more than a 20% discount to the average of the opening prices quoted over the twenty trading days preceding the Board of Directors’ decision to carry out the issue or at a premium to this average. 12th resolution Maximum 2.5% of performance 38 months July 10, 2015 1,274,980 performance shares granted by the share capital for employees and Board on November 27, 2012. management.(b) (If vested, exercisable for one share with a par Article L.225-197-1 et seq. value of €0.18 per performance share). of the French Commercial Code. 1,179,460 performance shares granted at the Board Meeting of November 25, 2013. 13th resolution Stock option grants. Maximum 1% 38 months July 10, 2015 81,760 stock options granted to non-resident of share capital for employees (b). employees by the Board on November 27, 2012 Article L.225-177 and L.225-186 (exercisable for €0.18 per value share per of the French Commercial Code option). 84,880 stock subscription options granted to non-resident employees at the Board Meeting of November 25, 2013. 14th resolution Overall limit on stock option plans 38 months July 10, 2015 2012 grants: and performance share grants: Stock options and performance share grants 3% of the capital.(b) on a total of 1,356,740 shares, representing 0.63% of the capital. Attributions 2013 : 1,376,340 performance shares and stock subscription options, 0.64 % of share capital. 15th resolution Issue of shares and share equivalents 26 months July 10, 2014 None. with pre-emptive subscription rights: n Shares: maximum 1/3 of capital; n Debt securities: maximum €1,500 million; n Greenshoe option 15% (resolution 17). Article L.225-129-2 and L.228-92 of the French Commercial Code 5 (a) The shares may not be offered at more than a 20% discount to the average of the opening prices quoted over the twenty trading days preceding the Board of Directors’ decision to carry out the issue or at a premium to this average. (b) The stock option exercise price and the reference price for the performance share grants corresponds to the average of the opening prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the twenty trading days preceding the Board of Directors’ decision to grant the options or shares. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 231 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital Date of the Shareholders’ Meeting authorization Expiration 2012 May 11, 2012 Type of authorization and ceiling Duration date and 2013 usage 16th resolution Issue of debt securities without pre-emptive 26 months July 10, 2014 None. subscription rights but with an optional priority subscription period of 3 days, up to €1 billion: n Resulting share issues capped at 10% of the capital; n Greenshoe option 15% (resolution 17). Article L.225-129-2, L.225-135 and L.228-92 of the French Commercial Code The issue price of shares and share equivalents comparable to equity securities should be at least equal to the minimum price stipulated by legal and regulatory provisions (currently the weighted average of the price on NYSE Euronext on the three trading days preceding the establishment of the exercise price of the share issue, minus a potential maximum discount of 5% in accordance with Article L.225-136 and Article R.225-119 of the French Commercial Code. 18th resolution Issue of shares and share equivalents with pre-emptive 26 months July 10, 2014 None. subscription rights up to 10% of the capital as payment for a capital contribution in kind. Article L.225-147 Paragraph 6 of the French Commercial Code. 19th resolution Overall limit on the issuance of securities giving 26 months July 10, 2014 None. immediate or future rights, without pre-emptive subscription rights or reserved for contributions in kind (under resolutions 16, 17 and 18) of 15% of the Company’s capital. Capital increase to be paid up by capitalizing reserves: 20th resolution maximum €500 million. 26 months July 10, 2014 None. Date of the Shareholders’ Meeting authorization Expiration May 16, 2013 Type of authorization and ceiling Duration date 2013 usage 11th resolution Issue of shares reserved for members of Essilor’s or 21 months July 16, 2015 2013 issue of related companies’ employee stock ownership plan, 377,407 shares maximum 1.5% of share capital(a). with a par value of €0.18, i.e., a Art. L.225-129 and L.225-138 of the French capital increase Commercial Code and Art. L.3332-18 et seq. of the (excl. premium) of Labor Code. €67,933.26; The shares may not be offered at more than a 20% subscribed by the discount to the average of the opening prices quoted Essilor Group 5 over the twenty trading days preceding the Board and 7-year FCPE, of Directors’ decision to carry out the issue or at a i.e. 0.18% of premium to this average. capital. (a) The shares may not be offered at more than a 20% discount to the average of the opening prices quoted over the twenty trading days preceding the Board of Directors’ decision to carry out the capital increase or at a premium to this average. 232 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 Date of the Shareholders’ Meeting authorization Expiration May 16, 2013 Type of authorization and ceiling Duration date 2013 usage th 12 resolution Issue of shares and/or share equivalents and/or issue 13 months June 16, 2014 None. of transferable securities entitling their holders to debt securities in particular with investors in relation to an offer as described in Art. 411-2, II of the French Monetary and Financial Code without pre-emptive subscription rights maximum: n Limited to 1/3 of share capital for the issue of shares or transferable securities, see 15th resolution of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2012, n Limited overall to 15% of capital for capital increases with elimination of pre-emptive subscription rights, see 19th resolution of the Shareholders Meeting of May 11, 2012 n €1,200 million for debt securities Art. L.225-129-2 and L.228-92 of the French Commercial Code. ■ Financial authorizations to be put to the vote at the Extraordinary equivalents giving immediate or future rights to up to 10% of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 Company’s capital without pre-emptive subscription rights for the purpose of reserving this portion for qualiﬁed investors or Firstly, the Board of Directors is seeking authorization to issue a restricted circle of investors. Primary debt instruments could new shares for cash and to grant newly issued shares or share be issued up to the amount of one billion two-hundred thousand equivalents to employees, in accordance with the law including euros (for a duration of 26 months). Articles L.225-129, L.225-129-6 and L.225-138 of the French Commercial Code and Article L.3332-18 of the French Labor Lastly, this new authorization would fall within the overall Code. These issues and grants would be made to members of an limit of 10% of capital already issued, which is the limit set for Employee Stock Ownership Plan set up by Essilor International or authorizations granted to the Board of Directors for capital a related company, within the meaning of Article L.225-180 of the increases with elimination of pre-emptive subscription. Commercial Code. Shares issued under this authorization would For information about the proposed renewal of the share not exceed the equivalent of 1.5% of the capital at the time of each buyback program, to be put to the vote as ordinary resolutions issue. The duration would be 21 months. at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting on May 7, 2014, see Secondly, to enhance its current ﬁnancing mechanism, the Board Section 5.2.2.3, “Share buyback programs.” of Directors is seeking authorization to issue shares and share 5.2.2 Essilor shares 5 The Essilor share trades on Euronext Paris – Euronext – n FTSE4Good, published by the Financial Times and the London Local stocks – Compartment A, under ISIN and Euronext Stock Exchange (FTSE); code FR0000121667. The shares are eligible for the Deferred n Ethibel Excellence index; Settlement Service (SRD). n ECPI® Ethical Index EURO® index. The Essilor stock is included in the following indices: CAC 40, SBF 120, SBF 250, Euronext 100, EURO STOXX 50, STOXX All Essilor is included in the Euronext FAS IAS ® Index launched Europe 100 and FTSEuroﬁrst 300. by Euronext and the Fédération Française des Associations d’Actionnaires Salariés et d’Anciens Salariés (FAS). It is composed In addition, Essilor has been included in the Low Carbon 100 of all the stocks in the SBF 250 with significant employee Europe® Index since it was launched. This index launched by NYSE shareholding: at least 3% of the capital in shares held by more Euronext on October 24, 2008, measures the performance of the than one-fourth of the employees. For more information about 100 largest European companies that emit the lowest levels of employee share ownership, refer to Section 5.2.6.3. CO2 in their sectors. The shares are freely transferable and vis-à-vis the Company. The Essilor stock is also included in four socially responsible investment (SRI) indices: n DJSI World (Dow Jones Sustainability Index), based on cooperation between Dow Jones Indices, STOXX Limited and Swiss Asset Management Group (SAM group); Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 233 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5.2.2.1 Key stock market data (Source: Reuters, Bloomberg and Euronext) Share price (in euros) Number of Market capitalization at outstanding shares December 31(a) Session high Session low Closing price at December 31 (€ millions) 2013 89.99 71.90 77.28 214,699,498 14,882 2012 78.24 54.50 76.02 214,724,040 14,578 2011 57.72 46.61 54.55 214,038,296 10,968 2010 51.17 40.84 48.18 211,655,342 9,741 2009 42.00 26.08 41.75 215,509,972 8,395 2008 44.39 26.87 33.57 211,019,922 7,065 (a) Used in the CAC40 index (before capital increase related to the convertible bonds and the Company Savings Plan). 5.2.2.2 Share prices and trading volumes (Sources: Euronext Paris, Reuters and Bloomberg) Stock markets: Euronext Paris, Turquoise, Bats Europe, Chi-x Alternative, Equiduct, London Stock Exchange, SmartPool, QMTF, XOME, TOM1 from January 2013. Market price (in euros) Trading volume Trading volume, Session Session (millions of shares) (€ millions) High Low 2012 September 18.09 1,318 74.75 69.12 October 18.37 1,298 73.99 67.94 November 15.34 1,106 75.61 69.01 December 12.83 982 78.24 74.08 2013 January 14,76 1,126 78.55 74.01 February 18,96 1,417 80.79 71.9 March 21,04 1,768 89.99 78.59 April 17,17 1,448 89.26 79.9 May 13,76 1,201 89.98 83.48 June 16,26 1,334 85.82 77.59 July 17,92 1,476 86.35 78.71 August 13,20 1,137 89.09 80.87 September 20,71 1,685 84.1 79.06 October 22,00 1,725 80.39 76.06 November 17,13 1,316 79.47 75.12 December 16,64 1,240 77.54 72 2014 January 22,76 1,800 83.75 73.93 February 17,70 1,354 79.42 74.32 234 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 5.2.2.3 Share buyback programs The Company bought 2,192,298 shares between January 1 and December 31, 2013 at an average gross price of €79.23 and did In May 2011, the Shareholders’ Meeting authorized the Board of not sell any shares on the market. The related average trading Directors to buy back Essilor International shares representing fees (including commissions net of tax) amounted to €0.02 per up to 10% of the Company’s capital on the date of purchase, as share, increasing the average net cost per share to €79.21. allowed under Articles L.225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. The authorization was renewed for a period of 18 months by In addition, 625,369 shares were delivered under the Company’s the Shareholders’ Meeting in May 2012. performance share program. In application of Article L.225-211 of the French Commercial Code, At December 31, 2013, Essilor held 4,454,406 of its own shares, as amended by Order 2009-105 of January 30, 2009, the Board representing 2.07% of share capital. The par value of these shares of Directors Reports below on the use made during ﬁscal year was €801,793.08 and their book value was €303 million (i.e. an 2012 of the authorizations given by the Combined Ordinary and average net cost of €68.06 per share). Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings of May 5, 2011 and May 11, 2012. ■ Liquidity contract The main objectives of the program were: On March 8, 2010, the Company assigned to Crédit Agricole n to hedge the employee share-based payment programs Cheuvreux the implementation of a liquidity contract that was (delivery of shares on exercise of stock options, allotment of harmonized with market practices of the Autorité des Marchés shares, cancellation of shares issued following the exercise of Financiers (AMF) on March 21, 2011 and is based on the Code of stock subscription options); Ethics of the Association Française des Marchés Financiers (AMAFI), n to support the liquidity contract. amended on March 8, 2011. This liquidity contract was terminated on January 24, 2013, with effect as from January 25, 2013. ■ Share buybacks In accordance with Article 225-211 of the French Commercial Code as amended by Order 2009-105 of January 30, 2009, no shares were reallocated in 2013. 2013 Treasury shares Total Treasury shares Liquidity Contract Treasury shares Number of shares at start of period – January 1 4,387,477 4,387,477 Stock purchase options exercised Delivery of performance shares (625,369) (625,369) Delivery of shares on conversion of Oceane bonds Cancellation of treasury shares (1,500,000) (1,500,000) Purchase of treasury shares 2,192,298 2,192,298 Change in liquidity contract 5 Number of shares at end of period – December 31 4,454,406 0 4,454,406 Position at February 28, 2014 Percentage of capital held directly and indirectly 2.07% Number of shares cancelled in the last 24 months 1,500,000 Number of shares held in portfolio 4,453,971 Book value of portfolio (in euros) 303,157,369 Market value of portfolio(a) (in euros) 336,987,445 (a) On the basis of the closing price on February 28, 2014. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 235 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital Total gross ﬂows from March 1, 2013 to February 28, 2014 Open positions at February 28, 2014 Purchases Sales Cancellations Open buy positions Open sell positions Calls Puts Forward Puts Calls Forward bought sold purchases bought sold sales Number of shares 1,883,201 1,500,000 Average maximum maturity Average transaction price, (in euros) 80.10 Total amount, (in euros) 150,850,567 ■ Renewal of the ﬁnancial authorization to implement a share Main characteristics of the new buyback program: buyback program n securities: Essilor International ordinary shares (traded on In accordance with Article 241-2 of the AMF’s General Regulations, Euronext Paris in Compartment A); the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 was asked to renew the n maximum percentage of shares that may be held according to authorization to buy back shares solely for the purposes set out the resolution tabled at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of below. The actual order in which the buyback authorization will be May 7, 2014: 10% (equivalent to 21,475,270 shares based on the used will be needand opportunity-based. capital at January 31, 2014, for example); The main objectives of the program will be: n maximum percentage of share capital that may be bought n to hedge the stock purchase option plans or other allotments back, taking into account the number of own shares held as of of shares intended for employees, notably the grant of bonus January 31, 2014: 7.93%, or for example 21,475,270 4,454,091 shares set forth in Articles L.225-197-1 et seq. of the French = 17,021,179 shares based on the capital at January 31, 2014; Commercial Code intended for Group senior managers and n maximum purchase price per share: €105 (as adjusted if employees; necessary to take into account the effects of any corporate n to buy shares for cancellation, notably in order to offset the actions); dilutive impact of stock subscription options granted to Group n minimum sale price per share: €29 (as adjusted if necessary to senior managers and employees; take into account the effects of any corporate actions). n to potentially hedge debt securities convertible or exchangeable The shares may be purchased, sold or transferred and paid for in Company shares, by buying shares for delivery (in the case by any appropriate method on the regulated market or overof delivery of existing shares as part of the rights conversion the-counter (including through straight purchases, or the use operation) or by buying shares for cancellation (in the case of of ﬁnancial instruments or derivatives or the implementation of new shares created as part of the rights conversion); options strategies). The entire share buyback program may be n to ensure the liquidity of the shares under a liquidity contract carried out through a block purchase. that complies with the AMAFI Code of Ethics endorsed The authorization is being sought for a period of 18 months by the AMF (Autorité des Marchés Financiers). expiring on November 7, 2015. The Company may also use the program for the following purpose: n to buy back shares for delivery or exchange in connection with 5.2.2.4 Share cancellations and capital reductions future external growth transactions up to a maximum of 5% The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of the capital. of May 11, 2010 authorized the Board of Directors to reduce The shares held under the buyback program may not represent the capital by canceling all or some of the shares held by the more than 10% of the Company’s capital at any given time. Company, provided that the number of shares cancelled during any 24-month period does not exceed 10% of total share capital. Accordingly, 1,500,000 shares were cancelled in November 2013. 236 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 5.2.3 Essilor shares and stock subscription options held by members of the management, governance and supervisory bodies As of December 31, 2013 ■ Essilor shares and stock subscription options held Employees and Executive officers – Members of the Board of Directors Hubert SAGNIÈRES Yi HE Aïcha MOKDAHI Maureen CAVANAGH Essilor shares held 61,079 16,998 13,251 374 Stock purchase options n November 14, 2007 5,500 n November 27, 2008 100,000 n November 26, 2009 150,000 Independent Directors At December 31 2013, the Independent Directors did not hold any stock subscription (or purchase) options or performance share rights. They held 10,479 Essilor shares. ■ Rights to Performance Shares Employees and Executive officers – Members of the Board of Directors Hubert SAGNIÈRES Yi HE Aïcha MOKDAHI Maureen CAVANAGH Performance share rights n November 25, 2010 45,000 1,980 1,320 n November 24, 2011 2,310 1,320 n November 27, 2012 45,000 2,000 2,300 1,200 n December 14, 2012 20 20 n November 25, 2013 45,000 2,200 2,000 2,000 n December 20, 2013 20 20 5.2.4 Stock subscription options 5 Stock subscription options, if exercised, trigger the issuance of days preceding the Board of Directors’ decision to grant the new ordinary Essilor shares. options. As of December 31, 2013, the total number of shares that may Under capped plans, the maximum profit that can be made by be created as a result of the exercise of the stock subscription each grantee is capped at 100% of the value of the option grants. options was 1,703,435. Capped performance plans are, in addition, subject to the share The subscription price is equal to the average of the opening price reaching a certain level (in the same way as the performance prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the twenty trading shares described in Section 5.2.5) and can be cancelled if the target is not met. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 237 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital Number Granted to Subscription Number of options Number of options of options Executive price outstanding at outstanding at Date granted(a) granted Committee (in euros) December 31, 2013 February 28, 2014 (b) November 22, 2006 930,740 128,000 41.46 (b) November 14, 2007 1,117,770 148,000 43.65 241,660 234,390 November 27, 2008(b) 1,568,080 430,000 33.17 352,850 336,329 (b) November 26, 2009 1,579,120 314,160 38.96 442,226 432,290 November 25, 2010(b) 634,760 0 48.01 432,144 407,679 November 24, 2011(b) 85,620 0 52.27 69,400 67,960 November 27, 2012(b) 81,760 0 71.35 77,275 77,135 (b) November 25, 2013 87,880 0 77.29 87,880 87,880 TOTAL 6,085,730 1,020,160 1,703,435 1,643,663 (a) Plans prior to that of November 22, 2006 no longer have stock subscription options outstanding. (b) Capped performance plans. The stock purchase options are presented below. Information is provided only for those plans for which options or rights are currently outstanding. At December 31, 2013 o/w in 2013 At February 28, 2014 o/w in 2014 (a) Options granted 6,085,730 87,880 6,085,730 Options cancelled(a) 580,516 60,679 582,240 2,024 (a) Options exercised 3,801,779 1,098,051 3,859,527 57,748 Options outstanding(a) and (b) 1,703,435 1,643,663 (a) Plans from November 22, 2006 to November 25, 2013. (b) 0.79 % of capital at December 31, 2013. 5.2.5 Performance shares If the performance shares rights are exercised, grantees will be n In light of this restriction, the terms of the performance allocated either existing or new ordinary Essilor shares. share grants are designed to ensure that the potential gain for grantees is as close as possible to that for holders of At its meeting of November 22, 2006, the Board of Directors stock options. The performance shares are subject to vesting decided to set up the Company’s ﬁrst performance share plan. conditions based on growth in the Company’s share price, to The decision was preceded by an assessment of the beneﬁts of ensure that the interests of grantees converge with those of this type of plan. The conclusions from this assessment were as shareholders. follows: n the potential dilutive impact of performance shares is less than half that of stock options offering an equivalent potential gain; 5.2.5.1 Vesting conditions for shares and holding n the grant system makes it easier for grantees to keep their obligation shares, unlike with shares acquired on exercise of stock Essilor’s long-term compensation plans were designed to subscription (or purchase) options, some or all of which are encourage the alignment of interests of employee shareholders almost always sold by the grantees to finance the exercise and external shareholders. price; The main terms of the plans between 2006 and 2013 inclusive are n the decision was made to restrict the plan to employees governed by performance-share plan regulations with conditions resident in France, with non-residents continuing to receive that have evolved since 2006. stock subscription (or purchase) options; 238 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 Since 2010, the final award of performance shares is n less than 4.0% (for an annualized increase of less than 2%), contingent on: no shares are acquired. In this case, another evaluation of performance will be made three months later with annualized n a performance condition based on the progress of the trading share price benchmarks (1) between 2% and 7%. This price of the share measured over several years; measurement of performance may be repeated until the sixth n an employment condition in order to guarantee the longanniversary date of the award (N+6). term commitment of the beneﬁciaries and their loyalty to the The ﬁrst time that the annualized increase between the average Company; price and the initial reference price crosses the 2% threshold (as n an obligation to hold vested shares to strengthen the an annualized increase) is when the number of shares vested convergence between the interests of employee shareholders is determined once and for all, even if the annualized increase and external shareholders; subsequently rises. As time progresses, the minimum threshold n stricter conditions for corporate officers. (increase of the trading price) to be achieved to receive a minimum number of Essilor shares increases: 4% at N+2, 6.1% at N+3, 8.2% at N+4, etc., and 12.6% at N+6. ■ Performance condition If, at the end of N+6, the minimum threshold of a 12.6% rise in the The vesting of shares and the number of shares vested are subject trading price has not been achieved, the plan becomes null and to a performance condition based on the annualized progress of void and the employees receive no Essilor shares. the Essilor share price over a period of between two and six years (from N+2 to N+6) from their award date: ■ Employment condition At the time they are awarded, the initial reference price (equal to the average of the 20 opening prices preceding the award date) is For French residents, the award of shares is subject to the determined. beneficiary’s employment with the Group on the date the performance condition is achieved, which may occur between the Two years after the award (N+2), an average price equal to the second anniversary and the sixth anniversary of the award. average of the opening prices for the three months preceding the date of the second anniversary of the award is calculated. For non-French residents, the employment condition is set at: If the increase between the average price and the initial reference n the fourth anniversary of the award if the achievement of the price is: performance condition occurs between the second and fourth anniversary; n greater than 14.5% (an annualized(1) increase of 7%), all shares initially awarded are deﬁnitively acquired subject to compliance n on the day of the achievement of the performance condition if with the employment condition (detailed in the Section that day occurs after the fourth anniversary of the award. “Employment condition”); This employment condition is waived in the event of death, n greater than or equal to 4.0% and less than 14.5% disability, layoff or retirement of the beneﬁciary. (corresponding respectively to an annualized(1) increase greater than or equal to 2% and less than 7%), only a portion of the ■ Holding condition shares initially awarded is definitively acquired subject to compliance with the vesting condition (detailed in the Section Once the performance condition is achieved, the shares acquired “Employment condition”); must be kept. French tax residents may sell the shares acquired no sooner than six and no later than eight years after their initial award. For non-French tax residents, half of the shares acquired must be kept for a minimum period of two years, and the other half may be sold immediately for payment of taxes. Refer also to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements (Section 3.4). 5 (1) Calculation formula: (Average Price/Initial Price)^(1/N) -1 where N is the number of years between the award and the performance measurement date. N =2 then, if the performance condition is not achieved, 2.25 and so on up to a maximum of six. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 239 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5.2.5.2 Outstanding performance share rights Initial reference share Number Granted to price (used to measure Number of rights Number of rights of rights Executive performance) outstanding at outstanding at Date granted (a) granted Committee (in euros) December 31, 2013 February 28, 2014 November 25, 2010 893,458 341,800 48.01 329,610 328,905 December 20, 2010 74,355 195 48.01 2,700 2,655 November 24, 2011 1,193,189 346,800 52.27 574,420 571,330 December 21, 2011 74,445 195 52.27 2,775 2,775 November 27, 2012 1,176,340 335,500 71.35 1,150,880 1,145,970 December 14, 2012 98,640 280 71.35 93,860 93,480 November 25, 2013 1,279,460 347,500 77.29 1,279,460 1,278,760 December 20, 2013 96,880 280 77.29 96,880 96,300 TOTAL 4,886,767 1,372,550 3,530,585 3,520,175 (a) Plans prior to that of November 25, 2010 no longer have any performance share rights to vest. Performance share rights are presented below: At December 31, 2013 o/w in 2013 At February 28, 2014 o/w in 2014 Rights granted(a) 4,886,767 1,376,340 4,886,767 Rights cancelled(a) 150,240 68,660 160,215 9,975 Rights exercised(a) 1,205,942 625,369 1,206,377 435 (a) and (b) Rights outstanding 3,530,585 3,520,175 (a) Plans from November 25, 2010 to December 20, 2013. (b) 1.64 % of capital at December 31, 2013. 5.2.5.3 Grant and exercise of stock options during the year Granted and exercised: n stock subscription options ; Weighted n stock subscription options ; average n performance share rights; Total price Maturity granted to employees other than Executive Directors. number (in euros) date Related plans Stock options granted in ﬁscal year 2013 by the issuer 34,350 77.29 Nov. 25, 2020 Nov. 25, 2013 or by any company in the scope of the option grants, to the ten employees of the issuer and of any company in this scope, with the highest number of stock options granted (comprehensive data) Rights to performance shares granted in ﬁscal year 2013 201,620 77.29 Nov. 25, 2019 or 2021 Nov 25 , 2013 and by the issuer or by any company in the scope of the stock and Dec 20, 2019 Dec 20, 2013 option grants, to the ten employees of the issuer and of any or 2021 company in this scope, with the highest number of stock options granted (comprehensive data) Options held on the aforementioned issuer and companies, 201,328 39.08 Nov. 22, 2011 2006 exercised in ﬁscal year 2013, by the ten employees of the Nov. 14, 2011 2007 issuer and of any company in this scope, with the highest number of stock options granted (comprehensive data) Nov. 27, 2011 2008 Nov. 26, 2011 2009 240 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 5.2.5.4 History of stock option and performance share rights For more information about performance shares, also refer to Section 5.2.5 “Performance shares.” Plan November 22, 2006 November 14, 2007 November 27, 2008 November 26, 2009 November 25, 2010 Date of the Shareholders’ May 13, 2005 May 11, 2007 May 11, 2007 May 11, 2007 May 11, 2010 Meeting Date of the Board November 22, 2006 November 14, 2007 November 27, 2008 November 26, 2009 November 25, 2010 of Directors Meeting Type of plan Capped performance Capped performance Capped performance Capped performance Capped performance share subscription share subscription share subscription share subscription share subscription options(a) options(a) options(a) options(a) options(a) Total number of shares that 930,740 Maximum 1,117,770 Maximum 1,568,080 Maximum 1,579,120 Maximum 634,760 can be subscribed or bought By Executive Directors 0 0 320,000 230,000 0 n Philippe Alfroid 100,000 n Xavier Fontanet 120,000 80,000 0 n Hubert Sagnières 100,000 150,000 0 By the ten largest 195,000 206,000 170,000 194,000 75,000 employee beneﬁciaries Exercise start date May 22, 2010(b) May 14, 2010(c) November 29, 2010(d) November 26, 2011(e) November 25, 2012(f) Expiration date November 22, 2013 November 14, 2014 November 27, 2015 November 26, 2016 November 25, 2017 or 2017 Subscription or purchase 41.460 43.650 33.170 38.960 48.010 price (in euros) Number of beneﬁciaries 1,148 1,800 2,286 2,412 1,362 Exercise conditions Non-residents: Non-residents: Non-residents and Non-residents and Non-residents and cannot exercise cannot exercise residents: residents: residents: until performance is until performance is cannot exercise cannot exercise cannot exercise achieved. Then up to achieved. Then up to until performance is until performance is until performance is 50% in the third year 50% in the third year achieved. Then up to achieved. Then up to achieved. Then up to and the remainder in and the remainder in 50% in the third year 50% in the third year 50% in the third year subsequent years. subsequent years. and the remainder in and the remainder in and the remainder in subsequent years. subsequent years. subsequent years. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Residents: Residents: none. none. Number of shares 843,116 777,380 1,048,760 976,747 149,376 subscribed as of December 31, 2013 Subscription options or 87,624 98,730 166,470 160,147 53,240 5 performance share rights cancelled Remaining subscription options or performance share rights 0 241,660 352,850 442,226 432,144 (a) Capped performance plans. Capped performance plans are, in addition, subject to the share price reaching a certain level (in the same way as the performance shares) and can be cancelled if the target is not met. (b) The options will be exercisable if the average price of the shares exceeds €41.46 over a three-month period between November 22, 2008 and November 22, 2010. (c) The options will be exercisable if the average price of the shares exceeds €43.65 over a three-month period between November 14, 2009 and November 14, 2011. (d) The options will be exercisable if the average price of the shares exceeds €33.17 over a three-month period between November 27, 2010 and November 27, 2014. (e) The options will be exercisable if the average price of the shares exceeds €38.96 over a three-month period between November 26, 2011 and November 26, 2015. (f) The options will be granted provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €48.01. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 241 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital Plan November 11, 2010 December 12, 2010 November 24, 2011 November 24, 2011 December 21, 2011 Date of the Shareholders’ May 11, 2010 May 11, 2010 May 11, 2010 May 11, 2010 May 11, 2010 Meeting Date of the Board of November 25, 2010 November 25, 2010 November 24, 2011 November 24, 2011 November 24, 2011 Directors Meeting Type of plan Performance share Performance share Capped performance Performance share Performance share rights rights (Group Plan share subscription rights rights (Group Plan France) options(a) France) Total number of shares Maximum 893,458 Maximum 74,355 Maximum 85,620 Maximum 1,193,189 Maximum 74,445 that can be subscribed or bought By Executive Directors 45,000 15 0 50,000 0 n Xavier Fontanet 0 0 0 0 n Hubert Sagnières 45,000 15 0 50,000 0 By the ten largest 200,000 150 28,300 180,000 150 employee beneﬁciaries Exercise start date November 25, 2012 December 20, 2012(d) November 24, 2013(e) November 24, 2013 December 21, 2013(g) or 2014(c) or 2015(f) Plan end date November 25, 2016 December 20, 2016 November 24, 2018 November 25, 2017 December 21, 2017 or 2018 or 2018 or 2019 or 2019 Subscription or purchase NS(b) NS(b) 52,270 NS(b) NS(b) price (in euros) Number of beneﬁciaries 3,116 4,957 232 5,037 4,963 Exercise conditions Non-residents: Non-residents: Non-residents Non-residents: Non-residents: Award subject Award subject and residents: Award subject Award subject to performance. to performance. cannot exercise to performance. to performance. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. until performance is Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. 50% sellable at award, 50% sellable at award, achieved. Then up to 50% sellable at award, 50% sellable at award, 50% locked-in until 50% locked-in until 50% in the third year 50% locked-in until 50% locked-in until November 25, 2016 December 20, 2016 and the remainder in November 24, 2017 December 21, 2017 or 2018 depending on or 2018 depending on subsequent years. or 2019 depending on or 2019 depending on vesting date. vesting date. vesting date. vesting date. Cancellation possible. Residents: Residents: Residents: Residents: Award subject Award subject Award subject Award subject to performance. to performance. to performance. to performance. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Sellable from Sellable from Sellable from Sellable from November 25, 2016 December 20, 2016 November 24, 2017 December 21, 2017 or 2018 depending on or 2018 depending on or 2019 depending or 2019 depending vesting date vesting date on vesting date on vesting date Number of shares 513,898 65,970 6,240 558,219 66,285 subscribed as of December 31, 2013 Subscription options or 49,950 5,685 9,980 60,550 5,385 performance share rights cancelled Remaining subscription 329,610 2,700 69,400 574,420 2,775 options or performance share rights (a) Capped performance plans. Capped performance plans are, in addition, subject to the share price reaching a certain level (in the same way as the performance shares) and can be cancelled if the target is not met. (b) If performance shares are granted, they will be allocated out of the Company’s treasury stock and valued at the opening price on the day of the grant. (c) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €48.01. Shares may be granted to non-residents on November 25, 2014 at the earliest. (d) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €48.01. Shares may be granted to non-residents on December 20, 2014 at the earliest. (e) Options will be granted provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €52.27. (f) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €52.27. Shares may be granted to non-residents on November 24, 2015 at the earliest. (g) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €52.27. Shares may be granted to non-residents on December 21, 2015 at the earliest. 242 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 Plan November 27, 2012 November 27, 2012 December 14, 2012 November 25, 2013 November 25, 2013 Date of the Shareholders’ May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 Meeting Date of the Board of November 27, 2012 November 27, 2012 November 27, 2012 November 25, 2013 November 25, 2013 Directors Meeting Type of plan Capped performance Performance share Performance share Capped performance Performance share share subscription rights rights (Group Plan share subscription rights options(a) France) options(a) Total number of shares Maximum 81,760 Maximum 1,176,340 Maximum 98,640 Maximum 87,880 Maximum 1,279,460 that can be subscribed or bought By Executive Directors 0 45,000 20 0 45,000 n Xavier Fontanet 0 0 0 0 0 n Hubert Sagnières 0 45,000 20 0 45,000 By the ten largest 32,900 193,750 120 34,350 201,500 employee beneﬁciaries Exercise start date November 27, 2014(c) November 27, 2014(d) December 14, 2014(e) November 25, 2015(f) November 25, 2015(g) Plan end date November 27, 2019 Nov. 27, 2018 or 2020 Nov. 14, 2018 or 2020 November 25, 2020 Nov. 25, 2019 or 2021 (b) (b) Subscription or purchase 71.350 NS NS 77.29 NS(b) price (in euros) Number of beneﬁciaries 216 5,035 4,932 248 5,775 Exercise conditions Non-residents Non-residents: Non-residents: Non-residents Non-residents: and residents: Award subject Award subject and residents: Award subject cannot exercise to performance. to performance. cannot exercise to performance. until performance is Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. until performance is Cancellation possible. achieved. Then up to 50% sellable at award, 50% sellable at award, achieved. Then up to 50% sellable at award, 50% in the third year 50% locked-in until 50% locked-in until 50% in the third year 50% locked-in until and the remainder November 27, 2018 December 14, 2018 and the remainder November 25, 2019 in subsequent years. or 2020 depending or 2020 depending in subsequent years. or 2021 depending on vesting date. on vesting date. on vesting date. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Residents: Residents: Residents: Award subject Award subject Award subject to performance. to performance. to performance. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Sellable from Sellable from Sellable from November 27, 2018 December 14, 2018 November 25, 2019 or 2020 depending or 2020 depending or 2021 depending on vesting date on vesting date on vesting date Number of shares 160 650 920 0 0 subscribed as of December 31, 2013 5 Subscription options or 4,325 24,810 3,860 0 0 performance share rights cancelled Remaining subscription 77,275 1,150,880 93,860 87,880 1,279,460 options or performance share rights (a) Capped performance plans. Capped performance plans are, in addition, subject to the share price reaching a certain level (in the same way as the performance shares) and can be cancelled if the target is not met. (b) If performance shares are granted, they will be allocated out of the Company’s treasury stock. (c) Options will be granted provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €71.35. (d) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €71.35. Shares may be granted to non-residents on November 27, 2016 at the earliest. (e) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €71.35. Shares may be granted to non-residents on December 14, 2016 at the earliest. (f) Options will be granted provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €77.29. (g) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €77.29. Shares may be granted to non-residents on November 25, 2017 at the earliest. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 243 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital Plan December 20, 2013 Date of the Shareholders’ Meeting May 11, 2012 Date of the Board of Directors Meeting November 25, 2013 Type of plan Performance share rights (Group Plan France) Total number of shares that can be subscribed or bought Maximum 96,880 By Executive Directors 20 n Xavier Fontanet 0 n Hubert Sagnières 20 By the ten largest employee beneﬁciaries 120 Exercise start date December 20, 2015(c) Plan end date December 20, 2019 or 2021 Subscription or purchase price (in euros) NS(b) Number of beneﬁciaries 4,844 Exercise conditions Non-residents: Award subject to performance. Cancellation possible. 50% sellable at award, 50% locked-in until December 20, 2019 or 2021 depending on vesting date. Residents: Award subject to performance. Cancellation possible. Sellable from December 20, 2019 or 2021 depending on vesting date Number of shares subscribed as of December 31, 2013 0 Subscription options or performance share rights cancelled 0 Remaining subscription options or performance share rights 96,880 (b) If performance shares are granted, they will be allocated out of the Company’s treasury stock. (c) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average price is 2% higher than €77.29. Shares may be granted to non-residents on December 20, 2017 at the earliest. 5.2.6 Stock ownership Fully paid-up shares may be held in either registered or bearer The holding period was raised to ﬁve years at the Extraordinary form, at the shareholder’s discretion. Shareholders’ Meeting of June 11, 1983, and reduced to two years at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of March 3, 1997. The Company may, at any time, subject to compliance with the applicable laws and regulations, request information from the In the case of a bonus share issue paid-up by capitalizing clearing organization about the numbers of securities held as well reserves, proﬁt or additional paid-in capital, the registered bonus as the name, corporate name, nationality, year of birth or year of shares allotted in respect of shares with double voting rights also formation of holders of shares and securities that are convertible, carry double voting rights. redeemable, exchangeable or otherwise exercisable now or in If the Company is merged with and into another company, the the future for shares carrying rights to vote at Shareholders’ double voting rights will be exercisable at Shareholders’ Meetings Meetings. of the surviving company, provided that the bylaws of the latter To the best of the Company’s knowledge, no shareholder other include double voting right provisions. than the Valoptec International FCPE holds 5% or more of the If any registered shares are converted to bearer shares or voting rights directly, indirectly or in concert with a third party. transferred to another shareholder, the double voting right on those shares is forfeited. 5.2.6.1 Different voting rights However, double voting rights will not be forfeited if registered shares are transferred by way of succession, or liquidation of As from June 22, 1974, double voting rights have been attributed marital estate, or gift between spouses or to a relative in the direct to all fully paid-up shares registered in the name of the same line of succession, and such change of ownership is not taken into holder for at least two years. account in determining the two-year minimum holding period referred to above. 244 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 In accordance with the law, double voting rights may not be through a capital increase or bought directly on the market. abolished by a Shareholders’ Meeting unless this decision is ﬁrst The shares are subject to a lock-in period between two and approved by a special meeting of holders of shares with double seven years depending on the country. voting rights. n The FCPE mutual funds include the Valoptec International FCPE, As of December 31, 2013, the Company’s bylaws did not contain the Essilor group 5-year FCPE, the Essilor group 7-year FCPE any restrictions on the exercise of voting rights. and the Essilor International FCPE. n Shareholdings outside of France include the Essilor 5.2.6.2 Arrangements resulting in a change in Shareholding Plan in the United States, the Australian Shareholding Plan, the Share Incentive Plan in the United control of the Company and shareholders’ Kingdom, the Irish Shareholding Plan and Korean ESPP. pacts n Direct shareholding is possible with the Spanish Ahorro Plan, Contracts that could have an impact in the event of a public BBGR Spain, the Brazilian Share Purchase Plan plus seven offering as set forth in Article L.225-100-3 of the Commercial new Brazilian laboratories, the Essilor and Satisloh Germany Code: direct shareholding plan, the Chinese, Satisloh and Wanzin n the joint venture agreement with Nikon Corporation contains Chinese direct shareholding plan, the Taiwanese shareholding a clause allowing Nikon to acquire Essilor’s 50% stake in the plan, the South African share purchase plan, the Austrian Nikon-Essilor joint venture or to require the joint venture to be shareholding plan, the Italian and Satisloh Italian, Bulgarian, wound up following a change of control of Essilor International, Slovenian, Croatian, Finnish, Hungarian, Romanian and Swedish subject to certain conditions; shareholding plans. n the agreements covering the Company’s bank facilities also include a change of control acceleration clause. ■ Stock options Other items that could have an impact in the event of a public Employees can also acquire shares by exercising stock offering as set forth in Article L.225-100-3 of the Commercial subscription (or purchase) options. For French employees, the Code: exercise price may be paid by funds released from the Corporate Savings Plan; in which case the shares are registered in the n employees and partners hold 8.4% of the Company’s capital employee’s name and then locked-in for ﬁve years in the Plan. and 14.6% of the voting rights. They may exercise these voting rights directly or give proxy to the representatives of the Essilor seven-year FCPE and the Valoptec Association; ■ Performance shares To the best of the Company’s knowledge, there are no shareholder The various performance share plans will also enable employees pacts, pre-emptive rights agreements or other agreements that to receive and hold Essilor shares, provided that the vesting may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the conditions – based on the Essilor share performance – speciﬁed Company. in the plans’ rules are met. 5.2.6.3 Employee shareholding 5.2.6.4 Employee incentive plans and proﬁtRepresented and managed independently and autonomously sharing agreements throughout the world by Valoptec Association, a French nonThere are three types of special incentives available to employees proﬁt association, Essilor’s strong network of active employee of the French parent Company. shareholders provides the Company with major leverage to achieve sustainable performance, strategic alignment and operating excellence. ■ Discretionary proﬁt-sharing plan The Group actively encourages employee share ownership, The three-year proﬁt-sharing agreement signed on June 15, 2013 5 proposing various options to employees according to the country and governed by Articles L.3 311-1 et seq. of the French Labor in which they work. Code. This agreement took effect in the year starting January 1, As a result, 15,492 Group employees currently hold Essilor 2013. shares. They represent 8.2% of capital and 14.3% of voting rights. Designed to improve employee information and awareness of the Employees of the Essilor group may become shareholders in Company’s ﬁnancial results, the agreement represents a means of various ways. mobilizing and involving the entire organization and its employees in a concerted drive to meet the Company’s performance targets. ■ Employee stock ownership plans Discretionary proﬁt-sharing bonuses are calculated according to two criteria: Employees of the Essilor group may become shareholders by n criterion 1: the Group’s consolidated revenue growth (excluding purchasing, through various stock purchase plans, shares held strategic acquisitions); directly, units in FCPE mutual funds or shares held outside of France. n criterion 2: growth in contribution margin with respect to Group activity. These shares or units are generally purchased with the ﬁnancial help of the Group subsidiary concerned and are either issued Both criteria have the same weighting. Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 245 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital The calculation formula used is geared towards providing ■ Statutory proﬁt-sharing plan employees with an incentive to help improve the Company’s results and meet budget objectives. The proﬁt-sharing reserve for eligible employees is calculated according to a legally-prescribed formula based on proﬁt for the Under French law, these proﬁt shares are not treated as salary. year, equity at the year-end, gross salaries and the value-added As a result, they are exempt from payroll taxes but are subject to generated by the Company. Under the terms of an agreement personal income tax and the CSG-CRDS taxes. signed with employee representatives, the amount determined The discretionary proﬁt-sharing system allows the Company to according to the legally-prescribed formula is increased by 50%. offer additional variable compensation to Essilor employees. In view of the level of the parent company’s equity, no amounts Individual proﬁt shares are calculated as follows: have been credited to the profit-sharing reserve for eligible employees. n 40% prorated to the period of employment with the Company during the ﬁscal year; n 60% prorated to the reference salary. ■ Proﬁt sharing bonus This salary is subject to a €80,000 ceiling and a €25,000 ﬂoor. Article 1 of the French Finance Law 2011-894 of July 28, 2011, amending the social security provisions for 2011 provides for a The amount of the discretionary proﬁt-sharing bonus is capped: proﬁt sharing bonus arrangement for companies that normally n the total amount of proﬁt shares distributed is capped at 20% have a workforce of 50 or more in the sense of Article L.3222of the aggregate gross salaries and, if applicable, the annual 2 and L.3222-4 of the French Labor Code, when such company salary or business income of grantees referred to in Article pursuant to article L.232-12 of the French Commercial Code L.3312-3 of the French Labor Code, paid to eligible employees grants to its partners or shareholders a dividend per partner during the ﬁscal year of calculation; interest or per share that is higher than the average dividend per partner interest or per share paid in previous years. n independently of the overall ceiling, there is an individual ceiling according to which the discretionary profit-sharing bonus is An agreement on profit-sharing bonuses was signed on capped for each employee at half the annual Social Security June 26, 2013 by all the unions represented in the Company, and ceiling. management. Discretionary proﬁt shares paid over the last ﬁve ﬁscal years were It provides for the distribution of a proﬁt-sharing bonus of €600 as follows: per person for full-time employees in service throughout ﬁscal year 2012. n 2013: €5,172,000 for 2012; This amount is prorated to the length of time the person was n 2012: €4,474,000 for 2011; employed during that fiscal year, and is exempt from social n 2011: €4,154,000 for 2010; security contributions but is subject to the CSG and the CRDS as n 2010: €4,304,000 for 2009; well as to income tax. n 2009: €3,681,000 for 2008. In accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned law, all beneﬁciaries were employees of Essilor International, with a French employment contract and in service in ﬁscal year 2012. 246 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Share capital 5 5.2.7 Dividend policy The Company has not established a dividend policy. Every year, the dividend is recommended by the Board for approval by vote of the Shareholders’ Meeting. 2013 dividend payable in 2014 The recommended dividend represents almost one third of consolidated net proﬁt attributable to equity holders of Essilor For fiscal year 2013, the Board will recommend to the International. It reﬂects the Company’s solid performance in 2013. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014, a 6.8% increase in the net dividend to €0.94 per share for 2013 from €0.88 per share The dividend will be paid on or after May 27, 2014, in cash only. for 2012. Proﬁt attributable to equity holders Total dividends for 2013 and the previous six years were as follows: Proﬁt attributable to Amount Ratio Net dividend Date of € millions Group equity holders distributed (payout ratio) (in euros) payment 2013 593 198(a) 33% 0.94(a) May 27, 2014 2012 584 185 32% 0.88 June 04, 2013 2011 506 177 35% 0.85 May 29, 2012 2010 462 173 37% 0.83 May 19, 2011 2009 391 148 37% 0.7 May 28, 2010 2008 382 136 36% 0.66 May 26, 2009 2007 367 128 35% 0.62 May 28, 2008 (a) Based on treasury shares at February 28, 2014 and subject to the decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. Dividends not claimed within ﬁve years are time-barred, in accordance with the law. Paying agent CACEIS Corporate Trust – 14 rue Rouget-de-Lisle – 92862 Issy-les-Moulineaux – France – Phone: +33 (1) 57 78 00 00. 5 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 247 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 6 ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 250 6.3 PUBLIC DOCUMENTS 252 6.1.1 Person responsible for the Registration Document 250 6.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 253 6.1.2 Statement by the person responsible 6.4.1 Registration Document 253 for the Registration Document 250 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report 256 6.4.3 Management Report 257 6.2 AUDITORS 251 6.2.1 Incumbent and alternate Statutory Auditors 251 6.2.2 Information about Auditors who resigned 251 248 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6 IN BRIEF COMPANY NAME The name of the company is Essilor International (Compagnie Générale d’Optique), in this document, “Essilor”, “the Company” or “the Group”. MARKET-RELATED INFORMATION Unless otherwise speciﬁed: n information relating to market shares and market positions is based on sales volumes; n the marketing-related information relating to the market and the ophthalmic industry or the market share and positions of Essilor originated with Essilor and are derived from internal assessments and studies that may be based on external market surveys. INFORMATION FROM THIRD PARTIES If information has come from a third party, it has been accurately reproduced and, insofar as the Company is aware and is able to ascertain from the data published by said third party, no facts have been omitted that would render the reproduced information inaccurate or misleading. BRANDS Orma®, Varilux®, Varilux Comfort®, Crizal®, Crizal Forte®, Crizal® Prevencia™, Light Scan™, I-Relief™, Varilux® S™ Series, SynchronEyes™, Nanoptix™, e-SPF®, Xperio®, Xperio® Gradient Polar, Sunmax™, Optifog®, M’eye Fit™, Mr Blue® 2.0., Mr Orange®, M’Eye Sign™, Visioffice® 2, Neksia ™, Essilor® Anti-fatigue, Intuitiv™, Neva ® Blue™, Neva ® Max UV™, Vision Booster™, Foster Grant®, Gargoyles®, Magnivision®, Corinne McCormack®, Crystal Vision®, Ergonomic Technology™, MC-280-X™, Small Box Coater™ , On-Block Manufacturing™ are brands of the Essilor Group. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE Transitions®, Transitions® Signature™,Transitions® Signature™ VII et Chromea7™ are marks of the Company Transitions Hubert Sagnières, Optical, Inc. Prodigi Duo™ is a brand of the Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Technologies Humanware Inc. Shamir Autograph® III EyePoint Technology III™, Worn Quadro™ and IntelliCorridor™ are brands of the Company Shamir Optical Industry Ltd. Bolon™ STATUTORY AUDITORS and Molsion™ are brands of the Company Xiamen Yarui PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Optical Co. Ltd. Infokus™ is a brand of the Company Suntech 63 rue de Villiers Optics. Kodak® is a brand of the Company Eastman Kodak 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine Company. Polaroid® is a brand of the Company PLR IP Holdings, LLC. Nikon®, SeeCoat Blue™, SeeCoat Blue Premium™ are Mazars brands of the Company Nikon Corporation. Ryders Eyewear™ 61 rue Henri Regnault is a brand of the Company Ryders Eyewear. SolarShield® 92075 Paris-La Défense Cedex is a brand of the Company Craghoppers Limited Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 249 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Persons Responsible 6.1 Persons Responsible 6.1.1 Person responsible for the Registration Document Hubert Sagnières, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is the person responsible for the information given in the Registration Document. 6.1.2 Statement by the person responsible for the Registration Document I declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that The consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁscal year ended such is the case, the information contained in this Registration December 31, 2013 presented in this document have been Document is, to my knowledge, in accordance with the facts and audited by the Statutory Auditors. The Statutory Auditors’ Report, contains no omission that might affect its import. which contains one comment regarding the revision of IAS 19, is provided on page 158. I declare that, to my knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting I have obtained an audit completion letter from the Statutory standards and present fairly the assets, financial position and Auditors in which they state that they have audited the information results of the Company (as well as those of the companies forming relating to the ﬁnancial position and accounts contained in the part of the consolidated Group). The information pertaining to the Registration Document and read said document in its entirety. Management Report (Section 3 relative to the analysis of results Charenton le Pont, March 25, 2014 of operations and financial position, Section 1 relative to risk factors, and Section 5 relative to share capital) presents fairly the Hubert Sagnières changes in business, results and ﬁnancial position of the Company and of the companies forming part of the consolidated Group, and includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face. 250 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Auditors 6 6.2 Auditors 6.2.1 Incumbent and alternate Statutory Auditors Auditors Statutory Auditors ■ PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit ■ Mazars 63 rue de Villiers 61 rue Henri Regnault 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine 92075 Paris-La Défense Cedex First appointed: June 14, 1983 First appointed: May 11, 2007 (Befec, Mulquin and Associés, merged with Price Waterhouse Reappointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 16, 2013 and was renamed Befec-Pricewaterhouse in 1995, and for six years. subsequently merged with Coopers & Lybrand to become Mazars is represented by Daniel Escudeiro (registered member PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit in 2002). of Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes Reappointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 16, 2013 de Versailles). for six years. The alternate auditor for Mazars is Jean-Louis Simon (registered PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit is represented by Christine Bouvry member of Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes (registered member of Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires de Versailles). aux Comptes de Versailles). The alternate auditor for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit is Étienne Boris (registered member of Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes de Versailles). 6.2.2 Information about Auditors who resigned No auditors resigned in 2013. 6 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 251 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Public Documents 6.3 Public Documents The bylaws and other corporate documents are available for Document and Annual Report will be available as of the date of consultation at the Company’s headquarters (147, rue de Paris, the Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the annual ﬁnancial 94220 Charenton-le-Pont, France). statements on May 7, 2014. Paper copies of the last three years’ Registration Documents Essilor regularly provides its shareholders with transparent, and Annual Reports are available on request from the Investor accessible information about the Group, its activities and its Relations & Financial Communications Department at the ﬁnancial results via a large range of resources. Company’s headquarters. Paper copies of the 2013 Registration Information published by the Company in the past year The documents published in the Bulletin des Annonces Légales n analyst presentations and webcasts of certain analyst meetings, and Obligatoires (BALO) are available at the following link: when available; http:balo.journal-officiel.gouv.fr/ n financial news releases and, when available, webcasts of Start the search with the name of the Company (Essilor analyst conference calls; International) or its SIREN number (712049618). n Annual Reports and Registration Documents (containing The information available on the Group’s website www.essilor.com historical ﬁnancial information) for the last ﬁve years; also includes: n information on Shareholders’ Meetings, including notices n regulatory information as deﬁned by the Autorité des Marchés of meeting, draft resolutions, instructions on how to attend Financiers (AMF); meetings and results of voting on resolutions; n AMF ﬁlings that are required to be published on the Company n information on sustainable development. website; 252 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cross-reference tables 6 6.4 Cross-reference tables 6.4.1 Registration Document The following regulated information described in Article 221-1 of n the Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal the AMF’s General Regulations is provided in this document: control. n the Annual Financial Report; The cross-reference table below identiﬁes the main information provided for in Appendix 1 of European Commission Regulation n Information concerning Auditors’ fees; 809/2004/EC. n a description of the share buyback program; 1 Persons Responsible page 250 Section 6.1 2 Statutory Auditors page 251 Section 6.2 3 Selected Financial Information 3.1 Selected historical ﬁnancial information page 2 Key Figures 3.2 Selected ﬁnancial information for interim periods page 85 In Brief, Section 3 4 Risk factors page 28 Section 1.6 5 Information About the Company 5.1 History and development of the Company 5.1.1 Legal and commercial name of the Company page 226 Section 5.1 5.1.2 Place of registration and registration number page 226 Section 5.1 5.1.3 Date of formation and length of life of the Company page 226 Section 5.1 5.1.4 Registered office, legal form, governing law, corporate purpose and ﬁscal page 226 Section 5.1 year 5.1.5 Important events in the development of the Company’s business page 6 Section 1.1 5.2 Investments page 27 § 1.5.5 6 Business Overview 6.1 Core businesses page 9 Section 1.3 6.2 Principal markets page 9 Section 1.3 6.3 Exceptional factors page 19 § 1.5.1.4 6.4 Dependence on patents, licenses, industrial, commercial or ﬁnancial contracts or page 21 § 1.5.2.4 new manufacturing processes 6.5 Competitive position page 9 § 1.3.1.2 7 Organizational Structure 7.1 Description of the Group page 10 § 1.3.1.3 7.2 List of subsidiaries and related party transactions page 150 Section 3 Note 32 8 Property, Plant and Equipment 6 8.1 Material property, plant and equipment page 127 Section 3 Note 13 8.2 Environmental issues page 202 Section 4.3 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 253 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cross-reference tables 9 Operating and Financial Review 9.1 Financial position page 88 § 3.1.3 9.2 Operating results page 86 § 3.1.1 9.3 Net proﬁt page 87 § 3.1.2 10 Liquidity and Capital Resources 10.1 Information on capital resources page 96 Section 3.3.3 10.2 Cash ﬂows page 98 Section 3.3.4 10.3 Information on borrowing requirements and funding structure page 136 Section 3 Note 22.1 10.4 Restrictions on the use of capital resources n.a. 10.5 Anticipated sources of funds n.a. 11 Research and Development, Patents and Licenses page 20 § 1.5.2 12 Trend Information pages 89 and 149 Section 3.2 and Section 3 Note 31 13 Proﬁt Forecasts or Estimates n.a. 14 Management, Governance and Supervisory Bodies and Senior Management 14.1 Members of the management, governance and supervisory bodies page 34 Section 2.1 14.2 No potential conﬂicts of interest page 51 § 2.2.1.6 15 Compensation and Beneﬁts 15.1 Compensation of the members of the management, governance and supervisory page 68 Section 2.3 bodies 15.2 Awards of stock options and performance shares page 75 § 2.3.3 15.3 Supplementary deﬁned beneﬁt, loyalty-based retirement plan page 73 § 2.3.2.3 15.4 Termination beneﬁts page 74 § 2.3.2.3 16 Management and Governance Practices 16.1 Expiration dates of terms of office, tenure in office and management and page 35 § 2.1.1.2 governance practices 16.2 Information about the service contracts of members of the management and page 51 § 2.2.1.5 governance bodies: no service contracts 16.3 Information about the Audit Committee and the Remunerations Committee page 55 § 2.2.2.6 16.4 Compliance by the Company with France’s corporate governance system page 66 § 2.2.5 17 Employees 17.1 Number of employees, by location and type of activity pages 148 Section 3 Note 29 and 193 and Section 4.2 17.2 Ownership interest and stock options page 237 § 5.2.4 17.3 Discretionary and non-discretionary proﬁt-sharing agreements page 245 § 5.2.6.4 18 Major shareholders 18.1 Ownership structure and voting rights page 228 § 5.2.1.1 18.2 Different voting rights page 244 § 5.2.6.1 18.3 No external control of the company page 228 Section 5.2 18.4 Arrangements resulting in a change in control of the Company and shareholders’ page 245 § 5.2.6.2 pacts 19 Related Party Transactions page 148 Section 3 Note 30 254 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cross-reference tables 6 20 Financial Information Concerning the Company’s Assets and Liabilities, Financial Position and Proﬁts and Losses 20.1 Historical ﬁnancial information page 91 Section 3.3 20.2 Pro-forma ﬁnancial information n.a. 20.3 Financial statements page 91 Section 3.3 20.4 Audit of the historical annual ﬁnancial information 20.4.1 Statements by legal auditors and fees paid to the Auditors and the members pages 158, 159 Section 3.5, of their networks by the Group and 189 Section 3.6 and Section 3.9 20.4.2 Scope of audited information pages 158 Section 3.5 and 159 and Section 3.9 20.4.3 Unaudited ﬁnancial information n.a. 20.5 Latest ﬁnancial information page 85 In brief, Section 3 20.6 Interim and other ﬁnancial information 20.6.1 Quarterly and half yearly ﬁnancial information n.a. 20.6.2 Interim ﬁnancial information covering the ﬁrst six months of the following n.a. ﬁscal year 20.7 Dividend policy pages 247 § 5.2.7 and and 188 Section 3.8 Note 19 20.8 Legal and arbitration proceedings page 29 §1.6.3 20.9 Material changes in Essilor’s ﬁnancial or trading position page 149 Section 3 Note 31 21 Additional Information 21.1 Share capital 21.1.1 Subscribed capital, changes in share capital and Essilor shares page 228 Section 5.2 21.1.2 Shares not representing capital n.a. 21.1.3 Treasury stock held by the Company page 235 § 5.2.2.3 21.1.4 Convertible securities, exchangeable securities, securities with warrants, page 237 § 5.2.3 stock subscription options, stock purchase options and rights to performance shares 21.1.5 Terms governing any acquisition rights and/or obligations in relation to page 230 § 5.2.1.4 subscribed but unpaid capital or to any undertaking to increase the capital 21.1.6 Capital of any member of the Group under option or agreement page 26 § 1.5.4.1 21.1.7 History of the share capital page 230 § 5.2.1.3 21.1.8 Financial authorizations to be put to the vote at the Extraordinary page 232 § 5.2.1.4 Shareholders’ Meeting 21.2 Bylaws (Charter and Articles of Association) 21.2.1 Corporate purpose page 226 § 5.1.4 21.2.2 Provisions relating to members of the Board of Directors and senior page 52 § 2.2.2 management 21.2.3 Rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to each class of shares pages 237, 238 § 5.2.4, § 5.2.5 and 244 and § 5.2.6 21.2.4 Changes in shareholders’ rights page 227 § 5.1.7 21.2.5 Shareholders’ Meetings page 227 § 5.1.7 21.2.6 Change of control provisions pages 245 § 5.2.6.2 6 21.2.7 Disclosure threshold provisions page 228 § 5.1.8 21.2.8 5.1.5 Conditions governing changes in capital page 226 § 5.1.5 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 255 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cross-reference tables 22 Material Contracts pages 21 § 1.5.2.4 and 245 and § 5.2.6.2 23 Third Party Information, Statements by Experts and Declarations of Any Interest 23.1 Expert statements or reports n.a. 23.2 Information from a third party page 249 In brief, Section 6 24 Public Documents page 252 Section 6.3 25 Information on Holdings page 150 Section 3 Notes 32 to 35 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report Statement by the person responsible for the document page 250 Section 6.1 Management Report Operating and ﬁnancial analysis page 86 Section 3.1 Risk factors page 28 Section 1.6 List of authorizations with respect to the increase in the capital of the parent company and page 230 § 5.2.1.4 consolidated Group (Art. L.225-100 and L.225-100-2 of the French Commercial Code) Information relating to share buybacks (Art. L.225-211, Para. 2 of the French Commercial page 235 § 5.2.2.3 Code) Items that could have an impact in the event of a public offering (Art. L.225-100-3 of the page 67 § 2.2.7 French Commercial Code) Financial Statements Annual ﬁnancial statements page 160 Section 3.7 Report of the Auditors on the parent company ﬁnancial statements page 189 Section 3.9 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements page 91 Section 3.3 Report of the Auditors on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements page 158 Section 3.5 Auditors’ fees page 159 Section 3.6 Chairman’s Report on the preparation and organization of the Board’s work and internal page 50 Section 2.2 control procedures implemented by the Company. Report of the Auditors on internal control page 81 Section 2.4 256 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cross-reference tables 6 6.4.3 Management Report Activity Report pages 9 16 86 Section 1.3 / Section 1.5 / Status and activity of the Company during the year Section 3.1 Research and Development page 20 § 1.5.2 Operations page 23 §1.5.3 Acquisitions and partnerships page 24 §1.5.4.1 Financial information for the year pages 27 and 86 §1.5.5 and Section 3.1 Description of principal risks and uncertainties page 28 Section 1.6 Subsequent events pages 90 and 149 §3.2.3 and Section 3.4 Note 31 Evolution and Future Prospects page 90 §3.2.4 Information relating to share capital page 228 §5.2.1 Financial statements and appropriation of proﬁt pages 160 Section 3.7 and and 188 Section 3.8 Note 19 Governance Financial authorizations to be put to the vote at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting page 230 §5.2.1.4 Compensation of corporate directors and officers page 68 §2.3.2 List of directorships and positions held in any company by Directors page 35 §2.1.1.2 Corporate social responsibility Corporate, social and environmental reporting page 191 Section 4 Information on societal engagement to promote sustainable development page 191 Section 4 Key environmental and social indicators page 191 Section 4 6 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor 257 258 Registration Document 2013 | Essilor The information presented in this Registration Document was prepared primarily by the Essilor International Finance Department, Legal Department and Investor Relations Department. The English language version of this Registration Document is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinion expressed therein the original language version of the document in French takes precedence over the translation. Investor Relations Department Essilor International 147 rue de Paris 94227 Charenton Cedex France Phone: + 33 (0)1 49 77 42 16 Fax: + 33 (0)1 49 77 43 24 E-mail: invest@essilor.com Internet : www.essilor.com Photo credits © Getty cover © Catherine Joyeau / Essilor pages 2 and 3 © Thierry Borredon / Essilor pages 4 and 84 © Stewart Cohen / Capa Pictures / Essilor page 32 © Photothèque Essilor page 190 © Franck Dunouau/ Essilor page 224 © Gabo Morales / Capa Pictures / Essilor page 248 Cover design: Design and production: Essilor International Compagnie Générale d’Optique 147 rue de Paris 94220 Charenton-le-Pont France Phone: + 33(0)1 49 77 42 24 www.essilor.com
