Message from the President Achieving a Sustainable Society Business Combination with Applied Materials The Tokyo Electron Group plans to combine with Applied Materials, Inc. in 2014 with the aim of becoming a global innovator in the semiconductor and display production equipment industries. I am confident that the business combination will contribute substantially to the further development of the semiconductor and semiconductor production equipment industry and a sustainable society. By bringing together the complementary state-of-the-art technologies and services of each company, we intend to create new development capabilities and a world class financial foundation, accelerate ground-breaking technological innovation and production development, and establish the highest quality management systems with support capabilities that can respond accurately and in a timely manner to advanced customer needs. The business combination will also be an opportunity for TEL Group employees to open doors to a wide range of new challenges and we will strive to create an enthusiastic work environment with a global focus that prizes diversity. We believe that this in turn will further develop our employees’ talents and allow us to continue growing as a cutting-edge global technology firm. Review of 2013 This year we once again made CSR the center of our corporate principles and established a company-wide CSR infrastructure led by our dedicated division. For example, we established new structures for corporate governance, appointed a director responsible for implementing CSR, established CSR organizations within group companies including main overseas group sites, and created a CSR implementation structure that is directly linked to management. On a practical level, we incorporated the EICC® (Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalitions®), into our business activities 2 Contents Message from the President p. 2 Contents/Scope of report p. 3 Tokyo Electron Group CSR History/ p. 4 Corporate Profile Editorial Policy and Selective Report p. 6 Issues (Materiality) Corporate Governance p. 8 based on the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact which TEL Group joined in 2013, and identified Working Together with Employees p. 12 and took steady measures to address social issues in our Safety Initiatives p. 14 business. As a result of these efforts, in fiscal 2014 we Quality Initiatives p. 16 achieved our target of halving product energy consumption by Procurement Initiatives p. 17 fiscal 2015. In order to realize our CSR goals across our entire supply chain, we started working together with our suppliers to Environmental Initiatives p. 18 create joint CSR initiatives such as creating CSR structures, Social Contribution p. 24 green procurement strategies, and measures to address External Evaluation (main awards p. 26 conflict minerals. We recognize that society is constantly received) moving forward, and this year we helped design a nextComments from a Third-Party Expert/ p. 27 generation science curriculum as well as continue our support Response to the Third-Party Comments for education and social welfare programs in regions affected CSR Goals p. 28 by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Performance Summary p. 30 We strongly believe that CSR is a crucial element in the foundation of our corporate activities. Establishing stable CSR Policy p. 31 and reliable operations is a universal measure for building Scope of report a sustainable society, and as such, it is our duty to continue Tokyo Electron Group developing effective and innovative CSR initiatives for the future. (49 consolidated companies) (Tokyo Electron and its subsidiaries in Japan and overseas) This report and future information disclosures Period covered Fulfilling the requests and expectations of stakeholders is Fiscal 2014 (April 1, 2013–March 31, a fundamental role of business enterprises. We consider 2014). However, some information for fiscal 2015 has also been included. Materiality essential to effective communication and sought to Publication timing present the information that our stakeholders consider highly Publication of this report: July 2014 important in a transparent and straightforward manner when (Japanese), August 2014 (English) preparing this report. We will also disclose information on future Publication of the next report: September 2015 (Japanese), November company developments and report to stakeholders by posting 2015 (English) on our website and issuing news releases in a timely manner. Publication of the previous report: September 2013 (Japanese), November We request your continued support as the TEL Group takes 2013 (English) new steps into the future. Guidelines referred to in preparing this report Tetsuro Higashi Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 issued by Japan’s Ministry of Chairman, President & CEO the Environment Tokyo Electron Limited Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3 TEL Spirit & Corporate Social Responsibility Tokyo Electron Group CSR History 1994 Standardized, Environment and Safety Center established 1963 創業 ー 理想的な会社を作りたい。 Foundation—We wanted to create the ideal company (Present Corporate Environment Promotion Department and Corporate Safety Founded by Tokuo Kubo and Toshio Kodaka in November 1963, Tokyo Electron Promotion Center) (TELTM*) began as Tokyo Electron Laboratories Incorporated, with funding from Tokyo Broadcasting System (TBS) and capital of over five million yen. Before Tokyo Electron, Kubo and Kodaka had worked for general trading ISO 9001 acquisition begins companies and directly experienced the impact of the expansion of the electronics industry in the United States through their business deals. At this 1995 Customer Satisfaction is established time, the United States economy was growing at a rapid pace, and with the as the new corporate slogan birth of semiconductors in the industry, the ambitious young men achieved Tokyo Electron strove to much success during this period by focusing on the electronics market and achieve customer orientation establishing one venture business after another. Inspired by the excitement of and continuously work to the United States, and possessing a strong desire to personally contribute to establish the “Globally Excellent Company” we envision. the cutting-edge advances being made at the time, the two men decided to become independent and start their own venture. In the ideal company that the founders envisioned, they would combine the after-sales service functions of a 1997 ISO 14001 acquisition begins specialized trading company with the manufacturer capabilities that were not possible with a general trading company. Employees would be able to freely 1998 Strengthening and maintenance of the discuss and share their ideas, and together would form a company that was corporate governance framework highly profitable, efficient, and continuously growing, in return giving back to its Code of Ethics established employees, shareholders, customers, and society as a whole. This new Ethics Committee and Compensation company would constantly seek to be on the cutting edge of technology, as Committee established well as stay constantly vigilant and alert to changing market needs. In order to construct the framework to become a These traditions continue to this day at Tokyo Electron, and we take pride in “Globally Excellent Company,” reorganization of our workplace and consider our employees part of the TEL family. Of course, the management structure was started, with efforts we also place a high priority on our shareholders, and profit is the first item in made to begin maintaining fairness and our new revised Management Policies. As a manufacturer, the commitment to transparency. stay on the cutting edge of the electronics field remains unchanged from when Tokuo Kubo and Toshio Kodaka started the company fifty years ago. The ideas 1999 Received the Fourth Disclosure Award inherited from the time of the company’s inception, the TEL Spirit, form the from the TSE cornerstone of our CSR activities. Safety First established Corporate Profile Semiconductor production equipment Company name: Tokyo Electron Limited (TEL) Address: Akasaka Biz Tower, 5-3-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan 107-6325 Established: November 11, 1963 Coater/developers Plasma etch system Thermal processing system Representative: Tetsuro Higashi, President & CEO CLEAN TRACKTM LITHIUS ProTM Z TactrasTM TELINDY PLUSTM Main business: semiconductor production equipment business, flat panel display (FPD) production equipment business Capital: 54,961,191,468 yen Number of employees: 1,551 Number of group employees: 11,355 Single wafer deposition system Single wafer cleaning system Wafer prober Triase+TM CELLESTATM -i PrecioTM Number of locations: In Japan: 9 companies; 29 locations FPD production equipment Outside Japan: 40 companies in 15 countries; 48 locations Worldwide total: 49 companies in 16 countries; 77 locations FPD plasma etch/ash system Inkjet printing system for (As of April 1, 2014) ImpressioTM OLED panel manufacturing EliusTM2500 4 Toward a Sustainable Society 2000 Nomination Committee established 2007 Human resources education institution TEL UNIVERSITY established The goals of TEL UNIVERSITY are to strengthen Started publishing the knowledge, skills, and management training, as well as Environmental Report leadership development. We began publishing this report as our corporate pledge to preserve the global Environmental slogan environment as a business. We explain our Technology for Eco Life established environmental policies, and specific plans for action in implementing those policies and the results of such actions in this report. 2009 Information Security Committee established 2001 Corporate Message “People. Technology. Commitment.” 2013 CSR Promotion Department established established Organized for CSR promotion directly connected to Our corporate message clearly conveyed management that we would serve as a backbone to an advanced information-based society, Joined the United Nations Global Compact and make efforts to achieve a prosperous The TEL Group was registered as a future. member company of the United Nations Global Compact in July 2013. In support of the Ten Principles, the 2006 TEL Values established TEL Group will work to maintain a TEL Values were established as action harmonious pursuit of both its corporate guidelines composed of five items for activities and a sustainable society. TEL Group employees around the world to share, and act as a driving * TEL is a registered trademark or a trademark of Tokyo Electron force for growth. Limited in Japan and/or other countries. Consolidated net sales Consolidated operating income Assets (Unit: Billion yen) 2013 2014 (Unit: Billion yen) (Unit: Billion yen) 668.7 97.8 Total 775.5 828.5 633.0 612.1 508.0 Cash & cash equivalents 240.1 268.1 497.2 418.6 60.4 Trade notes, accounts receivables 100.5 129.0 32.2 Inventories 135.6 168.2 14.7 12.5 Other current assets 45.1 56.0 -2.1 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Tangible assets 135.6 112.3 Intangible assets 59.9 29.5 Investment & other assets 58.4 65.1 Net sales by division (Consolidated) Net sales by region (Consolidated) Other Other 3.3% Liabilities & Net Assets Electronic components & 0.4 billion yen (0.1%) computer networks Europe (Unit: Billion yen) 2013 2014 5.5% 100.7 billion yen (16.5%) Japan Total 775.5 828.5 South Korea 26.4% PV (photovoltaic 12.5% Net assets 605.1 590.6 panel) production equipment Debt 166.6 224.4 3.8 billion yen China FY2014 Other liabilities 3.7 13.5 FY2014 13.4% (0.6%) (As of March 31, each year) FPD production North Taiwan equipment America 21.8% 28.3 billion yen (4.6%) 17.1% Semiconductor production equipment 478.8 billion yen (78.2%) 5 Editorial Policy and Selective Report Issues (Materiality) This report is based on Version 3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)* international guidelines, and in keeping with the TEL Group's materiality which was clarified this time, the editorial policy is to report on the status of activities. As a global company, the TEL Group complies with international CSR initiatives and regulations such as the United Nations Global Compact and GRI, and social issues are checked against our own CSR management and managerial resources, clarifying the selective report issues (materiality). Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Check social issues Check the relevance Inspect and review the between the size of the validity of social issues Based on such guidelines as the 10 issues and business principles of the United Nations Global Based on the progress of initiatives Compact, seven core subjects of ISO Based on the relevance between for issues and changes in society 26000, and EICC—a code of conduct for social issues checked in Step 1 and that could affect business, the the electronics industry—reviews were the TEL Group's business, the validity of establishing issues was carried out by the seven CSR promotion impact on society and issues with a inspected, and reviews were departments, and based on external high level of interest were identified. carried out when necessary. feedback, social issues were confirmed. List of selective report issues Issues Outline Main stakeholders Reference point Solid financial Shareholders Annual ・Establish a strong financial footing footing Investors Report ・Put in place a framework for preventing information leaks Information security Customers p. 10 ・Safe and effective utilization of information assets Governance/ethics Shareholders ・Business ethics and compliance results p. 8, pp. 10–11 and compliance Investors Achieving workplaces ・Create a workplace that achieves a good work-life Employees pp. 12-13 with vitality balance for all employees Development of ・Support the development of skills by employees Employees p. 13 personnel ・Build a framework for development of skills Safety and health ・Carry out safety activities for work, design, and education, etc. Employees p.12, pp. 14–15 management ・Create a comfortable workplace environment ・Achieve high quality to obtain customer's trust Product quality Customers p. 16 ・Achieve efficient and stable quality control * See CSR Goals on pages 28 and 29 of this report for details about materiality | Glossary | *Global Reporting Initiatives. International guidelines for improving quality, reliability and comparability of contents of CSR reports. 6 Selective report issues matrix Information Solid financial Energy-saving, security footing High resourcesaving Product quality Governance/ products ethics and compliance Reducing water Supply chain consumption management Stakeholder perspective Conflict minerals response Safety and Reducing waste, health recycling management Social Development contribution activities of personnel Conservation of Achieving workplaces biodiversity with vitality Business continuity/growth perspective High Issues Outline Main stakeholders Reference point Supply chain ・Optimization of the entire supply chain Suppliers p. 17 management Conflict minerals ・Improving the system related to the conflict Customers p. 17 response minerals problem Suppliers Energy-saving, ・Promoting environmentally friendly product design resource-saving Customers pp. 20–22 products ・Provide customers with environmental value Reducing water Local community ・Effective use of resources p. 22 consumption Administrative organization Reducing waste, ・Preventing environmental pollution from waste Local community ・Proper management and processing of regulated pp. 22–23 recycling chemical substances Administrative organization Conservation of ・Promoting initiatives for biodiversity conservation p. 19 Local community biodiversity and improving the framework Social contribution ・Initiatives for the development of young people as future leaders Local community ・Supporting community-based citizenship activities pp. 24–26 activities and revitalization efforts in response to local needs Administrative organization 7 Corporate Governance Against a backdrop of ongoing business globalization, Tokyo Electron Group maintains a management philosophy that puts emphasis on improving corporate value for all its stakeholders. To this end, the Company considers it important to strengthen corporate governance. The TEL Group is building a highly effective, optimized corporate governance structure, and upgrading and strengthening its internal control system and risk management system corporate directors consists of a monthly fixed remuneration Corporate governance and a performance linked compensation, and the compensation for audit & supervisory board members consists only of a Tokyo Electron is endeavoring to establish and operate optimal monthly fixed remuneration, to maintain independence from and highly effective structures of governance based on its three management. Retirement allowance systems, which constituted basic principles: (1) Ensure the transparency and soundness a significant part of fixed compensation for corporate directors of business operations; (2) Facilitate quick decision-making and audit & supervisory board members with a strong monthly and the efficient execution of business operations; and (3) fixed remuneration, have been abolished since the 43rd Annual Disclose information in a timely and suitable manner. Shareholders’ Meeting (Fiscal Year of 2006, March). The corporate governance framework The Board of Directors Tokyo Electron uses the audit & supervisory board system The Board of Directors consists of nine directors, two of based on the Companies Act of Japan, and furthermore whom are outside directors. Directors serve one year terms has established its own Nomination Committee*1 and in order to ensure that Tokyo Electron can respond quickly Compensation Committee*2 to increase the transparency and to changing business conditions, and to more clearly define objectivity of management. The Company has also adopted management accountability. the executive officer system to facilitate quick decision-making. Moreover, Tokyo Electron has been disclosing the individual The Audit & Supervisory Board remunerations of representative directors since 1999 in Tokyo Electron has four audit & supervisory board members, recognition of the importance of managerial transparency for three of whom are outside audit & supervisory board shareholders. members. The audit & supervisory board members not The executive compensation program for corporate directors only attend meetings of the Board of Directors, the Top and audit & supervisory board members was adopted with the Management Conference and other important business intention of tying compensation more closely to financial results meetings, but also conduct operations audits and accounting and shareholder value, raising corporate competitiveness, and audits, evaluate risk management, and audit the performance enhancing management transparency. The compensation for of duties by directors. Diagram of the Corporate Governance Framework, Internal Control System and Risk Management System Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Independent Auditors · Compensation Committee · Chief Business Ethics Director · Chief CSR Promotion Director · Nomination Committee · Chief Internal Control Director Confirm the progress of improvements and give instructions Representative Request for improvement/Report Directors Audit and improvement reports Request for Compliance & Internal Control Executive Officer improvement/Report CSR Promotion Executive Officer Executive Internal Audit Dept. (Global Audit Center) Officers Committees · Ethics Committee · Information Security Committee · Export Trade Control Committee Request for Audit improvement/ Report CSR Promotion Council Risk Management & Internal Control Function (General Affairs Dept.) Request for improvement/Report Monitoring Administrative Depts. Business Depts. Check and balance | Glossary | *1 Nomination Committee: This committee nominates candidates for directors and a candidate for CEO, which it submits at the meeting of the Board of Directors for approval. *2 Compensation Committee: This committee develops proposals on the executive compensation program and the compensation to be paid to representative directors, which it submits at the meeting of the Board of Directors for approval. 8 Approach to CSR Main initiatives for fiscal 2014 The Tokyo Electron Group believes that achieving sound and In 2013, we established a specialized CSR department continuous growth as a business enterprise is our primary and appointed a CSR Promotion Director to the company responsibility for contributing to social development through in order to create a structure of governance that directly the provision of leading-edge products, technologies, and connects CSR to management. Briefings were held in Japan services. To achieve this, not only must we provide highas well as key locations in Asia and the West to promote quality products and services, but we must be a company CSR and establish a company-wide CSR foundation. At the that is esteemed from the perspectives of good-faith and newly established CSR promotion meeting consisting of the fair corporate activities, pursuit of safety and environmental seven CSR promotion departments and related directors, preservation, respect for human rights and ethics, crisis we identified CSR objectives for individual departments, management, corporate governance, and compliance. The established benchmarks to measure progress, and then Tokyo Electron Group will continue to carry out initiatives began targeted measures to achieve our goals. based on its CSR Policy and in response to the opinions of In January 2014, a visiting lecturer gave a seminar on our many stakeholders. the EICC® Code of Conduct published by EICC®*, a CSR promotional organization for the electronics industry. About 130 people affiliated with CSR promotion attended the lecture via video conferencing with the head office and CSR Promotion Framework locations in Japan and overseas. President & CEO Chief CSR Promotion Director CSR Promotion Executive Officer CSR/Ethics/Personnel/Safety/Quality/Environment/Procurement CSR Promotion Council TEL Group companies in and outside Japan (19 locations worldwide) EICC® internal seminar TEL Group CSR Policy 1. Corporate Activities 4. Environment The Tokyo Electron Group will provide safe and high-quality The Tokyo Electron Group seeks to achieve harmony with the products and services to customers around the world and global environment. We strive to reduce our own impact on the contribute to the realization of an enriched society. environment and contribute to reducing the environmental impact 2. Business Ethics of customers by developing and providing eco-friendly products. The Tokyo Electron Group acts in compliance with the laws and 5. Communication with Stakeholders regulations of each country, international regulations, and in The Tokyo Electron Group discloses information relating to the accordance with strict business ethics. We do not engage in any Group in a fair, impartial, and timely manner, strives to engage in conduct that impedes fair and open market competition. two-way communications, and works to meet the expectations of 3. Respect for Individuals stakeholders appropriately. The Tokyo Electron Group respects the character and individuality 6. Social Contribution of each person. We recognize the diversity of employees, share The Tokyo Electron Group engages in social contribution activities a sense of mission, and promote the development of workplaces worldwide as a good corporate citizen to contribute to the with vitality. development of local communities and society. | Glossary | * EICC®: Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition®, an organization that sets forth a code of conduct for labor, safety and the environment for supply chains within the electronics industry. “EICC” and “Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition” are registered trademarks of Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Incorporated. 9 Corporate Governance Internal control/risk management Business continuity management In order to enhance the TEL Group’s corporate value, The TEL Group made an overall review of its Business and also accept responsibility for our behavior towards all Continuity Plan (BCP) from fiscal 2013. Tokyo Electron’s stakeholders, we are making efforts to strengthen viable Head Office redeveloped its BCP in fiscal 2013 to respond to internal control. We are implementing practical measures large-scale earthquakes. From fiscal 2014, the BCP is being in line with the Fundamental Policies concerning Internal built at the plant and office-level by reviewing measures for a Controls within the Tokyo Electron Group set down by fast recovery in a time of disaster, and alternate production. the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, we are In addition, the TEL Group carries out an annual BCP drill conducting actions for internal control over financial reporting involving an earthquake scenario. Emergency supplies such based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. as food and drinkable water, and first-aid outfits for times of disaster, are made available at all times, and thorough measures involving a disaster scenario are carried out for the key systems across the entire Group. Risk management system To more effectively strengthen the internal control and risk management systems of the entire TEL Group, under a Compliance & Internal Control Executive Officer, we have established a dedicated risk management and internal control function within the General Affairs Department. This function evaluates and analyzes risks that could affect the TEL Group, and works to reduce these major risks by promoting the necessary measures. The status of risk management activities is reported regularly to the Board of A BCP drill Directors. In addition, the Information Security Committee and Export Trade Control Committee were established, in order to better enhance confidential information management and Information security the export-related compliance system. Under the TEL Group Information Security Policy and the Regulation for Management of Technical and Business Information, Tokyo Electron has put in place a framework for Internal audit department preventing information leaks to ensure appropriate management and safe and effective utilization of information assets. The Global Audit Center is the internal audit department of In order to strengthen management of technical and the TEL Group. The Global Audit Center is responsible for business information across the Group, suitable operation auditing the business activities of the Group’s domestic and rules are reviewed, and we regularly hold web-based overseas bases, as well as their compliance and systems, education for all executives and employees of Group and evaluating the effectiveness of internal control systems. companies in Japan. These measures will be spread in the As necessary, the Global Audit Center also provides same way to overseas Group companies. Contracts related guidance to operating divisions. to information security will also be suitably reviewed, and with the goal of becoming familiarized with the contracts and comply thoroughly, we obtain consent for contract compliance – every year from all executives and employees of TEL Group companies including overseas. In addition, a report system is established for accidents that lead to information leaks and problems (incidents) with that risk. Contents of the reports include prompt responses to each problem, and through analysis they are reflected in company-wide efforts and measures. In addition to these, information security related efforts such as information system security measures and operational management self-assessment within the TEL Group are being carried out. 10 Business ethics and compliance Compliance education Stakeholder trust is the cornerstone of business activities. In Through the TEL Group’s e-learning system, we provide a order to maintain trust, it is necessary to continuously act in common web based training program covering the basics rigorous conformity to business ethics and compliance. In line of compliance, internal control, export-related compliance, with the Fundamental Policies concerning Internal Controls and other topics, which all executives and employees are within the TEL Group, all Group executives and employees are required to complete, as well as a web based training required to maintain high standards of ethics and to act with a program on insider trading and other subjects suited to one’s clear awareness of compliance. position and job role. In fiscal 2014, with the goal of greater understanding for new compliance problems (such as the use of social media, and anti-corruption), web-based, test-format education on business ethics and compliance was carried out for all Business ethics Group executives and employees in Japan. It was also In 1998, Tokyo Electron formulated The Code of Ethics of spread to overseas Group companies. All employees the Tokyo Electron Group to establish uniform standards to involved with Group companies in Japan completed the govern all of its global business activities. In the same year, lessons, and of the overseas Group company employees, the company appointed a Chief Business Ethics Director and more than 80% are finished (as of May 2014). These efforts established the Ethics Committee, which is responsible for will be continued in fiscal 2015. promoting business ethics awareness throughout the TEL Group. The Ethics Committee comprises the Chief Business Ethics Director, the Ethics Committee Chairman, and presidents of major Group companies in and outside Japan. Internal reporting system The members meet semiannually, report on ethics-related issues faced by each company, and discuss measures to In the event that an employee becomes aware of any activity further improve ethical behavior and compliance. which may violate a law, regulation or principle of business The Code and its Q&A section are published in Japanese, ethics, the TEL Group operates an internal reporting system English, Korean and Chinese, and the company distributes that employees may use to report their concerns. The entire it to all Group executives and employees, including those Group has established an ethics hotline and a compliance overseas. Moreover, the Code is appropriately reviewed and hotline, and this reporting system is also in place at each revised in response to changes in environmental and social overseas base. In all cases, this system ensures that strict demands. confidentiality is maintained to protect the whistleblowers and ensure that they are not subject to any disadvantage or repercussions. Compliance system Tokyo Electron has appointed a Compliance & Internal Control Executive Officer from among the executive officers to raise awareness of compliance across the TEL Group and further improve its implementation. Also, Tokyo Electron has drawn up the Compliance Regulations setting out basic compliance-related requirements in line with the Code. The Compliance Regulations are intended to ensure that all individuals who take part in the business activities for the TEL Group clearly understand the pertinent laws, international standards and internal company rules, and consistently apply these rules in all of their activities. 11 Working Together with Employees Business growth requires that each employee, as the core of the company, be creative and have a positive attitude, flexibility, enthusiasm and a sense of responsibility. The TEL Group believes that each individual employee is the source of value creation, and we strive to respect and understand differences in values arising from one’s character, individuality, or daring spirit by making the work environment a place where each employee can work to their full potential. Number of Group employees Easy-to-work environment 12,201 12,304 10,343 10,684 10,068 Personnel system 7,908 8,004 8,186 8,205 7,820 In order to achieve our goal of creating a visionary and innovative company 1,633 full of energy, we adopted a personnel system that promotes each individual 1,652 employee’s growth and organizational stimulation. For example, with an 1,017 1,084 1,150 888 888 evaluation system, not only results, but also the initiatives for achieving the 305 313 310 1,559 1,217 1,494 921 1,046 results are important. We provide opportunities for personal growth to our 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) employees and engage in fair evaluation of skills and treatment so that talented Japan USA Europe Asia employees who make significant achievements are well rewarded. Worldwide Initiatives for work-life balance Users of shorter working hour system for childcare 109 The TEL Group has enhanced its childcare support system and nursing care 85 leave system to help employees continue to pursue their careers through 75 65 various life events. According to Japanese law, companies must take measures 61 such as reducing hours worked for parents raising children under the age of 48 47 50 50 34 three. Tokyo Electron goes beyond this minimum, giving parents of children of elementary school age or younger the option to work shorter hours, and offering additional assistance in balancing work and home life. As a result of these 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) measures, we saw 53 employees return to work after taking childcare leave and Children under the age of three another 70 take childcare leave in fiscal 2014. Children over three years old but not finished elementary school Improving the workplace environment and employee health People taking childcare leave and people returning to the workforce* The TEL Group places the highest priority on the safety and health of its 76 70 employees, and in February 2012 issued a health declaration to provide services 59 55 53 such as walking events for promotion of health, healthy meals at company 47 cafeterias, and health counseling with doctors. In addition, we are working to continually ensure that TEL is a safe and productive workplace environment by requiring harassment prevention education for upper level management, as well 2012 2013 2014 (FY) as providing professional counseling services. Number of people taking childcare leave Number of people returning to the workforce * Excluding Tokyo Electron Device Ltd. Refers to Group company employees in Japan I n Fo c u s Fulfilling work and childcare Last year, I returned to work after taking childcare leave for a second time. I currently handle administration work such as sales and accepting orders in the sales division. I have been called to the day care center when my child developed a sudden fever, but with the understanding and cooperation of my workplace, I have taken advantage of this system and been able to balance work while raising my children. At the same time, I have switched from regular office work to more comprehensive work with greater responsibility, and I was Mari Kurahashi able to place importance on improving my own career. By balancing work while Clean Track Sales Dept. Tokyo Electron Limited raising children like this, I am thankful that I am able to continue working while growing and feeling challenged. 12 Employee retention rate three years after 94.2% joining the company The Tokyo Electron Group has adopted an OJT System* for newly hired employees in Japan to enable them to quickly transition and work in a productive and nurturing environment. In addition, we hold regular meetings to keep up with and discuss the state of the workplace and employee relations to create a pleasant work environment for all employees. Work location of Group employees 23.5% 25.1% Initiatives for globalization and diversification 32.9% 33.3% The TEL Group does business around the world, and as of March 2014, overseas sales account for 84% of the Group’s total sales. Additionally, about 76.5% 74.9% 67.1% 66.7% 33% of TEL Group employees work outside Japan. In line with this shift toward globalization, even TEL Group companies within Japan are aggressively End of End of End of End of expanding overseas hiring to develop diverse workforces, with 11% (as of March March 2011 March 2012 March 2013 March 2014 2014) of new hires being recruited from among foreign nationals. Employees working outside Japan Employees working in Japan Furthermore, along with working to create an excellent work environment the TEL Group recognizes that every person is entitled to basic human rights, and we strive to be a corporation where a diverse range of employees can work to their full potential. One of those efforts is establishing a work environment where employees with disabilities can work without any inconveniences. All of our business sites and company recreation facilities are equipped with parking spaces, washrooms, slopes, and handrails for the disabled. Parking space for Washroom for the disabled the disabled Human resource development TEL UNIVERSITY The TEL Group has established TEL UNIVERSITY, an internal education institution with the goal of enhancing its human resources and improving the overall capabilities of the organization. TEL UNIVERSITY courses include a program that provides individual employees with world-class knowledge and skills, a leadership development program for next-generation leaders and a management and organizational training program. English interview participation rate Main initiatives for fiscal 2014 92.0% Fiscal 2014 results (Japan) Our main goal for 2014 is to establish TEL as a truly global organization, one (6,560 people) aspect of which is to allow TEL employees to further develop their English ability. All employees of the TEL Group in Japan were interviewed in English to determine the appropriate English level for them to begin studying at, and allow them to experience the fun and the difficulties of learning English firsthand. Based on its results, we developed and provided appropriate programs such as TEL UNIVERSITY-hosted program examples self-learning assistance and English conversation courses. Number of participants by program for fiscal 2014 Another initiative aimed at increasing diversity is our employee training English conversation class 24 classes 129 persons program for understanding differences in communication style between foreign Communication and cultures, and deepen mutual understanding so foreign employees are able to facilitation seminar 5 classes 100 persons Global communication do their jobs smoothly in the workplace. In addition, seminars are held at TEL 4 times 32 persons program Group companies in Japan with the goal of improving Japanese communication Career design seminar 18 times 500 persons and facilitation skills. Life design seminar 10 times 339 persons Furthermore, we hold career design seminars for individual employees Next-generation leaders to reflect and grow together with the TEL Group to improve and enrich their development program 27 times 43 persons personal careers. Also, we offer life design seminars and consultation services Management 8 times 85 persons to explain and discuss work and life plans before and after retirement, as well as reemployment systems after retirement. | Glossary | * OJT system: On-the-Job Training system. This is a teaching method whereby an employee takes on actual work and cultivates their skills to gradually increase the difficulty level of their job. 13 Safety The TEL Group gives the highest consideration to the safety and health of every person connected with our business activities, from top management to frontline staff. All of our staff acts in accordance with their respective responsibilities and we maintain constant awareness of potential problems and the need to continually improve our safety and health standards. Safety promotion framework Safety promotion framework Global safety activity promotion framework Safety Meeting It is important for every individual to raise their own safety awareness in order Information about common and important to achieve work sites where all employees can work safely. To promote safety matters related to safety of the entire Group is shared, and intensive debates are held standards, the TEL Group has established a universal framework consisting when necessary. Basic policies are shared of a supervising Safety Meeting and specialized Work Safety Promotion and and distributed to the entire Group. Equipment Safety Promotion Meeting. This organization identifies the cause of Work Safety Promotion Meeting both accidents resulting in injury or damage due to equipment or human error Work safety-related matters at customer’s bases and TEL Group bases are discussed and makes efforts to prevent similar incidents from reoccurring. from a global perspective, and put into practice. Equipment Safety Promotion Meeting Sharing and complying with regulations related to equipment safety will enhance safety. Equipment safety measures The TEL Group examines global laws and regulation, abides by all safety Plants in Japan regulations of the region our equipment is shipped from, and allows inspections Tokyo Electron U.S. Tokyo Electron by safety certification organizations when necessary. Holdings, Inc. Europe Ltd. In addition, we carry out risk assessments during the development phase while considering the equipment’s capabilities and life cycle, and based on Safe equipment TEL Magnetic TEL NEXX, Inc. design integration Solutions Ltd. these results implement intrinsically safe equipment designs*1 to reduce these risks. We also created subcommittees and improved the safety performance TEL with newly acquired companies by examining products with lengthy histories TEL Epion Inc. Technology Center, America, LLC and sharing methods to improve them. We will continue these efforts and enhance the safety of all of the TEL Group’s TEL FSI, Inc. equipment. I n Fo c u s Taking part in safety training According to the survey we conducted after our employees completed their safety education, many participants indicated that they liked that the content could be applied in real-life operations. ● I knew that work needs to be temporarily stopped when trouble occurs, but I learned once again that there is no need to hesitate. I will put this into practice starting tomorrow. ● I had no idea that even a trace of alcohol could result in an explosion, or that an electrical short could cause such large sparks. I want to be aware of these things so I can avoid them when I am working, and regularly take part in training so my awareness does not fade. Education | Glossary | *1 Intrinsically safe equipment design: By coming up with innovative machinery design, this eliminates the causes of machinery posing a hazard to people. 14 0.33 TCIR*2 value As the Tokyo Electron Group carries out accident prevention activities on an ongoing basis, this facilitates a decrease in accidents. As a result, the occurrence rate of injuries from accidents during work—as indicated by the TCIR value—has maintained a world-class safety standard of less than 0.5 since 2006. In fiscal 2014 we achieved a TCIR value of 0.33. Occurrence rate of workplace accidents (FY2011=100) Efforts for accident prevention 100 100 106 As part of our social responsibility activities, the TEL Group places great 85 importance on ensuring that everyone involved in our business can work in 67 a safe workplace environment and enjoy good health by regularly holding 50 50 30 safety promotion meetings in Japan and overseas. In particular, the number of accidents that could have led to severe injury*3 was reduced by 70% in fiscal 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2014 from the fiscal 2011 level due to our diligent efforts. In addition, the overall Workplace accidents rate for workplace accidents*4 including mild injuries was reduced by 33%*. Accidents that could lead to a severe injury *Accidents counted with the same conditions as the previous fiscal year (excluding accidents that occurred at the four companies we acquired in fiscal 2013, and traffic accidents that occurred at the TEL Group). Workplace initiatives When equipment is being operated in a customer’s clean room, signs indicating “in operation” are posted on the operating equipment and auxiliary systems. This eliminates the potential danger of stopping the wrong machine of the same type by mistake, and also eliminates the risk of an individual other than a worker operating the equipment by mistake. Also, based on the Group’s global guidelines we inspect the facilities and safety equipment as well as the safety standards at our customer’s new factory before delivering our equipment. We examine and identify potential problems or questions regarding safety and work procedures, and work only begins after making the necessary preparations and improvements to the environment with the customer. Even after starting the equipment installation, we will run additional checks if necessary and make improvements after discussing the results with the customer. Safety promotion activities Nearly all accidents occur when unsafe conditions are combined with unsafe behavior. Therefore, we work to prevent unsafe conditions and behavior before they arise by having all workers share details about their work and areas to exercise caution, as well as review countermeasures for accidents and possible mistakes that can occur during operation in advance. Furthermore, we are improving the safety awareness of the workers by appointing leaders for each work group to oversee the entire worksite and having a safety manager visit the workplace to demonstrate proper caution and how to minimize risk factors that can lead to accidents or mistakes. Safety education We continue to put our efforts into safety education, because we believe each individual’s safety awareness leads to voluntary accident prevention activities. We utilize web-based educational and awareness campaigns to eliminate workplace accidents at all TEL Group locations in Japan and overseas. Furthermore, we have implemented physical safety training in Japan. For instance, we run Physical safety training simulations of accidents caused by an electrical short due to a current carrying wire being cut during operation to reduce the risk of similar accidents. | Glossary | *2 TCIR: Total Case Incident Rate. This is the occurrence rate of workplace accidents (OSHA standard) per 200,000 hours worked. *3 Accident that could lead to a severe injury: An accident that could result in a severe injury with ongoing effects. *4 Workplace accident: Following the guidelines of the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), the TEL Group defines an accident involving an injury to an employee as a “workplace accident.” 15 35 Reduction rate of changes at the design stage Quality .5% Each individual employee of the TEL Group strives to understand the true needs of customers, and we provide high quality products and services to satisfy our customers by continuously reduction In order to improve quality, reducing the number working to improve quality through our respective work. of changes during the development and design phase is necessary. As a result of improvement efforts on an ongoing basis, the number of The concept of high quality manufacturing changes at the design phase for fiscal 2014 The TEL Group promotes the concept of high quality manufacturing throughout decreased by 35.5% from fiscal 2011. our entire company. From the Development and Design, Purchasing, Production and Manufacturing, and Shipping Departments directly responsible for our products to the Planning and Sales, Administration, and Service Departments supporting them, we constantly strive to improve quality to meet and exceed the expectations of our customers. Planning Development and Sales and Dept. Design Dept. Purchasing Quality Promotion Framework Service Dept. Dept. President & CEO General Manager of Production and Production Division Secretariat Administration Manufacturing Dept. (Quality Dept. Shipping Dept. Promotion Presidents of Department) Aiming to increase the quality of all departments Group companies Heads of GM Quality promotion framework committees The TEL Group has established a cross-divisional TEL Group Quality Promotion Technology Production Control GM Material GM Quality GM Framework led by four working groups. These working groups cooperate with Committee Committee Committee Committee each other for efficient and stable quality control with the goal of improving * Working group members Design Parts customer satisfaction. Standardization Standardization consist of general managers, department managers or Working * Working representatives from plants Group* Group* and offices in Japan. Initiatives for improving quality In order to increase efficiency and design quality, the TEL Group employs a strategy of early detection to solve potential problems in the early phases of product development. As a result, it is highly important to correctly identify and pinpoint potential problems during the early stages of design. To guarantee the highest possible quality, we expanded our training programs created to improve design quality and skills and built a matching framework to test them. In the future we will be increasing efforts to use appropriate analysis techniques to improve equipment design quality and build quality as well as reduce man-hours and development costs, and use evaluations to properly Analysis education using the Internet measure and reward employee skill and improve motivation. *1 I n Fo c u s From the manufacturing workplace—Improving quality and productivity through TPM activities The TEL Group has continued to implement TPM activities for the last 10 years to maintain and improve overall productivity. We have implemented our TPM systems throughout our offices and manufacturing locations. In addition to establishing TPM as an instrumental component of our employee training, we are also working closely with the Design and Administration departments to tackle challenges and develop new improvements to quality and productivity across all divisions. | Glossary | *1 TPM activities: Total Productive Maintenance or Management. 16 Number of companies participating 300 in the Production Update Briefing Procurement About companies In order to contribute to the development of society and achieve sound and sustainable growth, the Tokyo Electron Group values communications with suppliers and seeks to build a relationship that continues to grow on a global scale. The TEL Group prioritizes relationships with suppliers, and in order to share our business overview and policies we hold the Production Update Briefing. About 300 suppliers took part in the fiscal 2014 fall briefing. CSR activities across the supply chain In addition to daily communications, with the goal of creating better relations with suppliers, the TEL Group holds TEL Partners Day and Production Update Briefing as platforms to introduce a variety of CSR initiatives. We call for the cooperation of our suppliers on the Internet with regard to compliance with laborrelated laws, such as child labor and forced labor, and to respect fundamental human rights. As a new initiative in fiscal 2014, we conducted a CSR survey with our main suppliers based on the EICC® Code of Conduct, evaluated the results, and carried out feedback. Furthermore, we revised our STQA (Supplier TEL Partners Day held in fiscal 2014 Total Quality Assessment) to include additional items reflecting our CSR policy. Corporate responsibility is a cooperative effort between both the company and suppliers, and we are continuing our efforts to ensure that communications with suppliers become more open and productive. Initiatives for procurement BCP Procurement BCP (1) Investigate damage Pre-disaster Post-disaster measures Speed & accuracy Procurement BCP scheme and evaluate impact The TEL Group develops disaster prevention activities and drills in cooperation (Procurement BER*1) with suppliers on an ongoing basis. In order to promptly identify damage and Procurement BCP (2) Support recovery efforts and take procurement quickly take steps for recovery following a disaster, we have built a database of measures measures the production facilities our materials are procured from, and registered about (Procurement BDR*2) 14,000 locations after reviewing the data with suppliers. We were able to use this data to quickly assess the damages resulting from earthquakes or other Minimize risks (3) Establish BCP system with suppliers natural disaster in a total of nine instances in fiscal 2014. We also conduct an (4) Build relationship with annual Procurement BCP Survey and use the feedback to improve our risk suppliers based on mutual prevention measures together with suppliers. trust and respect Conflict mineral type Conflict minerals Conflict mineral name Usage example The TEL Group plans to eliminate the use of raw materials and components Tantalum Electrolytic capacitor, IC, containing conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold) from the and refractory metal Democratic Republic of the Congo or its neighboring countries that form a Solder, plating, and Tin reducing agents source of funds for armed groups and give rise to human rights violations and Cemented carbide, electronic poor working conditions. Based on the results of our fiscal 2014 survey, we Tungsten components and mechanisms were able to confirm that our suppliers have increasingly taken steps toward a Gold IC, plating, and connectors conflict-free industry. Starting in fiscal 2015, we plan to conduct a CFSI*3 survey with suppliers. | Glossary | *1 BER: Business Emergency Response. First response taken immediately after a disaster. *2 BDR: Business Disaster Recovery. Recovery effort that is made according to the results of the damage investigation. *3 CFSI: Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative, founded by members of the EICC® and GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative). Inspection and certification is being implemented to see whether or not smelters for conflict materials are being used for the Democratic Republic of the Congo or its neighboring countries that form a source of funds for armed groups. 17 Environment The earth has various environmental issues, such as global climate change, depletion of resources, and pollution from waste, as well as the reduction in biodiversity as a result of these changes. The TEL Group aims to solve environmental issues through our leading-edge technology and services under the slogan of “Technology for Eco Life,” and contribute to the protection and conservation of the environment. TEL Group business activities and environmental issues Customers Suppliers Depleted resource Global climate problem caused by change consumption of resources Pollution from chemicals and Biodiversity waste Employees Shareholders/ investors Raw materials Development/ Transportation Product use Disposal/ procurement production recycling Activities at plants and offices Consumer use of semiconductors TEL Group business activities Local Administration community organization Stakeholders The TEL Group’s products go through many stages in their life cycles, from product development and production, activities at plants and offices, procurement of parts, product logistics, and finally use by the customer. The result of these processes, such as greenhouse gases, discharged water and waste, and consumption of resources like water and petroleum, all have an impact on the earth’s environment that is closely linked to biodiversity. Of these, the TEL Group considers the main environmental issues to be preventing global climate change, conserving resources, eliminating waste, and biodiversity, and has set goals with a multifaceted approach to our commitment to stakeholders, risk management and enhancing corporate value. Based on these goals, the TEL Group will continue efforts to promote the development of a sustainable society. Perspective of stakeholders Products Environmental Procurement and logistics goals Perspective of Tokyo Electron Group Plants and offices Perspective of environmental issues Environmental management * See CSR Goals on pages 28 and 29 of this report for details about goals. 18 1994 Start of environmental activities The TEL Group established a special division for environmental activities in 1994, and began environmental activities for the overall Group. ISO 14001 compliance began in 1997. The Environment Policy was established in 1998 and based on this policy we are promoting the reduction of environmental impact. Environmental activity promotion framework Environmental management Product Environment Value Meeting Global Environment Meeting Energy-saving/resource-saving products, etc. Environmental activity promotion framework Product Environment Compliance Meeting Compliance with, and response to, laws In order for the Group to collectively solve environmental issues the TEL Group and regulations on environmental standards for products in each country has established the Global Environment Meeting, held twice a year to monitor the progress of our environmental goals and ensure that we are continuously Operation Environment Value Meeting Reducing environmental impact of improving. We also have individual meetings such as the Product Environment business activities; ensuring compliance Value Meeting, the Product Environment Compliance Meeting and the Operation Environment Value Meeting to facilitate information sharing among concerned parties to achieve our environmental goals. Also, the TEL Group is working to obtain an ISO 14001 certification, an environmental management standard, primarily at manufacturing subsidiaries since 1997. Currently, 10 of our locations are certified, and we will continue maintenance and certification acquisition in the future. We ensure compliance with environmental laws, emission standards, and other voluntary standards using the frameworks we have put into place. In fiscal 2014, the Group was not involved in any environmental incidents or accidents, found in violation of environmental law, or subject to any related legal proceedings. Environmental education The TEL Group provides Group employees with environmental education and training to improve environmental awareness at all job levels. In fiscal 2014, we educated employees in the U.S., Europe, Korea, China, and Taiwan about the environment with an e-learning system on the Web, and we will continue to educate our employees about the environment in the future. Web-based environmental education Biodiversity Global climate change problems, depleted resource problems, and waste problems can cause abnormalities in the ecosystem, and have a significant impact on biodiversity. The TEL Group is working to preserve biodiversity for a sustainable society through efforts to create green space at each plant in Japan and overseas. In fiscal 2014, ecosystem tours were held multiple times at each plant and office in Japan. Bird walks were organized around the Fuchu Office along the Tama River with sightings of rare birds such as house swifts and shrikes. Additionally, in a lecture about biomimicry we learned that the features and workings of the familiar ecosystems could serve as hints to develop new technologies, and we recreated the appearance of leaves housed inside winter buds using origami. This is called the “Miura fold” and is used for maps and cans to fold large items in a way so that they can later be opened effortlessly. Becoming familiar with and getting to know nature is a way for us to become aware of new information and challenges, and we will continue biodiversity Ecosysytem tour conservation and activities in the future. 19 Environment Initiatives to Prevent Global Climate Change Power consumption of major models of Product initiatives each business unit 50 The TEL Group believes that promoting environmentally friendly product design % is a crucial part of its corporate activity and we are working on reducing the energy consumption of our products as a top priority challenge. As a result, we achieved our target of reducing energy consumption by 50% (per wafer; compared to fiscal 2008) in major models of each business unit by fiscal 2015 ahead of time in fiscal 2014. In the future, we will continue to promote manufacturing that has high energy efficiency and a low environmental impact. reduction Main activities for fiscal 2014 ● Thermal processing system TELINDY™ PE In our thermal processing system, multiple wafers go through batch thermal processing with a heater. Using existing equipment, it was already possible to batch process 100 to 125*1 wafers, but by developing and using long type heaters that have lower power consumption, we are now able to process 150 wafers in each batch. As a result, in addition to improving productivity, we High-frequency power efficiency improvement reduced energy consumption by 66%*2 per wafer. Power efficiency (%) *1: The number of wafers that can be batch processed will differ according to the process. 80.0 *2: Compared to the Poly-Si process on existing equipment as of 2007. 70.0 60.0 50.0 ● Plasma etch system Tactras™ Vigus™ 40.0 By significantly improving efficiency of internal high-frequency conversion 30.0 circuits for high-frequency power of plasma production with a high level of 20.0 power consumption, we reduced energy consumption by approximately 40%. 10.0 0 In addition, an additional 30% reduction was achieved by moving a constant temperature circulator (chiller) for electrode temperature control with a similar 0 1000 2000 3000 high level of power consumption from the auxiliary equipment area closer to the Power output (W) Energy-saving equipment Existing equipment equipment itself and reducing the load on internal components. Also, features such as chiller flow reduction, high-frequency power-off, and vacuum transfer pump-off, etc. were developed, and we aggressively adopted usage of an automatic sleep mode that switches to an energy saving state while idling. Liquid chemical circulation collection ● Single wafer cleaning system CELLESTA™-i Process block (front) Process block (back) SPIN Area SPIN Area We adopt a system that is able to recycle liquid chemicals for cleaning wafers SPIN Area SPIN Area SPIN Area Area SPIN in the supply tank without disposing them in our selected models. The chamber cup of this equipment has a liquid waste separation structure, and by separating and collecting liquid waste by liquid chemical type, it is possible to recycle liquid Liquid chemical supply tank waste. With this system, the amount of liquid waste consumed is reduced, and it contributes to reducing the customer’s waste treatment costs in addition to Heater Heater reducing the power consumption of the heater. Circulation line Recycle line Liquid waste from the spin area is returned to the liquid chemical supply tank and reused Equipment category Model Reduction rate (%) Plasma etch system TactrasTM VigusTM 50 Thermal processing system TELINDY TM PE 66 Single wafer CVD system Triase+TM EX-IITM TiN 50 Single wafer plasma treatment system Triase+ TM SPA i 56 Coater/developers CLEAN TRACKTM LITHIUS ProTM Z 52 Single wafer cleaning system CELLESTA -i TM 69 Scrubber system NS300+ 69 Gas chemical etch system Certas WING TM 56 Wafer prober Precio nanoTM 69 20 TEL Group plant and office electricity generated with PV power Plant and office initiatives 22 In the TEL Group, each plant and office chooses the appropriate metric (e.g., % floor area) to measure their energy consumption by, and has set the goal of reducing energy consumption by at least 1% each year. In order to achieve this, initiatives such as the energy saving operation of clean rooms used in product increase development and manufacturing, optimum temperature settings for office cooling and heating, and introduction of equipment with leading-edge energysaving efficiency (e.g., LED lighting) are being implemented. At TEL FSI, Inc., Electricity consumption the boilers were replaced with new ones, reducing natural gas use by 22% (Million kWh) from fiscal 2013. In Japan, the Taiwa Plant, Yamanashi Plant, Koshi Plant, as 230.1 223.6 221.6 223.0 well as some overseas plants adopted photovoltaic power generation systems to generate renewable energy. The TEL Group generated 4,724 MWh in fiscal 2014, a 22% increase from fiscal 2013. As a result of efforts such as this, in fiscal 2014, nine of the 14 TEL plants in 72.5 40.5 Japan and overseas that set this goal achieved it. However, due to worsening 20.5 27.8 power emission factors in Japan and an increase in the number of overseas 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) plants, power consumption across the entire TEL Group was 295 GWh, about Japan Overseas an 11% increase from fiscal 2013. CO2 emissions from energy consumption by source* was 157,000 tons, an increase of about 11%. However, CO2 emissions CO2 emissions from energy consumption per unit of energy consumed in fiscal 2014 has decreased from our fiscal 2011 (Tons) levels. 120,913 117,396 In fiscal 2015, we also plan to set targets for overseas plants as we strive to 84,847 87,124 continue reduction activities on a global scale. * We used adjusted emission factors for individual electric power providers for the emission factor for electricity consumption in Japan in fiscal 2014. For the emission factor for electricity consumption overseas, we used 36,447 estimated factors calculated by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan based on values 23,316 published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). 12,046 15,063 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Japan Overseas * CO2 emissions in fiscal 2012 totaled 87,124 tons minus a 50,000 ton reduction brought about through the use of a domestic clean development mechanism (CDM)*1 CO2 emissions in Japan with the same emission factor for electricity consumption for fiscal 2011 (Tons) 84,847 82,137 81,067 81,592 Tokyo Electron Miyagi Limited Head Office 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Logistics initiatives The TEL Group is making efforts to reduce environmental impact caused by CO emissions from logistics and the 2 transporting its products by promoting modal shift*2 for domestic and overseas proportion of marine transportation transport and adopting packaging methods with a smaller environmental (Thousand tons) footprint. 42.2 37.8 In fiscal 2014, we reduced CO2 emissions of domestic and international 32.0 shipments to about 54,000 tons for our products by about 10% from fiscal 2013. 25.9 70 66 The share of marine transportation used for exports increased by 16 points 4 3 60 2 54 3 from fiscal 2013 to 42.2%. This increase is due to the fact that there has been 66 63 58 51 an increase in both semiconductor production equipment purchases shipped to our customers by sea, and FPD production equipment shipped by boat. We 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) are promoting a modal shift by switching to marine and other transportation International logistics Logistics within Japan Proportion of marine transportation in international methods that have a lower impact on the environment, in addition to reduction of logistics (%) production lead time. | Glossary | *1 Domestic clean development mechanism (CDM): The approved mechanism for CO2 emissions reduction under Japan’s Domestic CDM System (a Japanese government scheme that allows small and medium-sized businesses to receive funding, technology, and technical support from large businesses in order to work collaboratively to reduce CO2 emissions and trade the reduced amount as emission credits) *2 Modal shift: A shift in the mode of transportation. Specifically, switching from conventional freight transportation by truck or aircraft to means such as marine and rail, which have a lower impact on the environment. 21 Environment Efforts to conserve resources Reducing water consumption Water consumption Based on the basic metric set by each plant, the TEL Group has set an (Thousand m3) environmental goal of keeping water consumption at the same or lower level than that of fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2014, we achieved 11 out of the 18 goals set 315 300 297 regarding water used at TEL plants in Japan and overseas. 199 In order to achieve these goals, each plant is its streamlining pure water 613 facilities used in the evaluation of semiconductor production equipment and 531 506 466 471 diverting surplus water for use in other areas of the plant. In fiscal 2014, the TEL Group conducted a study to determine the amount of water used in exhaust-gas treatment equipment. Other measures currently being used to reduce water use 296 64 301 70 312 104 290 include watering grass with rainwater, ensuring intermittent operation of cafeteria 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) faucets, using rinse-free rice, and using toilet flushing sound simulators. We Industrial water Tap water have implemented these policies across the entire TEL Group, and each plant Groundwater Overseas use has effectively put these measures into practice. As a result of all of these efforts, we were able to reduce water consumption by approximately 2% in Japan compared to fiscal 2013. However, because we have recently added new plants and offices outside Japan, the TEL Group’s 8yearsconsecutive Achieving a recycling rate of 97% or more total water consumption for fiscal 2014 increased by about 40% compared to fiscal 2013. For fiscal 2015, we plan to set similar goals for our overseas plants that do not yet have resource consumption targets and continue our resource conservation efforts globally. Initiatives for reducing waste In its efforts to minimize waste, the TEL Group recycles as much generated waste as possible, and disposes of the remaining non-recyclable waste in a proper and responsible manner. Recycling rate and generation of Our goal is to maintain a recycling rate* of 97% or more in Japan. With a incinerated and landfill waste (Japan) recycling rate of 98.0% in fiscal 2014, the TEL Group has consistently achieved 98.1 97.4 97.3 98.0 this goal for eight years since fiscal 2007. Also, in fiscal 2014 the Group Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more measured the volume of waste generated at its plants and offices outside Japan, 331 and confirmed a recycling rate of 68.6%. Tokyo Electron Taiwan Limited (TET) 245 215 set a goal of a 66% or higher recycling rate and achieved a 97% recycling rate 172 for fiscal 2014 as a result of its efforts. We will continue to monitor the volume of waste generated as accurately as possible and implement measures to reduce waste across the TEL Group. 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Incineration and landfill (Tons) Recycling rate (%) I n Fo c u s Reuse of the heater unit Replacement parts during recovery Up until now, when the heater used in a thermal processing 1 system deteriorated and could no longer be used due to continuous use, the entire heater was replaced with a new 2 1) Insulation unit, however, these days replacing with reconditioned 3) Cooling pipe 3 equipment that optimizes reusable parts has become mainstream. This helps to keep waste to a minimum, and also achieves cost reductions. 4 4) Bottom fiber 2) Heater block | Glossary | * Recycling rate: Recycled amount ÷ amount of waste generated × 100 22 Initiatives for chemicals Ratio of RoHS compliant components for EU 98 Chemicals contained in products .5% Reducing regulated chemical substances contained in products is essential when manufacturing environmentally friendly products. We freely disclose chemical or more substance safety data sheets – (M) SDS – based on GHS*1 safety regulations as well as safety information on any substance of very high concern (SVHC) that is more than 0.1% present in our products, according to the EU’s REACH regulation*2. In addition, we strive to stay up to date on the regulatory situation in every Equipment containing 98.5% or more country, respond quickly to any changes, set our own standards, and develop parts that meet the EU’s RoHS equipment that will reduce the use of regulated chemical substances. For example, we implemented measures to manufacture equipment that complies Thermal processing system with the EU’s RoHS Directive*3 and is at least 98.5% composed of substances Single wafer CVD system that meet the directive. In fiscal 2014, we achieved this standard in an additional Wafer prober 10 models, and as a result, nearly all of our products now comply with the RoHS Etch system Directive. Furthermore, to effectively become compliant with the EU’s REACH Coater/developers regulation as well, we introduced a new examination process for chemicals contained in our products based on the JAMP AIS*4. By the end of March 2015, Surface preparation system we aim to completely switch from using our supplier’s chemical survey method Wafer bonding/debonding system to the TEL Group’s new examination process. In the future, we will continue to quickly respond to all laws and regulations in every country and share our initiatives both within the TEL Group as well as outside companies to promote the global effort to reduce harmful chemical substances. Volume of PRTR Class I designated Management of chemical substances chemical substances handled (Japan) (kg) The TEL Group uses chemical substances mainly in the development and 13,709 14,361 14,361 169 1,617 12,665 manufacturing phases of our products, and in accordance with the Japanese 11,732 2,059 PRTR*5 law, we ensure that chemical substances regulated under the law are 5,071 4,541 2,031 managed and the amount used and discharged is consistently monitored. 3,787 4,144 In fiscal 2014, we handled 12,665 kg of PRTR Class I designated chemical substances. In addition, whenever we introduce a new chemical substance 8,469 or change how a previous substance was used, we make sure to check for 8,203 5,914 6,462 environmental, health and safety risks and take the necessary measures before adopting the new substances or method. Furthermore, we make sure to properly 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) dispose of the hazardous substances after use through either specialist waste disposal contractors or our in-house processing equipment. Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts Methylnaphthalene Others Green procurement The TEL Group, in cooperation with our suppliers, is promoting initiatives to reduce the impact we have on the environment. We have posted the Guideline for Green Procurement on our website, and in addition to increasing awareness of the TEL Group’s approach to green procurement, conducted surveys with our main suppliers, summarized and gave feedback based on the results. Using this as a foundation, we are continuing efforts with our suppliers to carry out environmental activities. In addition, to continue to create an open dialogue between us and our suppliers, we visited a quartz glass manufacturer in fiscal 2014 that produces Visiting a quartz glass manufacturer an important part for our semiconductor manufacturing equipment. We received a factory tour, attended a presentation on the quartz glass life cycle and the factory’s environmental initiatives, and introduced the TEL Group’s own environmental initiatives. | Glossary | *1 GHS: Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. A system agreed upon by the United Nations that is intended to provide unified standards across various countries for the classification of hazard level, labeling and the content of (M) SDS. *2 REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. A regulation pertaining to the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals. For products containing SVHC amounting to more than 0.1 wt% in particular, manufacturers are required to provide information on the SVHC content of their products as well as information to ensure the safe use of the products. *3 RoHS: Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. *4 JAMP AIS: Article information sheet (AIS) promoted by the Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP). This sheet is used to deliver basic information on regulated chemical substances. *5 PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. A system under which the use of chemical substances that may be hazardous to human health and the ecosystem, their release into the environment, and their transfer (contained in waste) off the original business premises are identified, tabulated, and disclosed. 23 Social Contribution —Construction of a dream-inspiring society— At the TEL Group, we strive to nurture future generations and engaging in revitalization activities that respond to local needs based on our commitment to “allow everyone to achieve prosperity, construct a dream-inspiring society, and create new technology for the global community.” We encourage promotion of a society that takes advantage of the Tokyo Electron identity, and work to create relationships where everyone can grow together. Support for science education (Japan) Sponsored Science Intercollegiate The TEL Group is a special sponsor of the Science Intercollegiate (sponsored by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology), an event where students studying the field of natural science announce the results of their research and compete with one another. It represents the advance of Japan’s science and technology and provides skills necessary for sustainable development, fostering the learning of next-generation engineers. The TEL Group endorses this event as a place necessary for students to enjoy friendly Enthusiasm of students who took part in the Science rivalry as well as for promoting incentives for future research activities, and we Intercollegiate support the students’ independent research activities. Sponsored the Shinichi Hoshi Award and robot creation workshop In 2013, Nikkei’s Shinichi Hoshi Award was established as a literary award for exploring scientific ideas. Excellent works with original ideas that look to the future and that have fresh outlooks that inspire are awarded. The TEL Group was awarded the Tokyo Electron Award. In addition, a line tracer robot workshop was held as a related event for elementary and junior high school students at the Setagaya Literary Museum in Tokyo, with TEL Group employees acting as instructors. Awarding the Shinichi Hoshi Award Sponsored “Let’s talk with outer space!” The TEL Group participated as a business sponsor for “Let’s talk with outer space!—Connecting outer space and the sea” (organized by Mainichi Shimbun), an event where live transmissions are sent between Astronaut Koichi Wakata who was commander of the International Space Station (ISS), and the Shinkai 6500-manned research submersible currently conducting drills in the Pacific Ocean. Along with an Outer Space Lecture held before the live feed about the origin of space and the Hayabusa asteroid explorer, around 130 children attending the event at Roppongi Hills in Tokyo listened attentively to stories about outer space and the deep sea that they would normally be unable to hear, Live feed communication with astronaut Koichi Wakata broadcast in real time from outer space and the depths of the ocean. V o i c e Participation in a science education event My three children took part in the “Let’s talk with outer space!” event aimed at elementary, junior, and senior high school students. I watched the children listening with rapt attention, and the phrase “sense of wonder” came to my mind. Compared to adults, children are much more curious and sensitive to the unknown and mysteries. The event was a great way for them to learn about science while having fun. Though the contribution to society is not immediately obvious, I believe that offering a great opportunity like this as a business sponsor Tetsushi Nagoya is very meaningful. FPD Process Equipment Dept. Tokyo Electron Limited 24 Tohoku Recovery Project Immediately following the Great East Japan Earthquake, the TEL Group’s Tohoku Recovery Project team began focusing on providing a variety of ongoing support programs. In addition to monetary and item donations—such as bench coats—to the disaster-hit areas, we have carried out visiting lectures to assist learning in the disaster-hit areas, and held charity concerts. We hope to help contribute to the recovery of disaster-stricken communities by bringing joy to the local children and residents. Our efforts were recognized and TEL was awarded a certificate of appreciation by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare in 2014. Certificate of appreciation for Tohoku recovery assistance Chronology of the Tokyo Electron Group’s recovery operations Year implemented Content (target) Category 535.9 million yen cash donation Contributions (Japanese Red Cross Society and local governments) and donations Inauguration of the Tohoku Recovery Project Other Special sponsor for “Let’s talk with outer space! Milky way Revitalization 2011 classroom” (elementary, junior high school students) (education) Special sponsor for “Let’s talk with outer space! Starry skies Revitalization concert with Ayaka Hirahara” (general public) (culture) Contributions Donated 11 PV power generation systems (public facilities) and donations Lesson at a visiting lecture Special sponsor of a reconstruction charity concert, “The Musical Revitalization Sound of Recovery Reverberates in Miyagi” (general public) (culture) Donated a research facility to Tohoku University (university, Revitalization research institute) (education) 2012 Providing students with workplace experience, visiting lectures Revitalization (elementary, junior high school students) (education) Donated common items to about 750 locations of temporary Contributions housing (temporary housing areas) and donations Sponsor for a Great East Japan Earthquake memorial charity Revitalization ballet show, the Grand Gala Concert (general public) (culture) Sponsored “Fairies’ Fly to the World” dance event (junior high Revitalization school students) (education) Donated about 1,700 bench coats (for public health nurses etc., Contributions 2013 caring for disaster victims) and donations Providing students with workplace experience, visiting lectures Revitalization Photo message in response to the bench coat (elementary, junior high school students) (education) donations Participated in and sponsored Tohoku University’s Tohoku Forum Revitalization for Creativity (university, research institute) (education) Other social contribution activities Environmental conservation Revitalizing local communities Educational support activities Participated in the Corporate Afforestation Program Sponsored a national women’s corporate relay Organized by “Science Soccer School” (Tokyo Electron Tohoku) marathon or “Queen’s Ekiden” in Miyagi as a special Sponsored Nikkei Education Challenge, provided lecturers sponsor (Tokyo Electron/Tokyo Electron Miyagi) Planting trees in Tokyo Electron Forest Sponsored educational radio programs: (Tokyo Electron Yamanashi) Sponsored the Kumamoto Castle Marathon “YumeYume Engine!”, “Fairies’ Fly to the World” (Tokyo Electron Kyushu) CSR/groundwater recharge tree planting activities Sponsored the All Japan High School Culture Festival (Tokyo Electron Kyushu) Sponsored Tokyo Electron Nirasaki Bunka Hall Naming Right Memorial Concert (Tokyo Electron Yamanashi) Kosen Robot Contest (Tokyo Electron FE) Office greening campaign (Tokyo Electron (Shanghai) Limited) Organized Mr. Denjiro's “Talk about Fun Science!” * All activities listed without a company name were sponsored by Tokyo Electron Co., Ltd. 25 Social contribution—Construction of a dream-inspiring society— Activities overseas Semiconductor scholarship programs in Korea and China The Korea Semiconductor Industry Association has been a main supporter of education programs (taught by semiconductor and device manufacturers) for talented semiconductor engineers since 2006. As a member, Tokyo Electron Korea Limited also supports this scholarship program and since 2008 grants a scholarship to one exceptional science and engineering student studying semiconductors every year. In addition, with the goal of contributing to the expansion of China’s industry, Tokyo Electron (Shanghai) Limited established the Tokyo Electron Scholarship Semiconductor scholarship award ceremony at Peking University for students in the Microelectronics department. Initiatives for the environment and social welfare in the U.S. As part of TEL’s “Technology for Eco Life” campaign, Tokyo Electron U.S. Holdings, Inc. (TEH) is focusing its community outreach efforts on local environmental and social programs. For more than 10 years, the U.S. headquarters of TEH in Austin has continuously participated in Keep Austin Beautiful trash clean-ups. Employees are also provided with many other opportunities to participate in environmental conservation activities such as maintaining an employee garden, and taking part in a cell phone recycling program that benefits biodiversity programs. TEH also sponsors such non-profit organizations as the Meals on Wheels Habitat for Humanity activities program (which delivers meals to disabled elderly people), the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (which researches diabetes in children), The Nature Conservancy (a world-renown nature conservation group), and the international NGO Habitat for Humanity (which supports the construction of housing) through scholarships and volunteer initiatives. In addition, TEH is also an advocate for STEM* education programs in Texas, where their offices are located. External evaluation (main awards received) Category Awards received Sponser 2013 Preferred Quality Supplier Award (PQS award) Intel Corporation Fiscal 2013 Best Supplier Award for evaluation of stable operation as an equipment manufacturer Renesas Yamagata Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Customer Excellent Partner Award Sony Semiconductor Corporation Good Partner Award, Partnership Award TOSHIBA Semiconductor & Storage Products Company 2013 Best Supplier Award LG Display 2013 Best Suppliers of Equipment and Parts Shanghai Huali Microelectronics Corporation (HLMC) Equipment/ 20th Semiconductor of the Year Awards Grand Prize in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment category The Semiconductor Industry News production Best Quality Award Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC) Science Park Carbon Reduction Award and Parks and Green Hsinchu Science Park Administration Spaces Adoption Award (Tokyo Electron Taiwan Limited) Environment/ Selected as the Fiscal 2014 Excellent Foreign Invested Company safety for Green Development (Tokyo Electron (Kunshan) Limited) City of Kunshan SEMI Technical Committee Award Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) FTSE4 Good Index Series FTSE 2013 Internet IR Commendation Award Diawa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. Communication Gold Award in the magazine advertising category BtoB Advertising Association Japan at the Japan BtoB Advertising Awards * Unless the name of the award recipient company is specified, the award is assumed to have been presented to Tokyo Electron Limited. | Glossary | *STEM: science, technology, engineering, and math education; it integrates and organizes existing technology education, and science and math education. 26 Comments from a Third-Party Expert I have read the Environmental and Social Report 2014 of of overtime work, and financial policies including retirement Tokyo Electron Limited (“the Report”) and present the following pay, pensions, and stock options. TEL has an extremely high comments as a third-party, taking into account my observations retention rate of 94.2% three years after hiring, indicating that concerning last year’s report. its employee initiatives are effective, and that this will likely have a positive impact on addressing priority issues. Priority CSR issues One feature of the Report is a clear statement at its beginning Environmental initiatives of priority CSR reporting issues from the perspectives of TEL has set goals and has already taken measures with a stakeholders and business continuity and explanations of specific global outlook to address environmental issues such as climate details. This shows the reader that TEL places a high priority change, depletion of water resources, and waste. In response on the soundness of its financial footing, corporate governance, to climate change in particular, TEL set a goal of halving energy information security, and product quality. Reinforcement of consumption in its major models by fiscal 2015, but goal was fundamental organizational systems, in other words effective achieved ahead of schedule in fiscal 2014, a noteworthy governance systems, is crucial for addressing these CSR issues. accomplishment. TEL also achieved reductions in energy Governance is a decisive element of an organization without consumption per unit of production at nine of its 14 major which CSR measures cannot be undertaken. Accordingly, it plants, but total company-wide carbon dioxide emissions from is commendable that TEL substantially increased reporting energy sources increased 11% to 157,000 tons as a result of dedicated to explaining its corporate governance policy. Readers an increase in the number of overseas plants and higher power will understand that CSR programs are not just incidental to emissions factors. I expect that TEL will include its overseas management, but are a core aspect of management principles plants in its comprehensive environmental management in the and policies and will see the importance of organizational future. development from reading about these priority issues. At the end of the Report, TEL’s current progress towards its CSR targets TEL plans to combine with an American company, and it is likely and its many completed goals are clearly presented to the reader. that there will be a review of its CSR structures in the future. At that time, TEL should strive to maintain and enhance the Initiatives concerning employees successful CSR systems that it has established and to report Employees play important roles in addressing priority issues the details to its stakeholders in an accessible manner so that it and achieving targets. However unlike other managerial can gain the trust and understanding of the public. resources, employees cannot be placed under the influence (This third-party comments does not constitute an opinion on the accuracy or completeness of the information contained in this report.) of market principles. For this reason, the Report discusses the development of work environments that are beneficial for all employees and skill development and explains the status of those measures. TEL has set a target of 20% foreign nationals within recent-graduate hiring, but measures concerning this Yoshito Nakamura target were still underway during the year under review so Certified Public Accountant further reports in the future are desirable. As TEL continues to Adjunct Instructor of Toyo University and move toward globalization, I believe that TEL should consider the Open University of Japan Chairman of the Evaluation Committee for increasing disclosure concerning changes in workforce Independent Administrative Institutions, composition, details concerning foreign employees, the ratio Japanese Ministry of Defense Auditor of the Supporting Organization of JOCV of male and female employees and managers, measures to Auditor of Foundation for Accounting Research address the shrinking workforce and population, the status in Construction Industry Response to the Third-Party Comments We are deeply grateful to Mr. Nakamura, who has provided us We are aware that the employee initiatives and guidance by presenting these third-party comments since the comprehensive environmental management that includes 2010 Environmental and Social Report. His insight has helped overseas plants are also key issues, and we will continue to us to steadily implement our Group’s CSR activities. address them. In response to comments we received last year, this year’s report includes information regarding the relationship between CSR activities and corporate governance systems, the development of systems overseas, and the status of progress regarding those systems. In addition, this year we identified priority CSR reporting issues and prepared this report based on Toshiya Matsuda Moyuru Yasuhara those issues. Director Director Corporate Environment Corporate Branding Promotion Dept. Promotion Dept. Tokyo Electron Limited CSR Promotion Dept. Tokyo Electron Limited 27 Tokyo Electron Group CSR Goals The Tokyo Electron Group carries out CSR activities according to core subjects of ISO 26000 with medium-term goals established. For fiscal 2014, we looked into subjects that each department needs to focus on, and established specific activity themes and goals. In addition, each of these activities is linked with selective report issues (materiality; pp. 6–7). As of June 2014 CSR Promotion of high quality management and stakeholder communication Selective report issues ▶ [Governance/ethical behavior and compliance] [Social contribution activities] Activity theme Achievements ISO Core subjects [Achieved] About 130 participants in the internal seminar, expanded to overseas key location EICC internal education (Four companies in the US, one company in Taiwan, two companies in China, one High quality company in Korea, and two companies in Europe) management [Achieved] Establish governance Established CSR Promotion Meeting and initiated activities Appointed CSR Promotion Director Organizational [Achieved] governance Social contribution activities Survey of company-wide social contribution activities (6 domestic and 6 overseas companies) Communication [Achieved] Improved Internet communications Continued regular Internet communications and enhancement thereof Established new CSR page on intranet Ethics CSR 高品質経営とステークホルダーコミュニケーション Compliance implementation and improved ethical values 重点報告課題Selective report issues ▶［ガバナンス／倫理・ ▶ [Governance/ethical behavior コンプライアンス］［社会貢献活動］ and compliance] [Information security] Activity theme Achievements ISO Core subjects [Achieved] Ethics and compliance Implement ethics and compliance Human rights Finished by all employees of TEL Group in Japan, and 80% of the overseas group education education worldwide company employees Fair Implementation of web-based power [In progress] operating Workplace environment harassment education for the TEL free of harassment Implementation of new web-based education scheduled for July 2014 practices Group in Japan Personnel affairs Pleasant working conditions and employee career development assistance Selective report issues ▶[Achieving workplaces with vitality] [Workforce development] [Safety and health management] Activity theme Achievements ISO Core subjects [Continuing] Work-life balance Continuation of measures for Shorter working hour system for childcare—Under three years old: 50 users’; childcare support Over three years old but not finished elementary school: 109 [Continuing] Occupational safety Thorough implementation of Began providing information to GMs for “employees that require health Labor and health employee healthcare by department practices consideration” Diverse workforces in line with this [In progress] Diversity shift toward globalization Foreign nationals are 20% percent of new hires Human rights Workforce Implementation of training to [Achieved] development understand different cultures A total of 115 people participated in training to understand different cultures Safety Encourage an environment with the highest priority on the safety and health of all personnel Selective report issues ▶ [Safety and health management] Activity theme Achievements ISO Core subjects Equipment designs with timely [Achieved] Product safety support of safety regulations in Completed basic expansion of shipping equipment to new overseas plants all regions Preventing accidents before they occur. [In progress] If an accident occurs, investigation of Compared to fiscal 2013, the number of accidents that could have led to severe Accident prevention the cause of the accident and injury was reduced by 40%, and personal injuries were reduced by 20%. Consumer preventative measures, horizontal deployment of countermeasures and Work site safety check before delivery of equipment, and expansion of point and call issues prevention of similar accidents. activities. [Achieved] Safety skills from the bottom up by Provided all types of education such as advanced safety education (total 9,000 participants), Labor Safety education including practical education online education for raising awareness of work accident prevention (10,000 participants), practices traffic safety education and various types of online education (4,000 participants in Japan) [Achieved] Safety management Safety management Implemented global safety meetings (twice a year), implemented safety and health committees by plant and office and safety activities by unit 28 Quality Striving for world-class product and quality Selective report issues ▶ [Product and quality] Activity theme Achievements ISO Core subjects [Achieved] Policy and system Share and publicize quality policies Completed implementation as planned for the seven key locations overseas improvement and quality systems Expansion of global CSR promotion activities is now possible Consumer [In progress] issues Regulations and Revision of regulations and manuals manuals improvement Coordinating with related responsible departments and scheduled to complete by shared throughout the company March 2015 Procurement Development of a trusted supply chain management framework Selective report issues ▶ [Supply chain management] [Conflict minerals response] Activity theme Achievements ISO Core subjects [Achieved] CSR activities across the supply chain Implemented annual surveys compliant with EICC requirements for about 300 key suppliers, and gained a grasp of the situation Fair [Achieved] operating Supply chain Survey of the supply chain’s practices conflict minerals response Implemented surveys for about 300 key suppliers, and learned the degree of management permeation [Achieved] Procurement BCP Implemented annual surveys compliant with EICC requirements for about 300 key Procurement suppliers, and gained a grasp of the situation Environment Solve environmental issues through our leading-edge technology and services Selective report issues ▶[Energy-saving, resource-saving products] [Reducing waste, recycling] [Reducing water consumption] [Conservation of biodiversity] Activity theme Achievements ISO Core subjects Reduction of environmental [Achieved] impact of product Achieved the goal of 50% reduction in energy consumption with regard to major models of each business unit in fiscal 2014, one year ahead of schedule [Achieved] Compatibility with Chinese RoHS Expanded activities for product compatibility with Chinese RoHS to overseas production sites Products [Achieved] Promotion of voluntary product Continue to ensure that major models of each business unit contain 98.5% or more compatibility with Europe RoHS parts that meet the EU’s Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous [Achieved] Compliance with environmental Continue to ensure products’ compliance with the EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction regulations of each country of Chemicals (REACH) framework as well as with labeling requirements based on the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) and battery regulations of each country. [Achieved] Promotion of green procurement Implement progress of environmental activities surveys for about 300 key suppliers, Procurement and get a grasp of the situation and logistics Reduction of environmental [In progress] impact of logistics Promote a modal shift. Continue monitoring. Promotion of reducing the energy [Achieved] consumption (Reduced 1% from In fiscal year 2014, 9 out of 14 plants that set goals’ in Japan and overseas achieved Environment the previous fiscal year) them Reduction of water consumption [Achieved] Plants and offices (Maintaining the level of fiscal In fiscal 2014, 11 out of the 18 goals set in Japan and overseas were achieved 2012) Recycling waste [Achieved] (Maintaining a recycling rate of 97% The recycle rate for fiscal 2014 was 98% in Japan, and overseas areas that set goals or more in Japan) achieved them [Achieved] Environmental management Maintained ISO 14001 certification for the Group's plants [Achieved] Environmental education Implemented environmental education overseas, for a total of about 10,000 Environmental participants including participants in fiscal 2013 in Japan management [Achieved] Environmental communication Continue to publish Environmental and Social Report. [Achieved] Conservation of biodiversity Based on the guidelines, organized ecosystem tours multiple times at each of the plants in Japan 29 Performance Summary Environment Breakdown Category Details Fiscal 2014 results Japan Overseas Environmental management Number of businesses with ISO 14001 acquisitions 10 7 3 Total number of ecosystem tour participations at offices in Japan 16 16 Biodiversity Total number of ecosystem tour participants at offices in Japan 42 42 CO2 emissions of logistics 54,230 t 3,099 t 51,131 t Logistics Overseas transport marine transportation rate 42.20% Energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) 79,426 KL 58,927 KL 20,499 KL Power consumption 295,470 MWh 222,976 MWh 72,494 MWh Gas consumption (crude oil equivalent) 3,877 KL 2,027 KL 1,850 KL Fuel consumption (crude oil equivalent) 1,160 KL 1,156 KL 4 KL CO2 emissions from energy consumption 157,360 t 120,913 t 36,447 t Scope1 CO2 emissions 11,154 t 7,550 t 3,604 t Office (energy) Scope2 CO2 emissions 146,206 t 113,363 t 32,843 t Non energy-derived greenhouse gas emissions 20,794 t NOx emissions 9.7 t SOx emissions 2.8 t Use of ozone-depleting substances 0t Power generated by PV power generation systems 4,724 MWh 4,698 MWh 26 MWh Business trips by employees in Japan 5,707 t 5,707 t Commuting by employees in Japan 14,538 t 14,538 t 1,670,000 m 3 1,058,000 m 3 612,000 m3 Water consumption Groundwater 297,000 m 3 Plants and offices Tap water 471,000 m3 (resources) Industrial water 290,000 m3 Use of copier paper 116 t Amount of waste generated 9,965 t 8,780 t 1,185 t Plants and offices (waste) Recycled amount 9,421 t 8,608 t 813 t Amount incinerated or put into landfill 544 t 172 t 372 t Plants and offices Amount of substances regulated by PRTR law No. 1 in Japan 12.7 t 12.7 t (chemical substance) Other Product shipment (Japan) 16,331 t 16,331 t Society Category Details Fiscal 2014 results Number of people taking childcare leave, acquisition rate 70 95% Childcare Number of people returning to the workforce after childcare leave, reinstatement rate 53 93% Personnel & labor support system Number of people taking sick/injured child care leave 435 Childcare support leave 92 Safety TCIR value 0.33 CSR procurement survey 94% Supplier survey Procurement BCP survey 100% Supply chain response rate Conflict minerals survey 94% Green procurement survey 96% Charity donations (providing donations and relief materials to charity organizations) 5% Social contribution Cash donations Community investment (expenses for supporting community activities) 38% Commercial initiatives (expenses for anticipated effects of advertising) 57% 30 Tokyo Electron Group The Tokyo Electron Group CSR Policy Code of Ethics I. The Code of Ethics Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must comply at all times with the applicable laws and regulations of each country and region as well as with international regulations, in doing the 1. Compliance with Applicable Laws global business activities, while abiding with corporate ethics and putting them into practice in a spirit of good faith. 2. Acting in Accordance with Social Conscience Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must act in accordance with social conscience based on a high ethical awareness. 3. Maintaining Harmonious Relationships with Local Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must be aware that both themselves and the company are members of their local communities, and must strive to achieve mutually beneficial Communities development while collaborating with these communities. II. Honest and Fair Business Activities II-1 Technology, Safety, and the Environment 4. Ensuring Safety and Pursuing Quality Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must ensure safety and pursue quality in all their business activities including development, manufacturing, sales, service, and administration. 5. Promoting Environmental Preservation Activities Tokyo Electron Group must conduct its business activities while maintaining harmony with the global environment. 6. Ethics in Manufacturing Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must engage in manufacturing with a high ethical awareness and a spirit of good faith. II-2 Fair Trade 7. Implementing Fair and Open Competition Tokyo Electron Group must not engage in any conduct that hinders competition in fair and open markets. 8. Fair Business with Suppliers Tokyo Electron Group selects suppliers based on fair standards. When conducting business with suppliers, we must not use our dominant bargaining position in a transaction to unfairly harm the interests of suppliers. Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must strictly manage confidential information of the company with special care and must not disclose or improperly use confidential information 9. Handling of Confidential Information during the term of their employment or after retirement from the company without following the proper procedures according to the company's internal regulations and non-disclosure agreements. In addition, the confidential information of other companies must be respected and properly managed and must not be obtained by improper means. 10. Strict Export/Import Controls Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must comply with all applicable laws and the company's regulations based thereon concerning the import and export of goods and transfers of technology. Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not give gifts to, or receive them from, a company or individual based on a business relationship, beyond the bounds of common business 11. Reasonable Exchanges of Gifts and practice in the relevant location. Giving or receiving gifts of cash or cash equivalents is prohibited, regardless of the amount (except for purposes recognized as appropriate in common practice, such as Entertainment within the Bounds of Common condolences or expressions of sympathy in some countries and regions). Sense Furthermore, entertainment with companies or individuals with whom one has a work-based relationship must be carried out moderately within the bounds of common sense. II-3 Relationship between the Company and Individuals Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not, without due cause, engage in conduct that is to their own personal benefit and contrary to the interests of the company (conduct causing conflicts 12. Prohibition of Conduct Causing Conflicts of of interests), or which runs the risk of leading to such conduct. In addition, Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not use their position in their work for their own personal benefit. Interests 13. Prohibition of the Improper Use of Company Assets Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not improperly use company assets for their own personal benefit. 14. Prohibition of Conduct of Harassment Tokyo Electron Group does not allow any form of harassment in the workplace. III. Being a Good Corporate Citizen Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not engage in the purchase or sale of stocks on the basis of information not disclosed to the public that they obtained in connection to their 15. Prohibition of Insider Trading work duties or business transactions (insider trading). Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not engage in political activities at the workplace. In addition, Tokyo Electron Group does not make donations of money or company assets to 16. Prohibition of Political Activities and Contributions politicians (including candidates) or political parties. Tokyo Electron Group must not have any relationship, including business relationships, whatsoever with antisocial forces that are likely to disrupt the public order, safety of the public, or corporate 17. Prohibition of Involvement in Antisocial Forces activities. In addition, Tokyo Electron Group must not provide any financial support or accommodation for any reason to antisocial forces. Tokyo Electron Group prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender, nationality, age, race, creed, religion or any other reason, while respecting each person as an individual. Tokyo Electron Group does 18. Respect for Individuals not use forced labor or child labor. Personnel Policy Respect for Human Rights We respect the character and individuality of each person and strive to create work environments without any infringement of human rights. Diverse Workforce We strive to respect and understand differences in values arising from gender, nationality, age, race, creed, religion, and other attributes and to be a corporation where a diverse range of employees can work to their full potential. Human Resource Development We believe that each employee is the source of value creation and support the development of skills by employees. Employee Assessment and Treatment We provide opportunities to those employees with the enthusiasm for personal growth and engage in fair evaluation of skills and employee treatment so that employees with significant results can be rewarded. Occupational Safety and Health We place the highest priority on ensuring the safety and health of employees and maintain environments such that employees can work safely at our workplaces and local residents feel a sense of reassurance. Work-Life Balance We implement measures to enable employees to achieve a good work-life balance. Safety Policy Safety First Based on the principle of safety first, we strive to create safer products and work to maintain and improve the safety of all people involved with our products and healthy workplace environments. With an awareness of the factors that impair safety and health in our various business activities, we continuously strive to create safer and more secure workplaces by making improvements concerning Pursuit of Safe Technologies those factors and through intrinsically-safe equipment designs and superior service capabilities. All employees maintain an awareness of potential problems and of the need for improvement concerning the maintenance and enhancement of safety and health at all workplaces, and management and Management and Employees’ Responsibility employees act in accordance with their respective responsibilities. Legal Compliance We comply with safety and health laws and regulations and international rules, take into consideration industry guidelines, and strive to promote safety and health. Collaboration and Cooperation with Society Based on common understanding with a broad range of stakeholders, we cooperate and collaborate with society and work to appropriately meet their expectations. Quality Policy Quality Always Quality is not only the foundation for customer satisfaction, but also the foundation for meeting expected production schedules and reducing downtime. We prioritize quality over temporary cost increases. We build quality into every TEL product during the design phase by focusing on leading-edge technology. By bringing quality into our processes early and focusing on quality throughout all processes, we Quality Design and Assurance succeed in providing high quality products and services. When we find a quality problem, manufacturing, sales and service departments analyze the facts and complete a thorough investigation to determine the cause, resolving the problem as quickly as Quality and Trust possible. Our customer can trust in our commitment to address identified quality problems. Continuous Improvement Activities We improve quality with an effective quality management system. This includes using quality measures, improving by applying the PDCA cycle, and practicing continuous improvement activities. Communication with Stakeholders In addition to providing product quality information in a timely manner, we understand and align to the expectations of our stakeholders. Environment Policy Environmental Goals and Continuous Improvement We continually enhance its knowledge of environmental issues to establish voluntary goals that are reviewed by Executive Management and drive continuous improvement and full regulatory compliance. Promotion of Environmental Technology We aim to invest in the development of leading-edge, high value products and services that directly contribute to a sustainable society. Environmental Contribution with Product We develop eco-friendly products through our leading-edge technology. We cooperate with our customers and suppliers to strive for the prevention and improvement of a wide range of environmental concerns. Operational Environmental Impact Reduction and Preservation We quantitatively analyze and reduce the environmental impact of our global operations with activity from all levels of employees and operations. Collaboration and Cooperation with Stakeholders and Society We actively promote collaboration and cooperation with all our stakeholders to achieve mutual understanding and conformance to expectations. Procurement Policy Compliance with Applicable Laws and Social Norms We engage in procurement activities with integrity in compliance with the laws and regulations of each country and social norms based on our corporate ethics. Priority on the Environment We conduct procurement with full consideration for reduction of environmental impact and protection of the global environment. Fair Business Practices We continuously seek high-value technologies and create broad opportunities for their business transactions based on the precondition of open competition. Partnership We prioritize relationships of trust based on mutual understanding with suppliers and conduct activities in the pursuit of mutual continuous growth. Information Management We properly manage the confidential information of suppliers that we obtain in the course of business. 31 TEL Eco-Life Art Contest The Tokyo Electron Group holds the TEL Eco-Life Art Contest every year as part of its activities to raise environmental awareness. Since 2009, there have been a total of 1,124 applications. You can find some of the winning works below. Hello, what you are doing? Cherry and the elephant are dancing on the Playing in the Leaves A Sunflower to Two Bees (Germany) green grass under the blue sky (Taiwan) (USA) (Japan) The flowers are cute A horse under the setting sun What is happening? Warmth (Japan) (South Korea) (Taiwan) (Japan) 2012 (With the feel of a movie seen Flight of wind A butterfly in the daytime Radiant terraced rice fields on TV recently) (South Korea) (South Korea) (South Korea) (Japan) CSR Promotion Department Akasaka Biz Tower, 3-1 Akasaka 5-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-6325, Japan Tel: +81-3-5561-7000 Fax: +81-3-5561-7149 We use green power* (Biomass, 1,000kWh) in printing and the bookbinding Corporate Environment Promotion Department process of this CSR report. 2-30-7 Sumiyoshi-cho, Fuchu City The main body of this report (pages 3 to 36) was Tokyo 183-8705, Japan * Green power has generated by power printed on paper made from trees thinned from plants of Solar, Wind, Small Hydro, Tel: +81-42-333-8050 Fax: +81-42-333-8477 Geothermal and Biomass. forests as part of forest invigoration efforts. PR52-180 Published: August 2014 Tokyo Electron Group Environmental and Social Report 2014 GRI Guidelines Table 1. Strategy and Analysis Page found 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. pp. 2–3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. pp. 2–3, 6–7, 10, 18, 28–30 2. Organizational Profile Page found 2.1 Name of the organization. p. 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. p. 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. p. 4 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. p. 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. pp. 4–5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. p. 4 2.7 Markets served. pp. 4–5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. pp. 4–5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Not available 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. p. 26 3. Report Parameters Page found 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. p. 3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. p. 3 3.3 Reporting cycle. p. 3 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Back cover 3.5 Process for defining report content. pp. 6–7 3.6 Boundary of the report. p. 3 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. p. 3 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Not available 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. pp. 15, 21 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re–statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re–statement. pp. 21–22 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Not available 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Current page 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Page found 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. p. 8, Annual Report 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. p. 8, Annual Report 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non–executive members. p. 8, Annual Report 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. p. 8, Annual Report 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. pp. 6, 18 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. pp. 6–26 5. Disclosure on Management Approach and Performance Indicators Page found Economic Management Approach pp. 8–9, Annual Report Performance Indicators EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. p. 18 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally–based suppliers at significant locations of operation. p. 31 Environmental Management Approach pp. 18–19 Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. p. 30 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. pp. 21, 30 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. pp. 21, 30 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy–efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. p. 20 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. pp. 21, 30 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. pp. 22, 30 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. p. 19 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. p. 19 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. pp. 21, 30 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. p. 30 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. pp. 20–21, 30 EN19 Emissions of ozone–depleting substances by weight. p. 30 EN20 NOx SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight. p. 30 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. pp. 22, 30 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. p. 19 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. p. 20 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. p. 22 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non–monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. p. 19 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. pp. 21, 30 Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach pp. 12, 14 Performance Indicators LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work–related fatalities, by region and by gender. p. 15 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. p. 13 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. pp. 12, 30 Human Rights Management Approach pp. 8–9, 17 Performance Indicators HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. p. 17 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. p. 17 Society Management Approach p. 11 Performance Indicators SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti–corruption policies and procedures. p. 11 Product Responsibility Management Approach pp. 14, 16, 17, 19 Performance Indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. p. 14 PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. pp. 20, 23 PR4 Total number of incidents of non–compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. p. 19 Tokyo Electron Group Environmental and Social Report 2014 UN Global Compact Table The Ten Principles Content detailed Page found Human Principle 1: ● Business ethics/compliance p. 11 Rights Businesses should support and respect ● Initiatives for globalization and workforce p. 13 the protection of internationally diversification proclaimed human rights. ● TEL™ UNIVERSITY (Internal organization for p. 13 human resource development) Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they ● CSR goals pp. 28–29 are not complicit in human rights abuses. ● CSR policy p. 31 Labour Principle 3: ● Business ethics/compliance p. 11 Businesses should uphold the freedom ● Easy-to-work workplace p. 12 of association and the effective recognition Initiatives for work–life balance ● p. 12 of the right to collective bargaining. ● Procurement Initiatives p. 17 Principle 4: ● CSR goals pp. 28–29 Businesses should uphold the elimination ● CSR policy p. 31 of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: ● Tokyo Electron business activities and p. 18 Businesses should support a environmental issues precautionary approach to environmental ● Environmental management p. 19 challenges. ● Preventing global climate change pp. 20–21 ● Conserving resources p. 22 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives ● Reducing waste p. 22 to promote greater environmental ● Management of chemical substances p. 23 responsibility. ● Green procurement p. 23 ● CSR goals pp. 28–29 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the ● Performance summary p. 30 development and diffusion of ● CSR policy p. 31 environmentally friendly technologies. Anti– Principle 10: ● Corporate governance pp. 8–11 Corruption Businesses should work against corruption ● Procurement Initiatives p. 17 in all its forms, including extortion and CSR goals ● pp. 28–29 bribery. ● CSR policy p. 31
