we strive for a better world 2013 corporate social responsibility report Contents 1 OUR APPROACH TO CITIZENSHIP 54 OUR PRODUCTS 108 REPORTING 2 Message from the CEO 55 Product Cross-Section 109 Reporting Parameters 3 CSR Policies & Leadership 56 Product Lifecycle 110 GRI Index 9 Governance & External Engagement 56 Acoustics 123 UN Global Compact Index 10 Transparency & Ethics 57 Materials 12 Finance & Economics 59 Emissions 13 CSR Awards & Recognition 60 Energy Use 15 Risks, Opportunities & Impacts 61 Product Certifications 17 Key Performance Indicators 63 Socially Beneficial Software 65 Accessibility Solutions 19 OUR OPERATIONS 68 Supplies 20 Environmental Sustainability 73 Packaging 22 Energy Consumption 75 Innovation 29 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34 Water Management 78 GLOBAL AND COMMUNITY IMPACT 40 Waste Management 79 Global Citizenship 48 Land & Biodiversity 80 Community Impact 49 Environmental Management 82 Volunteerism 50 Supply Chain 87 Contributions & Initiatives 90 Commitment to Employees 91 Human Rights 93 Health & Safety 95 Continuing Education 97 Benefits & Compensation 99 Diversity 101 Commitment to Customers 101 Customer Understanding 104 Product Health & Safety 105 Security & Privacy 106 Marketing Communications 107 Partnerships Our Approach to Citizenship Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Message from the CEO CSR Policies & Leadership Governance & External Engagement Transparency & Ethics Finance & Economics CSR Recognition Risks, Opportunities & Impacts Key Performance Indicators Our Operations Our Products Global and Community Impact Citizenship at Lexmark begins with our pledge to provide innovative, Reporting high-quality products and services for our customers in a responsible manner from both a humanitarian and an ecological perspective. This encompasses our operations, where we deploy cost-effective best practices for energy conservation, wise water use, and waste reduction; and it extends to our support of community, where Lexmark employees are dedicated to creating cleaner, smarter, safer futures where we live and work. We believe that highly accessible and consistent documentation of our progress drives meaningful exchanges and deeper exploration of these topics. Communication is critical to continually improve as a responsible corporate citizen. We are committed to transparency in running our business as well as in the reporting of environmental and social progress. Click here to contact us. 1 Message from the CEO The release of Lexmark’s 2013 a more responsible supply chain are just a few examples of the things Contents Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) we’ve done to build our holistic CSR program. We will continue to focus Our Approach to Citizenship report marks Lexmark’s sixth annual on these key areas while we also further our ongoing efforts to reduce our Message from the CEO Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guided own operational footprint with the establishment of new goals and targets Corporate Social Responsibility to be achieved by the year 2020. We have undertaken all of these efforts to CSR Policies & Leadership report. The past year has been one of better serve the needs of our customers and live up to the expectations of Governance & continued growth of Lexmark’s global our employees, the greater community and shareholders. External Engagement corporate social responsibility and Transparency & Ethics 2013 was also a year in which many areas of our world experienced sustainability programs and initiatives. unprecedented impacts from natural disasters. This is especially true of Finance & Economics I am proud of the progress we have the Philippines. Lexmark has long been part of the Philippine community CSR Recognition made to date and we remain and many of our Filipino employees and their families were deeply committed to continual improvement Risks, Opportunities & Impacts impacted by the events of 2013. The resilience and volunteer spirit shown in our efforts as we strive to be a leader in corporate social responsibility, Key Performance Indicators by our Philippine and global Lexmark team was and is truly amazing both in thought and action. and Lexmark will continue to support efforts to rebuild and restore the Our Operations Throughout the past year we have deepened our commitment to social impacted communities. Our Products responsibility and environmental sustainability. We have continued to ingrain Finally, I’d like to thank the Lexmark employees who have made this happen Global and Community Impact design for environment in our solutions development processes, enhanced even in the most challenging of business climates, our valued customers Reporting our environmental and social compliance programs, and partnered with who have provided Lexmark with feedback on their needs and partnered community organizations, customers and non-governmental organizations with us to make their business and communities more sustainable, and the such as The Nature Conservancy on initiatives that benefit the community. communities that have welcomed Lexmark as a partner. As we move deeper We also continued to strengthen our volunteerism efforts, enhance our into the 21st Century I look forward to working with you to drive meaningful, employee benefits and much more. beneficial change to better the world we all share. We have also broadened our overall efforts to include more areas of social responsibility. Our continued support of STEM initiatives in our communities, the development of socially beneficial solutions for our customers, and building Paul Rooke Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lexmark International, Inc. 2 CSR Policies & Leadership ABOUT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Contents Our Approach to Citizenship At Lexmark International, our policies for environmental and social justice, Lexmark International’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities are Message from the CEO environmental health and safety, corporate responsibility, and climate fundamentally guided by the Lexmark Vision and Values – the cornerstone change, as well as the Lexmark Supplier Code of Conduct, are based on a of the corporate character we have built at Lexmark. CSR Policies & Leadership profound respect for people and our planet. Governance & Lexmark is committed to acting as a socially responsible company in our External Engagement To demonstrate our ongoing commitment to a better global society, and global community. This means that we will fully comply with the laws, rules preservation and maintenance of our Earth, we have developed and Transparency & Ethics and regulations of the countries in which we operate. It also means that we embraced guidelines, procedures, and a course of action for all facets of will go further by continually evaluating our business practices using the Finance & Economics Lexmark that interact with our employees, our customers, our business principle of sustainability. At the heart of sustainability lies the desire CSR Recognition partners, and the world at large. At Lexmark, we believe these policies are to maintain a balance between the economic, environmental and social Risks, Opportunities & Impacts the prudent and wise way to manage both our business affairs and our needs of our world today without compromising the opportunities of future obligations to our world. generations. We want Lexmark to be associated with a respect for human Key Performance Indicators rights, safe work conditions and environmentally sound business practices, Our Operations Corporate Social Responsibility programs and policies are established and directed by the Lexmark Sustainability Department, Corporate Social both for our own organization and for those with whom we partner. Our Products Responsibility Cross-Functional Team, and Sustainability Cross-Functional Global and Community Impact Team in close collaboration with teams across the company (including The following areas of focus act as pillars in our overall commitment to social responsibility: Reporting those in Development, Facilities, Human Resources, and Supply Base Management), our supply chain, our partners, as well as many others. Community Involvement Lexmark strives to understand and respect the cultural values and laws Lexmark Sustainability Leadership Team wherever we operate. Lexmark actively supports important initiatives in communities where our employees live and work. This commitment is visible in our contributions of financial, equipment and volunteer support. Where feasible, we also maintain programs that encourage our employees to support initiatives that are important to them as individuals. DEB MACKAY JOHN D. GAGEL HOLLY BROWN Vice President, Corporate Manager, Sustainability Cross Customer Experience, Sustainability, Corporate Functional Team (CFT) Quality and Sustainability Social Responsibility Chairperson Cross Functional Team (CFT) Chairperson 3 CSR Policies & Leadership Corporate Governance and Ethics Health and Safety Contents Lexmark maintains extensive ethics and corporate governance structures. Lexmark endorses the principle that the quality of products and services, Our Approach to Citizenship These include but are not limited to the Board of Directors, Board the consistency of production and the morale of our employees are Message from the CEO Committees, and Articles and By-Laws of the corporation. We also enhanced by a safe and healthy work environment. Lexmark maintains CSR Policies & Leadership communicate and enforce a detailed Code of Business Conduct for health and safety programs for its facilities around the world and assists our all employees worldwide and provide numerous communication channels Governance & first-tier suppliers in developing programs appropriate to their facilities. External Engagement through which employees, subject to local law, can report possible code violations. Human Rights and Labor Standards Transparency & Ethics Lexmark is committed to upholding the human rights of workers and to Finance & Economics Diversity treating them with dignity and respect as understood by the international CSR Recognition Lexmark values and respects the individual differences of our employees, community. We adhere to and recognize the critical importance of customers and business partners and is committed to achieving diversity in Risks, Opportunities & Impacts standards regarding freely chosen employment, child labor, discrimination, our global workforce. We believe that a diverse workforce provides a better harsh or inhumane treatment, minimum wages, working hours and freedom Key Performance Indicators place to work for our employees and a competitive business advantage for of association. Our Operations our company. The company seeks out and implements programs designed Supplier Requirements Our Products to foster mutual respect and achievement of personal success, striving for individuals to reach their full potential. Global and Community Impact Lexmark works with our suppliers to ensure that they treat their workers and employees fairly and with dignity and respect, maintain safe working Reporting Environmental Responsibility conditions and conduct manufacturing activities in an environmentally safe Lexmark works diligently to develop and implement industry-leading and responsible manner. environmental practices that relate not only to our products, but to everything we do, everywhere in the world. We focus these efforts This statement and the principles upon which it is based were developed through the Lexmark Environmental Program, which has three main areas with guidance from many sources, including but not limited to the Global of concentration: Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct and the U.N. Global Compact. • The way we design our products and services. • The way we manage resources. In addition to adhering to the above requirements and standards, Lexmark • The way we live and work. does not tolerate retaliation against anyone who reports in good faith through the appropriate channels a suspected violation of any provision of the above statement. 4 CSR Policies & Leadership Environmental and Social Justice Policy 5. We will respect the rights and dignity of our employees, offering Contents safe working conditions and environmentally sound business Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark International’s commitment to environmental justice and corporate practices. We recognize the critical importance of standards regarding Message from the CEO social responsibility is simple and clear: we constantly strive to develop freely chosen employment, child labor, discrimination, harsh or responsibly designed products and to set high standards across all areas of inhumane treatment, minimum wages, working hours and freedom CSR Policies & Leadership operation. We are good corporate citizens, serving both our employees and of association. We expect our business partners to do the same. Governance & our neighbors with the dignity and respect they deserve. Our commitment External Engagement is proven through the following: 6. We will strive to understand and respect the cultural values Transparency & Ethics wherever we operate. Lexmark will be a good corporate citizen and • The way we design our products and services. a good neighbor. Finance & Economics • The way we manage resources. CSR Recognition • The way we live and work. 7. We will operate under a clear and strong code of ethics at every level Risks, Opportunities & Impacts of the company. All employees are expected to understand how they We envision that Lexmark should always be associated with a respect for are to conduct business. Key Performance Indicators human rights, safe work conditions and environmentally sound business Our Operations practices for our own organization and for those with whom we partner. 8. Diversity reflects our commitment both as a company and as individuals to embrace and apply the wealth of backgrounds, Our Products The fundamental principles of the policy are as follows: nationalities, cultures, experiences and viewpoints of our employees, Global and Community Impact 1. Lexmark is committed to acting as a socially responsible company in customers, suppliers and business partners in pursuit of customer Reporting the global community. We will fully comply with both the letter and the satisfaction and business success. spirit of the laws, rules and regulations of the countries and communities in which we operate. This policy is fundamental to Lexmark’s business practices and vision. Every executive, manager and employee is expected not only to understand the 2. Our operations include high standards of environmental performance policy but to act and make decisions based upon the policy and to conduct to minimize environmental impact. We will continually monitor those themselves in a manner consistent with this policy. Each person is also standards and seek ongoing improvement. expected to help continually improve both performance and standards. 3. As we modify, develop or acquire facilities, we will incorporate environmental justice issues into those processes. We will strive to minimize our environmental footprint wherever we operate. 4. We will maintain open and transparent communications with all stakeholders in our operations, including stockholders, customers, Paul A. Rooke employees and governments so that they may contribute to our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer environmental justice success. Lexmark International, Inc. 5 CSR Policies & Leadership Corporate Environmental, Health Climate Change Policy Contents and Safety Policy Our corporate values include those of corporate citizenship and a Our Approach to Citizenship Message from the CEO Lexmark is committed to sustainable excellence in all our business activities, long-term perspective. These values extend to the Lexmark climate change policy: we seek to act in a manner that respects the global community CSR Policies & Leadership products and services. Through continual improvement in our environmental, health and safety programs, Lexmark is committed to the following: today and in the future. Governance & External Engagement • Being an environmentally responsible provider of high-quality Lexmark and our subsidiaries recognize that climate change and water Transparency & Ethics products and services. resources are issues of global concern. We believe that the most effective solutions can be developed through the collaborative efforts of public Finance & Economics • Being a good environmental steward by preserving and protecting our entities and private organizations, governing bodies and nongovernmental CSR Recognition natural resources and practicing pollution prevention. agencies, and enterprises and private citizens. At Lexmark, we are committed Risks, Opportunities & Impacts to participating in climate change dialogues with all stakeholders. We are • Being a responsible neighbor and employer, committed to compliance also committed to collaborative efforts that reduce greenhouse gases Key Performance Indicators with relevant environmental, safety and health regulations as well as and other emissions and that conserve water and other natural resources. Our Operations laws and other criteria to which Lexmark subscribes. Through water-conservation and energy-efficiency programs and design Our Products standards, Lexmark strives to reduce the environmental impacts not only of • Being a provider of safe and healthy workplaces. Global and Community Impact our operations, but also of our products, our suppliers and our partners. We Lexmark senior management is responsible for this policy and its scope, for conduct regular efficiency audits of our own facilities and encourage our Reporting communicating it and for ensuring its implementation. Lexmark managers suppliers and partners to assess their use of energy and water resources. are responsible for integrating these commitments into their decisionLexmark is transparent in our communications that are related to the making processes and their operational practices with objectives to environment and climate change. On a regular basis, we publicly disclose measure and improve performance. All employees are expected to conduct emission statistics, quantifiable goals and progress reports. The Lexmark themselves in a manner consistent with this policy. sustainability principal drives the implementation of our climate change policy. Paul A. Rooke Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lexmark International, Inc. 6 CSR Policies & Leadership Human Rights Policy commitment to providing a workplace that is safe, inclusive and ethical. Contents Lexmark respects freedom of association and freely-chosen employment. Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark International, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Lexmark”) work with There is no forced labor, prison labor and/or indentured labor, or child labor. Message from the CEO suppliers, partners and customers in over 170 countries. Lexmark is All employees must meet the minimum age requirement set by local laws. committed to protecting the rights of our employees and those of our We provide fair performance-based compensation and offer opportunities CSR Policies & Leadership suppliers and partners by complying with the local laws in each geography. for our employees to build rewarding careers. The benefits and assistance Governance & Lexmark upholds and respects international human rights standards as we offer as an employer are aimed at helping our people have a healthy External Engagement reflected in The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations work-life balance. Lexmark continually strives to create an environment free Transparency & Ethics Global Compact, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and from discrimination of minority groups and women. We do not tolerate haFinance & Economics Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on rassment or discrimination and actively support the anti-discrimination laws Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (ILO) and the Organisation for and regulations of every nation, state and city in which business is conducted. CSR Recognition Economic Co-operation and Development for Multinational Enterprises All employees are provided information and ongoing training on topics Risks, Opportunities & Impacts (OECD). Our support for these standards/principles is embedded in our such as employee equal opportunity and workplace harassment; they must Key Performance Indicators Code of Business Conduct, our position on labor relations and our also sign off on the Code of Business Conduct. Employees are required to Our Operations employment practices. All of our business operations as well as partner take annual training, where required by law. Lexmark respects and protects and supplier relationships are guided by these principles. We inspect for human rights. There are processes in place to identify, monitor, prevent Our Products compliance through our management processes including operations and mitigate human rights abuses. These processes are created to enable Global and Community Impact reviews, risk management and internal audit accountability and remediation when needed. Reporting Our People Our Supply Chain and Distribution Channels People are at the core of any successful enterprise. Lexmark’s first Lexmark references the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of priority is the health and safety of our employees around the world. We Conduct® (EICC) to set standards for our vendors throughout our supply apply employee health, safety and emergency preparedness standards chain. The EICC Code of Conduct covers ethics, environmental conditions, that meet or in most cases exceed regulatory requirements. We strongly labor standards and worker health and safety. The EICC Code of Conduct believe that every employee should be treated with respect and dignity. is based onrecognized standards and principles including the ILO and the We are committed to protecting workers’ rights including minority groups United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights while maintaining a and women, as well as the rights of indigenous peoples. Our employee focus on our industry and applicable local laws and regulations. Code of Business Conduct and human resources practices reflect our firm 7 CSR Policies & Leadership Lexmark’s high standards for human rights and sustainable business Contents practices are manifested in our supplier and partner relationships not only Our Approach to Citizenship in the manufacturing of Lexmark products but also in the sourcing of Message from the CEO supplies that carry the Lexmark brand name. In addition, parties that conduct business on our behalf by selling and servicing Lexmark CSR Policies & Leadership technology are expected to manage their businesses with the same Governance & high ethical standards and respect for human rights. External Engagement Transparency & Ethics Our Communities and Stakeholder Engagement Finance & Economics Corporate citizenship and respect for human rights extend into the communities where Lexmark employees live and work and where our CSR Recognition brand is represented and visible. We respect laws, customs and the highest Risks, Opportunities & Impacts standards of labor practices in the countries in which we operate, ensuring Key Performance Indicators alignment with our own standards and Code of Business Conduct, which Our Operations meets or exceeds the requirements dictated by local laws and regulations. We are committed to engaging with stakeholders in those communities Our Products to ensure that we understand and are taking their views into account as Global and Community Impact we conduct our business. Reporting Jeri L. Isbell Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Communications Lexmark International, Inc. 8 GOVERNANCE & EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT Corporate Governance Lexmark is a member of and/or engaged with these groups. Contents • Information Technology Industry Council (ITI) Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark is governed • ITI Environmental Leadership Council Message from the CEO by a 12-member board • Greater Lexington Chamber of Commerce of directors, consisting • The Nature Conservancy of Kentucky Corporate Sustainability Council CSR Policies & Leadership of 1 executive and • University of Kentucky Center for Sustainable Manufacturing Governance & 11 independent, • Duke University Center for Sustainability and Commerce External Engagement nonexecutive directors. • National Arbor Day Foundation Transparency & Ethics • The Nature Conservancy The board is chaired by • United Nations Global Compact Finance & Economics CEO, Paul Rooke. For • Manufacturing Leadership Council additional information CSR Recognition • maquiladora association (INDEX Juarez) about governance, see • Lenexa Chamber of Commerce Risks, Opportunities & Impacts the Lexmark Form 10-K and proxy statement. For additional information about • Shawnee Chamber of Commerce Key Performance Indicators the board composition and qualifications, see our Investor Relations page. • Greater KC Chamber • Mid-America Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce Our Operations Board of Directors Structure • Kansas City Area Development Council Our Products • The Technology Council of Greater Kansas City (KCnext) In 2013, the board of directors and the shareholders of Lexmark approved Global and Community Impact • genKC an amendment to Lexmark’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to • Bundesverband Informationswirtschaft Telekommunikation (BITKOM) Reporting declassify the board of directors. Pursuant to such amendment, directors • DIGITAL EUROPE elected for three-year terms at the Company’s Annual Meeting of • Digital CSF organisation Shareholders in 2012 and 2013 will serve the remainder of their three-year • SFIB Syndicat de l’industrie des Technologies de l’Information terms. Beginning with the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, Director • Australian Information Industry Association • Employers & Manufacturing Association (Asia Pacific) nominees will be elected for one-year terms rather than three-year terms. • MEZ Safety and Security Council Inc. (Philippines) • Facilities and Environmental Organization (Philippines) Commitments to External Engagement • Pollution Control Association of the Philippines. Inc. Lexmark engages with stakeholders including customers, employees, • IT BPO Tripartite Council (Dept. of Labor Organized) (Philippines) shareholders, communities, governmental agencies and non-governmental • Official Safety and Health Network (Philippines) organizations (NGOs). We engage with these because we want to participate • PMAP Personnel Management Association of the Philippines • U.S. Information Technology Office in the industry and public policy discussions led by these organizations and • National Chamber of Commerce take advantage of those collective resources. We engage with these groups • Australian Information Industry Association (AIIA) in meetings and by participating in and leading committees, conference • Business Imaging Association of Australia (BIAA) calls, and electronic communications. Topics that have been discussed in • Information Technology Association of Canada (ITAC) the past year include standards and regulations that affect product design, • American National Standards Institute (ANSI) as well as federal reporting requirements. Lexmark engages in public policy • Ecma International and standards development through our involvement in industry coalitions • Association Connecting Electronics Industries and trade associations at the local, state, federal, and international level. • European Imaging Association (EURIMAG) and • Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN) 9 Transparency & Ethics The Code of Business Conduct is reviewed on an annual basis. Possible Contents updates and employee review statistics are shared with the Lexmark Ethics Our Approach to Citizenship Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee of the board of Message from the CEO directors. All modifications to the Code of Business Conduct are reviewed and approved by the Ethics Committee. CSR Policies & Leadership Governance & Any officer, director, employee, agent, or stockholder acting on behalf External Engagement of Lexmark who violates the Lexmark Code of Conduct can be subject Transparency & Ethics to substantial government fines and/or imprisonment in addition to Lexmark disciplinary action including termination. Lexmark publicly reports Finance & Economics infractions of the Business Code of Conduct that impact investors. CSR Recognition Risks, Opportunities & Impacts Preventing Corruption Key Performance Indicators Both Lexmark business units (Imaging Solutions and Services and Our Operations Perceptive) are regularly analyzed for risks related to corruption. Corruption Our Products risk factors are considered in the formation of the Lexmark internal Ethical Business Practices audit plan, which is reviewed by the Finance and Audit Committee of Global and Community Impact the Lexmark board of directors on an annual basis. The Company has Reporting We believe that ethical behavior is critical to the Lexmark’s vision, Customers designed and adopted employee and supplier codes of business conduct For Life. All Lexmark employees are expected to adhere to the policies that help to mitigate these risks. A formal risk assessment focused on corset forth in the Lexmark Code of Business Conduct. The Code covers the ruption is included in our Lexmark audit plan. The audit plan is reviewed following topics: personal conduct, conflicts of interest, accounting records, and approved by the Finance and Audit Committee of the Lexmark board internal controls and audits, complying with laws and regulations, supplier of directors on an annual basis. relationships, customer relationships, information concerning others and corporate social responsibility. Lexmark has a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption that applies to Lexmark employees and business partners. Lexmark terminates All Lexmark employees—including executive management—are required to business relationships with business partners that operate in an unethical annually review and certify understanding of the Lexmark Code of Business manner. Lexmark recently terminated its relationship with an electronic Conduct. In 2013, nearly all regular, worldwide employees and managers (99 component manufacturer after discovering that the company violated percent) acknowledged their understanding of the 2013 Code of Business an environmental regulation and refused to take the required corrective Conduct confirming that they have, and will continue to, conduct themselves actions. Incidents of corruption involving Lexmark employees are reported and Lexmark business in accordance with its requirements. to Lexmark’s Ethics Committee and to the Finance and Audit Committee of the Lexmark board of directors. No legal cases regarding corrupt practices Lexmark offers targeted anticorruption and antibribery training courses that were brought against Lexmark or our employees during 2013. educate select employee groups about risks of corruption specific to their job functions. All allegations of employee corruption and/or fraud are thoroughly investigated by the appropriate business unit in collaboration with Human 10 Transparency & Ethics Resources, Internal Audit, and the Lexmark Legal Department. Results of Gift and Gratuity Policy Contents such investigations determine disciplinary action and whether the incident Our Approach to Citizenship requires investigation by outside agencies and formal charges. The Lexmark Gift and Gratuity Policy states that no Lexmark employee or Message from the CEO member of his or her family may accept a gift or gratuity from a supplier or While incidents of corruption are infrequent, they do occur. In accordance prospective supplier unless it is of nominal value (no more than $25). Cash CSR Policies & Leadership with the Lexmark zero-tolerance policy toward bribery and corruption, gifts of any kind are prohibited. Governance & Lexmark decided to dismiss certain employees during the reporting period External Engagement based on nonsystemic, personal-level incidents of fraud or dishonesty. VISIONS AND VALUES Transparency & Ethics Our employees have defined our vision and values. We live these concepts Preventing Anticompetitive Behavior Finance & Economics every day. More than mere words, these statements are truly a framework CSR Recognition Lexmark supports efforts to preserve and foster fair and honest competition for how we operate. Click here to learn more about our vision and values. Risks, Opportunities & Impacts in a competitive market system. We take care to ensure that our business practices do not violate competition laws (also known as antitrust, monopoly, ETHICS HOTLINE Key Performance Indicators fair trade, or cartel laws) that prohibit business practices that unreasonably The Lexmark Ethics Line (1-866-477-2029) is a 24-hour, international Our Operations restrict the functioning of the competitive system. toll-free telephone number established to assist Lexmark employees with Our Products questions about the Code of Business Conduct or concerns that something Lexmark was a defendant in one pending anticompetitive behavior lawsuit Global and Community Impact improper has occurred or might be occurring. A third-party provider during the reporting period. In federal court litigation, Static Control operates the Ethics Line. The third-party providers of the telephone lines Reporting Components, Inc. has alleged that Lexmark engaged in anticompetitive are prohibited from providing a caller’s identity to Lexmark without the behavior in violation of federal and state laws. The courts have not rendered caller’s permission. Calls are reported to Lexmark for investigation and any decision on the merits of these claims. Lexmark denies the allegations reviewed by Lexmark senior management. and is actively defending itself in court. For additional information, see the Lexmark 10-K form. CONTACT FOR FINANCE AND AUDIT COMMITTEE Monetary Fines The Lexmark contact line (1-866-484-7895) for the Finance and Audit Committee of the board of directors is a 24-hour, international toll-free As a result of the Lexmark commitment to ethical business practices, telephone number for employees to anonymously question accounting Lexmark has not been subject to any significant fines or nonmonetary orauditing matters, or possible unethical or illegal conduct to the Finance sanctions for noncompliance of laws and regulations related to accounting and Audit Committee. A third-party provider operates the contact line. fraud, workplace discrimination, or corruption during this reporting period. The third-party providers of the telephone lines are prohibited from providing a caller’s identity to Lexmark without the caller’s permission. Call information is forwarded to the Finance and Audit Committee for review and further investigation. 11 Finance & Economics Any business must position itself to thrive well into the future. The same Financial Transparency Contents long-term perspective that ensures our continued success also drives our Our Approach to Citizenship To ensure full financial transparency, the Lexmark Investor Relations page keen interest in sustainability. Forces like climate change, natural resource provides a range of information about the financial performance and market Message from the CEO depletion and human rights can have a material impact on our ability to presence of our companies. CSR Policies & Leadership conduct business in an increasingly interconnected world. Governance & Investors today seek companies who understand the diverse set of risks in Government Assistance and Presence in External Engagement their business and who are proactive about addressing them. At Lexmark Shareholding Structure Transparency & Ethics we go beyond typical risk mitigation. We not only seek a thorough Lexmark received no significant financial assistance from the U.S. Finance & Economics awareness of the world in which we operate, we also strive to make it a or any other government in 2013. No government is part of Lexmark’s better place. This is deeply infused in our corporate culture, and we are CSR Recognition shareholding structure. a stronger company for it. Risks, Opportunities & Impacts Lexmark is committed to delivering shareholder value to our investors. Indirect Economic Impacts Key Performance Indicators Our focus on environmental sustainability yields significant operational Lexmark’s presence has positive impacts on the economies that Our Operations efficiencies. By reducing waste in all its forms, we can pass more value on surround our global locations. We provide competitive employee Our Products to our shareholders. compensation, use local resources and hire the majority of our employees Global and Community Impact from surrounding communities. Significant Investments – Ongoing Reporting A significant portion of Lexmark employees—including those in the Commitment to Human Rights United States, Mexico and the Philippines—work in locations that have From 2010-2013 Lexmark has participated in ten significant, non-traditional minimum-wage rules. Lexmark is committed to rewarding our employees investment agreements involving our recent acquisitions: Perceptive for their hard work. Lexmark and its subsidiaries worldwide offer salaries Software, Pallas Athena, Brainware, ISYS Search Software, Nolij Corporation, and benefit plans that are highly competitive; and compensation plans Acuo Technologies, AccessVia, Twistage, SAPERION AG, and PACSGEAR. are frequently benchmarked to ensure that we remain competitive. By In each case, we specified human-rights clauses prohibiting investments in maintaining favorable salaries and benefits, we attract and retain employees. companies that discriminate based upon race, color, religion, gender, sexual Moreover, providing above-average employee compensation has a orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age or veteran status. favorable economic impact on the markets in which we do business. Acuo Technologies Saperion AG Pallas Athena Perceptive Software Brainware PACSGEAR AccessVia ISYS Search Software Nolij Corporation Twistage 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 12 CSR Recognition Recent Recognition Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Message from the CEO Top ten most Trustworthy public Companies list CSR Policies & Leadership Trust Across America™ named Lexmark to its Top Ten Most Trustworthy Governance & Public Companies list. Over 2000 public companies were screened on External Engagement 100 Best Corporate Citizens List five primary indicators of trustworthiness: financial stability, accounting Transparency & Ethics conservativeness, corporate governance, transparency and sustainability. Lexmark ranked 35th in CR Magazine’s 15th annual listing. This is the fourth Finance & Economics consecutive year that Lexmark has been selected for inclusion in this CSR Recognition publication that recognizes top performance of public companies in the Risks, Opportunities & Impacts US. Ratings are based on disclosure and performance data from publicly available information in Environment, Climate Change, Human Rights, Key Performance Indicators Employee Relations, Corporate Governance, Philanthropy and Finance. Manufacturing Leadership 100 Awards Our Operations Lexmark received two awards in Supply Chain Leadership and one in Our Products Customer Value Leadership. Global and Community Impact Reporting Manufacturing Leadership 100 Award for Sustainability Lexmark was awarded for Sustainability, Innovation and Operational Excellence. The Sustainability award was due to the innovative process that converts the company’s own waste paper into new molded pulp UN Global Compact 100 cushions for packaging toner cartridges. Lexmark has been selected for inclusion in its first global stock index that combines corporate sustainability and baseline financial performance. GC100 was developed by United Nations Global Compact in partnership with research firm Sustainalytics. ESR distinctive Lexmark was awarded ESR distinctive by Centro Mexicano para la Filantropia, A.C. (CEMEFI), a Civil Association founded in 1988 whose mission is to provide and articulate a committed and social responsible philanthropic participation to achieve through its citizens, social organization and enterprises a more equal and prosperous society. 13 CSR Recognition Kansas City’s Top Companies Contents Perceptive is listed in KC Magazine as Kansas City’s Coolest Company Our Approach to Citizenship attributed to their “work hard, play hard” attitude. The company has Message from the CEO experienced continued growth and promotes a great balance of work CSR Policies & Leadership and leisure. Bicycle Friendly Business award Silver Governance & External Engagement The League of American Bicyclists recognized Lexmark with a Silver award for leading America toward a greener future. Transparency & Ethics Finance & Economics CSR Recognition RobecoSAM Sustainability Award Bronze Class 2013 Risks, Opportunities & Impacts Lexmark is recognized as a sustainability leader in the Computer Hardware & Electronic Office Equipment sector with a Bronze class distinction in its Key Performance Indicators Best Places to Work 2014 annual Sustainability Yearbook. Our Operations Lexmark received a perfect score of 100 on the Corporate Equality Index Our Products by The Human Rights Campaign Foundation for commitment to equality in Colorado Environmental Leader Program (ELP) Gold Leader Award Global and Community Impact the workplace resulting in inclusion in their annual listing. Lexmark was selected due to many environmental achievements Reporting such as reductions in VOC emissions, hazardous waste and energy conservation efforts. Top 25 Southeastern Sustainable Companies The Southeastern Corporate Sustainability Rankings is a combination of rigorous strategy, analytics and world-class design, and provides a reliable, cross industry framework for comparing the performance of major companies that are committed to sustainability. Best Global In-house Center of the Year International ICT Awards Philippines Top 100 Sustainable Companies List IAIR – Global Economy & Sustainability® selected Lexmark in their listings. Alfred P. Sloan Award for Excellence in Workplace Flexibility When Work Works selected Lexmark due to the flexible work-life balance program offering. 14 RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES & impacts The Lexmark social and environmental impacts are divided into three focus Assessment Tool (EPEAT®), which is a method for consumers to evaluate Contents areas and are addressed by corresponding initiatives: product initiatives, the affect of a product on the environment. (For more information, go to Our Approach to Citizenship operational initiatives, and community initiatives. www.epeat.net.) Message from the CEO For operational initiatives, we made great progress reducing the CSR Policies & Leadership PRODUCT INITIATIVES OPERATIONAL INITIATIVES COMMUNITY INITIATIVES environmental impacts of our Lexmark operations. Lexmark has become Governance & PRODUCT INITIATIVES OPERATIONAL INITIATIVES more proficient at using the collaboration intranet system, conference calls, External Engagement webinars and video conferencing. These tools have been utilized worldwide Transparency & Ethics and have enabled global conversations and increased productivity. Finance & Economics For community initiatives, we prioritized our corporate community focus CSR Recognition on initiatives that support STEM (science, technology, engineering, and Risks, Opportunities & Impacts math) education improvement and promote diversity. By concentrating Lexmark’s resources on improvements in these areas, we have made Key Performance Indicators significantly more progress than with a focus on a broader range of issues. Our Operations Product initiatives relate to Operational initiatives are Community initiatives are the environment and social all the things we do to enAlso, as Lexmark acquires more companies, we focus on learning from all the things we do to Our Products benefits of the solutions we reduce our own environvironmentally and socially these new communities we now share and look for opportunities develop. These solutions Global and Community Impact mental footprint at Lexmark improve the communities in to combine corporate and community resources to create stronger and help our customers reduce more effective community programs. facilities and to make which we live and work. Reporting their environmental footLexmark a better employprints, meet the accessibiliIn 2014 and beyond, we will look for opportunities to strengthen the er and business partner ty needs of their workforce, through commitments to environmental and social benefits of our product offerings, improve the and operate in a more responsible manner. human rights and fair labor efficiency of our operations, and deliver more positive benefits to the practices. communities where we live and work. Risks and Opportunities At Lexmark, we first make sure that we are complying with local statutes wherever we have operations. Then, we balance and prioritize our apCorporate social responsibility (CSR) trends have driven Lexmark to evaluate proach by assessing what needs to be done and how best to do it to meet the potential of physical risks and regulatory restrictions for our business the needs of all stakeholders as completely as possible. We continue to and to consider potential opportunities to enhance and capitalize on our make significant strides in these focus areas. product offerings. Through this due diligence, we can help our customers achieve their own environmental sustainability and social responsibility For product initiatives, we continue to develop product features and goals. The most important risks and opportunities for Lexmark that are solutions that offer our customers opportunities to reduce the environmental related to sustainability trends (a number of which are noted in our annual impact of their printing and imaging activities. These efforts are validated SEC filings) include the following: by third-party certifications, including the Electronic Product Environmental 15 RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES & impacts 1. Environmental and Regulatory Matters hazards, power shortages, water shortages, and telecommunications Contents failures. Any of these conditions can disrupt business and can adversely Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations, affect our revenue and financial condition by increasing our costs and specifically those relating to environmental matters that impose limitations Message from the CEO expenses. As Lexmark continues to consolidate certain functions in shared on the discharge of pollutants and that establish protocols for the treatment, service centers and moves other functions to countries with lower-cost CSR Policies & Leadership storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. For more information labor, the probability and impact of business disruptions might increase Governance & about the impacts of Lexmark regulatory topics, see Lexmark Form 10-K. over time. For each of its sites, Lexmark has a business continuity plan External Engagement 2. Electronic Waste Obligation that describes the risks of climate change. For more information about Transparency & Ethics the impacts of operational risks, see Lexmark Form 10-K. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive issued by Finance & Economics the European Union require producers of electrical and electronic goods 4. Product Opportunities CSR Recognition to be financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, Lexmark offers a wide range of environmentally beneficial and highly Risks, Opportunities & Impacts and disposal of past and future covered products. Our estimated liability accessible imaging devices and software solutions that help customers print Key Performance Indicators for these costs involves a number of uncertainties, and we consider certain less and meet the accessibility needs of their workforces. Demand for such assumptions and judgments that include average collection costs, return Our Operations products and solutions can have a positive financial impact for Lexmark. rates, and product life cycles. Should actual costs and activities differ from Our Products our estimates, revisions to the estimated liability might be required. For more information about the impacts of waste, see Lexmark Form 10-K. Global and Community Impact Reporting 3. Climate Change The predictions about the impacts of climate change have led lawmakers across the globe to take a precautionary approach, proposing and implementing new regulations to guide governments, businesses, and citizens in their efforts to reduce global warming. These regulations can potentially impact all businesses. Regulations requiring energy reductions are motivating consumers and businesses to replace wasteful equipment with energy-efficient products. Lexmark recognizes that reducing energy use is one of the most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a major contributor to climate change. Lexmark environmental policies and programs support the reduction of greenhouse gases in our own operations and those of our customers, partners, and suppliers. Climate change and associated weather disruptions can affect the operations of all organizations. Our operations and those of our manufacturing partners, suppliers, and freight transporters are subject to natural and man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, environmental 16 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MATERIALS WATER Contents MATERIALS CLIMATE CHANGE MATERIALS WATER CLIMATE CHANGE WASTE WATER WASTE SUPPLIES SUPPLIES ENERGY SUPPLY CHAIN ENERGY Our Approach to Citizenship SUP Objective: Objective: Message from the CEO Reduce overall use of virgin materials in Conserve and reuse water. CSR Policies & Leadership products. Target: Governance & Target: We aim to reduce our water usage by another 15 External Engagement The current Lexmark printer product line percent by 2020. Achieving this goal will mean Transparency & Ethics contains an average minimum of 10 percent by that in just 15 years Lexmark will be reducing its weight of postconsumer (PCR) plastic of the total plastic components. water consumption by 58 percent. Finance & Economics Progress: CSR Recognition Progress: Since our baseline year of 2005, we have now cut our water usage by a Risks, Opportunities & Impacts The latest Lexmark printers are qualified to contain a PCR content of up to full 50 percent. With this result we have well exceeded our 2017 goal so 40 percent by weight of the plastic components. Key Performance Indicators starting this year we are setting a new, aggressive target. This plan continues to drive our actions toward achieving more significant, controllable and Our Operations CLIMATE CHANGE sustained reductions in water usage going forward. CLIMATE CHANGE WATER WASTE SUPPLIES ENERGY SUPPLY CHAIN Our Products Objective: Global and Community Impact Reduce greenhouse gas emissions WASTE MATERIALS CLIMATE CHANGE WATER WASTE SUPPLIES ENERGY Reporting SUPPLY CHAIN Objective: Target: Minimize waste Lexmark aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by another 15 percent between 2013 Target: and 2020. Our new 15 percent goal for 2020 Lexmark has three long-term, waste would result in reducing our cumulative emissions since 2005 by signifimanagement goals for the corporation: cantly more than half (53 percent). 1. Maintain a minimum of 75 percent recycling Progress: rate for waste generated. Lexmark reduced its total greenhouse gas emissions by 10 percent from 2. Achieve a 30 percent increase in hardware collection and recycling by 2012 through 2013. This is a significant result as we have been aggressive2014 as compared to baseline year 2007 per unit sales. ly driving down GHG emissions for many years. Our cumulative reductions since 2005 are now 45 percent. 3. Expand coverage of the Lexmark Equipment Collection Program. Progress: 1. Achieved an 80 percent recycling rate for waste generated in 2013. 2. Increased by 58 percent hardware collection per unit sales compared to the 2007 baseline. 3. Increased the Lexmark hardware collection rate per unit of sales in 2013 by expanding coverage of electronic recycling programs in Canada. 17 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SUPPLIES Target: Contents SUPPLIES ENERGY SUPPLY CHAIN Optimize Lexmark’s product transportation system. Our Approach to Citizenship Objective: Message from the CEO Reduce the environmental impact of Progress: CSR Policies & Leadership our supplies. In 2013 we contained the impact of emissions associated with product transportation (scope 3 emissions) to 6 percent of our total—a 37 percent Governance & Target: External Engagement reduction since 2005. 1. Increase the postconsumer recycled (PCR) Transparency & Ethics plastic percentage to 25 percent by 2016. SUPPLY CHAIN Finance & Economics 2. IncreaseWASTE the cartridge material by SUPPLIES weight through our collectionENERGY program SUPPLY CHAIN Objective: CSR Recognition to 50 percent by 2018. Risks, Opportunities & Impacts Increase focus on sustainability throughtout the Progress: supply chain. Key Performance Indicators 1. Lexmark’s toner cartridge product line currently contains an average of Our Operations Supplier Diversity 10 percent by weight of PCR plastic. Our Products Target: 2. In 2013, approximately 32 percent of the cartridge materials by weight Global and Community Impact returned were reused. Diversity Supplier spend greater than $40 million. Reporting Progress: ENERGY ENERGY SUPPLY CHAIN Lexmark recruited certified minority companies to increase the Objective: diversification of our global suppliers. Achieved $53 million spend on Conserve energy (reduce use of fossil fuels). certified minority companies in 2013. Target: Supplier Locations Our new 15 percent goal for 2020 would result in Target: reducing our global energy consumption by more Regionally Sourcing 80 percent of our supplies by 2017. than HALF (51 percent) since 2005. Progress: Progress: Lexmark improved processes, opened new production sites and In 2013 we again made significant strides in our 12-year, 20 percent reduced costs. Achieved 50 percent of supplies manufactured in the region conservation goals. In fact, we have now over-achieved our electricity goal of consumption in 2013. 4 years ahead of schedule. 18 Our Operations Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations Environmental Sustainability Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water Management Waste Management Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management Supply Chain Our Products Global and Community Impact For Lexmark, being a responsible neighbor, employer and global Reporting corporate citizen is woven into everything we do. It’s part of who we are as individuals and as a corporate community. Years ago we adopted a key strategic focus and sustainability model driven by our vision, Customers for Life, which can be summarized by a simple slogan: “Print Less, Save More.” Coming from a long-time printing company this may sound strange, but to us it makes perfect sense. Lexmark drives efficiency in our customers’ hard copy and workflow environments. It is that efficiency which our customers value, and it fuels our ongoing business growth. This approach is also designed to significantly benefit the environment by reducing the total number of pages printed. It’s a harmonization of goals. It’s good for our customers, good for Lexmark, and good for the environment. With many of the world’s largest corporations as Lexmark customers, the extended impact of Lexmark’s commitment to the environment can be measured by the billions of pages not printed by our customers directly due to Lexmark’s technology and business approach. 19 Environmental Sustainability Lexmark is committed to proactively addressing global environmental Contents issues not only with broad, corporate-wide initiatives, but also with Our Approach to Citizenship hundreds of smaller local activities that have significant cumulative effects. Our Operations We have dedicated significant resources to reduce the environmental Environmental Sustainability impact of our operations and to develop products with environmentally Energy Consumption beneficial features. In the past three years alone (2011-2013), Lexmark has Greenhouse Gas Emissions dedicated more than $1 Billion USD to research and development. Water Management A portion of those funds has been used to develop energy efficiency Waste Management features for our devices, print less solutions, and other features that reduce Land and Biodiversity the environmental impact of print environments. Lexmark has also spent Environmental Management millions of dollars upgrading facilities to make more efficient use of natural Supply Chain resources and energy. Our Products Our talented and committed people make the difference and through Global and Community Impact them, Lexmark has become a leader in environmental stewardship, product Reporting Environmental Savings from design, and efficient operations. Print Infrastructure Optimization Lexmark has helped many customers reduce the environmental impact Lexmark HQ of their printing while reducing cost. We also have reduced our own paper 2009 consumption over the last 5 years by over 50 percent. Lexmark HQ Lexmark not only encourages cartridge recycling, we take the extra steps 2013 necessary to close the loop. We collect the cartridges ourselves, recycle them in our own facility, and then feed the raw materials back into our Water CO2 Energy new production. And our state-of-the-art facility in Mexico was the first Usage Emissions Usage manufacturing facility in the country to achieve LEED-Gold certification. Represents actual Lexmark HQ progress In addition, the Lexmark Center for Children in Lexington, Kentucky was also recently recognized with LEED Gold certification and our new facility under construction in Lenexa, Kansas is LEED registered. 20 Environmental Sustainability Center for Children Sustainable sites Contents • Three rain gardens capture, filter and release rainwater falling Our Approach to Citizenship Solar tubes, skylights and rain gardens are a few of the many sustainable on the site Our Operations features built into the Lexmark Center for Children. The center was • Regionally appropriate, climate-tolerant landscaping requires Environmental Sustainability so well designed and built, it has been recognized with a prestigious Energy Consumption environmental certification. no ongoing irrigation once established Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water efficiency Water Management The U.S. Green Building Council has awarded the Lexmark Center for Waste Management Children gold certification for Leadership in Energy and Environmental • Low-flow fixtures and faucets (touchless, water-efficient plumbing Land and Biodiversity Design (LEED). fixtures help educate children about water conservation from Environmental Management an early age) Supply Chain “In seeking to create a fresh, innovative approach to corporate childcare, the design team focused on healthy environments featuring sustainable Energy and atmosphere Our Products systems and building solutions,” said Matthew Spangler, lead architect from Global and Community Impact • An integral package of high efficiency heating and cooling units, Hixson Architecture, the Cincinnati firm that designed the center. “LEED LED light fixtures, solar lighting, and a well-insulated and sealed Reporting certification was a natural fit for the project.” building enclosure will yield a 36 percent reduction in energy The LEED rating system is an internationally recognized green building consumption (over a similar baseline building) certification and the most widely used in North America. Lexmark met • Purchased 354 Renewable Energy Credits (equal to 354 MWh of requirements in each of the LEED categories with such features as: energy) on behalf of the project. This is the total REC purchases by Lexmark Materials and resources • 30 percent regional materials • 25 percent recycled materials • 85 percent of project wastes diverted from landfills • 70 percent Forest Stewardship Council wood Indoor environmental quality • Low volatile organic compound-emitting carpets, paints and adhesives • Composite woods (low formaldehydes) 21 Environmental Sustainability ENERGY CONSUMPTION LEXMARK WORLDWIDE ENERGY EVOLUTION: Contents Lexmark is committed to reduce the consumption of natural resources at all ON THE PATH TO A MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations our leased and owned manufacturing facilities, research and development Since 2005, substantial changes have been undertaken to improve Environmental Sustainability facilities, and office spaces worldwide. Lexmark’s operating efficiency. While adding fifteen new operating sites, Energy Consumption In 2013 we again made significant strides in our 12-year, 20 percent Lexmark also vacated four sites (Juarez Mexico inkjet plant, Boigny France, Greenhouse Gas Emissions conservation goals. In fact, we have significantly over-achieved our energy Rosyth, Scotland, and Chihuahua Mexico) and recently sold the inkjet Water Management reduction targets 4 years ahead of schedule. In the spirit of continual cartridge facility in Mactan Island, Philippines to Funai Electric Co., Ltd. Waste Management Lexmark’s evolution to a less energy-intensive imaging solutions and Land and Biodiversity improvement, we are establishing a new goal to reduce our consumption software provider has also reduced utilities consumption and our Environmental Management even further. With a new starting point of 2013, we are challenging ourselves environmental footprint. Supply Chain to achieve another 15 percent reduction in energy, by 2020. Our Products Our new 15 percent goal for 2020 would result in reducing our global Other significant facilities projects at headquarters include: upgrades to Global and Community Impact energy consumption by more than HALF (51 percent) since 2005. smart building management controls, installation of frequency drives on air handling unit motors, installation of energy efficient state-of-the-art chillers, Reporting LEXMARK GOAL increased insulation on steam piping systems, a new smaller summer boiler for steam, and lighting replacements including more efficient T8 fluorescent and LED lighting (Lexmark Center for Children and parking lots). Lexmark also teaches employees about energy-wasting habits, such as the use of space heaters, personal refrigerators, and personal printers. The campaign encourages employees to use more energy-efficient practices. Reduce absolute Reduce cumulative energy consumption by energy consumption by ELECTRICITY – LEXMARK’S INDIRECT 15% 51% between 2013 to 2020. between 2005 and 2020. ENERGY SOURCE Lexmark operations make use of only one indirect energy source (the driver LEXMARK PROGRESS of Lexmark’s Scope 2 emissions)—electricity. Electricity used at Lexmark facilities is primarily purchased from local energy providers from local grids. 2014 In 2013 we over-achieved our 12-year, We have exceeded our 2017 goal 20% four years ahead of schedule. conservation goal. 22 Environmental Sustainability The electricity supplied by local power companies is generated with a TOTAL ENERGY Contents (GIGAJOULES) variety of nonrenewable and renewable primary-energy sources, including Our Approach to Citizenship Scope 1 / DIRECT Scope 2 / INDIRECT coal, nuclear energy, solar power, wind power, geothermal energy, and Our Operations hydropower. In addition, our Boulder Colorado facility used approximately Environmental Sustainability 556,247 230,184 Kilowatt hours of wind power purchased for our site in 2013. 453,238 Energy Consumption 362,327 376,587 326,656 311,336 332,962 Greenhouse Gas Emissions In 2005, Lexmark’s worldwide power consumption was 260,182,159 kilowatt 295,708 286,204 Water Management hours. In 2013, consumption has been reduced to 158,004,766 kilowatt Waste Management hours, a 39 percent reduction. 936,656 913,318 921,707 894,496 738,624 759,379 746,972 666,210 568,817 Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management Supply Chain 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Products Global and Community Impact Reporting TOTAL ENERGY ENTERPRISE LEVEL 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Scope 1 and Scope 2 (Gigajoules) 1,492,903 1,366,556 1,284,034 1,271,082 1,065,480 1,070,715 1,079,934 961,918 855,021 NORMALIZED TOTAL ENERGY ENTERPRISE LEVEL Scope 1 and Scope 2 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Gigajoules/$M revenue) 286 267 258 281 275 255 259 253 233 23 Environmental Sustainability TOTAL enerGy Facility Level Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Scope 1 and Scope 2 (Gigajoules) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Operations Lexington, KY, USA 503,582 472,503 421,846 392,615 376,682 345,151 298,996 Environmental Sustainability Energy Consumption Boulder, CO, USA 269,503 279,824 227,301 253,184 266,134 252,666 264,734 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Juarez, Mexico 132,805 234,805 184,336 186,097 193,800 193,780 190,125 Water Management Waste Management Mactan Island, Philippines (Manufacturing) 154,553 175,615 154,578 161,930 131,220 88,944 22,583 Land and Biodiversity Cebu City, Philippines (LRDC) 6,958 25,919 50,755 54,441 56,396 48,385 42,246 Environmental Management Supply Chain Shawnee, KS, USA – – 13,399 12,299 14,865 11,748 12,133 Our Products All Other 216,633 82,416 13,265 10,149 40,837 20,794 24,204 Global and Community Impact Reporting DIRECT ENERGY ENTERPRISE LEVEL Scope 1 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Gigajoules) 556,247 453,238 362,327 376,587 326,656 311,336 332,962 295,708 286,204 NORMALIZED DIRECT ENERGY ENTERPRISE LEVEL Scope 1 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Gigajoules/$M revenue) 107 89 73 83 84 74 80 78 78 INDIRECT ENERGY (ELECTRICAL POWER) ENTERPRISE LEVEL Scope 2 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Gigajoules) 936,656 913,318 921,707 894,496 738,624 759,379 746,972 666,210 568,817 24 Environmental Sustainability NORMALIZED INDIRECT ENERGY (ELECTRICAL POWER) ENTERPRISE LEVEL Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Scope 2 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Operations (Gigajoules/$M revenue) 179 179 185 197 190 181 179 175 155 Environmental Sustainability Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions INDIRECT ENERGY (ELECTRICAL POWER) FACILITY LEVEL Water Management Waste Management Scope 2 (Gigajoules) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management Lexington, KY, USA 309,767 284,237 254,764 234,243 221,832 210,576 175,529 Supply Chain Boulder, CO, USA 160,050 170,741 134,475 163,540 170,746 164,576 177,688 Our Products Juarez, Mexico 123,865 182,304 127,469 123,725 124,352 124,851 122,972 Global and Community Impact Mactan Island, Philippines (Manufacturing) 154,553 175,615 154,578 161,930 131,219 88,944 22,375 Reporting Cebu City, Philippines (LRDC) 6,958 25,814 49,808 51,943 48,397 46,636 39,857 Shawnee, KS, USA – – 13,399 12,299 14,768 11,455 11,470 Kolkata, India – – – – 13,883 6,467 6,427 All Other 166,514 55,785 4,131 11,699 21,775 12,705 12,499 25 Environmental Sustainability TOTAL DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY NONRENEWABLE PRIMARY SOURCES Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Nonrenewable fuels MWh Gigajoule Our Operations Natural gas 78,514 282,652 Environmental Sustainability Energy Consumption Diesel/gas oil 898 3,234 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Distillate fuel oil no. 5 52 187 Water Management Propane 37 131 Waste Management Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management Renewable fuels MWh Gigajoule Supply Chain Biofuel 0 0 Our Products Global and Community Impact Hydrogen 0 0 Reporting LEXMARK FACILITIES ELECTRIC FEES IN U.S. $ 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lexington, KY, USA $4,070,027 $4,195,167 $4,360,743 $4,474,127 $4,090,691 $3,885,094 $3,630,255 $3,331,600 $2,963,377 Boulder, CO, USA $2,506,526 $2,587,344 $2,922,663 $3,161,529 $2,132,475 $2,937,992 $3,118,503 $2,805,850 $3,411,508 Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico $3,127,604 $3,754,986 $3,368,984 $4,056,250 $2,428,823 $3,781,609 $4,108,643 $4,071,831 $3,848,812 Mactan Island, Philippines $2,775,750 $3,195,519 $3,947,355 $4,532,433 $4,471,661 $5,301,522 $4,581,230 $3,379,369 $910,868 (Manufacturing) Cebu City, Philippines (LRDC) $192,993 $728,715 $1,514,875 $1,865,517 $1,875,452 $2,228,415 $1,866,137 Shawnee, KS, USA $218,411 $217,763 $250,775 $257,932 $284,636 Kolkata, India $460,000 $254,808 $256,428 Maidenhead, England $259,660 Other $4,036,031 $4,676,650 $4,746,186 $4,475,133 $1,304,824 $578,090 $297,031 $464,093 $445,010 Total $ $16,515,938 $18,409,666 $19,538,924 $21,428,187 $16,161,760 $18,567,587 $18,321,889 $16,793,898 $14,246,436 26 Environmental Sustainability NATURAL GAS – LEXMARK’S MAIN DIRECT KILOMETERS TRAVELED Contents ENERGY SOURCE Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark operations make use of several direct-energy sources in our Air Kilometers 69,507,146 Our Operations Environmental Sustainability operations (the driver of Lexmark’s Scope 1 emissions), specifically, natural Auto Kilometers 7,249,203 Energy Consumption gas, diesel fuel and propane. These nonrenewable energy sources are Greenhouse Gas Emissions purchased from local vendors and then used to generate steam, power Total Kilometers 76,756,349 Water Management backup generators, and provide heat to certain Lexmark facilities. Lexmark Kilometers per Employee 6,497 Waste Management does not currently use renewable direct-energy sources such as biofuels Land and Biodiversity (for example, ethanol) or hydrogen. Lexmark does not produce renewable or Reduction since 2005 11% Environmental Management nonrenewable primary energy sources for internal use or for external markets. Supply Chain Worldwide air travel by US employees / Lexmark owned and rented vehicles Our Products Natural gas consumption in 2005 at Lexmark’s worldwide locations was 14,545,424 cubic meters. In 2013, total consumption has been reduced to Global and Community Impact When air travel is necessary, Lexmark sends only those employees who 7,579,394 cubic meters, a reduction of 48 percent. Much of this reduction are absolutely essential to accomplish our business objectives. Whenever Reporting is due to Lexmark headquarters improvements, optimizing total occupied possible, employees are encouraged to optimize their travel itineraries by space and eliminating our least energy efficient buildings. Our direct-energy combining several business trips and taking public transportation, such as consumption decreased by 3 percent from 2012 to 2013, as shown in the trains and buses, instead of taxis and rental cars. Direct Energy chart. Lexmark, in collaboration with our vehicle provider, tracks miles traveled Using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) with Lexmark-owned, -leased, and -rented vehicles in the United States and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol methodology, we track greenhouse Europe. In collaboration with our travel agency, we track air travel worldwide. gas emissions, as well as our use of natural gas, fuel oil, diesel, gasoline, Preparations for the launch of Lexmark’s newest product lines and new and electricity. company acquisitions resulted in increased miles traveled from 2012 to 2013. OTHER ENERGY CONSUMPTION While Lexmark does not track distances related to our employees’ daily Travel Related Energy Consumption commutes, we do have work-at-home programs in place that are aimed at reducing the environmental impact of commuting and improving work-life Our efforts to reduce energy consumption at Lexmark go beyond the walls of balance for our employees. For example, the Lexmark Competence Center our facilities. As with most companies, our business needs frequently require in Budapest, Hungary, offers employees options for environmentally some Lexmark employees to travel for face-to-face meetings with customers, preferred commuting. The facility has bike racks and showers for employees partners, and coworkers, many of whom are separated by significant distances. who pedal to work and offers those who prefer public transportation, We always encourage the use of lower-impact, real-time alternatives, such discounted monthly or yearly fares. Lexmark employees who work at the as conference calls, web-based meetings, and videoconferencing and have Lexington facility have a new opportunity to help reduce pollution by taking reduced our total travel distance by 11 percent since 2005. Integrating highpublic transit from a newly installed bus stop in our parking lot and also tech solutions not only saves energy, but also increases the frequency and has secure bike storage and showers. quality of our communications. In 2013 Lexmark installed 19 new video conferencing end points at a cost of approximately $1.7 million to help reduce travel. 27 Environmental Sustainability Lexmark also initiated a new U.S. benefit in 2013 for commuters taking • Direct-shipping model—With the direct-shipping model, our goal is Contents public transportation. Now public transit expenses can be deducted from to reduce the total mileage our products travel. By moving freight Our Approach to Citizenship payroll as pre-tax funds, which can save employees between 15 percent directly from ports to customer destinations we eliminate warehousing Our Operations and 40 percent. en route. Similarly, ocean carriers eliminate inland cargo moves by Environmental Sustainability transporting customer-directed goods from key supplier points directly Product Transportation Energy Consumption to the consignee which reduces energy use and air emissions. In 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions We rely on transportation every day to deliver our products to customers Lexmark increased our direct-ship volume by approximately 9 percent. Water Management around the world. Consequently, transporting our products is an integral Waste Management part of our business. While we cannot avoid this necessity, we have taken • Intermodal freight transportation—Lexmark has an ongoing target in Land and Biodiversity measures to decrease the adverse environmental impacts associated with the U.S. to use intermodal freight transportation for inbound moves 95 Environmental Management these activities. Lexmark works with environmentally progressive partners percent of the time and is achieving this goal. This approach utilizes Supply Chain who apply innovative ideas and best practices to their transportation multiple modes of transportation such as ocean, rail, air, inland water, Our Products processes, such as using diesel hybrid trucks or rapidly renewable biofuels. and roadways in an effort to reduce the miles our products travel. This also reduces the number of times a product is handled during shipment, Global and Community Impact In 2013 we contained the impact of emissions associated with product transportation (scope 3 emissions) to 6 percent of our total a 37 percent all of which saves time, money, and fuel. Reporting reduction since 2005. Lexmark’s utilization of multiple Transportation Management Systems helps In September 2008, Lexmark joined the U.S. EPA (Environmental Protection optimize for the most effective mode of transportation. For example, shifting Agency) SmartWay Transport Partnership and exceeded the program’s air shipments to ground transportation or shifting less than truckload requirement for the amount of allowable freight to be shipped with shipments to full truckloads. These systems also help combine multiple SmartWay carriers. SmartWay, a collaborative program between the U.S. orders into single shipments, which results in fewer miles driven. EPA and the freight industry, is chartered to increase the use of energyRegional Manufacturing efficient vehicles and has impressive goals to reduce greenhouse gases and decrease air pollution. To help curb climate change, Lexmark pledges 2013 marked the first year Lexmark shifted production of certain cartridges to continuously minimize the environmental impact of its product shipments from China to Poland for use in the European market. This strategy improves throughout the world. With great pride, we continue our efforts to shrink our supply chain efficiency and helps Lexmark respond more quickly to customer carbon footprint by reducing energy consumption and emissions associated needs. It also has a tangible benefit to the environment. In the first year of with transportation. implementation this regional manufacturing effort has eliminated the need to ship 103 ocean cargo containers from Hong Kong to Europe, which would Other measures we employ to promote more efficient transportation have otherwise generated 193 metric tons of greenhouse gas1. include the following: • Cube utilization—At Lexmark, transportation considerations begin at Lexmark intends to continue to expand our regional manufacturing strategy the conceptual phase of a new product. Our focus on robustness not because it is efficient for our business, it beneficially employs people in the only helps ensure a quality product for our customers, it has a direct regions where our cartridges are used most, and reduces greenhouse gas impact on packaging and transportation efficiency. Early focus on emissions. Our goal is to increase the number of cartridges manufactured in robustness helps to deliver a product that requires less packaging, the region of consumption from 50 percent to 80 percent by 2017 resulting in a smaller overall packaged footprint and better cargo 1 Based on carbon calculator from log-net.com/sustainability packing efficiency (cube utilization). 28 Environmental Sustainability GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by another 15 percent between Contents 2013 and 2020. Our new 15 percent goal for 2020 would result in reducing Our Approach to Citizenship Our significant year-to-year improvements in energy consumption are also our cumulative emissions since 2005 by significantly more than half Our Operations reflected in our greenhouse gas reduction results in 2013. Reducing energy (53 percent). Environmental Sustainability use is one of the most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Energy Consumption a major contributor to climate change. At Lexmark, our energy reductions REDUCING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Greenhouse Gas Emissions are largely inspired by our desire to reduce these emissions. AT LEXMARK Water Management Waste Management LEXMARK GOAL In the past year, Lexmark has continued the shift from a hardware-centric Land and Biodiversity company to an end-to-end solutions provider. The sale of our inkjet division Environmental Management in addition to the acquisition of several software companies has changed our Supply Chain impact on the environment by reducing our total greenhouse gas emissions. Our Products Through our efforts to reduce our use of direct and indirect energy and Global and Community Impact Lexmark aims to reduce Our new goal for 2020 would travel, we have significantly reduced our total greenhouse gas emissions. Reporting greenhouse gas emissions by another result in reducing our cumulative The chart here shows the Lexmark Scope 1 (Direct), Scope 2 (Indirect), and 15% emissions since 2005 by between 2013 and 2020. 53% Scope 3 (Other) greenhouse gas emissions for the years 2005 through 2013 in metric tons of CO2 equivalents. LEXMARK PROGRESS TOTAL SCOPE 1, SCOPE 2 & SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS* (METRIC TONS CO2e) Scope 1 / DIRECT Scope 2 / INDIRECT Scope 3 / OTHER 12,673 11,258 10,394 GOAL: 11,379 20% reduction Lexmark reduced its total Our cumulative reductions vs. 2005 greenhouse gas emissions since 2005 are now 7,202 9,783 by 10% 45% 9,619 from 2012 to 2013. 7,886 7,974 Lexmark reduced its total greenhouse gas emissions by 10 percent from 185,223 183,876 181,663 175,176 145,271 140,785 132,201 113,241 100,454 2012 through 2013. This is a significant result as we have been aggressively driving down GHG emissions for many years. Our cumulative reductions 28,679 23,272 21,169 20,765 18,066 17,531 18,431 16,263 15,624 since 2005 are now 45 percent. We have over-achieved our 2017 goal 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 4 years ahead of schedule, and while we are proud of this result, we also *Emissions scope: Canada, China, France, Hungary, India, Philippines, US, Mexico and Switzerland recognize the need to continue challenging ourselves to keep improving. We are establishing a new greenhouse gas reduction target – Lexmark aims 29 Environmental Sustainability TOTAL SCOPE 1, SCOPE 2, SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Contents Our Approach to Citizenship (Metric Tons C02e) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Operations Scope 1 28,679 23,272 21,169 20,765 18,066 17,531 18,431 16,263 15,624 Environmental Sustainability Energy Consumption Scope 2 185,223 183,876 181,663 175,176 145,271 140,785 132,201 113,241 100,454 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 12,673 11,258 10,394 11,379 7,202 9,783 9,619 7,886 7,974 Water Management Waste Management Total Emissions 226,575 218,406 213,226 207,320 170,539 168,099 160,251 137,390 124,052 Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management Supply Chain Normalized Direct GHG emissions Scope 1 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Products (Metric Tons C02e /$M revenue) 5 5 4 5 5 4 4 4 4 Global and Community Impact Reporting Normalized Indirect GHG emissions Scope 2 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Metric Tons C02e /$M revenue) 35 36 37 39 37 34 32 30 27 Normalized Other GHG emissions Scope 3 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Metric Tons C02e /$M revenue) 2 2 2 3 2 2 2 2 2 Normalized Total Emissions 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Metric Tons C02e /$M revenue) 43 43 43 46 44 40 38 36 34 Revenue 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ($M) 5,220 5,110 4,970 4,530 3,880 4,200 4,173 3,798 3,668 30 Environmental Sustainability REGULATED AIR EMISSIONS Lexmark publicly reports greenhouse gas emissions that are related to the Contents use of direct and indirect energy through the Carbon Disclosure Project. Our Approach to Citizenship Using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 2013 Air Emissions Lexington, KY, Boulder, CO, Juarez, Chihuahua, Our Operations Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol methodology, we track greenhouse gas (Tons per Year) USA USA Mexico Environmental Sustainability emissions, as well as our use of natural gas, fuel oil, diesel, gasoline, Energy Consumption Methane 0.133 NA 0 and electricity. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Volatile Organic Water Management Lexmark is committed to the Montreal Protocol, an international treaty Compounds 0.33 4.58 10.8 Waste Management (non-methane) aimed at reducing the use of ozone-depleting chemicals. Lexmark prohibits Land and Biodiversity the use of such chemicals in the manufacture and development of Environmental Management SOx 0.062 0 0.24 our products. We do use some ozone-depleting chemicals, specifically Supply Chain NOx 5.93 0.01 2.21 refrigerants for HVAC systems that cool our facilities. Lexmark cannot Our Products eliminate the use of refrigerants at this time because HVAC systems CO2 6922 11500 2804 Global and Community Impact typically require the use of refridgerants for cooling. Hazardous Air Reporting 0.10 0.24 NA Pollutant Reported refrigerant emissions in 2013 resulted in an ozone-depletion Toxic Release potential of 54 pounds of CFC-11 equivalent, a 7 percent reduction yearNA – NA Inventory to-year. We continue to take steps to minimize their usage. Lexmark monitors HVAC systems for leaks with stand-alone system sensors. We Note: These three facilities are the only Lexmark sites that generate any regulated air emissions. also purchase chillers that use environmentally preferable refrigerants. For example, in 2008, Lexmark installed chillers that use refrigerant R-134a, a hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) refrigerant replacing previous chillers using R-11, NORMALIZED TOTAL EMISSIONS* (METRIC TONS CO2e / $M revenue) a chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) refrigerant which has the highest ozonedepletion potential (ODP). The refrigerant used in the new chiller has an ODP of zero. As an added benefit, these new chillers have variable frequency drives that significantly improve energy efficiency by reducing electrical demand. 43 43 43 46 44 40 38 36 34 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 *Emissions scope: Canada, China, France, Hungary, India, Philippines, US, Mexico and Switzerland 31 Environmental Sustainability Contents ALL REGULATED Air Emissions Air Emissions Air Emissions Normalized Normalized Normalized (Tons Per Year) (Tons Per Year) (Tons Per Year) Air Emissions Air Emissions Air Emissions Our Approach to Citizenship AIR EMISSIONS 2011 2012 2013 (Tons (Tons (Tons Per Year/$B Per Year/$B Per Year/$B Our Operations Revenue) Revenue) Revenue) Environmental Sustainability 2011 2012 2013 Energy Consumption Methane Greenhouse Gas Emissions Lexington, KY, USA 0.16 0.16 0.133 0.04 0.04 0.04 Water Management Boulder, CO, USA Na Na Na Na Na Na Waste Management Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Land and Biodiversity Volatile Organic Compounds (Non-Methane) Environmental Management Lexington, KY, USA 0.44 0.6 0.326 0.11 0.16 0.09 Supply Chain Boulder, CO, USA 6.06 5.08 4.58 1.45 1.34 1.25 Our Products Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico 23.6 21.55 23.6 5.66 5.67 6.43 Sox Global and Community Impact Lexington, KY, USA 0.12 0.28 0.06 0.03 0.07 0.02 Reporting Boulder, CO, USA 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico 0.25 2.60E-02 0.25 0.06 0.01 0.07 Nox Lexington, KY, USA 7.75 6.86 5.931 1.86 1.81 1.62 Boulder, CO, USA 0 0 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico 2.29 2.44 2.29 0.55 0.64 0.62 Co2 Lexington, KY, USA 8,342 7,335 6,922 1999.04 1931.28 1887.13 Boulder, CO, USA 13,908 11,647 11,500 3332.85 3066.61 3135.22 Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico 3087 3,099 3,087 739.76 815.96 841.60 Particulate Matter (Pm10) Lexington, KY, USA 0.59 0.52 0.452 0.14 0.14 0.12 Boulder, CO, USA 7.00E-02 0.05 0.06 0.02 0.01 0.02 Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico 0.28 0.32 0.28 0.07 0.08 0.08 Hazardous Air Pollutant Lexington, KY, USA 0.12 0.11 0.103 0.03 0.03 0.03 Boulder, CO, USA 0.45 0.34 0.24 0.11 0.09 0.07 Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico Na Na Na Na Na Na Toxic Release Inventory Lexington, KY, USA Na Na Na Na Na Na Boulder, CO, USA 1.9 1.9 0.46 0.50 Na Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico Na Na Na Na Na Na Revenue 2011 2012 2013 ($M) 4,173 3,798 3,668 32 Environmental Sustainability HELPING EMPLOYEES SAVE MONEY AND Contents THE ENVIRONMENT Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations Because driving vehicles releases greenhouse gases into the atmosphere Environmental Sustainability and contributes to climate change, Lexmark offers employees simple and Energy Consumption easy solutions that cut gas emissions, reduce our nation’s dependence Greenhouse Gas Emissions on oil, and save money. Perceptive Software, a division of Lexmark, Water Management encourages employees to choose environmentally sustainable options to Waste Management commute to work. The Mid-America Regional Council’s RideShare program Land and Biodiversity offers employees environmentally friendly and less expensive commuting Environmental Management alternatives. The program offers carpooling for employees who live and Supply Chain work in close proximity. Benefits for employees who participate include Our Products both financial and health improvements, as well as a reduced impact to Global and Community Impact the environment. Reporting RideShare reduces greenhouse gas emissions, which thus decreases air pollution from burning fuel. Minimizing fuel use also reduces smog derived from vehicular emissions that cause respiratory issues. Commuter costs are decreased due to less fuel consumption, as well as less wear and tear on employees’ vehicles. In addition, benefits include less stress caused by traffic during rush hours, meeting new coworkers to develop friendships, and more consistent work hours. 33 Environmental Sustainability WATER MANAGEMENT WATER USAGE Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark is committed to water conservation and protection as a key part of Lexmark manufacturing and research and development operations, both Our Operations our holistic approach to environmental sustainability. owned and leased, have a substantial impact on our water consumption. Environmental Sustainability Lexmark uses water for three main purposes: manufacturing and development, Energy Consumption 2013 marked a significant milestone in our efforts to continually improve our sanitation and our HVAC systems. We aggressively monitor, control and Greenhouse Gas Emissions water efficiency. Since our baseline year of 2005, we have now cut our water reduce water usage where opportunities exist. Water Management usage by a full 50 percent. With this result we have well exceeded our 2017 Waste Management goal so starting this year we are setting a new, aggressive target. We aim to Lexmark water usage is in part driven by the need to control temperature. Land and Biodiversity reduce our water usage by another 15 percent by 2020. Achieving this goal As external temperatures rise, we use more water in our HVAC systems to Environmental Management will mean that in just 15 years Lexmark will be reducing its water consumption cool our facilities. We cannot control the underlying primary variable in our Supply Chain by 58 percent. cooling-driven water usage—external temperature. However, our ongoing Our Products effort to optimize occupied space has a direct impact on water use for cooling systems. In addition to having a smaller space to keep temperatureGlobal and Community Impact LEXMARK GOAL controlled, in 2013 Lexmark removed several aging buildings and the Reporting associated piping, which results in a lower risk of leaks. By the end of 2015, we plan to spend $1.35 million upgrading Lexington headquarters’ city underground water piping systems to reduce leakage and improve reliability. TOTAL WATER USAGE (m3) We aim to reduce our Achieving this goal will mean water usage by another that in just 15 years, Lexmark will be 15% by 2020. reducing its water consumption by 58% 43 43 43 46 44 40 38 36 LEXMARK PROGRESS 1,030,342 926,427 972,795 899,129 719,349 781,553 624,576 693,143 513,833 2014 2008 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 197 m3/$M 140m3/$M revenue revenue Since our baseline year of 2005, We have exceeded our 2017 goal four we have cut our water usage by a full years ahead of schedule so starting 50% this year we are setting a new, aggressive target. 34 Environmental Sustainability At Lexmark, we’ve initiated several programs at our facilities worldwide to percent. This site’s significant water reduction projects include installing Contents reduce consumption of water. A few examples are: bio-safe and clean waterless urinals, using vacuum pressure in place of Our Approach to Citizenship water pressure in air-conditioning unit maintenance and recycling water Lexington, Kentucky, USA Our Operations within that system. Environmental Sustainability Projects contributing to reductions at our Lexington, Kentucky headquarters Energy Consumption Boulder, Colorado, USA include: reduction in a fire loop water operating pressure from 150 psig to Greenhouse Gas Emissions city-level water pressure (resulting in fewer leaks), tightening the controls This site recycled approximately 996,000 gallons of water during the Water Management logic on building air handling units, and a very successful partnership with manufacturing process. This initiative takes water used during manufacturing Waste Management GE Water services to minimize water blow-down for steam and chilled water through a reverse osmosis cleaning process and utilizes it again on site. Land and Biodiversity systems through continuous monitoring and adjustment of water treatment Environmental Management chemicals. Lexmark has also installed more efficient HVAC systems, WATER CONSERVATION PLAN Supply Chain improved the efficiency of existing HVAC systems, and installed low-flow Our Products plumbing fixtures. Unpredictable temperatures and fluctuations in production result in positive and negative changes in Lexmark water usage. To help control Global and Community Impact Kolkata, India this, we initiated a six-point water conservation plan in 2009. This plan Reporting continues to drive our actions toward achieving more significant, Lexmark’s Kolkata, India facility has made great strides in its efforts to controllable, and sustained reductions in water usage going forward. conserve water and in a single year has reduced its consumption by 42 THE LEXMARK SIX-POINT WATER CONSERVATION PLAN Point Goal Projects 2010-2013 Progress Install low-flow plumbing fixtures in all new construction Reduce consumption Aged existing plumbing fixtures replaced by sensor operated and low-flow fixtures at 1 and replace outdated plumbing fixtures with low-flow (intentional use of water) Lexmark headquarters from 2010 through 2012. plumbing fixtures during remodels/repairs Reduce consumption Upgrade water consuming facilities equipment to improve Lexmark (in partnership with GE Water and Process Technologies) cooling-tower water 2 (intentional use water usage efficiency controls improved control of cooling-tower chemistry, resulting in fewer purges and a of water) 28 percent reduction in the amount of water lost to purges or blowdowns Reduce losses In 2013, demolition of several buildings resulted in a reduction of underground piping 3 Reduce losses due to leaks from main pipes (Accidental use of water) and reduced risks of leaks Reduce losses In 2013 there no significant leaks due to plumbing leaks; smaller leaks were identified 4 Reduce losses due to plumbing leaks (Accidental use of water) and repaired. Lexmark has made special efforts through the Lexmark internal website and signage Complete at least one employee education communication 5 Education posted throughout our facilities to educate internal facilities team members and facilion water conservation pergeography per year ties contractors about water conservation appropriate to their jobs Designated employee at each facility to keep abreast of Lexmark personnel at each manufacturing facility have been assigned this 6 Education new water conservation opportunities and technology responsibility. 35 Environmental Sustainability WATER WITHDRAWS AND DISCHARGES of local watersheds helps to ensure that our neighbors have access to Contents clean, abundant, and affordable water. Most Lexmark facilities withdraw Our Approach to Citizenship Where our water comes from and where it goes is of great importance to water exclusively from municipal water supplies and other water utilities. Our Operations Lexmark. We understand that access to clean, abundant, and affordable A limited amount of rainwater (unmetered) is collected and used by some Environmental Sustainability water is a critical issue of environmental justice. We also understand that Lexmark facilities. Energy Consumption our commitment to responsible use of our water resources and protection Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water Management Waste Management Lexmark Facility Utility Provider Original Sources of Water* Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management Lexington, KY, USA Kentucky American Water Kentucky River, Jacobson Reservoir and Lake Ellerslie Supply Chain Our Products Barker Reservoir, Lakewood Reservoir, Boulder Reservoir and Boulder, CO, USA City of Boulder Utilities Division Carter Lake via the Boulder Feeder Canal Global and Community Impact Reporting Juárez, Chihuahua, México Junta Municipal de Agua Saneamiento de Juárez Hueco Bolson, underground aquifer The Buhisan Dam and 113 deep wells, and the diversion Cebu, Philippines Metropolitan Cebu Water District (MCWD) weir in Barangay Kolkata, India DLF IT Park via local municipality Ganges River processed through osmosis water treatment plant Shawnee, Kansas, USA Water One The Missouri River and Kansas River and wells along the Kansas River Multiple sources, but water from the Danube River (from wells Budapest, Hungary Fövárosi Vízmüvek located near the river) dominates the supply Shenzhen, China Shenzhen Water Company Pearl River the biggest river in south China Richmond Hill, Ontario, Canada City of Toronto, Toronto Water Lake Ontario and municipal wells * To the best of our knowledge, none of these bodies of water are recognized by professionals to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a rare, threatened, or endangered system, and none support a particular endangered species of plant or animal, or are considered a nationally or internationally proclaimed conservation area. None of these water sources are significantly affected by Lexmark water usage. 36 Environmental Sustainability WATER WITHDRAWS AND DISCHARGES Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Total Water Usage 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Operations (m3) 1,030,342 926,427 972,795 899,129 719,349 781,553 624,576 693,143 513,833 Environmental Sustainability Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions Normalized Total Water Usage 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Water Management Waste Management (m3/$M revenue) 197 181 196 198 185 186 150 183 140 Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management Supply Chain Water Use and Discharge by Facility (m3) Water Use Wastewater Discharge Our Products 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Global and Community Impact Lexington, KY, USA 269,488 249,318 193,986 269,488 249,318 94,346 Reporting Boulder, CO, USA 117,624 107,998 120,868 117,624 107,998 120,868 Juarez, Mexico 67,866 94,134 93,432 67,866 94,134 93,432 Mactan Island, Philipines (Manufacturing) 131,284 158,500 54,076 131,284 158,500 54,076 Cebu City, Philippines (Services) 25,391 35,899 23,504 25,391 35,899 23,504 Kolkata, India – 26,512 15,423 – 26,512 15,423 Shawnee, KS, USA 6,952 13,227 7,610 6,952 13,227 7,610 Budapest, Hungary 840 1,799 2,098 840 1,799 2,098 Shenzhen, China 1,291 1,594 1,348 1,291 1,594 1,348 Richmond Hill, Canada 2,487 1,950 1,190 2,487 1,950 1,190 All Other 1,353 2,212 298 1,353 2,212 298 Total 624,576 693,143 513,833 624,576 693,143 414,193 37 Environmental Sustainability WATER WITHDRAWS AND DISCHARGES Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Normalized Water Use and Discharge Our Operations Normalized Water Use Normalized Wastewater Discharge by Facility (m3/$M revenue) Environmental Sustainability Energy Consumption 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Lexington, KY, USA 64.6 65.6 52.9 64.6 65.6 25.7 Water Management Waste Management Boulder, CO, USA 28.2 28.4 33.0 28.2 28.4 33.0 Land and Biodiversity Juarez, Mexico 16.3 24.8 25.5 16.3 24.8 25.5 Environmental Management Supply Chain Mactan Island, Philipines (Manufacturing) 31.5 41.7 14.7 31.5 41.7 14.7 Our Products Cebu City, Philippines (Services) 6.1 9.5 6.4 6.1 9.5 6.4 Global and Community Impact Kolkata, India – 7.0 4.2 – 7.0 4.2 Reporting Shawnee, KS, USA 1.7 3.5 2.1 1.7 3.5 2.1 Budapest, Hungary 0.2 0.5 0.6 0.2 0.5 0.6 Shenzhen, China 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.4 Richmond Hill, Canada 0.6 0.5 0.3 0.6 0.5 0.3 All Other 0.3 0.6 0.1 0.3 0.6 0.1 Total 149.7 182.5 140.1 149.7 182.5 112.9 Lexmark Facilities Water Fees in U.S. $ 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lexington, KY, USA $494,382 $238,812 $530,261 $495,721 $566,609 $890,897 $785,637 $734,880 $583,778 Boulder, CO, USA $127,181 $134,477 $90,055 $91,848 $82,566 $102,230 $120,713 $114,833 $141,088 Juarez, Mexico $309,737 $359,979 $377,382 $507,840 $329,040 $260,261 $388,283 $406,461 $416,684 Mactan Island, Philipines (Manufacturing) $130,142 $118,151 $152,218 $178,763 $180,365 $238,488 $175,904 $218,685 $76,853 Cebu City, Philippines (Services) $0 $0 $6,302 $6,163 $15,723 $35,584 $39,968 $46,201 $29,644 All Other $185,835 $285,303 $391,788 $313,884 $104,422 $13,008 $16,219 $28,352 $21,841 Total $1,247,277 $1,136,722 $1,548,006 $1,594,219 $1,278,725 $1,540,468 $1,526,724 $1,549,412 $1,269,888 38 Environmental Sustainability Lexmark reported no significant spills in our 2013 financial statement. In PLANNED DISCHARGES Contents an effort to continually improve our processes, we record and investigate Our Approach to Citizenship Waste water from Lexmark operations is primarily discharged to local utility all spills—regardless of size or impact—as directed by site ISO 14001 and Our Operations systems for treatment. We discharge some water directly to nearby bodies OHSAS 18001 and other corrective and preventative action programs. Environmental Sustainability of water in accordance with local laws and regulations. These discharges All water discharges—whether planned or unplanned—destined for the local Energy Consumption have had positive impacts. For example, Lexmark discharges environGreenhouse Gas Emissions utility or nearby bodies of water, are closely monitored by site facilities and mentally neutral water to the Cane Run Creek that flows through Lexmark Water Management environmental teams that test for water quality. property in Lexington, Kentucky. The wildlife that depends on the Cane Run Waste Management Creek (an impaired surface stream creek that is particularly vulnerable in Land and Biodiversity Comparing 2013 with 2012, the overall Lexmark total water spend times of drought) benefits from the occasional addition of water so that fish, Environmental Management decreased by 18 percent. birds, and other wildlife can survive during times when the water level in Supply Chain the creek is otherwise detrimentally low. Our Products Water discharges are often assumed to be equivalent to total water Global and Community Impact consumption, however in Lexington, KY we have installed new meters that Reporting provided data in 2013 confirming wastewater being sent to the sanitary sewer system is only half (49 percent) of our usage. The majority of the rest is evaporated from our cooling towers, diverted to Cane Run Creek to benefit that ecosystem, or absorbed into the soil when weather demands require care for landscaping and ball fields. UNPLANNED DISCHARGES In an effort to prevent negative impacts on the environment, Lexmark has established site-specific, pollution-prevention plans that encompass compliance with applicable environmental regulations, outline Lexmark’s proactive pollution-prevention efforts, and specifically address spill prevention, hazardous-waste management, recycling, and water quality. These plans cover multiple pollution routes including discharges to ground, air and water. They cover all Lexmark owned manufacturing and research and development facilities worldwide. 39 Environmental Sustainability WASTE MANAGEMENT rooms, plastic bottles, fluorescent light bulbs, Contents and cell phones. Several of these waste streams Our Approach to Citizenship At Lexmark, we’re committed to disposing waste generated by our worldare recycled in unique ways. For example, carpet Our Operations wide facilities in a safe and responsible manner. The data for Lexmark waste recovered during remodeling efforts and scraps Environmental Sustainability generation and disposal over the past several years is indicative of the level from new construction projects are recycled in a Energy Consumption of progress we are making toward our goals for reducing waste. closed-loop process. The carpeting and backing are separated, processed, Greenhouse Gas Emissions and then made into new carpeting. Cafeteria waste from food preparation Water Management LEXMARK GOALS is composted to fertilize gardens throughout Lexington. Paper from Waste Management 1 Lexmark offices are recycled as bathroom tissue and paper towels. 2 3 Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management THE LEXMARK CARTRIDGE COLLECTION Supply Chain PROGRAM (LCCP) Our Products Maintain a minimium of 75% Achieve a 30% increase in Expand coverage of the Global and Community Impact recycling rate for hardware collection and recycling Lexmark Equipment waste generated. by 2014 as compared to baseline Collection Program. The facility in Juarez, Mexico processes approximately 30,000 empty toner year 2007 per unit sales. cartridges a day. Since 1996, customers have used the LCCP to return Reporting millions of laser cartridges to Lexmark for responsible end-of-life reuse or recycling. The LCCP facility complies with the highest industry standards LEXMARK PROGRESS and best practices for environmental responsibility by using a tracking and accountability system to manage all materials recovered. 1 2 3 In 2013, the LCCP plant received Responsible Recycling (R2) certificaAchieved an 80% Increased by 58% hardware Increased the Lexmark recycling rate for collection per unit sales hardware collection rate per unit tion by demonstrating waste generated in 2013. compared to the 2007 baseline. of sales in 2013 by expanding coverage of electronic recycling to an accredited, programs in Canada. third-party auditor that the facility safely recycles and manages WASTE MANAGEMENT AND electronics. LCCP RECYCLING PROGRAMS has achieved other environmental Lexmark has established waste management and recycling programs at certifications such as ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001. The 99,000 all our facilities worldwide. For example, at the Lexmark headquarters in square-foot facility is also a LEED Gold certified building. Lexington, Kentucky, we have established programs to collect and recycle a variety of materials, including construction waste, cafeteria waste, electronView Lexmark’s R2 Certification. ic waste (such as end-of-life computers and telephones), aluminum cans, batteries, cardboard, office paper, glass bottles, metal scraps from our tool 40 Environmental Sustainability TOTAL WASTE GENERATION ENTERPRISE LEVEL Contents Our Approach to Citizenship (Metric Tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Operations Non-Hazardous 10,853 12,887 14,774 13,306 17,231 20,540 17,898 Environmental Sustainability Hazardous 843 942 805 1,501 1,000 1,821 494 Energy Consumption Total 11,696 13,829 15,579 14,807 18,231 22,361 18,392 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water Management Waste Management NORMALIZED WASTE GENERATION ENTERPRISE LEVEL Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management (Metric Tons/$M revenue) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Supply Chain Non-Hazardous 2 3 4 3 4 5 5 Our Products Hazardous 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.5 0.1 Total 2 3 4 4 4 6 5 Global and Community Impact Reporting TOTAL WASTE GENERATION FACILITY LEVEL (Metric tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lexington, KY, USA 2,589 2,870 2,035 1,389 1,757 2,655 1,988 Boulder, CO, USA 2,312 2,565 1,991 2,570 2,870 3,849 3,340 Juarez, Mexico, Manufacturing 4,319 5,945 10,015 9,583 12,726 15,124 5,427 Juarez, Mexico, LCCP ------------7,533 Recycling Plant* Cebu City, Philippines 1,329 1,175 1,313 1,119 784 594 104 (Manufacturing) Chihuahua, Mexico 1,146 822 ----------41 Environmental Sustainability NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATION FACILITY LEVEL Contents Our Approach to Citizenship (Metric tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Operations Lexington, KY, USA 2,569 2,849 2,025 1,385 1,753 2,651 1,984 Environmental Sustainability Boulder, CO, USA 1,934 2,115 1,730 2,180 2,825 3,816 3,311 Energy Consumption Juarez, Mexico, Manufacturing 3,980 5,587 9,591 8,631 11,773 13,394 4,989 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Juarez, Mexico, LCCP ------------7,530 Water Management Recycling Plant* Waste Management Cebu City, Philippines 1,228 1,052 1,205 974 711 560 83 Land and Biodiversity (Manufacturing) Environmental Management Chihuahua, Mexico 1,142 819 ----------Supply Chain Our Products HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATION FACILITY LEVEL Global and Community Impact Reporting (Metric tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lexington, KY, USA 20 21 10 4 4 3 4 Boulder,CO, USA 378 450 261 390 45 33 28 Juarez, Mexico, Manufacturing 339 357 424 952 954 1,730 438 Juarez, Mexico, LCCP ------------3 Recycling Plant* Cebu City, Philippines 102 123 108 145 73 34 21 (Manufacturing) Chihuahua, Mexico 5 3 ----------TOTAL WASTE GENERATION ENTERPRISE LEVEL BY DISPOSAL METHOD (Metric tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Recycling 7,347 10,162 12,439 11,470 14,114 16,541 14,645 Energy Recovery 259 282 719 1,022 1,723 3,720 1,731 Incineration 1,077 478 125 41 159 157 372 Landfill 2,960 2,847 2,204 2,237 2,213 1,631 1,508 Water Treatment 54 60 92 38 22 312 136 Total 11,696 13,829 15,579 14,807 18,231 22,361 18,392 42 Environmental Sustainability TOTAL NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATION ENTERPRISE LEVEL BY DISPOSAL METHOD Contents Our Approach to Citizenship (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Operations Recycling 63% 73% 80% 77% 77% 74% 82% Environmental Sustainability Energy Recovery 2% 2% 5% 7% 9% 17% 7% Energy Consumption Incineration 9% 3% 1% 0% 1% 1% 2% Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water Management Landfill 25% 21% 14% 15% 13% 7% 8% Waste Management Water Treatment 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% 1% 1% Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management Supply Chain TOTAL HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATION ENTERPRISE LEVEL BY DISPOSAL METHOD Our Products (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Global and Community Impact Recycling 49% 55% 39% 37% 12% 6% 12% Reporting Energy Recovery 30% 23% 38% 51% 77% 86% 82% Incineration 4% 7% 15% 3% 0.20% 0.15% 0.34% Landfill 17% 15% 8% 9% 11% 8% 5% Water Treatment 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% TOTAL ELECTRONICS WASTE RECYCLING (Metric tons) 2013 2013 Non-Hazardous Voluntary Regulated USA 29 1542 Canada 13 53 REVENUE ($M) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 5,220 5,110 4,970 4,530 3,880 4,200 4,173 3,798 3,668 43 Environmental Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS: JUÁREZ, MEXICO Single-stream recycling in Boulder allows employees to easily collect Contents office and vending waste (bottles, cans, office paper). Food and paper Our Approach to Citizenship Our Juarez facility focuses on waste minimization through sustainable towel waste is also collected and distributed for commercial composting. Our Operations operations. Lean manufacturing techniques and environmental management Manufacturing waste such as stretch wrap, bulk bags, broken wood pallets, Environmental Sustainability programs increase the Juarez plants’ operating efficiency and reduce its and scrap metal are provided to industrial recycling markets. Energy Consumption environmental impact. In 2013 Lexmark Juarez was able to remanufacture Greenhouse Gas Emissions or recycle the following materials: At Lexington headquarters, many of our employees live in surrounding Water Management counties which do not offer curbside recycling services. Consequently, Waste Management Amount Sustainable Lexmark has partnered with the Lexington Fayette Urban County Government Land and Biodiversity Material Collected (metric tons) Process to collect those recyclables on-site. A large recycle bin is available for Environmental Management employees to drop off items such as newspapers, plastics, glass bottles, Supply Chain Cartridges and Parts 1,928 Reuse cardboard and aluminum cans. An estimated 260 tons of recyclables has Cartridge Plastics and Toner 2,746 Recycle Our Products been processed through this program since its inception in 2007. Global and Community Impact Cardboard 2,502 Recycle Wood, Metal, Paper, Plastic 2,328 Recycle DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION WASTE Reporting MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING The development, quality testing and manufacturing of Lexmark imaging SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS: devices can result in the generation of unique waste streams including BOULDER, COLORADO chemical waste (toner, component development and manufacturing), paper waste (print testing) and printers and other electronic components At our facilities in Boulder, Colorado, we store and transport our (performance and quality testing). photoconductor drums in reusable trays to reduce waste. The plastic trays are shipped from the United States to China and Mexico and then returned Chemical waste is primarily processed in an energy-recovery facility, for reuse. In 2013, the continual utilization of our trays kept 98 metric tons which generates electricity while processing chemical waste. A portion of material out of landfills. We help our customers reduce waste in landfills of toner chemical waste is processed by a company that uses the toner as by providing easy methods to recycle our cartridges. In 2013, 1.6 million a colorant in plastics. Toner waste is also used as an additive to concrete. photoconductor drums from our returned cartridges were collected and Paper from print testing is recycled as bathroom tissue and paper towels. sent back to Boulder for recoating and reuse. An additional 0.7 million drums were recovered from the manufacturing line resulting in the reuse of 178 metric tons of aluminum. During the photoconductor manufacturing process Boulder also recovers and reuses waste solvents. When recycling is not an option, solvent waste is processed to extract its energy value for use as a fuel substitute. 44 Environmental Sustainability recovery where other recycling options are unavailable. Since 2007, Contents WASTE GENERATION AND RECYCLING Lexmark has increased its waste recycling rate from 63 percent to 80 Our Approach to Citizenship STATISTICS percent. Lexmark exceeded our recycling-rate goal of 75 percent. Our Operations Lexmark generated a total of 18,392 metric tons of waste in 2013. Environmental Sustainability ELECTRONIC WASTE RECYCLING With 97 percent of the waste generated worldwide being non-hazardous. Energy Consumption Optimization of facility operations resulted in a reduction in waste, an Lexmark offers our customers environmentally sound choices for disposal Greenhouse Gas Emissions improvement in efficiency as well as long-term environmental benefits. Water Management of their end-of-life products. Electronic waste, including printers that have Waste Management reached the end of their usable lives, is recycled by specialized firms with Hazardous waste accounts for approximately 3 percent of Lexmark Land and Biodiversity processes to ensure any data stored on those devices is not compromised. total waste. The primary hazardous-waste materials are residues from Environmental Management The firms we choose are committed to recycling devices in an environmentally manufacturing and development processes. Hazardous waste that is Supply Chain and socially responsible manner. generated by Lexmark research and development, and manufacturing Our Products facilities is managed by external companies that specialize in the Global and Community Impact management of hazardous waste. Reporting WASTE GENERATION BY CLASSIFICATION ELECTRONIC WASTE RECYCLING (METRIC TONS) (METRIC TONS) Non-hazardous Hazardous US EU Canada 1,821 186 214 158 1,000 494 181 805 66 1,501 942 144 49 49 843 3,065 3,238 2,095 1,868 3,166 1,847 2,783 10,853 12,887 14,774 13,306 17,231 20,540 17,898 2,428 2,936 2,700 1,957 2,486 1,789 1,571 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 WASTE RECYCLING Lexmark has partnered with recyclers that offer a broad range of services Disposal methods for waste are determined through the collaborative and processing capabilities, have a proven record of compliance with efforts of Lexmark and our waste-management partners. Working together, government-mandated criteria for recycling facilities, are ISO 14001 certified we have identified new opportunities for recycling waste, reducing our (the environmental-management-system standard), and are certified by usage of incineration and landfill while increasing usage of waste-to-energy R2 Solutions or e-Stewards. 45 Environmental Sustainability The R2 Solutions R2 Standard 2013 Lexmark increased its hardware collection rate by 58 percent per unit Contents is a comprehensive global sales to achieve our goal earlier than expected. Our Approach to Citizenship criteria for e-recyclers in the Lexmark currently offers standardized recycling programs in many countries Our Operations market and requires responsible and variable programs in other countries. We expanded the Lexmark Environmental Sustainability management of used computers Equipment Collection Program in 2013 and plan to further expand it in 2014. Energy Consumption and electronics. The e-Stewards Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standard is a rigorous, Lexmark has additional programs in place to recycle printer packaging or Water Management internationally compliant other Lexmark hardware. Customers may use their new printer’s packaging Waste Management certification from Basil Action material to return their old Lexmark printer or they may return only the Land and Biodiversity Network (BAN) based on packaging material from their printer or hardware to Lexmark. Lexmark Environmental Management ISO 14001 that assures full has established a shipping container reuse and recycle program with our Supply Chain conformance to a comprehensive primary electronic waste recycling partner. Additionally, wooden pallets are Our Products suite of electronics recyreused and recycled (damaged pallets are chipped and used as mulch), and certain types of Styrofoam are sent to an extruder for reuse. Global and Community Impact cling best practices. Both R2 Solutions and BAN are working Reporting to ensure the electronics UNITED STATES recycling industry is environIn the United States, we offer the Lexmark Equipment Collection Program. mentally sustainable. Our recycling partners are audited regularly to ensure Customers can return their Lexmark hardware products to us by the shipping that they continue to maintain the high level of service and regulatory method most convenient for them, and we recycle the equipment at no compliance that we expect of our recycling partners. charge. For business customers who are in the process of installing a large The primary Lexmark recycling partner, Sims Recycling Solutions, fleet of new Lexmark products, Lexmark develops customized collection the world’s largest electronics recycler, is R2 certified. Sims Recycling strategies. We work in partnership with certified electronics-disposal processed more than 4,400 metric tons of electronic waste on behalf of agencies to collect used devices, mark them for recycling, and arrange for Lexmark in the United States, Canada, and Europe in 2013. them to be sent to the nearest recycling facility. Electronic waste legislation has been proposed in a majority of states in the United States. There are 12 Lexmark also partners with Global Environmental Services (GES), offering states with enacted extended producer responsibility (EPR) legislation that solutions for customers that prefer e-Stewards. GES, with facilities in includes printers – Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Georgetown, Kentucky and Austin, Texas, is the seventh largest electronics New York, North Carolina, Oregon, South Carolina, Vermont and Wisconsin. recycler in North America. The Lexmark service organization works with While the details of the legislation vary greatly from state to state, the our recycling partners to reclaim parts that can be used to refurbish printers, basic tenet is that the producers of electronic devices are required to which keeps the printers in service longer and reduces the need to recycle collect and responsibly recycle covered electronic devices at the end of used hardware. Devices that are returned to Lexmark go through a process the devices’ usable lives. that assesses if they can be refurbished for reuse, and if not, are harvested for parts that can be used in the refurbishment process. A Lexmark printer hardware packaging return program is also in place in the US. Packaging material from Lexmark hardware including service parts may Lexmark has set a goal to achieve a 30 percent increase in hardware be returned to Lexmark for recycling. For more details click here. collection and recycling in 2014 as compared to baseline year 2007. In 46 Environmental Sustainability CANADA locally authorized collection centers or, in some cases, to local retailers. For Contents EU business customers, Lexmark has established a fully compliant logistics Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark is a member of Electronic Product Stewardship Canada system for transporting used products to the nearest storage and sorting Our Operations (EPSC), an organization dedicated to promoting and implementing facility, where the equipment is properly processed for recycling. Environmental Sustainability sustainable solutions for end-of-life electronics. We participate in a number Energy Consumption of government-sponsored and industry-supported recycling programs in ASIA PACIFIC Greenhouse Gas Emissions Canada, which vary by province. Some provinces require electronic Water Management manufacturers to pay a fee that is used to recycle electronic equipment A primary focus for Lexmark’s Asia Pacific environmental work is to support Waste Management in those respective provinces. the Australian national end-of-life electronic equipment and recycling Land and Biodiversity program. Lexmark has joined a government approved service to take Environmental Management responsibility for the safe and environmentally friendly recycling of endSupply Chain Recycling Program in which Canadian Province of-life products. Lexmark Participates Our Products Alberta Alberta Recycling Management In this end-of-life program, all information technology manufacturers Global and Community Impact Authority (ARMA) and importers are responsible for their shares of actual waste collected. Reporting British Columbia Electronic Products Recycling Customers return their end-of-life electronic equipment to designated Association (EPRA) collection points from which the waste is taken to central consolidation Manitoba EPRA and collection points for recycling by accredited recycling operators. Newfoundland and Labrador EPRA LATIN AMERICA Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island EPRA The regions of Central and South America present many logistical Ontario Ontario Electronic Stewardship challenges for recycling. Several countries and local governments, including (OES) Program Argentina (Buenos Aries Province), Brazil, Columbia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Quebec EPRA Mexico, Peru, Puerto Rico and Venezuela, have enacted forms of extended Saskatchewan EPRA producer responsibility legislation. Lexmark is working closely with our recycling partner, Sims Recycling Solutions, to set up regional recycling centers to meet these new requirements. EUROPE In many parts of Europe, our equipment take-back strategy is implemented LEXMARK ELECTRONIC WASTE RECYCLING through country-specific programs that are operated in accordance with Click here for more information on Electronic Waste Recycling. the European Union (EU) Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive (2012/19/EU). Consumers in the EU can take their equipment to Click here to see more detailed Waste Management information. 47 Environmental Sustainability LAND AND BIODIVERSITY Lexmark is especially sensitive to the environment in our Philippines Contents operations. Many global organizations recognize the entire country as Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark strives to ensure that operations do no harm to the local an area of high biodiversity. The Lexmark Research and Development environment. At Lexmark, we understand our responsibility to help maintain Our Operations Corporation (LRDC) located in Cebu, Philippines, is a 30,817 square Environmental Sustainability balance in our natural world. Lexmark engages our communities primarily meters research and development operation. Lexmark employees in the Energy Consumption in reforestation programs and watershed protection. Philippines work diligently to restore habitats near these facilities, focusing Greenhouse Gas Emissions on reforestation and watershed protection. In 2013, Lexmark planted 3,500 Water Management mangrove propagules with the Philippine Business for Social Progress Waste Management (PBSP) and 8,000 with the Community Environment and Natural Resources Land and Biodiversity Office (CENRO ). Since 2008, Lexmark has planted over 136,300 mangroves. Environmental Management Supply Chain Our Products International Union for Conservation of Global and Community Impact Nature Red List species Reporting Lexmark owns or leases facilities used for manufacturing and research and development in the United States, Mexico, Europe, and Asia. An Species: Chaetodon adiergastos Species: Tarsius syrichta important prerequisite to locating these global facilities includes a thorough Common Name: Philippine Butterflyfish Common Name: Philippine Tarsier understanding of local ecology and biological issues, so we can take a IUCN Status: Least concern IUCN Status: Near threatened prudent approach to their protection. Consequently, an important part of our worldwide environmental assessment is internationally accepted evaluation tools. As the first step to establishing a facility in the United States or abroad, Lexmark applies American Society for Testing and Materials International (ASTM) Standard Practice for Environmental Site Assessments E1527-05 (Phase I) and E1903 (Phase II) to assess environmental aspects. We also consider the protection status of those areas where we plan to operate. Lexmark does not operate in areas that are known to be protected or home Species: Squalus montalbani Species: Crocodylus minderensis to International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List species Common Name: Philippines Spurdog Common Name: Philippines Crocodile and has no future plans to operate in these areas. IUCN Status: Vulnerable IUCN Status: Critically endangered 48 Environmental Management ISO 14001 is a voluntary standard that provides a framework for environmental ISO 14001 CERTIFICATES Contents management. Lexmark-owned and leased facilities in Lexington, Kentucky; Our Approach to Citizenship Boulder, Colorado; Budapest, Hungary; Cebu, Philippines; Juárez, Mexico; Lexington, Kentucky Certificate Our Operations and Shenzhen, China have received ISO 14001 certification. These include Environmental Sustainability of all of our production locations and some research and development Boulder, Colorado Certificate Energy Consumption and administration facilities. Lexmark spends up to $40,000 per facility on Greenhouse Gas Emissions services provided by external consultants, including environmental testing, Budapest, Hungary Certificate Water Management waste water sampling and storm water sampling. Over $100,000 is spent Waste Management Cebu, Philippines Certificate annually for corporate services such as legislative tracking and MSDS Land and Biodiversity management. Environmental Management Juárez, Mexico Certificate Supply Chain Each Lexmark facility sets site-specific goals for improving its performance Shenzhen, China Certificate Our Products within this management system. Environmental goals include reducing energy consumption, improving water conservation, generating less Global and Community Impact waste, and improving emergency preparedness and response planning. OHSAS 18001 CERTIFICATES Reporting Emergency response teams are established for each major manufacturing Lexington, Kentucky Certificate and development facility to support these efforts. Boulder, Colorado Certificate Lexmark did not incur any fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with the environmental laws and regulations in the reporting period. Cebu, Philippines Certificate Juárez, Mexico Certificate Shenzhen, China Certificate 49 Supply Chain LEXMARK SUPPLY CHAIN supplier diversity program. Lexmark employees are encouraged to take Contents an active role to support the supplier diversity program by ensuring that Our Approach to Citizenship At Lexmark, we work closely with our suppliers to ensure our products diverse-owned vendors are encouraged and given an opportunity to do Our Operations and services have a positive impact on people, communities, and the business with Lexmark. Environmental Sustainability environment. Lexmark integrates sustainability into our supply chain by Energy Consumption screening 100 percent of our new critical parts suppliers for environmental An example of Lexmark advancing minority-owned businesses in new Greenhouse Gas Emissions compliance, material management and social responsibility. We choose markets is the selection of Innovative Office Solutions as our primary Water Management suppliers who share our vision of corporate citizenship and agree to provider of office supplies. Waste Management conform to Lexmark’s expectations and standards. We monitor the As a woman-owned business Land and Biodiversity performance and compliance of our suppliers by analyzing on a regular Innovative Office Solutions has Environmental Management basis their social, environmental and economic data. become one of the largest Supply Chain and fastest growing office Our Products LEXMARK GOAL LEXMARK PROGRESS solutions companies by focusing on growth through hiring, expanding product offerings and investing in Global and Community Impact technology. Innovative Office Solutions was chosen by Lexmark not only to Reporting expand our diverse supplier network but also to promote a company with a commitment to their community through the support of over 100 nonprofits. Hiring diverse-owned companies provides Lexmark the ability to boost employment of individuals with diverse backgrounds, skills and cultures who often share their successes with their community. We aimed for a Diversity Supplier spend greater than We achieved $53 million $40 million in spending on certified minority SUPPLIER LOCATIONS companies in 2013. To positively impact local economies, Lexmark sourcing teams are encouraged to select suppliers that are near the location where their products are shipped (such as near a manufacturing location) when SUPPLIER DIVERSITY possible. The use of locally based suppliers is both environmentally and financially preferable, resulting in positive local impacts. Lexmark strives to encourage and afford opportunities to minority suppliers. The Lexmark supplier diversity program is founded on Lexmark values of Lexmark laser supplies are strategically produced in local economies near mutual respect, corporate citizenship, and integrity. Diverse businesses our customers. In 2013 Lexmark began the production of laser supplies in make up a vital segment of the economy, and, therefore, healthy diverse Poland to meet the needs of our customers in Europe. Lexmark sources businesses are advantageous to our financial performance and our community. supplies for Asia Pacific from China and our manufacturing plant in Mexico Lexmark sets goals annually to increase contracting opportunities for produces supplies for Latin America and North America. Manufacturing eligible minority suppliers. These goals are reviewed to determine if they products regionally near our distribution centers not only allows our are attainable and represent a meaningful contribution to the Lexmark customers to receive needed supplies faster, it provides an opportunity for our customers to recycle their supplies closer to home. 50 Supply Chain Contents LEXMARK GOAL LEXMARK PROGRESS ANALYZING AND MANAGING SUPPLY CHAIN Our Approach to Citizenship RESPONSIBILITY Our Operations To better understand CSR risks in the supply chain, Lexmark analyzes Environmental Sustainability the spending behavior of that chain, evaluating basic information (total Energy Consumption number of suppliers, geographic spread, and so on), as well as social Greenhouse Gas Emissions and environmental aspects such as supplier diversity and environmental Water Management factors. These spending analyses are conducted with specially developed Waste Management data-collection tools and are conducted in collaboration with consultants Land and Biodiversity Regionally sourcing 80% We achieved 50% of supplies specializing in supply chain analyses. Environmental Management of our supplies by 2017. manufactured in the region of Supply Chain consumption in 2013. Over the last four years, 100 percent of Lexmark procurement spending Our Products was subject to our spending-analysis process. Through this process, Global and Community Impact we have identified critical suppliers–our high-volume, high-spending SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY suppliers, suppliers of critical components, and unique or sole source Reporting suppliers. Lexmark has over 10,000 suppliers, 1.7 percent of which have Our membership and participation since 2009 in the Electronic Industry been identified as key and strategic1. Citizenship Coalition® (EICC) has further strengthened our organizational efforts in support of human rights, labor standards, and other CSR (corporate Less than 1 percent of our suppliers are determined to be high risk. Based social responsibility) values. The EICC Code of Conduct, supplemented on how critical the risk is, Lexmark conducts a deeper analysis of economic by the Lexmark Supplier Code of Conduct, is a pledge of best practices (cash management), environmental (weather-related), and social (war and adopted and implemented by some of the world’s major electronics brands political instability) risk factors. and their suppliers to improve conditions in the electronics supply chain. The EICC Code of Conduct sets forth performance, compliance, auditing and These risks are managed in part through reporting guidelines across five areas of social responsibility, including labor, the EICC Code of Conduct. This code health and safety, environment, management systems and ethics policies. prescribes best practices related to In accordance with EICC guidelines, Lexmark conducts third-party audits for environmental performance in operations, several of our Tier 1 suppliers to monitor compliance in these areas. human rights (forced or child labor, freedom of association, International Labour Organization conventions), Lexmark works with a multitude of direct and indirect suppliers. All Lexmark working conditions (working hours, layoff practices, remuneration), suppliers are required to comply with the EICC Code of Conduct, which also occupational health and safety and business ethics (corruption, antiaddresses human rights. In addition, we have increased our scrutiny of the competitive practices). To improve business practices and assist companies human rights records of Lexmark suppliers. in identifying risks and driving improvements, self-audits and site audits are conducted in conformance to the EICC Code of Conduct, laws, and regulations. 1 Key and strategic suppliers are those with spend over $1 million and goods and/or services critical to Lexmark operations. 51 Supply Chain Lexmark works with its suppliers to help improve their sustainability. We and thereafter on an annual basis, Lexmark will report the percentage of Contents encourage suppliers to demonstrate their continual improvement through key and strategic suppliers who have issued an internationally recognized Our Approach to Citizenship the completion of the EICC SAQ (Self-Assessment Questionnaire) and sustainability report. In selecting and retaining qualified suppliers, Lexmark Our Operations publication of an annual sustainability report including content and metrics will show preference to suppliers who meet or exceed our expectation in Environmental Sustainability based on an internationally recognized reporting framework such as the the area of sustainability and reporting. Energy Consumption Global Reporting Initiative or similar reporting format. Beginning this year Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water Management Waste Management Land and Biodiversity Environmental Management Supply Chain KEY AND STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS MAP Our Products Global and Community Impact Reporting EUROPE 32 Suppliers ASIA-PACIFIC 61 Suppliers AMERICAS 81 Suppliers 52 Supply Chain The percentage of our 174 key and strategic suppliers who have issued a SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM Contents sustainability report in 2013 is 53 percent. Lexmark will continue to work AT LEXMARK Our Approach to Citizenship with our key and strategic suppliers to increase this percentage. Our Operations The Lexmark Director of Global Sourcing is the senior person responsible Environmental Sustainability Key Strategic Suppliers account for a significant percentage of Lexmark for delivering on the environmental, social and governance (ESG) objectives Energy Consumption total procurement spending. Based on 2013 spending, the 174 key and we have identified (as stated previously). At the operational level, the global Greenhouse Gas Emissions strategic suppliers make up about 58 percent of our spend. manager of Global Sourcing has responsibility for implementing the ESG Water Management objectives. The global manager is a direct report to the global director. Waste Management CONFLICT MINERALS Land and Biodiversity All Lexmark prime-contact procurement staff have received training in Environmental Management On August 22, 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission environmental, social and governance issues related to our procurement Supply Chain released its final rules for the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer processes. Lexmark procurement personnel also have access to a dataOur Products Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) related to the use of conflict minerals base of supplier information that includes the suppliers’ environmental, (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) in their products. Lexmark maintains a Global and Community Impact social and governance commitments, as well as their performance metrics. policy of responsible global sourcing through a conflict-free supply chain. All Lexmark staff that engage with suppliers are expected to consider the Reporting Sources of materials, including those mined from the Democratic Republic environmental, social and governance impacts of engaging with a supplier of the Congo or an adjoining country (“DRC”), are approved for use when prior to entering into a relationship with the supplier. Procurement staff proven that acquiring them does not contribute to the conflict in the region. are offered incentives to integrate ESG factors with supply-chain-related Therefore, Lexmark subcontractors and suppliers must report on the origin decisions because their performance impacts team and individual for these materials (tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold) used in the manufacture performance reviews. of Lexmark products. Lexmark also requires a due diligence declaration identifying the list of smelters used within a supplier’s supply chain. This Sustainability is integrated with the Lexmark supplier selection and information must be submitted along with the supplier’s due diligence retention processes. Rather than assign a weight to specific ESG factors process. Suppliers must report the results using the EICC template, or in the analysis process, Lexmark has set EICC compliance as the minimum Lexmark approved similar template. Lexmark has filed with the U.S. threshold for retaining existing suppliers and selecting new suppliers. Securities and Exchange Commission a Conflict Minerals Report for 2013. Lexmark provides incentives for suppliers to adhere to EICC guidelines by offering long-term contracts, collaborating on production volumes, consolidating suppliers, and partnering on development projects. 53 Our Products Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations Our Products Product Cross-Section Product Lifecycle Acoustics Materials Emissions Energy Use Product Certifications Socially Beneficial Software Accessibility Solutions Supplies Packaging We focus on the products we make to help ensure they are designed, Innovation Global and Community Impact manufactured, delivered and used in the most environmentally efficient Reporting and socially responsible manner possible. The Lexmark product portfolio is a dynamic mix of long-lasting hardware, pure software and electronic data tools, and management services to support and direct it all. As our company continues to evolve, our commitment to being a thought and action leader in global citizenship remains a guiding principle for our business. Here you can learn about our solutions to enable a more inclusive workforce for our customers, our leadership in cartridge recycling and packaging innovations, the results of our product lifecycle assessments, and many other product-related subjects. 54 PRODUCT CROSS-SECTION DESIGNING PRODUCTS WITH RESPONSIBILITY By incorporating the learning gained from LCA results into our productContents design process, Lexmark can better develop products with lower IN MIND environmental impact while maintaining high standards of performance Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations The conscientious way Lexmark designs products has an effect on the and efficiency. Our Products environment throughout the entire life cycle of the product. Each EPD conforms to the international standards ISO 14040:2006, Product Cross-Section Through the use of Product Life Cycle Assessments (LCA), Lexmark looks ISO 14044:2006 and ISO 14025:2007 and follows the requirements of Product Lifecycle at the entire impact of the product and continually works to improve each the Product Category Rules (PCR) for preparing an EPD for printers and Acoustics phase of the product life cycle. multi-function printing units published by UL Environment (ULE) on Dec 12, Materials 2012. The EPDs are third-party verified for accuracy and completeness. Emissions As a developer of products and solutions that include hardware, Lexmark Energy Use designs are used for many years. This places an important weight on the The EPDs for three representative product models, the Lexmark MX711DE Product Certifications up-front engineering design to help ensure our products have as low an monochrome laser multifunction product (MFP), the Lexmark CX510DE Socially Beneficial Software environmental impact as possible during their lifetime. color laser MFP and the Lexmark MS315dn printer are highlighted below. Accessibility Solutions Our design efforts focus on minimizing environmental impacts in these Lexmark is committed to performing LCAs on all future product models as Supplies essential areas that occur during the use phase of the life cycle: well as incorporating the knowledge gained from the LCAs into our product Packaging design process. • ACOUSTICS • MATERIALS • EMISSIONS • ENERGY USE Innovation Some of the significant environmental indicators from the Life Cycle Global and Community Impact PRODUCT LIFECYCLE Analysis that were measured include: Reporting Lexmark’s Vision and Values guide the corporate culture of social • Climate Change/Global Warming Potential responsibility. As an employer and global community member, Lexmark • Non-renewable resource potential (abiotic depletion) continually promotes sustainability in its business practices. As part of • Non-renewable primary energy demand Lexmark’s commitment to sustainable products, Lexmark has As an example of the practical usefulness of an LCA, the results for the conducted Life Cycle Assessments on 26 of its product models in order Lexmark MX711DE mono laser MFP indicate that the impact of paper to create and publish ISO 14025 accounts for almost 87 percent of the global warming potential impact for Type III Environmental Product Design this product. To look at it another way, far more energy is consumed proDeclarations (EPD). Designed for Environment Materials Selection ducing and distributing a single sheet of paper than is used to print it. The Manufacturing The LCAs provide Lexmark with the Energy Efficiency Material Efficiency production of a single sheet of paper consumes about 17 watt-hours, which detailed environmental data required is approximately 50 times the amount of energy to print a single sheet. to generate EPDs, which are useful in End of Life LCAs on our printers reveal that Lexmark’s commitment to “print less, save Printer Recycling summarizing the complex information in Cartridge Recycling Distribution more” is an effective approach to improve sustainability efforts for Lexmark an LCA. LCAs technically evaluate the Recycled Content Compact Design and its customers. Use Removal of PVC environmental impact of the product Automatic Duplex Sleep Mode Toner Saving Mode design, manufacturing, distribution, use High-Yield Cartridges and end-of-life of our products. 55 PRODUCT CROSS-SECTION LEXMARK ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT DECLARATIONS Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations Our Products Product Cross-Section Product Lifecycle / Acoustics Click here to view the Click here to view the Click here to view the Materials Lexmark MX711DE Lexmark CX510DE Lexmark MS315DN Emissions Environmental Product Environmental Product Environmental Product Energy Use Declaration (PDF) Declaration (PDF) Declaration (PDF) Product Certifications Socially Beneficial Software CYCLE ACOUSTICS MATERIALS PRODUCT EMISSIONS PRODUCT ENERGY USE PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS ACOUSTICS related label in the world and one of the first to include noise levels in its Accessibility Solutions certification criteria. All Lexmark devices meet the noise requirements in Supplies Acoustics is the science of sound and vibration. the Blue Angel specification RAL-UZ 171. Designing products for the environment includes Packaging consideration for sounds in the workplace. Lexmark’s design team ensures that any sounds and vibrations are quiet Innovation Lexmark printers offer an ideal combination of and consistent throughout the life of our products. Lexmark products are Global and Community Impact efficient performance and quiet operation to subjected to continuous, ongoing quality audits by an outside ISO 17025 enhance comfort in the workplace and to accredited acoustics laboratory. Reporting increase productivity. Lexmark product designers assess our equipment acoustics and reduce PRINTING SOUND PRESSURE unwanted noise while selectively incorporating helpful sounds. Our devices (PERCENT REDUCTION IN DUPLEX MODE) strive to meet the auditory requirements of Section 508 Subpart B § 1194.25 2012 2013 (e) & (f) of the amended (29 U.S.C 794d) of the US Rehabilitation Act of 1973. 59 Finding technical solutions to unwanted noise requires creativity and inno58 Down vation. Since 2009, all devices are designed with a Quiet Mode feature. With 10% 57 this setting, customers can adjust the sound level of their printers to meet 38 36 their personal preferences. dB(A) 56 Down 10% In 2013 product designers identified an opportunity for noise reduction in 55 Lexmark MS81x printers by modifying materials in the printer frame. In this 54 instance, the printing sound pressure was reduced by 10 percent. 53 Lexmark participates in the Blue Angel standard for environmental design MS810dn MS812dn PRINTER MODEL guidance. The Blue Angel certification is the oldest environment56 PRODUCT CROSS-SECTION MATERIALS Post Consumer Recycled Content Contents S MATERIALS PRODUCT EMISSIONS PRODUCT ENERGY USE Lexmark strives PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS to optimize the use of postconsumer recycled (PCR) Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark evaluates the environmental impacts of materials in our products. By using PCR materials, we can reduce both Our Operations our products throughout their life cycles. Through the consumption of natural resources and the amount of waste in landfills. the design and material selection of our products, Our Products Lexmark recognizes the environmental benefits of reusing metal content our innovative designs ensure a minimal impact Product Cross-Section with the understanding that recycled metal stock can be used for some— on the environment. Our high-quality products Product Lifecycle but not all—metal components. Published industry averages indicate that contain the most favorable types and levels of Acoustics many commercial grades of steel commonly contain between 30 percent materials, while complying with all relevant govMaterials and 80 percent recycled content. Lexmark is committed to using these ernment regulations. Emissions grades of steel wherever possible. Energy Use Product Certifications LEXMARK GOAL LEXMARK PROGRESS On the other hand, the use of recycled plastic has historically been a challenge for the electronics industry. Despite technical and logistical Socially Beneficial Software challenges, Lexmark has successfully incorporated recycled plastic in our Accessibility Solutions products. Lexmark works hard to maintain a leadership position in the Supplies generation of recycled plastic feed streams and use of PCR materials. Our Packaging sustained efforts in PCR development has allowed us to expand recycled content into over 30 printer models. Innovation The current Lexmark printer product line The latest Lexmark printers are qualified Global and Community Impact contains an average minimum of Lexmark was an early adopter of recycling. In the mid-1990s, we succeeded to contain a PCR content of up to 10% 40% in incorporating recycled plastics in our Lexmark Optra series of printers Reporting by weight of postconsumer (PCR) plastic with a controlled North American feed stream and closed-loop materials. by weight of the plastic components. of the total plastic components. In more recent years, new regulations and changes in consumer attitudes have created a demand for a higher quality of recycled plastic materials. Due to the technical requirements of today’s printing industry, our engineers Thanks to the increased availability of high-quality PCR plastics, Lexmark’s must develop parts that integrate the unique properties of a wide range latest laser printers are qualified to include significantly higher levels of PCR of materials. While the bulk of our materials are simple polymer and metal plastic as compared to previous generations: up to 40 percent by weight structures, we also use elastomers, semiconductors and ceramics. The of the plastic components. largest quantity used in Lexmark products by volume are plastics, such as The use of recycled materials ensures HIPS (high-impact polystyrene) and ABS (acrylonitrile butadiene styrene). that waste formerly destined for a Other plastics include acetals, polyesters, polyamides and filled or blended landfill has a new destination and versions of these materials. Although these materials are usually manufacpurpose. This helps to protect natural tured from gas and petroleum feed stocks, their environmental impact can resources and indicates that Lexmark be offset by increased use of recycled plastic. Metal content in Lexmark and our customers are making printers is dominated by steel products sourced from both recycled and significant progress towards achieving new materials. We use other types of metals and ceramic alloys in smaller Lexmark laser Current Lexmark sustainability goals. printer from the laser printer components of our systems. mid-1990’s 57 PRODUCT CROSS-SECTION ESTIMATED MATERIALS* IN LEXMARK PRINTERS Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals Contents FOR 2013 (METRIC TONS/$M REVENUE) Lexmark works with our suppliers to ensure compliance with international Our Approach to Citizenship material restriction regulations such as the European Union Registration, Our Operations Metals Plastics Electronics Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) regulation. REACH Our Products 2.2 2.9 1.0 seeks to improve public health and the environment by controlling the Product Cross-Section production and use of harmful chemical substances. In 2008, Lexmark comProduct Lifecycle *Based on the materials used in our latest single function and multi-function pleted the first steps of REACH, including pre-registration, material review Acoustics mono devices. The category “Electronics” includes all wiring, boards, ceramics and required communications for the initial release of the Substances of and connectors. Materials Very High Concern (SVHC) candidate list of chemicals. Considering chemEmissions ical registration deadlines and the addition of new chemicals to the SVHC Energy Use Closed-Loop Recycling list, Lexmark will continue to monitor REACH developments and comply Product Certifications Lexmark continues our innovative closed-loop toner cartridge recycling with all requirements of the legislation. More information about Lexmark Socially Beneficial Software operations. Through the award-winning Lexmark Cartridge Collection REACH initiatives is available to our customers by request. Accessibility Solutions Program, our engineers can reclaim a feed stream of high-impact polystyMontreal Protocol rene plastic. After returning this material to near-new quality, the plastic is Supplies used to manufacture new toner cartridges. Lexmark is an industry leader In compliance with the Montreal Protocol, Lexmark prohibits the use Packaging in reclaimed plastic with 10 percent average postconsumer plastic content of ozone-depleting chemicals in the manufacture and development of Innovation across all toner cartridges. Our goal is to increase the postconsumer plastic all products. content of our toner cartridges to 25 percent by 2016. Global and Community Impact Paper Reporting Restrictions of Hazardous Substances Lexmark tests our printers using recycled papers—specifically papers When specifying materials used in Lexmark printers, supplies and packmade with 30 percent, 50 percent, and 100 percent postconsumer recycled aging, we evaluate compliance with material restriction directives and content. Our expectation is that recycled papers perform as well as new legislation. Lexmark complies with the material restriction requirements paper in our devices. While no official standard exists for office equipment adopted under the European Union Recast Restriction of the Use of Certain use of paper, Lexmark uses European Standard EN 12281 as a minimum Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive properties standard. To ensure breadth of testing, test paper includes 100 2011/65/EU (RoHS 2). RoHS 2 restricts the amount of certain hazardous percent recycled papers from Europe and Asia, and tests are conducted substances in electrical and electronic equipment. These hazardous materiat 8 percent to 80 percent relative humidity. Testing includes both autoals include four metals (lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, cadmium) and matic and manual duplex printing, which may pose challenges for some two brominated flame retardants (polybrominated biphenyl and polybromirecycled papers. nated diphenyl ether). Since July 1, 2006, all Lexmark products, including Lexmark offers a limited number of environmentally preferable papers cartridges, have been fully compliant with the RoHS directive. in Europe. Lexmark PerfectFinish™ photo paper is made with materials As Lexmark develops new products, we work closely with our suppliers to harvested from forests certified by the Programme for the Endorsement ensure that all materials are compliant with the RoHS directive. We are comof Forest Certification. This paper is may be purchased at retail shops in mitted to improving the environmental design of all of our Lexmark products Europe and on the European Lexmark website. and services. Reducing environmentally harmful materials, such as those listed in the RoHS directive, is a part of that commitment. 58 PRODUCT CROSS-SECTION Did You Know? EMISSIONS Contents Customers using Lexmark PRODUCT devices have many LIFE CYCLE choices when it comes ACOUSTICS to the MATERIALS PRODUCT EMISSIONS PRODUCT ENERGY USE PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS Our Approach to Citizenship Emissions from printers in the workplace are types of environmentally preferable paper they can use. Customers can use Our Operations subject to the occupational exposure restricgeneral office paper that meets European Standard EN 12281 and has one of tions of individual countries for specific chemOur Products the following: icals. Lexmark printers are tested throughout Product Cross-Section • Renewable content their development for emissions of styrene, Product Lifecycle • Recycled content benzene, ozone, total and individual volatile Acoustics • Chlorine-free content organic compounds, and total and ultrafine particulates. All laser printers Materials / emit small amounts of volatile organic compounds due to the heating of Emissions Lexmark Product Environmental Specification plastic parts, and they produce small amounts of dust (mostly paper Energy Use Product Certifications Lexmark’s Product Environmental Specification defines the minimum enviremnants) as paper moves through the printer. ronmental requirements for the designing, manufacturing and marketing of Socially Beneficial Software Blue Angel Certified Test Lab Lexmark products and parts. The criteria is based on the latest global reguAccessibility Solutions latory obligations, international treaties and conventions, and certain market Lexmark exclusively owns and operates one of only two existing Supplies demands. The Product Environmental Specification is reviewed annually to Blue Angel certified chemical emissions test facilities in the western Packaging ensure the latest regulatory references are included. hemisphere. This investment demonstrates our commitment to provide industry leading products that comply with the highest standards of safety Innovation To support these efforts, and sustainability. Global and Community Impact Lexmark operates a materials content data collection and There is no emission of CO2 or other greenhouse gasses during the Reporting management system. This printing process as it does not involve combustion. In addition, emissions system allows us to that fall in the “nanoparticulate” category are not solid particles of toner or communicate with our suptoner components, but simply vapor created from the heating process that pliers about the substances passes through the nano-size range as it condenses while cooling. Our of concern, to respond to laser printers do not emit more than trace amounts of ozone. customer questions and to Internal Lexmark exposure studies have established that operator expoaddress regulatory issues. sures to regulated printer emissions are orders of magnitude below the Click here for a link to occupational exposure guidelines in any part of the world. Environmental Specifications Lexmark printers are tested for emissions following the protocols of the and additional documents internationally-recognized Blue Angel environmental certification program. and forms (PDF). Results are compared to the Blue Angel requirements, and summary Safety Data Sheets reports are available to customers upon request. Click here for current Safety Data Sheets. 59 PRODUCT CROSS-SECTION Energy Use ENERGY STAR TYPICAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION Contents (PERCENTAGE REDUCTION) SIONS PRODUCT ENERGY USE PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS Our Approach to Citizenship One of the most significant ways Lexmark Prior Models Newest Printer Models Our Operations magnifies our investments in and commitment to Down the environment is by developing the most energy 51% Our Products efficient products and placing them within our Product Cross-Section customers’ environments. This broadens the Down Down Product Lifecycle 36% 43% impact of our efforts far beyond what we can do Down Acoustics 40% within our own walls. Down Down Materials 38% 44% Emissions Energy Use Laser Sleep Power HistoryLASER SLEEP POWER HISTORY Product Certifications CS410 CX510 MS510 MX310 MS810 MX810 PRINTER MODEL Socially Beneficial Software Accessibility Solutions Supplies SLEEP MODE ENERGY Packaging (PERCENTAGE REDUCTION) Prior Models Newest Printer Models Innovation 2005 2005 2008 2008 2012 2012 2013 2013 Global and Community Impact Down Down 90% Reporting 20w 4.5w 2.9w 84% 13w Down 83% Lexmark’s MS811 EC3 uses 2.9 watts of energy while in sleep mode. Down Down 77% Down That’s an 85 percent reduction in energy since 2005. 77% 76% The majority of the environmental impacts of a printer occur when it is being used. Knowing this, Lexmark continually strives to update our products with CS410 CX510 MS510 MX310 MS810 MX810 innovative features that make them more energy efficient. PRINTER MODEL Lexmark set two goals last year to help ensure progress and we can now report that we have met each goal. All product families announced in 2012 have met the energy requirements of EnergyStar V2.0 and all new products announced in 2013 (and beyond) have a power consumption of 4 watts or less in sleep mode. Moving forward, Lexmark will continue to reduce sleep mode power for our future products while aiming to ensure 2 watts or less in anticipation of 2019 EU requirements (European Union’s EC 801/2013). 60 PRODUCT CROSS-SECTION The demand for products that consume less energy, and ultimately result 42 percent reduction in the ENERGY STAR Typical Electricity Consumption Contents in lower emissions, is ever increasing. Our customers wish to lower their and an 81 percent reduction in energy use while the printer is in sleep Our Approach to Citizenship impact on the environment while simultaneously reducing energy costs. mode compared to the previous generation of products. Coming on the Our Operations heels of the improvements in 2012, these reductions in power consumption Lexmark has made significant improvements to the products announced in show Lexmark’s continued commitment to being a leader in sustainability. Our Products 2012 to reduce the energy consumption of our laser printers and multi-funcProduct Cross-Section tion devices. These changes allow Lexmark products to apply for the strinENERGY STAR is a registered trademark of the U.S. Environmental Product Lifecycle gent Blue Angel Eco Label, which requires all compliant products to have a Protection Agency. Typical Electricity Consumption and Sleep Mode Energy Acoustics sleep mode of 4 W or less. were measured in accordance with Energy Star Test Method for Imaging Materials Equipment V1.2 Emissions Lexmark’s 2013 product line reveals a significant improvement in energy Energy Use / efficiency over previous generations. Lexmark’s printer line averages a Product Certifications Socially Beneficial Software Accessibility Solutions PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS Supplies GY USE PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS Packaging Innovation Global and Community Impact Reporting LEXMARK INCREASES ENERGY EFFICIENCY FOR ALL PRODUCTS ANNUALLY Product Segment 2010 Energy Efficiency Metric 2011 Energy Efficiency Metric 2012 Energy Efficiency Metric 2013 Energy Efficiency Metric Laser Products 1 Fleet Average of 0.153 Fleet Average of 0.150 Fleet Average of 0.104 Fleet Average of 0.091 Energy Star TEC / PPM Energy Star TEC / PPM Energy Star TEC / PPM Energy Star TEC / PPM LEXMARK INCREASES ENERGY-star certified laser models ANNUALLY Product Segment 2010 Product Offerings 2011 Product Offerings 2012 Product Offerings 2013 Product Offerings Laser Products 83.5 percent 89 percent 92 percent 93 percent2 1 Laser Products Energy Efficiency Metric is the ENERGY STAR TEC (Typical Electricity Consumption) divided by the product speed in PPM (pages per minute). Because the TEC metric increases products usage with the product speed, dividing by product speed normalizes the TEC value. 2 While 93 percent of currently available Lexmark models are ENERGY STAR certified, nearly 100 percent (all but one model) meet the energy requirements of ENERGY STAR. 61 PRODUCT CROSS-SECTION ENERGY STAR® IEEE 1680.2 was finalized in October 2012, and the EPEAT product registry Contents was launched in February 2013. We continue to develop technology that Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark is committed to designing energy-efficient reduces the environmental impact of our products. We currently have a products, an increasing number of which are ENERGY Our Operations wide array of products rated at bronze and silver levels, and we are workSTAR certified. Launched in 1992, ENERGY STAR is a joint ing towards gold ratings. Our Products program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Product Cross-Section the U.S. Department of Energy. ENERGY STAR is a globally For a list of EPEAT-registered Lexmark products, click here. Product Lifecycle recognized symbol for energy-efficient products and practices. Acoustics Other Certifications In 2013, ENERGY STAR released the ENERGY STAR Imaging Equipment Materials Specification V2.0, the first major change to the specification since 2007. Lexmark pursues a number of other voluntary product environmental certifiEmissions cations worldwide. These certifications include the UL Environment/Canada Energy Use Lexmark recertified 86 percent of our current products to this aggressive Eco Logo (CCD-035), China certification HJ 2512-2012 (formerly HJ/T 302Product Certifications new standard. 2006) and Taiwan Green Mark. Socially Beneficial Software For a list of Lexmark models that are ENERGY STAR certified, click here. Accessibility Solutions The Eco Declaration—ECMA 370 Blue Angel Supplies Formerly known as IT Eco Declarations, ECMA 370 declarations provide The Blue Angel was established in 1978 in Germany and objective and comparable environmental information. In June 2011, Lexmark Packaging is one of the most prestigious environmental certifications signed the Industry Voluntary Agreement to Improve the Environmental Innovation worldwide. Lexmark has a long-standing practice of designPerformance of Imaging Equipment Placed on the European Market on the Global and Community Impact ing products to meet the Blue Angel standard for environEU Marketplace. By signing this agreement, manufacturers commit to make mental design. certain environmental improvements, including posting the Eco Declaration Reporting (ECMA 370) on a publicly available website. For a list of Lexmark models that are Blue Angel certified, click here. To view the Eco Declaration listing, click here. Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool In accordance with Executive Order 13514, federal agencies are required to purchase environmentally preferable products with procurement preference for those that are Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT®) registered. Lexmark supports the U.S. government in its goals of environmental stewardship, energy efficiency and economic recovery. The EPEAT system and the environmental criteria for computers and monitors were originally developed in a multi-stakeholder process. The EPEAT environmental criteria are outlined in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) public standard, IEEE 1680. The system currently covers desktop and laptop computers, thin clients, workstations, and computer monitors (IEEE 1680.1). 62 SOCIALLY BENEFICIAL SOFTWARE At their core, software solutions from the Lexmark family are designed to CASE STUDY: NORTH KANSAS CITY HOSPITAL Contents improve the efficiency of our customers’ businesses. In many cases howOur Approach to Citizenship ever, our software solutions also drive significant environmental efficiencies “Perceptive has had a great impact on our quality of care,” Karen Arora, Our Operations and even impact society in other positive ways. North Kansas City systems administrator, says. “The patients are the winners in the long run because now, instead of having to shuffle papers Our Products SOFTWARE TO ADDRESS CIVIL RIGHTS around, the nurses can actually be nurses.” Product Cross-Section Product Lifecycle Maintaining a high level of respect for the purpose behind civil rights regulaSoftware from Perceptive Software, a Lexmark company, eliminates paper Acoustics tions is essential for businesses to succeed today. from the process of bringing new employees into an organization. By conMaterials verting HR forms into electronic forms work can be completed, tracked and Emissions Regardless of what regulations affect a particular business, our deep indusvalidated for compliance and completeness, all electronically. Energy Use try expertise means we understand the compliance issues that our customProduct Certifications ers face. Lexmark and Perceptive Software offerings are ideally suited to For North Kansas City Hospital, a driving force behind their document Socially Beneficial Software support the data necessary to make the good intentions of our customers management project was human resources, where the weight of more than clear, defensible, and efficient. In fact, many federal and state government a million paper files for the hospital’s 3,000 employees had the filing room Accessibility Solutions divisions rely on our technology to help them maintain compliance in their floor in danger of collapsing. Supplies own organizations. Packaging Since the implementation of Perceptive Content, the overstuffed file cabThere are three key elements to ensuring organizational respect and compliinets have been completely eliminated—a dramatic and ongoing environInnovation ance with civil rights regulations: mental benefit. Beyond that, the hospital also integrated doctors’ orders Global and Community Impact into a Perceptive Content system that immediately links to patient records DATA INTEGRITY DATA CONFIDENTIALITY/SECURITY DATA ACCESSIBILITY Reporting for processing, ensuring nurses get the supplies and equipment they need to better serve patients. Click here to learn more about our successful transformation at North Kansas City Hospital. Our leading software drives data accuracy, provides secure long-term storage, offers tamperproof redaction of sensitive information, generates audit logs, and maintains strict access controls to name just a few important features. Fundamentally, our technology not only provides accurate tracking and reporting, it helps companies ensure these important rights are respected. Click for more information on solutions for industry-specific compliance: Process and Content Management Solutions for Compliance Building Compliance Strategies 63 SOCIALLY BENEFICIAL SOFTWARE ENVIRONMENTALLY BENEFICIAL SOLUTIONS Contents Our Approach to Citizenship At Lexmark, we firmly believe that the most cost-effective and sustainable Our Operations page is the one you never print. We design our Lexmark solutions to help our customers receive the maximum benefit from the minimum of resources. Our Products This focus on efficiency and waste reduction is not only good for the enviProduct Cross-Section ronment, it’s also good for the customer’s financial bottom line. Product Lifecycle Acoustics Lexmark software enables our customers to print less through industry-speMaterials cific solutions, such as the paper-saving Banking Branch Capture solution Emissions designed for the Financial Services industry, and cross-industry solutions, Energy Use such as Print Release. Lexmark Print Release facilitates printing from any netProduct Certifications worked device to any enabled printer or MFP. But it goes much further than Socially Beneficial Software that. The simple step of having a user confirm the “release” of a print job Accessibility Solutions at the printer or MFP reduces duplicate print jobs and eliminates unwanted prints. Utilizing Lexmark Print Release alone typically reduces printed pages Supplies by 30 percent. Packaging Innovation CASE STUDY: Global and Community Impact PAPERLESS OFFICE MATURITY MODEL Reporting Our approach for Accounts Payable departments centers on the concept of reducing paper-based communications to increase efficiency. This is an example of the transformation Lexmark has undergone to shift more and more of our business to environmentally sensitive strategies. In fact, our Perceptive Software division has developed a model along with the Institute of Financial Operations to gauge an organization’s progress towards a “paperless office.” Click here to view the Paperless Office Maturity Model. 64 ACCESSIBILITY SOLUTIONS At Lexmark, we want to help our users be more productive. We are therefore ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES AND SOLUTIONS Contents committed to developing technologies that work to eliminate physical barOur Approach to Citizenship riers to workplace success, making common tasks like printing or scanning At Lexmark, accessibility is a key marker in every phase of our product development process. The following is a list of features added to Lexmark Our Operations a document accessible to everyone. We incorporate features that make our products more intuitive, less physically demanding, and easier to use for products to improve accessibility: Our Products people with sensory disabilities. Designing for accessibility not only helps Product Cross-Section individuals with physical limitations be fully productive and successful in their Product Lifecycle careers, but it also helps address the broader issue of unemployment in the Acoustics disabled community. Materials Emissions DESIGNING WITH ACCESSIBILITY IN MIND Energy Use Product Certifications The Lexmark MX711de offers easy access to a wide range of users. It can Socially Beneficial Software be placed on a caster base on the floor, and the display can be adjusted Accessibility Solutions for easier viewing from a seated position. In addition, the optional Lexmark ▲ Accessible height and reach: ▲ Tactilely discernible numpad: Supplies Accessibility Solution and Lexmark Accessibility Speech Solution can be installed for enhanced usability. With the Lexmark MX711de, all workers can Applying universal design principles Raised areas on the 5 and Home Packaging conveniently copy, fax, email and scan. help accommodate the height, reach keys help orient visually impaired Innovation and force needs of all users. users. Accessibility innovation at Lexmark is driven by the Lexmark Accessibility Global and Community Impact Council. The council includes product designers, software engineers, usabilReporting ity experts, solutions designers, and publication writers. To determine the best path for future generations of Lexmark products, the council monitors legislation and regulations, conducts research with customers and users, and consults with industry experts. Equipped with data from various perspectives, the council works with the Lexmark development community to drive product design enhancements in current and future products, making them more accessible for all Lexmark solutions users. By applying the principles of universal design to our solu▲ On-device guidance: Large, ▲ Extra-large user interface: Lextions, the Accessibility Council helps deliver accessible imaging devices and high-contrast pictures guide users to mark offers some of the largest color assistive software solutions so that all Lexmark customers can make the perform common tasks. interfaces on the market for clearer most of their unique skills and abilities in the workplace. icons and easier navigation 65 ACCESSIBILITY SOLUTIONS ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES AND SOLUTIONS MAKING LEXMARK SOLUTIONS INCREASINGLY Contents (continued) ACCESSIBLE Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations At Lexmark, we’ve defined processes and methodologies to educate our Our Products staff, gather information and ultimately ensure that Lexmark products are Product Cross-Section increasingly accessible. Product Lifecycle Acoustics CUSTOMER FEEDBACK Materials User Input Emissions The Lexmark Accessibility Council seeks input from customers with disabiliEnergy Use ties to better understand their unique requirements. We visit our customers Product Certifications ▲ Adjustable display: Users can tilt ▲ Lexmark Accessibility Solution: to discuss how our printing and software solutions can increase producSocially Beneficial Software the display to optimize the viewing Users can create job tickets with tivity in the workplace. We also meet with them to see how they currently angle. their computer or smartphone Accessibility Solutions while using assistive technology, use Lexmark solutions and to hear their ideas and suggestions for future Supplies such as the JAWS® screen reader. solutions applications. For example, in 2013 Lexmark created a customized When they enter a shortcut on the version of the Lexmark Accessibility Speech Solution based on customer Packaging printer’s accessible numpad, their feedback. User input helps us optimize our accessibility solutions for conInnovation job is released. tinued effectiveness in the workplace. Global and Community Impact Standards and Regulations Reporting We are guided by current and developing standards and regulations that prescribe best practices in the development of office equipment, software solutions and communications. Section 508 of the United States ▲ Lexmark Accessibility Speech Rehabilitation Act, European Standard EN301549 , and Web Content Solution: Users can press the asterisk (*) and 0 keys in sequence to hear Accessibility Guidelines (W3C WCAG 2.0) are examples of the many an audio message about the printer’s national and international standards and regulations that we apply to status, for example, “Tray 1 is out our designs. of paper.” ▲ Magnification: Users with limited Consultation With Experts vision can magnify the user interface The Lexmark Accessibility Council has established external relationships display by 200 percent. with accessible design experts and accessibility analysts, such as the American Foundation for the Blind (AFB). We draw on their insights to improve the design of future products and solutions.  Reverse Image: Users with sensitivity to light can reverse the image so that the background is darker than the text. 66 ACCESSIBILITY SOLUTIONS Web Accessibility Philippines; and Kolkata, India. The council also engages customers directly Contents to collect information about their needs. They then provide that feedback to Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark web page designs are guided by WCAG 2.0. Lexmark uses solution designers to enhance accessibility. Our Operations elements of these guidelines to create web pages that are more accessible to visitors of different capabilities. Educating the Greater Lexmark Community Our Products Lexmark hosts share sessions on accessibility topics to educate the Product Cross-Section Compatibility with Assistive Technology greater Lexmark community about the wants and needs of our customers Product Lifecycle Lexmark includes design features that improve website accessibility for with disabilities. Acoustics visitors who use screen-reader and screen-magnifier software, such as alterMaterials native text for images and graphs, list-oriented navigation, and header tags. In 2013 Lexmark concentrated on educating our Quality Assurance Emissions organization, the Product Usability team and Lexmark Technical Support Energy Use To ensure that our products are as screen reader-friendly as other more representatives. Lexmark is committed to ensuring that all users can easily Product Certifications common Internet-enabled devices, our new internal, web-based application learn to use our products in order to achieve their goals with a high level Socially Beneficial Software designs are informed by WAI-ARIA guidelines and attributes. In addition, we of satisfaction. Accessibility Solutions are working to make sure that our applications are available to visitors who may have disabled JavaScript. Educating the Sales Force Supplies The Lexmark Accessibility Council educates the Lexmark sales force about Packaging Lexmark strives to create a positive experience for all users, regardless accessibility issues so that they can then work with our customers’ purchasInnovation of the device used to access our site. For this reason, our site has been ing and IT personnel to find the best solutions for their workforces. designed responsively to ensure mobile device users have the same expeGlobal and Community Impact rience as desktop users. Lexmark recognizes areas in our website that need Through the Lexmark Sales University, the Lexmark Accessibility Council Reporting improvement. We aim to make visiting our site a productive experience for conducts education events for new account managers. The council also all individuals. hosts customized refresher courses on accessibility for sales teams and Lexmark industry consultants. ACCESSIBILITY EDUCATION Click here for more information on other Lexmark Accessibility Solutions. To increase awareness of accessibility challenges and inspire innovation, we host education seminars and Lunch and Learn sessions on the topic of accessibility. We also use online, internal collaboration tools to encourage informal discussion and problem solving. Educating Solution Designers The Accessibility Council hosts training meetings and webinars to inform Lexmark solution designers about the needs of the disabled community. These meetings may include information on design requirements, methods, and national and international legal design mandates. In 2013 the Council focused on expanding the global design team’s knowledge of accessibility at the following Lexmark sites: Lexington, Kentucky; Shawnee, Kansas; Cebu, 67 Supplies LEXMARK CARTRIDGE COLLECTION PROGRAM One way to return toner cartridges to Lexmark is by placing the used Contents cartridge in the new cartridge packaging and then applying the prepaid Our Approach to Citizenship Each year, the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP) prevents label to the carton for shipping. Other methods include bulk returns and Our Operations millions of Lexmark toner and inkjet cartridges from ending up in landfills. container pick-up service. Pick-up service is designed for large-volume This program encourages our customers to return used print cartridges to customers and may not be available in all countries or regions. Our Products Lexmark free of charge so that we can reuse and recycle them. Our collecProduct Cross-Section tion programs are currently available in over 60 countries, which represent Our extensive cartridge collection network has made Lexmark an industry Product Lifecycle approximately 90 percent of our global market. leader in the recovery, remanufacturing and recycling of used toner Acoustics cartridges. In 2013, Lexmark customers returned more than 30 percent Materials LEXMARK GOALS of the total toner cartridges shipped worldwide. In some regions, the return Emissions rate is higher. For example, the United States continues to average Energy Use 1 2 between 40 percent and 50 percent over the past several years. We Product Certifications estimate the industry average collection rates to be between 20 and Socially Beneficial Software 30 percent. Accessibility Solutions Supplies Increase the Increase the cartridge material Packaging postconsumer recycled (PCR) plastic by weight reused through our percentage to collection program to Innovation 25% by 2016. 50% by 2018 LEXMARK TONER CARTRIDGE COLLECTIONS Global and Community Impact YEAR ON YEAR GROWTH Reporting 25x LEXMARK PROGRESS 24x 1 2 20x 14x 10x 32% 5x Lexmark’s toner cartridge product line In 2013, approximately currently contains an average of of the cartridge materials by weight 1x 10% returned were reused. by weight of PCR plastic. 1996 2000 2004 2008 2009 2012 2013 68 Supplies This achievement is due primarily to our the greatest sustainability benefit for the environment. Therefore, Lexmark Contents customers’ exceptional commitment to follows a zero-landfill and zero-incineration policy for all used cartridges Our Approach to Citizenship the environment. However, Lexmark is that we collect. Of the empty cartridges returned to Lexmark, 100 percent Our Operations proud to offer various incentive programs are either reused or recycled. that make it easier to do the right thing. Our Products The following list represents only a few Our objective is to maximize reuse. Since 1996, Lexmark has reused over Product Cross-Section examples: 42 million pounds of recovered cartridge material by converting millions of Product Lifecycle used toner cartridges into Lexmark-certified reconditioned toner cartridges. Acoustics • C54x, X54x, CS31x/41x/51x, and The eligible cartridges are disassembled and cleaned, and then the critical Materials CX31x/41x/51x Rewards Program— components are replaced with genuine Lexmark parts. Finally, each reconEmissions Designed especially for users of our ditioned cartridge is tested to assure the same high-quality output and Energy Use latest color printers, customers can reliable performance as a new cartridge. Product Certifications earn free high yield toner cartridges Socially Beneficial Software and imaging kits by returning their Between 2004 and 2013, Lexmark increased the absolute amount of cartridge materials reused through our collection program by over 400 Accessibility Solutions empty cartridges to Lexmark. percent. Last year, approximately 32 percent of the cartridge materials by Supplies • Lexmark Return Program weight returned to Lexmark were reused, and we hope to increase this Packaging cartridges—Available for many of our most popular printer models, percentage to 50 percent by 2018. Innovation customers can buy toner and inkjet cartridges at discounted prices in exchange for agreeing to return the empty cartridges only to Lexmark. Global and Community Impact Reporting • Expanded Cartridge Recycling Container Program—Originally available in 25 European countries, Lexmark has expanded the use of cartridge recycling containers to customers in the Americas. TONER CARTRIDGE MATERIAL RECOVERY (METRIC TONS) Our cartridge recycling containers are designed to be displayed at cusRecycled Reused Waste to energy tomers’ locations to encourage recycling of both Lexmark toner and ink cartridges free of charge. Where available, customers using the containers 137 receive Lexmark Eco Reports to help measure the sustainability benefits of 324 115 298 3,543 their returned cartridges. 2,987 3,295 168 363 2,585 603 2,331 RESOURCE CONSERVATION THROUGH 476 2,177 1,179 RECYCLING AND REUSE 313 399 1,089 907 816 In addition to reducing landfill waste, the LCCP conserves natural resources 2,817 3,592 4,286 5,430 5,987 6,371 6,971 7,524 7,504 7,381 through recycling. When handling used cartridges, we strive for the top levels of the standard environmental hierarchy. Landfill disposal and incin2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 eration are the least desirable options, while recycling and reuse produce 69 Supplies If a returned cartridge is not a good confirm the value of the LCCP. Conducted by a third party in accordance Contents Greatest candidate for reconditioning, it is deconwith ISO 14040 and 14044, the Lexmark LCA cartridge studies showed that Our Approach to Citizenship Benefit REUSE structed in such a way to maximize the recycling a used Lexmark toner cartridge reduces the carbon footprint of Our Operations materials recovered for use in secondary those cartridges studied by nearly 50 percent over discarding it in a landfill. products. In 2013, we recycled or reused This value excludes paper consumed when printing. Our Products more than 10,000 metric tons of plastic, Product Cross-Section Materials Recycled metals and packaging; and we were able USE OF POSTCONSUMER RECYCLED CONTENT Product Lifecycle into New Product to materially recycle or reuse 100 percent Acoustics of the reclaimed plastic. Conserving Lexmark continues to use postconsumer recycled (PCR) plastics to manuMaterials materials for reuse in our products means facture some of our toner cartridges. The 2013 toner cartridge product line Emissions Materials Recovered & fewer raw materials to be mined or contained an average of 10 percent PCR plastic by weight. For some carEnergy Use Converted to Energy tridges, newly molded plastic components may contain more than 25 perProduct Certifications extracted, thus reducing the impact on the environment. cent PCR by weight. Much of this is derived through a closed-loop process Socially Beneficial Software Least via the cartridge collection program. By 2016, our goal is to average 25 Landfill & Desirable Accessibility Solutions Incineration Lexmark uses life cycle assessments percent PCR plastic content across the entire toner cartridge product line. Supplies (LCAs) to serve as a guideline when considering product and process design improvements. An LCA is designed RESPONSIBLE RECYCLING (R2) CERTIFICATION Packaging to evaluate the environmental impact of a product through each stage of its Innovation Home to the Lexmark Cartridge Collection program, our recycling plant in life, from the earliest materials extraction, through production, distribution, Juárez, Mexico has achieved the Responsible Recycling (R2) certification. Global and Community Impact and use, and finally to the end of its life cycle. These studies consistently R2 certification demonstrates our commitment to the environment and our Reporting compliance with industry standards and best practices. Operating in a LEED TONER CARTRIDGE LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT Gold certified facility, LCCP Juárez is also ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO kg CO2 if cartridge is sent to municipal solid waste stream (landfill) 9001 certified. kg CO2 if cartridge is sent to Lexmark for recycling Down 41% Down Down 47% 46% Down 47% MX810 45K MX810 25K MX510 20K MX510 15K 70 Supplies Contents Our Approach to Citizenship LEXMARK CARTRIDGE COLLECTION PROGRAM Our Operations Our Products Product Cross-Section Product Lifecycle Acoustics Materials Emissions Energy Use Product Certifications Socially Beneficial Software Accessibility Solutions Supplies Packaging Innovation Global and Community Impact Reporting Our collection programs are available in more than 60 countries, which represent approximately 90% of our global market. Where we sell and collect (LCCP) Where we sell and may collect in the future 71 Supplies CARTRIDGE RETURNS SUPPORT Contents THE COMMUNITY Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations South Africa Our Products The Cartridge Recycling Initiative for Product Cross-Section Babies (CRIB) seeks to protect both the Product Lifecycle environment and children. By returnAcoustics ing empty laser and inkjet cartridges Materials to Lexmark for recycling, customers can contribute directly to Cotlands, an Emissions organization that cares for abandoned and abused babies or those who Energy Use have HIV-AIDS. Contributions to the fund are made on a per unit basis on Product Certifications both inkjet and laser cartridges. Since 2002, CRIB has donated more than Socially Beneficial Software 102,000 “Baby Days” to Cotlands. One Baby Day equals the cost of housing, Accessibility Solutions feeding, clothing and caring for one child at Cotlands for the period of one day. In addition, 230 tons of empty cartridges have been kept out of South Supplies Africa’s landfills. Packaging Innovation France Global and Community Impact For the fifth year, Lexmark France is supporting the French Cancer League. One euro is donated to the French Cancer League Reporting for every cartridge collected through the LCCP. The league has launched a focused campaign dedicated to teenagers with cancer with the goal of improving their therapeutic and psycho-social management. Donations help support studies in epidemiology as well as research projects to help prevent cancer affecting younger patients. 72 PACKAGING PACKAGING DESIGNED WITH THE ENVIRONMENT Less packaging lowers costs, reduces materials disposed in local landfills Contents and ensures that goods are transported in the most efficient manner. IN MIND Our Approach to Citizenship We quantify our efficiency through a life cycle assessment (LCA). Acting on Our Operations We design our packaging with the environment in mind. For every product, our findings, we expect to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, save energy Our Products the Lexmark packaging team carefully considers the following environmental and conserve natural resources. concerns: Product Cross-Section Product Lifecycle ESTIMATED PACKAGING MATERIAL IN LEXMARK • The amount of packaging used Acoustics MULTI-FUNCTION MONO DEVICES IN 2013 Materials • The effects of packaging on shipping (METRIC TONS) Emissions • The types of materials used Energy Use Plastics Paper-based Board Wood Metal • The recyclability of packaging materials Product Certifications 338.5 1361.3 1009.1 12.2 Socially Beneficial Software MINIMUM RECYCLED CONTENT OF Accessibility Solutions PACKAGING MATERIALS Supplies RECYCLED PAPER BECOMES NEW Material Minimum Percent of Packaging Recycled Content Specified PRODUCT PACKAGING Innovation Corrugated fibreboard 35 In 2011, Lexmark Mexico supply Global and Community Impact EPS foam 5 base management and the operReporting Molded pulp 100 ations team saw an opportunity to make a positive change for the environment. Instead of recycling the During the design phase, Lexmark engineers determine the shipping paper used to test Lexmark toner requirements of each product. They consider the overall size of the product, cartridges, they envisioned reusing its shape and the included accessories. The overall ruggedness of the it in other areas of the business. printer is another significant factor: the more robust the printer is, the less With the expertise of our suppackaging it requires. plies-packaging engineers, the teams collaborated to design a process that At Lexmark, we apply eco-logic not only to printers but also to supplies and converts test pages into molded pulp cushions. Cost effective and practical, service parts. Our packaging materials are derived from both renewable these packaging cushions not only provide excellent protection for our and nonrenewable sources. Those derived from renewable sources include cartridges during shipping but can also be recycled. They are made from corrugated cardboard boxes, molded pulp cushions and wooden pallets. 100 percent post-consumer Lexmark waste. Those derived from nonrenewable sources include cushions made from EPS Lexmark began using the pulp cushions in 2013. In the first year we were (expanded polystyrene) or EPE (expanded polyethylene), polyethylene bags, able to convert 653.52 metric tons of test pages, which saved the equivafasteners such as staples, twist ties and tape, plastic pallets, plastic strapping lent of over 17,000 trees.1 and plastic stretch wrap. 73 PACKAGING For our efforts on this project, Lexmark was recognized as a Manufacturing Contents Leadership 100 Award winner (ML 100) in the Sustainability Category. Our Approach to Citizenship Presented by the Manufacturing Leadership Council, the ML 100 Awards Our Operations honor businesses that shape the future of global manufacturing. Our Products 1 Data calculated using the Environmental Paper Network’s Paper Calculator Product Cross-Section Product Lifecycle ROLL-OFF PACKAGING Acoustics Materials Lexmark high-end multifuncEmissions tion printers are protected Energy Use by cushioned packaging to Product Certifications ensure safe delivery to our Socially Beneficial Software customers. Recognizing the opportunity to improve the Accessibility Solutions customer experience, the Supplies packaging team set objecPackaging tives to use more recyclable Innovation material and to make unpacking the printer easier. Global and Community Impact Reporting Previously, Lexmark used foam packaging components to protect the printer. These have been replaced with easy-to-remove, corrugated wrap cushions that are readily recyclable. For these larger, floor-standing models, the packaging team designed roll-off packaging that includes a ramp to help customers roll the printer safely from the pallet to the floor. Material in the pallet can then be easily separated and recycled. The base is made primarily from wood with a smaller amount of foam to stabilize the printer during shipping, and the foam attaches to the wood with fasteners. This non-permanent design feature ensures that the components can be recycled individually. 74 innovation ENCOURAGING INNOVATION • Experience Design—The Customer Connection—A series of speakContents ers and panel discussions to teach how and why our customers use Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark products, as well as what customers like and where we can Our Operations improve their Lexmark experience. Our Products • Research & Technology Symposium—An event with keynote speakProduct Cross-Section ers, oral presentations, and technical posters. Forums and discussions Product Lifecycle include the latest technical industry issues that highlight the expertise Acoustics and ingenuity of our engineering teams. Materials Emissions INNOVATIONS IN ENERGY REDUCTION Energy Use Product Certifications The Lexmark MS810 Series is a great example of our commitment to Socially Beneficial Software increasing energy efficiency through innovation. These printer models incorporate our latest energy improvements: Accessibility Solutions Supplies • Higher efficiency power supplies. Packaging Innovation is core to Lexmark’s business strategy. We focus our efforts on • More discrete control of the electronic system components. Innovation creating productive and efficient solutions that provide socially and environ• A more intelligent operating system that turns off sensors, lights, chips Global and Community Impact mentally beneficial attributes. and devices while in sleep mode. Reporting During training, our employees are encouraged to discover effective and • A more intuitive interface to schedule sleep and hibernation modes. eco-friendly ways of helping our customers and safeguarding the environ• An instant warm-up fuser that significantly reduces energy ment. Whether it’s improved energy efficiency in our facilities or new ways of consumption. creating, packaging and shipping our products, all employees are chalWhen compared to the previous generation lenged to think outside the box. of products, the Lexmark MS810 Series We offer our interns, engineers, designers, and other employees several offers at least a 35 percent reduction in opportunities to learn more about innovation and career development. the ENERGY STAR® Typical Electricity To demonstrate the solutions that are produced by our creative participants, Consumption measurement. In addition, it Lexmark holds the following events: reduces power consumption during sleep mode by over 75 percent. • Entrepreneurial Challenge—A platform for our employees to demonstrate new and innovative ideas that benefit Lexmark customers. The energy-efficient design of the Lexmark MS810 Series meets the ENERGY STAR • Career Start Symposium—A showcase of student-intern and newVersion 2.0 guidelines. Thanks to Lexmark’s commitment to gain significant employee work, as well as helpful career development information and reduction in energy use, our customers can quickly produce presentanetworking opportunities for all attendees. tion-ready documents while reducing their environmental impact and costs. 75 innovation ENERGY STAR TYPICAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION INNOVATIONS IN PARTNERSHIPS: Contents (PERCENTAGE REDUCTION) Prior Models 2014 Models PERCEPTIVE SOFTWARE AND JE DUNN Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations In 2009 JE Dunn opened its 204,000-square-foot, LEED Gold designed and Our Products constructed headquarters, showcasing the company’s commitment to using environmentally sustainable building practices and centralizing processes. Product Cross-Section Yet this initiative was greater than a new Product Lifecycle Down 43% Acoustics Down Down 36% building, it was the effort to build a leaner, 41% Down Materials 36% greener, more efficient JE Dunn. Emissions Since its founding over 85 years ago, JE Energy Use Product Certifications MS810dn MS811dn MS812dtn MS812de Dunn has grown into one of the largest PRINTER MODEL (Newest) general building contractors in the nation with Socially Beneficial Software $2.7 billion in revenue and 20 offices coast-to-coast. To sustain that growth, Accessibility Solutions the company restructured its organization, centralizing administrative supSupplies port services and national leadership for its six JE Dunn Construction group SLEEP MODE ENERGY Packaging (PERCENTAGE REDUCTION) operating companies under one holding company. Prior Models 2014 Models Innovation Executives knew that a centralized administrative approach promised operGlobal and Community Impact ational efficiencies, and it looked to key technologies to take advantage of Down 80% that opportunity. JE Dunn selected Perceptive Software enterprise content Reporting management from Lexmark to deliver on that promise, simplifying cumberDown Down Down 78% 79% some manual processes while supporting green initiatives so that employ76% ees can focus on project delivery and clients’ needs. “Our partnership with Perceptive Software has allowed us to maximize internal efficiency and standardize support functions nationwide,” says John MS810dn MS811dn MS812dtn MS812de Jacobs, JE Dunn Chief Information Officer. PRINTER MODEL (Newest) Sending hard copies of invoices across the country for approval takes a considerable amount of time, materials and labor. Perceptive Software’s ImageNow allows project managers at any work site to streamline the process: they can view invoices immediately, eliminating the delay and expense of mailing documents while minimizing paper use. 76 innovation JE Dunn supports a philosophy of “Think Green, Build Blue®.” This reflects UNISON TONER UNISON TONER TRANSFERS TRANSFERS EFFICIENTLY – EFFICIENTLY— Contents the company’s commitment to using environmentally sustainable procedures LESS TONER WASTE LESS TONER WASTE Our Approach to Citizenship and materials. ImageNow is an important part of meeting that commitment Our Operations through cutting waste and protecting natural resources in everyday business processes. “ImageNow helps us practice environmentally sustainable proOur Products Non-Unison Unison cedures by greatly reducing the amount of paper we use and enhancing our Product Cross-Section Toner Toner efficiency,” Jacobs says. Product Lifecycle Acoustics INNOVATIONS IN TONER SCIENCE: Materials Emissions UNISON TONER Energy Use Product Certifications Unison Toner is Lexmark’s latest advancement in toner science. Unison Toner’s unique low-friction qualities increase toner flow and allow it to transSocially Beneficial Software fer efficiently to the page. Unison Toner has the lowest percentage of waste Accessibility Solutions of any Lexmark developed toner; and because it prints at a lower temperaSupplies ture, Unison also uses less energy. Packaging The development of Unison Toner prompted advances in cartridge design. Innovation The new toner cartridge no longer requires the user to shake it for maximum UNISON UNISON TONER TONER REDUCES REDUCES INTERNALINTERNAL WEAR AND WEAR Global and Community Impact yield performance. Moreover, according to an independent Life Cycle Study, AND PROTECTS PROTECTS THE PRINT SYSTEM THE PRINT SYSTEM Unison’s cartridge technology has a per-page carbon footprint that is as Reporting much as 46 percent smaller than Lexmark’s largest competitor. 1 Non-Unison Unison Thanks to its unique properties and new cartridge design, Unison Toner Toner Toner extends the usable life of each component, delivering long-term reliability, improving overall efficiency, reducing internal wear on long-life components and maximizing the life of the print system. 1 Based on a comparison of A4 cartridges conducted for Lexmark by WSP Environment and Energy, LLC. 77 Global and Community Impact Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations Our Products Global and Community Impact Global Citizenship Community Impact Volunteerism Contributions & Initiatives Commitment to Employees Human Rights Health & Safety Continuing Education Benefits & Compensation Diversity Commitment to Customers Customer Understanding Lexmark strives to be the kind of company that communities welcome, Product Health & Safety Security & Privacy the kind of company that people in these communities want to work for Marketing Communications Partnerships because we are a company that cares. Reporting Charitable giving, volunteerism, education, and commitment to diversity are part of the Lexmark culture. This genuine sense of connection makes our people, our communities and our business stronger. In this section, we document our efforts to have a positive social impact through our relationships with our employees, our customers and the communities in which we live and work. 78 Global Citizenship Lexmark products and solutions are sold in more than 170 countries around Here we summarize the extensive employee volunteer activities from 2013, Contents the globe, and Lexmark facilities or offices are in more than 70 of these particularly our efforts in the Philippines following Typhoon Haiyan and the Our Approach to Citizenship destinations. With such a broad footprint, it is imperative that our operations October earthquake. Many other contributions and philanthropy are also Our Operations have a positive effect on the citizens of those communities in which we included in this section. do business. Our Products Global and Community Impact Global Citizenship Community Impact Volunteerism GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP MAP Contributions & Initiatives Commitment to Employees Human Rights Health & Safety Continuing Education Benefits & Compensation Diversity Commitment to Customers DIETZENBACH, GERMANY Customer Understanding SHAWNEE, KANSAS MAIDENHEAD, Product Health & Safety UNITED KINGDOM BUDAPEST, HUNGARY Security & Privacy BOULDER, COLORADO LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY Marketing Communications JUAREZ, MEXICO SHENZHEN, CHINA Partnerships Reporting MEXICO CITY, MEXICO CEBU CITY, PHILIPPINES KOLKATA, INDIA SAO PAULO, BRAZIL BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA Where we do business 150+ employees 50-149 employees 79 Global Citizenship community IMPACT Whenever possible, we do business in locations with stringent environmental, Contents safety and labor regulations that protect both the environment and local Our Approach to Citizenship Where We Do Business residents. The environmental screening tools and checklists used by the Our Operations Lexmark Corporate Real Estate and Facilities Teams ensure that Lexmark Lexmark products and solutions are sold in more than 170 countries. In sites are as energy efficient as possible before starting operations. Our Products addition, Lexmark owns or leases 5.0 million square feet of various facilities worldwide and has sales offices in more than 70 countries. Control centers Global and Community Impact Whether Lexmark builds a new building or chooses to lease an existing are located in Lexington, Kentucky; Shenzhen, China; and Geneva, Switzerland. Global Citizenship facility, our preference is to use a previously industrialized area. This Lexmark conducts research and development activities in various locations Community Impact choice minimizes the deforestation and habitat destruction that comes with including Lexington, Kentucky; Boulder, Colorado; Shawnee, Kansas; Cebu Volunteerism building in undeveloped areas. Moreover, it locates our operations near the City, Philippines; Kolkata, India; and Apeldoorn, Netherlands. There are Contributions & Initiatives homes of employees. This reduces commuting time and distance, which Commitment to Employees additional company-owned manufacturing sites in Boulder, Colorado and in turn increases alternative transportation options for employees (walking, Human Rights Juárez, Mexico. biking, public transportation). Health & Safety Lexmark has programs and policies to guide decision making and Continuing Education operations for entering, operating in and exiting a community. This helps OPERATING IN A COMMUNITY Benefits & Compensation Diversity to ensure that we have a positive impact on the communities where we Although Lexmark does not have a global policy for granting preference live and work. Commitment to Customers to local residents when hiring, most employees are members of the local Customer Understanding community and are provided with educational and skill-development Product Health & Safety opportunities. We also offer transfer programs where employees from Security & Privacy Assess Economics Efficiency Knowledge Impact Taxes Change Process one region can train in another region. These assignments may last from Marketing Communications Safety Volunteer Assist Educate a few weeks to a few years. Weather Contribute Impact Future Partnerships OPERATE EXIT A significant portion of Lexmark employees—including those in the United Reporting ENTER LESSONS States, Mexico and the Philippines—work in locations that have minimumwage rules. Lexmark is committed to rewarding our employees for their PRIOR TO ENTERING A COMMUNITY hard work. Lexmark and its subsidiaries worldwide offer salaries and benefit Before building or opening a facility, Lexmark carefully considers potential plans that are highly competitive in each of the countries in which we social and environmental impacts of doing business in a community. Our operate and compensation plans are frequently benchmarked to ensure Corporate Real Estate and Facilities Team assesses all proposed locations, that we remain competitive. By maintaining favorable salaries and benefits, taking into consideration many variables such as the potential for severe we can attract and retain employees. Moreover, providing above-average weather like floods or tornadoes; the proximity, availability and reliability of employee compensation has a favorable economic impact on the markets police and fire departments; local crime statistics; government stability and in which we do business. the potential impact on local utilities and ecosystems within a 60 mile radius. 80 Global Citizenship Local utility companies, service providers, restaurants and retailers benefit Impacted communities deal with increased unemployment and a decreased Contents from the patronage of Lexmark and its employees. Lexmark corporate taxes tax base. To help reduce the loss, Lexmark takes care to leave a community Our Approach to Citizenship and employee wage taxes help support local governments and schools. in a responsible manner. Our Operations These impacts are quantified in terms of dollars spent. The following table highlights some of Lexmark’s economic impact worldwide. When exiting buildings, we ensure that the locations are clean and secure. Our Products Lexmark also makes every possible effort to avoid leaving a building entirely Global and Community Impact unoccupied. For example, the inkjet facility in Chihuahua was purchased Global Citizenship 37,649 51,970 10,090 by aAverage developersalary whoof then leased it to a manufacturer. In Cebu, the inkjet trips producing overnight hotel stays car rentals generating $102,758 Community Impact valued at supplies manufacturing plant was acquired by Funai Electric Company $15.6 million $2.1 million for United States Volunteerism in airfares $13.4 million in fees and Funai Lexmark was and able to retain many of the current employees. In both of Perceptive Contributions & Initiatives employees Lexmark ensured that the existing buildings were not these instances, Commitment to Employees left unoccupied and that the new occupants would provide employment Human Rights 10,090 Average salary of opportunities for the community. Health & Safety tays car rentals generating $102,758 Continuing Education $2.1 million for United States We also comply with all local laws to ensure that employees and local Benefits & Compensation on in fees Lexmark and Perceptive governments are given notice of imminent changes. We support employees Diversity employees in their efforts to secure new employment, and in some cases, we are able to Commitment to Customers transfer some nonexempt employees to other Lexmark facilities. For example, Customer Understanding Lexmark’s commitment to our communities—including contributions of prior to the Rosyth, Scotland closing, Lexmark created a well-resourced Product Health & Safety equipment, volunteers and financial support to social organizations—can job center that displayed the latest job vacancies in the local community as Security & Privacy also be quantified. In 2013 our employees volunteered and formally logged well as the required skills needed to fill engineering, technical support and Marketing Communications over 28,000 hours of service at more than 550 nonprofit organizations. manufacturing jobs. Another example was when Lexmark exited the inkjet Partnerships business in Lexington, Kentucky in 2012. Lexmark worked with state and Lexmark has not conducted a formal community-needs assessment, but Reporting local resources to facilitate quick access to unemployment benefit programs based on feedback from local citizens, charities and governments, needs for impacted employees. Lexmark also sponsored a career fair that gave and requests have been addressed when reasonably possible. employees the opportunity to interview with other businesses in the community. Implementation of local development programs at Lexmark manufacturing THE DECISION TO EXIT A COMMUNITY control centers and sites helps ensure that, as our business changes, the negative outcome on the community and our employees is minimal. Over the past several years, a changing product portfolio and demand for increased operational efficiency have resulted in the geographical movement of several Lexmark operations. Plant closures included an inkjet LESSONS LEARNED facility in Scotland (2006); inkjet supply manufacturing facilities in Juárez As Lexmark continues moving forward, we take what we learn and (2007) and Chihuahua, Mexico (2008); a circuit-assembly facility in Juárez apply it to future engagements. Our procedures and policies are in place (2009) and an inkjet development and manufacturing facility in Cebu, to effectively enter, operate in and exit a community. In order to measure Philippines (2012). our impact, we assess how our actions have affected the social and environmental progress of the community. We examine these results, refine our program strategy and improve our approach going forward. 81 Global Citizenship COMMITMENT TO VOLUNTEERISM Lexmark organization. Rather than retreating in defense or being overContents whelmed by the devastation all around them, our Filipino team responded Our Approach to Citizenship At Lexmark, we actively support the communities where our employees live, with a level of urgency, ownership, resourcefulness, and compassion that Our Operations work and play. We empower and encourage our employees to take action is an example to us all. The care shown for all those impacted by these and ownership at the local level, helping our communities as well as our natural disasters is an example of the resilience and volunteer spirit so Our Products neighbors in need. Each Lexmark region focuses its activities in areas that often demonstrated by the Lexmark team. Global and Community Impact are meaningful to their community. Lexmark employees do a great job of Global Citizenship coming together and helping where needed. Lexmark employees from across the globe also rallied to help our friends Community Impact in Cebu. Remarkable work was done by Lexmarkers during the massive Volunteerism Lexmark encourages employees to get involved in their local communities recovery effort. With the utmost respect for the losses experienced in Contributions & Initiatives by volunteering their time, talents and resources to the organizations and the Philippines, highlighted below are a few efforts representative of the Commitment to Employees interests for which they have the most passion. Our Volunteer Time Off assistance provided by Lexmark employees. Human Rights program and gift matching for disaster relief allow Lexmark to empower Health & Safety employees to give back to their communities and make a difference. Our Volunteer of the Year, Trixie Mendoza led Continuing Education a group of 50 volunteers to provide immediate Benefits & Compensation relief from the earthquake for more than 400 LEXMARK’S COMMITMENT TO THE PHILIPPINES families. Mendoza also traveled three hours Diversity from home to organize relief operations that Commitment to Customers benefited some 1,500 families. She also formed On November 8, 2013 as the world watched the strongest typhoon ever partnerships with international organizations to Customer Understanding recorded, Super Typhoon Haiyan (Typhoon Yolanda), cut a path through the begin home rebuilding projects. Product Health & Safety Philippines. One of Lexmark’s largest locations is in Cebu City, which is near Security & Privacy the center of the impact zone. From Budapest, Hungary, Johanna Pal’s Marketing Communications personal contribution was turned into shelter for those in need by fellow employee Jerry Pare Partnerships The typhoon’s sheer scale of damage often overshadows the other major Misa from Cebu. The two had worked together natural disaster that impacted this same region just three weeks earlier. A while Pal was on assignment in Cebu. Misa Reporting 7.2 magnitude earthquake centered less than 50 miles from Cebu City also managed to quickly turn the funds into straw tents and personally deliver them in heavily caused significant damaged areas. losses in the area. From our corporate headquarters in Two natural disasters Lexington, Kentucky, Erin Childress flew in less than a month halfway around the world to be on the ground helping with the relief effort first-hand. In had taken its toll on addition to securing and delivering large everyone in this region, amounts of necessary supplies and helping but volunteerism and rebuild, Childress also brought sweets to children surrounded by these tragic events. community service are consistently strong elements of the 82 Global Citizenship Lexmark locations have received spirit awards from United Way. Lexington, Contents Due to the overwhelming outpouring of support, Lexmark matched, KY received Live United, Top Large Company and Champions of Leadership dollar for dollar, all donations given by employees with no limit. Beyond Our Approach to Citizenship from the United Way of the Bluegrass. Lexmark Canada received four 2013 our corporate fundraising, many Lexmarkers also raised significant private York Region United Way awards: Community Spirit Award, Leadership Our Operations funds and contributed thousands of hours on their own. Giving Award, Quantum Leap Award and Employee Campaign Award. Our Products Lexmark is a global community, connected by a shared sense of respect Juarez received the honorable Empresa Ejemplo award. Global and Community Impact for each other and the communities in which we live and work. Lexmark At Lexmark, both individuals and teams made donations and offered Global Citizenship employees demonstrated resolve and compassion throughout the relief their talents and skills to help those in need. In one example, a team of Community Impact effort. Lexmark is proud of our employees who contributed in countless Volunteerism employees formed a committee called the SAPAK Outreach program ways to the typhoon and earthquake relief efforts. Contributions & Initiatives which conducted activities for the 70 children that stayed at the SAPAK Commitment to Employees UNITED WAY Farm, Compostela, Cebu. The committee brought corn grits and rice, Human Rights assorted canned goods and noodles, vegetable seedlings that could easily Health & Safety Lexmark locations around the globe support United Way. The support takes be grown, school supplies and goody bags. Continuing Education place as monetary donations, fund raisers and community care days. In Benefits & Compensation the US, there is high level participation in numerous area fundraisers as VOLUNTEER OF THE YEAR AWARD Diversity well as Lexmark hosted events. The activities range from festivals and art Every year, the Lexmark Global Living the Vision Committee reviews Commitment to Customers sales to golf tournaments. Lexmark offered numerous “Care Day” volunteer Customer Understanding nominated candidates and selects the Volunteer of the Year. The award opportunities including: completing maintenance work on women’s crisis Product Health & Safety is based on community needs, number of hours contributed, number of centers, assisting The Salvation Army, the Council of the Blind and children’s Security & Privacy people affected and leadership. The award recipient is honored at an centers, planting community gardens and gleaning produce at area farms. Marketing Communications onsite event and Lexmark makes a donation to an eligible nonprofit organization or school of the winner’s choice. Partnerships In Juarez, Mexico, employees participate in monthly activities with the elderly and an orphanage through the United Way entity Fondo Unido. Reporting The 2013 Lexmark Volunteer of the Lexmark Latin America volunteers join with Southwest Social Services, one Year is Trixy Mendoza. Ms. Mendoza is of the United Way agencies from Miami, Florida. a great example of how passion can make a big difference. She led groups to provide Canada employee, Ron Wells set out on a 70km run as part of a campaign immediate relief for both the earthquake to raise funds and awareness for the United Way. This effort collected and typhoon that devastated parts of the money from across the globe and continues to be an inspiration to others. Philippines. In addition, she is continually active in Lexmark Cebu’s adopt-a-school program and she volunteers in an outreach for abused children. 83 Global Citizenship Habitat for Humanity NORTH AMERICA Contents Lexmark built its 16th house for a family in the Lexington community. Our Approach to Citizenship In the United States, there are many organizations that Lexmark Lexmark employees and Our Operations partners with for the betterment of the community. Habitat for Humanity, retirees gathered to put their Junior Achievement, University of Kentucky, University of Kansas, Juvenile Our Products skills to work. In Atlanta, Diabetes Research Foundation, and The Nature Conservancy are a few employees have a Habitat Global and Community Impact of these organizations. for Humanity Volunteer Global Citizenship Day during which the Atlanta Community Impact For the 7th year, Lexmark employees removed trash from the Cane Run office assists the project and Volunteerism Creek which runs through the Lexington campus. Perceptive Software is a partner Contributions & Initiatives of the Heartland Habitat for Commitment to Employees Tree Plantings Humanity in Kansas. Human Rights Lexmark sponsored Reforest the Bluegrass for the 11th consecutive year Health & Safety and volunteers joined with the local community to plant trees. Outreach Continuing Education Benefits & Compensation Lexmark, PGA of America and The Nature Conservancy partnership planted Many employees volunteer to teach a Junior Achievement course to school Diversity 210 trees in St. Louis, MO and 33 large Oak and Elm trees in Rochester, NY. age children for several months Commitment to Customers These trees were planted to offset the PGA of America’s championships Lexington employees volunteer with The One to One Reading Program. Customer Understanding and to benefit the local communities where the championships were held. The organization trained volunteers to be literacy coaches and work with Product Health & Safety individual students at local elementary schools. Security & Privacy Lexmark teamed up with The Nature Conservancy to plant 3,000 seedlings Marketing Communications at the Jessamine Creek Gorge Preserve in central Kentucky. Boulder, Colorado volunteers continued their tradition of participating in a Partnerships roadside cleanup. Reporting Employees in Boulder volunteered for projects involving Attention Homes (youth transitional housing) and Impact on Education (school supplies assistance). Perceptive employees volunteer with a community food network, Harvesters. Employees have a food drive competition collecting donations for Kansas City’s only food bank. 84 Global Citizenship Diversity Network Groups Lexmark promoted awareness with the Greenpeace Environment AwareContents ness desk in India. Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark Diversity Network Groups create volunteer events for employee participation. The Women@Work (W@W) diversity group organizes several Our Operations In partnership with Iswar Sankalpa NGO, Lexmark India provided care, volunteer activities throughout the treatment and shelter to people affected by mental illness. Our Products year. In 2013, the group co-hosted several community events such as Global and Community Impact Lexmark India continued our partnership with SAFE (South Asian Forum Young Women LEAD (Leadership, for Environment) to promote better waste management and to a clean Global Citizenship Education and Development) for high environment. Community Impact school girls in Lexington, Kentucky, Volunteerism the Youth Science Summit, and the Volunteers worked with the Jibon organization to teach tribal women and Contributions & Initiatives BeBold Workshop for at risk teenage teenagers handicrafts and assisted in finding a market to sell their product. Commitment to Employees Human Rights girls. The W@W group also assisted Cebu City, Philippines Health & Safety CASA (Court Appointed Special Continuing Education Advocate) an advocacy program designed to represent victims of child Cebu employees met their Benefits & Compensation abuse and neglect in the family court system. The Network Alliance of goal of planting 3,000 trees Diversity Black Lexmark Employees (N-Able) hosted a Black History Month with an in 2013 in their continuous mangrove reforestation Commitment to Customers Engineers Week twist. They invited students to explore the model lab efforts. Customer Understanding and talk with engineers followed by a Black History Month celebration. Product Health & Safety The Gay-Straight Alliance of Lexmark Employees (GALE) group volunteers Lexmark Cebu adopted Security & Privacy at the local PRIDE festival. Marketing Communications Pardo Extension Elementary ASIA PACIFIC School (PELS), donating Partnerships funds to renovate the computer laboratory and providing educational Reporting Kolkata, India materials and equipment to improve the 6:1 student to computer ratio. Lexmark India continued work with the Indian Red Cross Society holding More projects are planned for the school, including a feeding program blood drives. and tutorial sessions conducted by employee volunteers. Employees worked in association A team of employees formed a committee called the SAPAK Outreach with Pratyush to give children in need program which conducted activities for the 70 children that stayed at the clothes, grains, household items SAPAK Farm, Compostela, Cebu. The committee brought corn grits and and cash. rice, assorted canned goods and noodles, vegetable seedlings that could easily be grown, school supplies and goody bags. Through the Avenue Welfare Society, Lexmark India provided educational supplies and support to children. 85 Global Citizenship EUROPE – MIDDLE EAST AFRICA LATIN AMERICA Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Budapest, Hungary Juarez employees volunteered at the Youth Vision Mission Inn where Our Operations teenage students are assisted with housing, food and school supplies. After the record Duna River flood, Lexmark employees volunteered their Employees volunteered at the organization and recognized the work of the Our Products physical and professional skills to assist impacted residents. individuals who make the organization possible. Global and Community Impact Peter Csucska from Budapest Global Citizenship Lexmark Juarez volunteered at the Haven Youth and Aging facility. visited Danbantayan, north of Community Impact Employees and their children brought food and offered fellowship to the Cebu and together with other Volunteerism residents by reading and talking with them. Lexmarkers purchased materials Contributions & Initiatives for rebuilding houses in the Commitment to Employees Juarez employees also assisted area impacted by the typhoon. Human Rights children at the Youth Eye of God. They distributed approximately Health & Safety two hundred food packages Lexmark Mexico planted 300 Continuing Education and construction materials. Benefits & Compensation trees in Desierto de los Leones. Diversity This was a continuation of the Lexmark Budapest employees, family and friends volunteered at the Commitment to Customers 2012 project where employees Budakeszi wildlife zoo, where they painted the birdhouse, repaired and Customer Understanding planted 350 trees. maintained pavements and cleaned paths. Lexmark also donated tools Product Health & Safety to the zoo. Mexico employees collected Security & Privacy food and school supplies for Marketing Communications A team of Lexmark Budapest volunteers cleaned garbage from a 12km path children in need and volunteered Partnerships in Börzsöny. with gardening tasks. Reporting Geneva, Switzerland In 2013 Lexmark Brazil employees planted 90,000 trees (7,500 per month). 52 employees sorted shoes and clothes The trees were planted in partnership with Digital ND, as part of a program at the Caritas site and assisted people called Green Carbon. in need. Brazil employees collected treats for children at Esporte Solidrio Institute. Employees collected clothing and shoes in the Lexmark Geneva office for commuLatin America employees volunteered to complete needed community nity members. landscaping in Coral Gables. 86 Global Citizenship CONTRIBUTIONS AND INITIATIVES SUPPORT OF UNITED WAY Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark strives to be a good corporate citizen in the communities where our Lexmark continues to be a proud supporter of the United Way. Employees Our Operations employees live and work, this is one of our key Lexmark Vision and Values. find unique ways to raise money for United Way, including internal and Our commitment to local, national, and global communities is evident in our community events. Lexmark not only supports the United Way through Our Products financial contributions, as well as our equipment and volunteer support to charitable giving, but also employee engagement and volunteerism. Global and Community Impact organizations working to meet the challenges and needs of our society Global Citizenship every day. united way employee contribution and Community Impact corporate match Volunteerism 2013 US CHARITABLE MONETARY GIVING Contributions & Initiatives US $ .905M Commitment to Employees United Way $ .905M Human Rights Canada $ .118M Health & Safety Community Organizations $ .347M Mexico $ .059M Continuing Education Education $ .062M Benefits & Compensation Total $ 1.082M Diversity Diversity $ .074M Commitment to Customers Red Cross $ .107M support for red cross Customer Understanding Total US Giving $1.495M Product Health & Safety Lexmark supports relief efforts in times of tragedy and natural disaster, Security & Privacy especially in areas where we are part of the community. Lexmark employees Marketing Communications are encouraged to make personal contributions to the International 2013 worldwide CHARITABLE MONETARY GIVING Partnerships Red Cross and Red Cross Reporting Asia Pacifica $ .014M Crescent Societies or the Red Cross International Canada $ .139M Response Fund. Lexmark EMEA $ .081M has a contribution match program to supplement the Latin America $ .108M employee gifts, and Worldwide Total $1.837M Lexmark facilities around the globe regularly hold The tracked In-Kind gifts recorded in 2013 were $.744M. Many gifts were not included; blood drives in partnership Lexmark is putting processes in place to collect this data worldwide. Lexmark did not make any charitable contributions that exceeded the greater of $1 million or 2 percent of a charitable with the Red Cross. organization’s consolidated gross revenues to any charitable organization for which a member of the Lexmark board of directors served as an executive officer. The board’s conformance with this guidance prevents potential conflict-of-interest issues regarding our charitable giving practices. 87 Global Citizenship total red cross giving including employee education and outreach initiatives. The UK/Lexmark center was established Contents to provide professional development to Kentucky science and math teachers, gifts and company match Our Approach to Citizenship a lab for fieldwork-based ecology education, and a shared meeting room Our Operations US $ .107M for community outreach. Our Products Canada $ .021M In 2013, the support for STEM education has also grown to include our Global and Community Impact Mexico $ .006M office in Budapest Hungary. Lexmark Budapest office donated 10 laptops Global Citizenship and 5 desktop computers to a primary school. The donation improves the India $ .003M Community Impact ability of the students to utilize technology in the classroom at an earlier Volunteerism Total $.138M age, thereby improving the young learners exposure to the many future Contributions & Initiatives possibilities of a STEM-based career. Additionally, many offices donate Commitment to Employees school supplies for children in their local communities. Human Rights SUPPORT FOR STEM EDUCATION Health & Safety In another example of STEM support, Lexmark hosts youth science summits Continuing Education Lexmark corporate giving continues to be focused around the improvement and science and engineering fairs. In many cases, Lexmark facilities are used Benefits & Compensation of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) education. STEM initiatives for these educational events providing increased support for the community. Diversity such as the Science Pioneers Science Fair, Youth Science Summits, Women in Engineering, and partnerships with Universities are examples of a few PERCEPTIVE SOFTWARE HOSTS DODGE Commitment to Customers Customer Understanding of the many ways Lexmark supports STEM initiatives. FOR A CAUSE Product Health & Safety Security & Privacy Many activities and donations take place throughout the year. At our Marketing Communications Perceptive location in Shawnee, KS, Dodge for a Cause is a great activity Partnerships for both employees and the community. It has been a profitable fundraiser earning $12,000 in 2013 for JDRF. Over $120,000 has been raised in Reporting support of JDRF for since 2006 when the tournaments began. WORLDWIDE LEXMARK INITIATIVES During 2013, Lexmark employees and their families responded in times of The Lexmark INSPIRE Award and the Perceptive Educating Excellence need in locations throughout the world. In addition to the action taken in Award were created to recognize middle and high school teachers across response to the devastation in the Philippines, some of the other communities central Kentucky and the Kansas City area with a monetary award in where aid and compassion were provided are: recognition of their outstanding contributions to STEM education. The award monies are used to support classroom-based needs that improve India the learning experience for each student. India employees helped aid the flood devastation in Uttarakhand which caused over 5700 deaths and severe loss by giving 1 day of pay to the fund. Lexmark continues to support the University of Kentucky in support of To help area children, educational supplies and money were donated to improvement in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) the Avenue Welfare Society. 88 Global Citizenship Boulder, CO in partnership with The Islands Group and LH Foundation Inc., which aimed Contents In Boulder, CO, Lexmark and employees donated to help those affected by to provide roofs for more than 5,000 families affected by Typhoon Yolanda Our Approach to Citizenship the flooding in Colorado. (Haiyan) in northern Cebu. Our Operations Juarez, Mexico Cebu employees donated Php 375,000 for the renovation of Pardo Extension Our Products Elementary School in the Cebuano community. They also donated 13 laptop Global and Community Impact Juarez, Mexico employees donated funds to help the thousands of people computers and 2 printers. who lost their houses in the floods that many cities in Mexico were faced Global Citizenship with. Mexico Community Impact Volunteerism France Lexmark Mexico sponsored surgeries of 10 children with medical conditions Contributions & Initiatives by donating gifts-in-kind valued at $218,330. Toys were also collected and Commitment to Employees Lexmark France supports the French Cancer League. For the fifth given to the children in the center. Human Rights consecutive year, one euro is donated to the league for every cartridge Health & Safety collected through LCCP. 2013 donations of 50,000 euros helped support POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND LOBBYING Continuing Education studies in epidemiology as well as research projects to help prevent Benefits & Compensation cancer in young patients. Lexmark is committed to transparency in its political dealings and relationships. Diversity To view Lexmark’s policy on political contributions click here. In France, Lexmark partners with Ateliers du Bocage, a French Emmaus Commitment to Customers organization, to collect cell phones and test them to determine their future Lexmark is committed to complying with local laws related to the disclosure of Customer Understanding political dealings such as those that require reporting of political contributions Product Health & Safety usability. The obsolete phones are recycled for material and the others are to the appropriate state or federal political and/or ethics authorities and Security & Privacy cleared and repaired for reuse. This provides local jobs to those in need Marketing Communications and phones are put into a program for disadvantaged individuals. publication on their respective websites. No financial or in-kind political contributions have been made in the United States or non-U.S. countries Partnerships South Africa where we do business or at the national level in the United States. Reporting The Cartridge Recycling Initiative for Babies (CRIB) seeks to protect both Lexmark employs the services of a remunerated attorney advocate from time the environment and children. With every cartridge return to Lexmark, to time. This advocate is remunerated for providing Lexmark with guidance customers can contribute directly to Cotlands, an organization that on proposed and enacted legislation, and communicates the applicable cares for abandoned and abused babies or those who have HIV-AIDS. Lexmark position on legislation to interested parties and/or stakeholders. Contributions to the fund are made on a per unit basis. In 2013, Lexmark also participated in a golf day in support of CRIB. Since 2002, CRIB has Country of major operation* 2013 Total monetary value of contributions donated more than 102,000 “Baby Days” to Cotlands. One Baby Day equals the cost of housing, feeding, clothing and caring for one child at United States (HQ) $0 Cotlands for the period of one day. For more information click here. Mexico (Mfg) $0 Cebu Phillippines $0 Lexmark Cebu joined the Roof for Relief Project initiated by Gawad Kalinga * No reporting required for the countries of Europe, the Middle East Africa, Australia, (GK) by raising a Php 76,800 ($1,758) donation. GK organized the campaign and New Zealand because no major Lexmark operations (R&D, manufacturing or HQ) are located in those geographies. 89 commitment to employees Employees EMPLOYEES by job level Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark is committed to promoting a diverse and inclusive business culture Employee Category Employees Our Operations where employees can reach their full potential. We strive to show continuous Vice President 64 progress in the hiring and promotion of people with diverse thoughts, Our Products experiences and backgrounds, as well as under-represented groups such Director 198 Global and Community Impact as women and minorities. Senior Manager 88 Global Citizenship Community Impact Lexmark recognizes the value of tracking the turnover rate of our employees Manager 1052 Volunteerism in the many countries we operate. We monitor employee turnover rates and Individual Contributor 10386 Contributions & Initiatives layoffs. However due to the sensitivity of the subject, we do not disclose Commitment to Employees the details. Total 11788 Human Rights Health & Safety DEMOGRAPHICS BY RACE, ETHNICITY, Continuing Education BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND GENDER Benefits & Compensation The Lexmark board of directors comprises 12 directors. Two of the 12 board Diversity Lexmark monitors its workforce breakdown based on gender, and race or members (17 percent) are female while 2 (17 percent) are African-American. Commitment to Customers ethnicity in accordance with ILO (International Labour Organization) convention Eleven of the 12 board members are over 50 years of age. One of the seven Customer Understanding No. 111 and No. 100. These include analyses of under-represented groups executive management team members (14 percent) is female and one Product Health & Safety in management positions and remuneration. (14 percent) is Hispanic. Three of the team members (43 percent) are over Security & Privacy 50 years old while four (57 percent) are 30 to 50 years old. Marketing Communications EMPLOYEES Partnerships Temporary EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Reporting 2013 Contractors/ Region Employees New Hire Contingent Employee engagement is an important part of the Lexmark community Employees workers and culture. Communication is the core. Quarterly All Employee, Quarterly Asia Pacific 2853 336 164 Business Division and departmental staff meetings all occur regularly. Europe _ Middle East – Africa 1529 467 344 These meetings allow for individual contributor interaction with management and keep employees current. Employees have many opportunities to be Latin America 3285 551 1323 engaged in corporate social responsibility. Recycling and conserving North America 4121 1629 328 is common practice for employees. Volunteer activities are frequent and available for participation. Diversity Network groups and Social groups Total 11788 2983 2367 create activities that welcome employees to join in and make a difference in 1 percent of Lexmark employees are part time. the world around them. Lexmark has a group of Environmental Advocates that are focused on promoting sustainability activities and education. 90 commitment to employees HUMAN rights disciplinary measures, up to and including dismissal. For reasons of privacy Contents and legal limitations, Lexmark cannot disclose information about specific Our Approach to Citizenship cases. Actions taken in response to incidents include the review of the incident Our Operations as well as the development and implementation of remedial plans. Our Products Lexmark upholds the human rights of our employees and treats them with Global and Community Impact respect as understood by the international community. Lexmark closely Global Citizenship monitors our operations to ensure that our company complies with Community Impact international regulations. Lexmark International has not been involved in Volunteerism any human rights controversies and has never been cited for any human Contributions & Initiatives rights violations, including incidents of indigenous rights violations of Commitment to Employees employees or in communities near existing operations that are likely to be Human Rights affected by planned or proposed future operations. Lexmark maintains a Health & Safety good reputation worldwide by ensuring that our practices positively impact Continuing Education the communities where we live and work. This includes avoiding operations Benefits & Compensation that could potentially infringe on the human rights of our employees or the Diversity indigenous population near our facilities and training our security personnel Commitment to Customers (18 full-time, approximately 150 contingent workers) in the organization’s Customer Understanding policies and procedures for human rights issues and their application Product Health & Safety Lexmark’s commitment to human rights is outlined in our Human Rights to security. Security & Privacy Policy and in the Lexmark Code of Business Conduct. These policies Marketing Communications address nondiscrimination, workplace safety, child labor, forced labor and Lexmark employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements Partnerships human trafficking, working hours and minimum wages and freedom of where required by law, including 667 employees or 6 percent of the total association and collective bargaining. A team of 14 personnel was involved workforce. Lexmark respects the conventions of the International Labour Reporting in the development and implementation of the human rights policy. Organization (ILO), which promote workers’ rights, fair-employment opportunities, and open channels of communication among employees. Lexmark is committed to providing a work environment free from harassment Lexmark honors its employees’ free choices and complies with all state or discrimination based on race, color, gender identity, national origin, age, and federal workplace laws and guidelines, including those associated with disability, veteran status, or for any other unlawful violation. This policy is labor-organizing activities. Works councils are established at some Lexmark driven by our respect for the dignity of the individual and our commitment European locations which require employers to provide company information to treating all persons equitably. We investigate all credible complaints of for review and to engage in worker consultation on certain company discrimination brought to the attention of management in an expedient and decisions. Information on the European Works Councils is available at non-retaliatory manner. Any employee who is found to have engaged in etuc.org. At Lexmark, there has never been a situation where employee harassment or discrimination according to the terms of this policy, or to have rights to exercise freedom of association for collective bargaining has been misused their positions of authority in this regard are subject to immediate at risk. 91 commitment to employees Other ILO and United Nations Global Compact initiatives include the Contents abolition of forced labor, freedom of association, and prohibition of child Our Approach to Citizenship labor. These initiatives are explained in the Lexmark Code of Business Our Operations Conduct to which Lexmark and applicable Lexmark suppliers are bound. The Code of Business Conduct also describes the Lexmark Freely Chosen Our Products Employment Policy. Our periodic reviews have never found any of our Global and Community Impact operations to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Global Citizenship labor, child labor, or young workers exposed to hazardous work . All Lexmark Community Impact operations have undergone human rights review or human rights impact Volunteerism assessments in accordance with Lexmark’s adherence to the Electronic Contributions & Initiatives Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct and Lexmark’s Code Commitment to Employees of Business Conduct Human Rights Health & Safety In our experience, open communication and direct engagement between Continuing Education workers and management are key factors in resolving any workplace issues. Benefits & Compensation Whenever possible, Lexmark typically provides employees with a 30 day Diversity notice of significant operational changes that can substantially affect them. Commitment to Customers Customer Understanding EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY Product Health & Safety Security & Privacy Lexmark is committed to equal employment opportunity (EEO) in all areas Marketing Communications of our operations. All Lexmark business activities and employment-related Partnerships activities are administered without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or Reporting veteran status. While Lexmark does not have a global policy for granting preference to local residents when hiring in significant locations of operation, the majority of employees at each location are hired locally and have continuing education opportunities to develop skills for job advancement. We also have a geographic-transfer training program that gives employees the opportunity to transfer locations from a few weeks to a few years. New Lexmark employees are required to understand and abide by the Code of Business Conduct, which addresses EEO and aspects of human rights relevant to our operations. All employees are required to review the Code of Business Conduct every year. Lexmark requires managers to be trained on the human rights aspects of EEO policies. 92 commitment to employees EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY All Lexmark facilities are guided by our corporate environmental, health and Contents safety instructions, which define the essential programs that each facility Our Approach to Citizenship The health and safety must manage to meet the objectives of our health and safety policies. At Our Operations of our employees is a Lexmark, it is mandatory to develop written programs that ensure legal and priority for Lexmark. regulatory compliance. Any changes to health and safety procedures are Our Products We strive to offer communicated to all applicable employees through bulletin boards, internal Global and Community Impact workplaces that are website postings, electronic communications, handbooks and meetings Global Citizenship free from unsafe with managers. Lexmark employees are not represented by trade unions; Community Impact equipment, situations therefore, there are no formal work agreements that address health and Volunteerism and practices; so we safety. All of our main locations have safety committees that are made up Contributions & Initiatives monitor facilities for of up to 25 percent of Lexmark total employee workforce. The members of Commitment to Employees safety issues on an these committees represent the interests of all workers. For more information Human Rights ongoing basis. on Lexmark’s Health and Safety Committees, click here. Health & Safety Continuing Education OHSAS 18001 is Lexmark also has corrective and preventive action teams, which work Benefits & Compensation an international with responsible personnel to address nonconformities, monitor and Diversity standard providing report on progress, and determine if actions are completed. Internal Commitment to Customers requirements audit teams determine the effectiveness of actions taken in order to Customer Understanding for an occupational address nonconformities with the Health and Safety Management System. Product Health & Safety health and safety Security & Privacy management system. Lexmark’s 18001 management systems provide a All employees and contractors with jobs that require training receive health Marketing Communications framework for controlling occupational health and safety risks and improving and safety training annually; and they are encouraged to report concerns Partnerships performance. All Lexmark-owned and leased manufacturing facilities in about health and safety issues. Online courses, instructor-led classes and on-the-job training are offered to all employees and contractors depending Reporting Boulder, Colorado; Cebu, Philippines; Lexington, Kentucky and Juárez, Mexico have received OHSAS 18001 certification. To ensure that our on what best meets their needs. Training requirements are determined by facilities are ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified, Lexmark pays as much health and safety program managers, as well as employees’ direct managers, as $8,000 per facility for fees related to certification. and are based on job requirements, equipment and materials usage, regulations, and other factors. The safety performance of subcontractors The effectiveness of the Lexmark Safety Program is measured by completion is reviewed during initial contract discussions. Subcontractors must have of OHSAS 18001 objectives and targets as well as internal audits and top proof that their employees are properly trained and aware of all health and management reviews of our safety management system. These audits and safety aspects of the jobs they will perform on behalf of Lexmark. reviews are conducted in conjunction with the conformance audits required as part of OHSAS recertification. We use these findings to improve our Compliance and safety teams conduct inspections on a regular basis. To internal processes and promote best practices across our operations. ensure that actions are completed in a timely fashion, findings are documented, Lexmark employees are involved in setting the objectives for our health entered in the correctiveand preventive-action system, and tracked. and safety management systems. Follow-up inspections verify completion and effectiveness of the actions taken. Best-practice measures are then implemented in other areas or sites. 93 commitment to employees Each Lexmark manufacturing and development facility is required to with a fire alarm and a tornado warning. The 2013 global Lexmark overall Contents maintain an emergency preparedness plan as well as an emergency reOSHA reportable injury rate was 0.42, compared with an industry average Our Approach to Citizenship sponse team. One feature of emergency preparedness training is an icon of 1.0. The annual lost work day rate was 1.6. Lexmark has not had any Our Operations on the Lexmark internal website that plays audio of the tones associated reported occupational diseases or work-related fatalities. Our Products INJURY RATE Global and Community Impact Global Citizenship Lexmark Location Injury Rate Annual Lost Work Days Work related fatalities Occupational Diseases Community Impact 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Volunteerism Contributions & Initiatives Boulder, CO 3.95 3.58 21.8 11.8 0 0 0 0 Commitment to Employees Juarez, Mexico 0.48 0.44 22.1 5.8 0 0 0 0 Human Rights Health & Safety Lexington/North America 0.41 0.46 1.7 0.4 0 0 0 0 Continuing Education China TSC 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Benefits & Compensation Diversity Cebu, Philippines LRDC 0.05 0 0.1 0 0 0 0 0 Commitment to Customers Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Customer Understanding Product Health & Safety Total 0.35 0.42 5.1 1.6 0 0 0 0 Security & Privacy Marketing Communications Partnerships ISO 14001 CERTIFICATES OHSAS 18001 CERTIFICATES Reporting Lexington, Kentucky Certificate Lexington, Kentucky Certificate Boulder, Colorado Certificate Boulder, Colorado Certificate Budapest, Hungary Certificate Cebu, Philippines Certificate Cebu, Philippines Certificate Juárez, Mexico Certificate Juárez, Mexico Certificate Shenzhen, China Certificate Shenzhen, China Certificate 94 commitment to employees CONTINUING EDUCATION AND CAREER continuing education training Contents Our Approach to Citizenship ADVANCEMENT Employee Category Number of Employees Average Training Hours Our Operations At Lexmark, we encourage professional and personal growth for all employees. Exec Vice President 64 26 Our Products We support continued education, networking and on the job experience as a Director 198 26 Global and Community Impact way to help our employees become more effective in their current positions and develop skill sets for future positions. Development plans are utilized Senior Manager 88 40 Global Citizenship to identify opportunities and highlight career goals, interests, strengths Community Impact Manager 1052 40 and development areas for employees in both the short and long term. Volunteerism These plans are the basis for identifying continuing education and ongoing Individual Contributor 10386 40 Contributions & Initiatives Commitment to Employees learning activities, movement through succession planning, as well as career These numbers are based on the corporate-level systems that capture employee Human Rights advancement and development activities and do not include formal education paid for in part by Lexmark. Health & Safety growth. Each year Therefore, the actual hours are greater than reported in some employee categories. Continuing Education employees update Benefits & Compensation their career goals Lexmark offers a Technical Rotation Program. The purpose of this program Diversity and development is to recruit and hire top, diverse, entry-level talent and expose them to Commitment to Customers plans in the internal various parts of the business to better prepare them for future leadership Customer Understanding HRIS system in roles (technical and/or managerial). This is a great opportunity for the Product Health & Safety preparation for participants to rotate through multiple areas of the Lexmark organization Security & Privacy two different while learning technical, business and leadership skills. Marketing Communications conversations Partnerships with their In-house learning opportunities include extensive training in technical and managers business skills, delivered both at the corporate level and through resources Reporting regarding career in various business areas. Learning occurs through instructor-led courses goals and development plans. In addition to their managers, employees and around the clock through iLearn, the Lexmark worldwide online learning are encouraged to recruit a mentor to provide guidance and support. platform which offers extensive libraries that include proprietary courses. At the corporate level, leadership training and participation in Continuing education opportunities include a tuition-reimbursement program companywide development programs are offered. Employees work on for external courses and degrees. The requirements and benefits vary by projects such as operational excellence, change management and lean Lexmark location, but the program provides financial assistance to employees transformation competency and can earn Lexmark certification. External who wish to continue their education by attending undergraduate or certifications such as ASQ Certification are also supported by Lexmark with graduate courses. Additionally, funding for external training programs varies classes and financial assistance. by location and is provided to develop employees’ skills, knowledge, and abilities. Education is offered to employees preparing for retirement, and during times of restructure, transitional education is available. 95 commitment to employees All employees are required to complete the Code of Conduct and IT Security All of our regular, worldwide employees work with their managers to create Contents programs every year. In 2013, the courses Blue Ocean and Competing performance management objectives that support department, division Our Approach to Citizenship Values Framework were offered to all employees to learn more about the and company goals. Success criteria are established for each objective. Our Operations strategic direction of our company. Courses critical to learning about legal Employees then use a system-based, multi-rater feedback tool and compliance such as Global Anti-Corruption and Your Role in the Control other forms of data gathering to solicit feedback on their performances Our Products Structure are popular, and various courses, such as EEO Training in the measured against their objectives. Eighty-five percent of Lexmark employees Global and Community Impact United States, are required every year, based on the Lexmark location. participate in this process . The 15 percent that does not participate in Global Citizenship this process are hourly workers in two plant locations and do not have Community Impact The most popular courses worldwide include Basics of Effective access to the system containing the multi-rater tool. These employees use Volunteerism Communication, Communicating Across Cultures, and Communicating site-specific processes and tools to set and review performance goals. Contributions & Initiatives Clearly and Solving Problems as a Team. Additional examples of global Managers and employees have performance-progress discussions at the Commitment to Employees course offerings include structured training to help employees better end of each review period. Human Rights understand one another and work more cohesively in an international Health & Safety environment. Additional courses with a focus on on-boarding are offered, Continuing Education as are open-enrollment sessions to learn more about our business. In the Benefits & Compensation United States, new managers are required to attend at least 24 hours of Diversity training and similar standards are imposed worldwide. Commitment to Customers Customer Understanding The Lexmark Educational Leave of Absence allows employees with at least Product Health & Safety two years of regular employment, and who have demonstrated professional Security & Privacy ability and potential, to enhance their educational experiences and resumés Marketing Communications for the mutual benefit of employees and Lexmark. Approval is based on the Partnerships relevance of the study program to Lexmark goals and interests, academic and work records, and the business needs at the time of the proposed Reporting educational leave. The duration of an educational sabbatical depends on the time required to complete the approved course of study, but it is typically no more than four years. Lexmark provides retirement-planning assistance through online and on-site workshops offered by our 401(k) partner. 96 commitment to employees Benefits and Compensation Lexmark is focused on employees living lives with a healthy work life Contents balance. Flexible work hours for most jobs allow employees to enjoy Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark and our subsidiaries around the world offer benefit plans that are their lives and take care of personal business while optimizing work very competitive in each of the countries in which we operate. Plans are Our Operations performance and productivity. Lexmark received the When Work Works, benchmarked frequently to ensure that compensation and salary levels remain Our Products Alfred P. Sloan Award for Excellence in Workplace Flexibility for the sixth competitive, which means we can attract and retain quality employees in each consecutive year. Across the globe, Lexmark supports employee family Global and Community Impact region. Offerings include defined benefit and defined contribution plans that life and offers maternity and paternity time off options in addition to flex Global Citizenship cover certain regular employees. We also provide medical, dental, and life time which continues to aid new parents. Flexible schedules, along with Community Impact insurance plans for U.S. retirees and retirees from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. accommodating Mothers Rooms, working remotely and on site and nearby Volunteerism Lexmark is continually evaluating how we can better support the needs child care enable parents to feel good about returning to work and Contributions & Initiatives of our employees and their families. External benchmarking is conducted comfortable continuing to work. Lexmark does not track return rates or Commitment to Employees employee retention after their return. Human Rights periodically to ensure that we remain competitive. Our employees’ feedback Health & Safety gives us insight into how we can help add balance to their busy lives and Healthcare is also a main priority at Lexmark. Each geography strives to Continuing Education make Lexmark an even better place to work. find ways to help employees succeed at being the healthiest that they can Benefits & Compensation Part-time employees in the United States are eligible for the same benefits be. Juarez, Mexico, Cebu, Philippines and Lexington, Kentucky locations Diversity (some on a prorated basis) as full-time regular employees. They have access have an onsite medical care facility where employees can get health Commitment to Customers to the same health care plans and pay the same rates as regular full-time care exams conveniently during the work day. Most facilities have sports Customer Understanding employees. In addition to traditional benefits, volunteer time off is available leagues for employees to participate in and friendly challenges and Product Health & Safety to employees globally. We offer 24 hours of paid volunteer time for full-time competitions promoting health and fitness. Security & Privacy employees and 12 hours for part time employees. Marketing Communications Lexmark offers its employees a wide range of training, educational materials, Partnerships Lexmark’s competitive benefits program provides employees with the and preventative measures, including appropriate tools in the workplace opportunity to ensure the wellness of their families, and create a positive Reporting for prevention of serious diseases. Lexmark does not have employees who working environment. Every geography provides for variable health are involved in occupational activities that have a high incidence of high coverage, time off, retirement savings* and more in compliance with the risk of specific diseases. ocal laws and regulations. Benefit packages are available to full time and part time employees based on the location and years with the company. *For information on Lexmark’s defined retirement plan , please see the Lexmark Form 10-K. Typical benefits are: • Health Insurance • Life & Accident Insurance • Disability insurance • Retirement savings plan with a company contribution • Paid vacations and holidays • Product Discounts • Tuition assistance • Parental time off 97 commitment to employees In the US, an unlimited vacation policy was implemented in 2013. This policy EQUAL PAY Contents allows employees to take time off when needed. This empowers employees Our Approach to Citizenship to make decisions that are best for themselves, their families and the Salaries vary at Lexmark, depending upon the location of employment, Our Operations company. Employees have open communication with their management education level, job function, and a number of other factors. Lexmark is and the time is not tracked. There is no accrued vacation time based committed to equal pay for work of equal value. This Our Products on years of service, it is simply unlimited. This applies to all U. S. employees commitment includes equal remuneration for male Global and Community Impact other than California employees, who will continue under the current and female workers. In support of this commitment, Global Citizenship California Vacation Program due to considerations under California state we contract third-party agencies to conduct Community Impact law. Other paid days off are also available but also not tracked such as sick remuneration studies, and we conduct other studies Volunteerism time, parent time off and bereavement leave. internally. For example, in the United States, analysis Contributions & Initiatives is done by a third party to ensure pay equity Commitment to Employees Additionally, Lexmark offers paid Volunteer Time Off (VTO) for employees based on demographics. Lexmark’s programs are designed to uphold its Human Rights to volunteer with educational or community service organizations of their commitment to equal pay for equal work through promotion of educational Health & Safety choice. Full time employees are eligible for 24 hours and part time for and career advancement opportunities and salary adjustments. Continuing Education 12 hours per year. Benefits & Compensation Diversity In the US, Health, Dental and Vision Benefits are offered to employees, their EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION Commitment to Customers spouse, domestic partner and dependents. Flexible Spending accounts for Lexmark has enhanced the employee Customer for Life Award structure. Customer Understanding health care and child care are available. Assistance for adoption is provided Product Health & Safety The Tier 1 Award is peer or manager initiated through our worldwide and elder care support is available through Employee Assistance Programs Security & Privacy internal collaboration website. This recognition is visible worldwide on (EAP). The headquarters site in Lexington, Ky opened an onsite childcare Marketing Communications our site and is a quick and easy process. Each quarter one winner will be center which was awarded gold LEED certification. A health and wellness selected by the Lexmark Vision Committee to receive an additional bonus. Partnerships center also opened in 2013 on the Lexington campus for employees. This The Tier 2 Award is initiated by manager nomination and a sub-committee Reporting facility offers health coaching, allergy injection programs, physical therapy, views the nominations and selects one winner for each geography each wellness visits and sick. An interactive Live Well tool is available for employees quarter. The Tier 3 Award is The Customer For Life Award and is Lexmark’s and their spouses/ domestic partners. highest employee honor. This award is given annually and is selected from the Tier 2 winners. EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (EAP) Education/ Prevention/ Program Recipients Counseling Treatment Training Risk Control Workers Yes Yes Yes Yes Workers’ Families Yes Yes Yes Yes Community Members No No No No 98 commitment to employees A DIVERSE WORKFORCE MISSION STATEMENT FOR DIVERSITY Contents As a global company, Lexmark’s AND INCLUSION AT LEXMARK Our Approach to Citizenship LEXMARK DIVERSITY COUNCIL goal is to have a highly diverse Our Operations We, the employees of Lexmark, value and respect our individual differences. and vibrant workplace that Our Products We foster an open and inclusive environment that not only embraces new understands and is responsive Executive Diversity Council Global and Community Impact and alternative ideas, but seeks them out at all levels. This appreciation to the needs of our employees, of diversity is vital to attract, retain and develop employees to their full Global Citizenship customers and partners around Diversity Advisory Council potential. A diverse global workforce that mirrors our customers and the Community Impact the world. Lexmark is proactive communities where we do business will lead to greater success for our Volunteerism in making our workplace one that Contributions & Initiatives Diversity Network Groups customers, our employees and our shareholders. We each take responsibility is inclusive and allows each Commitment to Employees to make this happen. employee the opportunity to Human Rights bring their complete self to work. Lexmark’s Diversity Network Groups are employee groups created to Health & Safety foster a more inclusive environment through networking, employee and Continuing Education A UNIFIED VISION community engagement, recruiting efforts and diversity awareness. DNGs Benefits & Compensation are established through a grassroots process whereby employees recruit Diversity In 2013, the Lexmark Diversity Council was reformatted to a tiered structure members, design a mission statement, and develop programming and Commitment to Customers comprised of an Executive Diversity Council and Diversity Advisory Council. events to help advance the mission. Customer Understanding Lexmark’s Diversity Network Groups are instrumental in advising and Product Health & Safety supporting these efforts. Each DNG offer a space where employees can benefit from a supportive Security & Privacy network as well as celebrate and share their cultures and individuality Marketing Communications Each entity works in partnership with the others to reframe the current with others. Partnerships initiatives around diversity worldwide. Included in those efforts is the revision of the Lexmark Diversity Mission Statement to better align Reporting with the ideal future state of diversity at Lexmark. The mission statement encourages our employee base to embrace individuality of thought and background as a means of creating success for our workforce, our customers and our shareholders. These practices help Lexmark operate with one unified vision — using the individual talents of our diverse workforce to their full potential. Respecting diversity fosters good relations within the company as well as in the communities in which we live and work. 99 commitment to employees LETTER FROM THE CEO: DIVERSITY Contents Our Approach to Citizenship At Lexmark International Inc., we are undergoing a major transformation. Our Operations While our successful heritage has been solely rooted in printing, our future lies in a broader vision of creating solutions that connect unstructured Our Products information, both printed and digital, across the enterprise with the process, Global and Community Impact applications and people that need it most. We know that no single group Global Citizenship has all the answers or can successfully drive our transformation. We need Community Impact diverse groups working together to drive the change and to develop the Volunteerism innovative solutions that meet our customers’ needs. That is why we are Contributions & Initiatives interested in attracting and retaining the most talented individuals to our Commitment to Employees company. Human Rights Health & Safety Because the world is our customer, we strive to understand and appreciate Continuing Education diversity in our thinking, cultures, markets and business partners. We know Benefits & Compensation that our success depends upon our ability to unleash the collective strengths, Diversity creativity and innovative ideas of our diverse workforce. Commitment to Customers Customer Understanding That’s why we are weaving diversity and inclusion into the very fabric of our Product Health & Safety organization. And that is why we are building a culture where the best and Security & Privacy the brightest want to work and grow. Marketing Communications Regards, Partnerships Reporting Paul Rooke Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 100 commitment to customers When our customers buy Lexmark products, they can be assured they are Best-in-class companies use customer journey maps as a solid foundation Contents purchasing from a company that is not only determined to provide a quality in managing the customer experience. According to Forrester Research, Our Approach to Citizenship product, but also to deliver a positive long-term experience. Lexmark’s customer journey maps are “documents that visually illustrate customers’ Our Operations vision since our founding is “Customers for Life”. This focus is deeply processes, needs, and perceptions throughout their relationships with a engrained in all of our processes because we know that everything we do Our Products company. The journey-mapping process helps firms align around a shared ultimately reaches our customer in some way. We continually seek the best vision of target customers, identify broken moments of truth, and get the Global and Community Impact ways to make sure that our connection with customers is handled with the insights they need to improve.” Global Citizenship utmost respect. WE LISTEN TO OUR CUSTOMERS Community Impact 1 We Listen to Our Customers Volunteerism We listen to our customers and collect feedback Contributions & Initiatives from multiple research sources to create a clear Commitment to Employees understanding of our customers. Human Rights Health & Safety customer understanding Continuing Education Benefits & Compensation Customer Understanding is about creating a clear and accurate picture of Diversity how customers truly feel, following their interactions throughout the entire Commitment to Customers engagement with a company. We employ a range of methods to learn what Customer Understanding our customers think about their experiences and how they feel about the Product Health & Safety overall partnership with Lexmark: Security & Privacy Marketing Communications We ask customers: Partnerships We use both surveys and interviews to gather feedback about how well we are Reporting meeting the diverse needs of our customers. This includes understanding the experiences of different customer roles, from decision makers to those who deploy, manage and use our products, services and solutions. Example: We conduct regular Relationship surveys in our business units and hold periodic business reviews with key stakeholders. We also conduct post service surveys UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS of those using our products and services. At Lexmark, we believe companies that execute most consistently on behalf Customers tell us: of the customer win. Since our inception, Lexmark’s vision has been We also hear directly from customers through our numerous open lines Customers for Life. Realizing this vision starts with an understanding of how of communication, including face-to-face meetings, social media, phone our customers feel about their journey with Lexmark. We then align our conversations and e-mails. Example: We analyze support and service call people, processes and technology to create innovative solutions to meet data and web feedback where customers share performance reviews about our customers’ dynamic needs. Finally, we focus on the consistent delivery how we are doing, and about how we can better serve them. of a differentiated customer experience that creates value for them. 101 commitment to customers WE ANTICIPATE THEIR NEEDS 2 We Anticipate Their Needs Contents Our culture of inquiry, collaboration and Our Approach to Citizenship responsiveness yields a level of customer care and Our Operations engagement that anticipates customer needs. Our Products Global and Community Impact anticipating needs Global Citizenship Our customers’ time is valuable and we continually look for ways to increase Community Impact their productivity. Listening carefully and responding quickly to our customers’ Volunteerism needs is important, but we also strive to proactively anticipate customer Contributions & Initiatives problems. We manage printer fleets for some of the largest companies in the Commitment to Employees world and we constantly monitor our devices to detect existing or potential Human Rights Health & Safety issues before our customers become aware of them. This proactive Continuing Education diagnostic capability enables us to take action, even before customers We ask employees: Benefits & Compensation experience a problem. We employ the Lexmark Quality Management We learn more about customer needs by regularly tapping rich insights from Diversity System (QMS) to help eliminate future customer problems. Teams work to those who know our customers best our customer facing employees. Example: find the root causes for problems our customers experience. For complex Commitment to Customers In 2013 we conducted more than 400 surveys and interviews of worldwide Customer Understanding issues, we bring cross functional owners together to drive customer-focused employees from sales, legal, pricing, program management, professional Product Health & Safety improvement into our processes. services, technical operations, customer operations and technical support. Security & Privacy At Lexmark, our attention to individual customer needs is fundamental to the Marketing Communications We collaborate: way we do business. When we make changes to adapt to the unique needs Partnerships We collaborate with our customers to discover where, how and when we can of our individual customers, we close the loop with them to ensure that our Reporting help most so that our solutions and recommendations will make a real difference WE ACT TO CREATE VALUE changes are making a difference. to their bottom line. Examples: We conduct needs-based research with customers to find opportunities to better meet their needs. We visit customer work environments to conduct behavioral research studies to better understand 3 We Act to Create Value Ongoing collaboration with customers yields how our products are used. Ongoing customer insights help prioritize where comprehensive solutions that deliver results. we should focus efforts to continuously improve customer experiences. Deeper Understanding While our customer-facing employees support our global customers on a daily basis, our engineers and product designers also visit customers to better understand their needs. We also conduct usage studies in real work environments and hold regular face-to-face business reviews to ensure our technology, people and processes provide the products, solutions and services that are aligned to address our customers’ pain points. 102 commitment to customers Contents creating value…in the customers’ eyes LOYALTY TREND (NET PROMOTER SCORE) Our Approach to Citizenship Customer-Focused Improvement: 100 Our Operations With a clear understanding of customer needs, we strive to continually improve Our Products the way we deliver customer experiences. This requires strong leadership, a 80 Global and Community Impact clear vision and an intentional approach. Our improvement efforts are focused at the most important customer interactions (the customer moments of truth and 60 Global Citizenship pain points). We combine the right people, processes, technology and systems, Community Impact and collaborate with key stakeholders to ensure we are creating solutions that Volunteerism 40 Contributions & Initiatives will best meet our customers’ needs. Commitment to Employees My Pages: 20 Human Rights Health & Safety One example is Lexmark’s newest program for small and medium business 0 Continuing Education (SMB) customers, Lexmark My Pages. My Pages enables customers to pay as Benefits & Compensation 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 they print – a program that is similar to what some large enterprise customers Diversity utilize in their printing environments. This new offering was designed to address Commitment to Customers some of the major pain points that we heard as a direct result of surveying SMB CUSTOMER-FOCUSED EMPLOYEES Customer Understanding customers. We heard our customers say they wanted a streamlined product Product Health & Safety line to make it easy to choose devices that fit their needs, and they also desired At Lexmark, our formal employee performance reviews worldwide include a Security & Privacy “white-glove” installation and services. process to measure progress of customer-focused objectives. Every employee Marketing Communications is required to set objectives to help them focus on improving the customer At Lexmark we know that companies who focus on delivering consistently Partnerships experience. These employee objectives are based on employees understanding great customer experiences will be rewarded. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) how their performance connects to customers and how it is aligned with the Reporting is commonly used to broadly communicate and set targets for measuring strategy of their department and Lexmark. Each objective has specific success customer Loyalty. Here we see that our performance on this key metric criteria—the difference that it makes to the customer. We believe that this focus for Lexmark’s U.S. managed print services validates that our continuous efforts on improvement and innovation leads to a better customer experience for to improve customer experience are making a real difference. all our customers. Another key measure highly correlated to great customer experiences is customer retention. The proof that we are delivering value to our customers is also reflected in our industry-leading customer retention rates. Given a choice, customers choose Lexmark again. In 2013, over 97 percent of our business customers renewed their contractual agreements to partner and grow with us, and we were rewarded with a 100 percent retention rate in our managed fleet business. 103 commitment to customers Contents PRODUCT health & safety Agency (EPA) and the China Quality Certification Center (CQC). In compliance with the Trade Agreements Act of 1979, Lexmark assembles Our Approach to Citizenship At Lexmark, we consider the ways that our products and services impact TAA compliant products at its configuration and distribution centers in Our Operations the health and safety of our customers and communities. From first concept Southaven, Mississippi (U.S.), and Taoyuan, Taiwan. Test equipment in these to end-of-life, we take into account how each stage of a product’s life Our Products facilities is calibrated to ISO 17025/ANSI Z540 standards and tracked for cycle affects our environment. Many health and safety considerations are calibration with an ISO 9001 database on an annual basis. Global and Community Impact mandatory, such as the creation of material safety data sheets for our toner Global Citizenship cartridges. Others are voluntary, such as compliance with toxicity-testing This system of certifications is also used by our suppliers worldwide at Community Impact protocols from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development subassembly and finished-product stages. The individual agencies Volunteerism (OECD 404, 405, 406 and 423). In 2013, Lexmark did not identify any nonresponsible for the regulatory marks audit our suppliers regularly for Contributions & Initiatives compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the impact of our compliance. Any noncompliance or variation notices resulting from these Commitment to Employees products or services on health and safety, and no fines were imposed. audits are promptly addressed within the required compliance period Human Rights and resolved prior to shipping our products. At Lexmark in 2013, there were Health & Safety PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION no instances of noncompliance about service information or labeling, and Continuing Education Benefits & Compensation no fines were imposed. The safety and compatibility of our products is of utmost importance to our Diversity customers and to the communities where we do business. We are committed PRODUCT SAFETY TEAM Commitment to Customers to providing the following product and service information to the customer: Customer Understanding Lexmark is committed to product safety. Our Product Safety Team Product Health & Safety • Sourcing of the components conducts detailed research and testing, and they certify that current Security & Privacy • Content products conform to national and international safety standards, requirements Marketing Communications • Safety instructions and regulations. The Product Safety Team also ensures that the appropriate Partnerships • Disposal or recycling information safety information is included in User’s Guides, Service Manuals and • Environmental and social impacts Reporting other publications. Finally, the team educates the Lexmark development We comply with worldwide standards and local laws by having our community about design requirements so that we are prepared to meet products tested in laboratories that are accredited by third-party agencies. safety standards in all new products. This certification ensures that the data collected and the reports submitted During the manufacturing process, the team establishes safety-testing for regulatory compliance are obtained from test facilities and personnel requirements. The Product Safety Team investigates all reported safety that comply with the relevant ISO standards. incidents and takes appropriate action, which can include recommendations for design changes or modifications to manufacturing processes and The laboratories testing Lexmark products are accredited to conduct tests procedures. This comprehensive approach supports our ultimate goal of for certifications associated with specific regulatory standards and agency protecting the health and safety of our customers. marks such as Blue Angel, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Comité International Spécial des Perturbations Radioélectriques (CISPR), Underwriters Laboratories (UL) and Conformité Européenne (CE). For permission to export our products beyond U.S. borders, we submit data to regulatory agencies worldwide, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection 104 commitment to customers Contents CUSTOMER SECURITY AND PRIVACY SECURITY OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION Our Approach to Citizenship The Internet has become a major portal for Lexmark and our customers to To protect against Our Operations interact. Customers and prospective customers use the Lexmark website for unauthorized access, many reasons: misuse, disclosure or Our Products alteration of personal Global and Community Impact • To research Lexmark products, solutions and service offerings. information, Lexmark Global Citizenship • To buy products directly from Lexmark online or find where to buy uses appropriate physical, Community Impact them through partners. technical and administrative Volunteerism • To register a Lexmark product for warranty purposes. security measures. Physical Contributions & Initiatives • To resolve a product issue, either unassisted through the Lexmark security is designed to Commitment to Employees knowledge base or assisted with a Lexmark support representative. prevent unauthorized Human Rights access to database equipment and hard copies of documents. Electronic Health & Safety During these transactions, Lexmark might ask customers for the following security measures — such as firewalls, access restrictions and encryption Continuing Education personal information: Benefits & Compensation — provide protection from hacking or other unauthorized access. Lexmark Diversity • First and last name. limits access to personal information to those persons in our organization, • Title and company name. or agents of Lexmark, who have specific business purposes for maintaining Commitment to Customers Customer Understanding • Home, billing, or other physical address (including street name, name and processing personal information and data. Lexmark regularly reviews privacy compliance. Product Health & Safety of a city or town, state or province, postal code). Security & Privacy • Credit card number. Lexmark offers recourse to customers who feel there may have been a breach Marketing Communications • Email address. of their personal data. Designated email and postal addresses are available: Partnerships • Telephone number. • Lexmark online account ID and password. sustainability@lexmark.com Reporting • How products are used in their home or business. Lexmark International, Inc. • Whether they want future contact from Lexmark (marketing materials, Privacy Mailbox 740 West New Circle Road special offers, promotions, and so on). Lexington, Kentucky 40550 Lexmark respects the privacy of our customers and takes safeguarding their When we receive questions and comments of concern, it is Lexmark policy personal information very seriously. We have no customer complaints regarding to respond to each one. We investigate and attempt to resolve issues any breach of personal information collected through Internet marketing regarding the use and disclosure of personal information in accordance and sales activities. with the principles contained in this statement. Any concern that cannot be resolved through our internal processes is settled by arbitration Before October 2009, Lexmark outsourced our web store to a third-party administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its channel partner, which administered the store and collected the personal applicable commercial rules and, as applicable, the Safe Harbor Principles. information necessary to complete sales transactions. We have not received The exclusive location for such arbitration is Lexington, Kentucky. any customer complaints for breach of personal information by the third party. For additional information about the Lexmark U.S. privacy policy, click here. 105 commitment to customers marketing communications Contents Our Approach to Citizenship As stated in our Code of Business Conduct, “It is Lexmark’s policy to Our Operations avoid any misstatement of fact or misleading impression in any of its advertising, literature, exhibits or other public statements. All statements Our Products made in support of our products and services should be true statements Global and Community Impact that can be supported to the satisfaction of a reasonable person. In Global Citizenship addition, any omission of fact, wrongful emphasis or use of illustrative Community Impact material that would tend to mislead a reader, listener or viewer is to be Volunteerism avoided. No claim, comparison or other statement of fact should be Contributions & Initiatives included in a message without having sufficient evidence to support it.” Commitment to Employees For example, if there is a statement on our corporate website that Lexmark Human Rights enjoys the highest customer satisfaction scores in the MFP market, there Health & Safety must be an objective, referenceable study that can be cited by Lexmark Continuing Education to confirm the claim. Benefits & Compensation Diversity It is the joint responsibility of the public relations, marketing or content Commitment to Customers development representative preparing the message, and of the technical Customer Understanding product experts to verify that all statements are true and correctly supported. Product Health & Safety The accuracy of claims are also reviewed by our Legal Department and Security & Privacy validated by the Product and Process Quality Assurance Team. Marketing Communications Partnerships We review our compliance with these standards annually. Lexmark had no incidents of noncompliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning Reporting marketing communications in 2013. In addition, we do not sell any product that is banned in any market worldwide. 106 partnerships examples of partnerships Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Lexmark and The PGA of America Our Operations along with The Nature Conservancy have a goal to plant 2016 trees by Our Products The PGA of America’s 100th Anniversary Global and Community Impact in 2016. This partnership began Global Citizenship with a goal to offset the paper consumption from printing that took place Community Impact during the Ryder Cup Championship in August 2012. The partnership Volunteerism has grown to be part of PGA’s community commitment where their Contributions & Initiatives championships are held. The true success of these events has been the Commitment to Employees involvement with and beneficial impact on local communities. Human Rights Health & Safety Lexmark has also teamed up with additional customers such as CSX, Continuing Education Grainger and Coca-Cola on similar community focused efforts. While Benefits & Compensation we have a long history with sustainability focused projects, Lexmark Diversity Many positive contributions to communities are a direct result of productive also collaborates with other businesses to address social topics as well. Commitment to Customers partnerships. Throughout our history Lexmark has formed meaningful, A stair step race partnership was formed with a large Kentucky-based Customer Understanding beneficial partnerships to address areas of need within the community. corporation to raise awareness for veterans. The Mountain Marathon was Product Health & Safety Over the years, partnerships have been formed with universities, local a chance for employees of both companies to join together in fitness to Security & Privacy schools and school systems, local aid agencies, non-governmental promote a good cause. Marketing Communications organizations and our customers. Partnerships Moving forward, Lexmark is excited about the future of our partnerships and is focused on developing an increased number of partnerships Reporting Lexmark’s core values are centered in environmental sustainability. Understanding the power of teamwork, Lexmark partners with customers that drive meaningful, beneficial improvements in the communities in and organizations to complete projects that make communities in which which we live and work. we live and work better places to be. This commitment to the community is part of our global corporate culture. Lexmark teams up with other organizations that share similar values and work on joint projects. For many years, Lexmark has participated in partnerships focused on reforestations initiatives, watershed protection, educational infrastructure improvement and Science Technology Engineering and Math (STEM) education. Planting trees resonates with Lexmark, not only for its numerous benefits to the community but also the offset that it provides for paper consumption in printing. 107 Reporting Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Our Operations Our Products Global and Community Impact Reporting Reporting Parameters GRI Index UN Global Compact Index For Lexmark, reporting is about more than just compliance with guidelines or regulations, it’s about offering a clear view of our operations and results to everyone because we know that through open communication and dialogue we will continue to move forward together. Measuring and assessing progress toward specific goals is a hallmark of sustainability processes that Lexmark takes very seriously. We are committed to addressing the disclosure needs of our stakeholders and to continually improving our sustainability performance. 108 reporting parameters REPORTING PARAMETERS gasoline, and electricity. Additional information about Lexmark operations Contents and financial performance is available in our 2013 Annual Report and Form Our Approach to Citizenship In Lexmark’s annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report, we endeavor 10-K, which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are Our Operations to provide a full account of our CSR and sustainability strategy and peravailable on our corporate website. formance in our worldwide operations during the most recent fiscal year Our Products (ended December 31, 2013) for our many stakeholders across the globe. This We encourage and value feedback from our stakeholders. Please email Global and Community Impact report includes updates to key programs and performance metrics as well sustainability@lexmark.com with any comments you have. Reporting as a transparent assessment of our progress against established goals. The scope, boundary and measurement methods applied in this report do not MATERIALITY Reporting Parameters significantly differ from previous reports. In 2013 there are no restatements GRI Index Lexmark identifies critical social issues within our sustainability strategy from previous reports. UN Global Compact Index through communications with stakeholders, including customers, shareWe prepared this report using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 holders and employees. Our efforts are prioritized, based on their needs, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, along with ISO 26000 guidance. We but balanced to maintain alignment with our vision and values. have self-declared this CSR Report to a GRI Application Level of “A”. Our GRI This matrix visually shows the relative emphasis Lexmark places on the Content Index is provided in the report. Lexmark plans to begin transitioning various CSR areas. to the GRI 4.0 framework in next year’s report, with intent to be in full compliance with GRI 4.0 by the release of the 2015 report. Lexmark’s CSR Report assesses our operations globally. Unless noted, principles and policies referenced in the report apply to worldwide, Companyowned locations1 and to all Lexmark employees. SAPERION AG, and PACSGEAR, Inc. were acquired in 2013 and data from these acquisitions are included where applicable. The metrics and goals in this report are established and measured by Lexmark International to deliver a meaningful and accurate description of our performance. The complex nature of collecting data in a global manufacturing company with multiple plants and facilities presents challenges in compiling consistent and comparable metrics. While this report includes consistent metrics in most areas, we continue to improve the standardization of our measurement systems. Our performance metrics cover Lexmarkoperated facilities. Environmental metrics are reported using widely accepted parameters and units. Using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol methodology, we track greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our use of natural gas, fuel oil, diesel, 1 Lexmark does not have franchisees. 109 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX GRI INDEX Contents Our Approach to Citizenship Click here to learn more about how GRI indicators correspond with ISO 26000 guidelines. Our Operations Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Our Products Report ISO 26000 Global and Community Impact Clauses Reporting Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of CEO Letter Full 6.2 Reporting Parameters Analysis the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the GRI Index organization and its strategy UN Global Compact Index 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities CEO Letter, Full 6.2 Risks, Opportunities and Impacts Organizational 2.1 Name of the organization 10-K Full Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 10-K Full 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main 10-K Full 6.2 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 10-K Full 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, 10-K Full and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 10-K Full 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 10-K Full sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 10-K Full 110 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 10-K Full Our Products Parameters regarding size, structure, or ownership Global and Community Impact 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CSR Awards and Recognition Full Reporting Reporting Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Report Parameters Full information provided GRI Index 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Report Parameters Full UN Global Compact Index 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Report Parameters Full 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or Report Parameters Full its contents 3.5 Process for defining report content Report Parameters Full 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Report Parameters Full subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Report Parameters Full of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Report Parameters Full facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Report Parameters Full calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Report Parameters Full information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Report Parameters Full the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 111 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI Index Full Our Products Parameters Disclosures in the report Global and Community Impact 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking GRI Index Full 7.5.3 Reporting external assurance for the report Reporting Parameters Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Governance and External Full 6.2 GRI Index Commitments committees under the highest governance body Engagement UN Global Compact Index and responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or Engagement organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Board of Directors Full 6.2 body is also an executive officer 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Committee Composition, Full 6.2 state the number of members of the highest Governance and External governance body that are independent and/or Engagement non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Governance Highlights Full 6.2 provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Corporate Governance Principles, Full 6.2 highest governance body, senior managers, and Proxy Statement executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Governance Highlights Full 6.2 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Governance and External Full 6.2 of the members of the highest governance body for Engagement guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 112 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Governance, 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Corporate CSR Policies Full 6.2 Our Products Commitments codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Global and Community Impact and environmental, and social performance and the status of Engagement their implementation Reporting Reporting Parameters 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Governance and External Full 6.2 overseeing the organization’s identification and Engagement, GRI Index management of economic, environmental, and social Governance Highlights UN Global Compact Index performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s Governance and External Full 6.2 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Engagement environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Risks, Opportunities and Impacts Full 6.2 approach or principle is addressed by the organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Supply Chain Full 6.2 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Governance and External Full 6.2 associations) and/or national/international advocacy Engagement, organizations Supply Chain 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Governance and External Full 6.2 Engagement, Report Parameters 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Governance and External Full 6.2 whom to engage Engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Governance and External Full 6.2 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Engagement, group Customer Understanding 113 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Governance, 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Governance and External Full 6.2 Our Products Commitments stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has Engagement, Global and Community Impact and responded to those key topics and concerns, including Investor Relations, Engagement through its reporting Reporting Customer Understanding Reporting Parameters Economic EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including Community Impact, Partial 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, GRI Index revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, Finance and Economics, 6.8.9 donations and other community investments, retained Contributions and Initiatives, UN Global Compact Index earnings, and payments to capital providers and 10-K governments (Core) EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Risks, Opportunities and Impacts Partial 6.5.5 for the organization’s activities due to climate change (Core) EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan Benefits and Compensation, Partial obligations (Core) Finance and Economics, 10-K EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Finance and Economics, Full government (Core) 10-K EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared Benefits and Compensation, Partial 6.3.7, 6.4.4, 6.8 to local minimum wage at significant locations of Finance and Economics operation (Additional) EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Community Impact, Partial 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Supply Chain 6.8.7 operation (Core) EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manCommunity Impact Full 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 agement hired from the local community at significant locations of operation (Core) EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Community Impact Partial 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, and services provided primarily for public benefit 6.8.4, 6.8.5, through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 6.8.6, 6.8.7, (Core) 6.8.9 114 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Economic EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Community Impact Partial 6.3.9, 6.6.6, Our Products economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.6.7, 6.7.8, 6.8, Global and Community Impact (Additional) 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Reporting Reporting Parameters Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume (Core) Materials, Full 6.5, 6.5.4 Packaging GRI Index UN Global Compact Index EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Materials, Partial 6.5, 6.5.4 materials (Core) Supplies EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Energy Consumption Full 6.5, 6.5.4 (Core) EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source (Core) Energy Consumption Full 6.5, 6.5.4 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Energy Consumption Full 6.5, 6.5.4 improvements (Additional) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Product Energy Use, Full 6.5, 6.5.4 energy based products and services, and reductions Product Lifecycle, in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives Innovation (Additional) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Energy Consumption Partial 6.5, 6.5.4 reductions achieved (Additional) EN8 Total water withdrawal by source (Core) Water Management Full 6.5, 6.5.4 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Water Management Full 6.5, 6.5.4 water (Additional) EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Water Management Partial 6.5, 6.5.4 reused (Additional) EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, Land and Biodiversity Full 6.5, 6.5.6 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas (Core) 115 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Environment EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Land and Biodiversity Full 6.5, 6.5.6 Our Products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and Global and Community Impact areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas (Core) Reporting Reporting Parameters EN13 Habitats protected or restored (Additional) Land and Biodiversity Full 6.5, 6.5.6 GRI Index EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Land and Biodiversity Full 6.5, 6.5.6, 6.8.3 managing impacts on biodiversity (Additional) UN Global Compact Index EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Land and Biodiversity Full 6.5, 6.5.6 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk (Additional) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions Full 6.5, 6.5.5 by weight (Core) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions Full 6.5, 6.5.5 by weight (Core) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Full 6.5, 6.5.5 reductions achieved (Additional) Energy Consumption EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Greenhouse Gas Emissions Full 6.5, 6.5.3 (Core) EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type Greenhouse Gas Emissions Partial 6.5, 6.5.3 and weight (Core) EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination (Core) Water Management Partial 6.5, 6.5.3 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste Management Full 6.5, 6.5.3 (Core) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills (Core) Water Management Full 6.5, 6.5.3 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Waste Management Partial 6.5, 6.5.3 waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally (Additional) 116 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Environment EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Water Management Full 6.5, 6.5.3, 6.5.4, Our Products water bodies and related habitats significantly affected 6.5.6 Global and Community Impact by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff (Additional) Reporting Reporting Parameters EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Materials, Full 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, and services, and extent of impact mitigation (Core) Packaging, 6.7.5 GRI Index Acoustics UN Global Compact Index EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Waste Management Partial 6.5, 6.5.3, 6.5.4, materials that are reclaimed by category (Core) 6.7.5 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Environmental Management, Full 6.5 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Transparency and Ethics environmental laws and regulations (Core) EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Energy Consumption Partial 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce (Additional) EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Water Management, Partial 6.5 investments by type (Additional) Environmental Management Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Finance and Economics, Full 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, agreements that include human rights clauses or that Supply Chain 6.6.6 have undergone human rights screening (Core) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that Supply Chain Partial 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, have undergone screening on human rights and actions 6.4.3, 6.6.6 taken (Core) HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Human Rights Partial 6.3, 6.3.5 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained (Additional) HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Human Rights Partial 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, taken (Core) 6.3.10, 6.4.3 117 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Human Rights HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Human Rights Partial 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, Our Products freedom of association and collective bargaining may 6.3.5, 6.3.8, Global and Community Impact be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these 6.3.10, 6.4.3, rights (Core) 6.4.5 Reporting Reporting Parameters HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for inciHuman Rights Full 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, dents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to 6.3.5, 6.3.7, GRI Index the elimination of child labor (Core) 6.3.10, 6.6.6 UN Global Compact Index HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Human Rights Full 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures 6.3.5, 6.3.7, to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory 6.3.10, 6.6.6 labor (Core) HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organiHuman Rights Full 6.3, 6.3.5, zation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of 6.4.3, 6.6.6 human rights that are relevant to operations (Additional) HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Human Rights Full 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, indigenous people and actions taken (Additional) 6.3.8, 6.6.7 HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have Human Rights, Partial 6.3, 6.3.3, been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Global Citizenship 6.3.4, 6.3.5 assessments (Core) HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, Transparency and Ethics Partial 6.3, 6.3.6 addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms (Core) Labor Practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Commitment to Employees Partial 6.4, 6.4.3 and Decent contract, and region (Core) Work LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Commitment to Employees Partial 6.4, 6.4.3 group, gender, and region (Core) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Benefits and Compensation Full 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations (Additional) 118 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Labor Practices LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Human Rights Full 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, Our Products and Decent bargaining agreements (Core) 6.4.5, 6.3.10 Global and Community Impact Work Reporting LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Human Rights Full 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, Reporting Parameters operational changes, including whether it is specified in 6.4.5 collective agreements (Core) GRI Index UN Global Compact Index LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Health and Safety Full 6.4, 6.4.6 joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs (Additional) LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Health and Safety Partial 6.4, 6.4.6 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region (Core) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskBenefits and Compensation Partial 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, control programs in place to assist workforce members, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, their families, or community members regarding serious 6.8.8 diseases (Core) LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Health and Safety Full 6.4, 6.4.6 with trade unions (Additional) LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Continuing Education Partial 6.4, 6.4.7 employee category (Core) LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Continuing Education Full 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings (Additional) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Continuing Education Full 6.4, 6.4.7 and career development reviews (Additional) 119 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Labor Practices LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Commitment to Employees Partial 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, Our Products and Decent of employees per category according to gender, age 6.4.3 Global and Community Impact Work group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity (Core) Reporting Reporting Parameters LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Benefits and Compensation Partial category (Core) GRI Index UN Global Compact Index LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, Benefits and Compensation Partial 6.4, 6.4.4 by gender (Additional) Products PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Product Safety, Full 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, products and services are assessed for improvement, Customer Understanding 6.7.4, 6.7.5 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures (Core) PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulaProduct Safety Full 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, tions and voluntary codes concerning health and safety 6.7.4, 6.7.5 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes (Additional) PR3 Type of product and service information required by Product Safety Full 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, procedures, and percentage of significant products and 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 services subject to such information requirements (Core) PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Product Safety Full 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 service information and labeling, by type of outcomes (Additional) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Customer Understanding Partial 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 (Additional) 120 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Products PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and Marketing Communications Full 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, Our Products voluntary codes related to marketing communications, 6.7.9 Global and Community Impact including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship (Core) Reporting PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Marketing Communications Full 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, Reporting Parameters regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 6.7.9 communications, including advertising, promotion, and GRI Index sponsorship by type of outcomes (Additional) UN Global Compact Index PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Security and Privacy, Full 6.7, 6.7.7 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer Marketing Communications data (Additional) PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Product Safety Full 6.7, 6.7.6 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services (Core). Society SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and Community Impact, Partial 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, practices that assess and manage the impacts of operaFinance and Economics 6.8.9 tions on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting (Core) SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Transparency and Ethics Full 6.6, 6.6.3 for risks related to corruption (Core) SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Transparency and Ethics Full 6.6, 6.6.3 anti-corruption policies and procedures (Core) SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Transparency and Ethics Full 6.6, 6.6.3 (Core) SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Contributions and Initiatives Partial 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 development and lobbying (Core) SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Contributions and Initiatives Full 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country (Additional) 121 GLOBAL REPORTING INITATIVE INDEX Contents Indicator Description Report Section(s) Full / Partial Corresponding Report ISO 26000 Our Approach to Citizenship Clauses Our Operations Society SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Transparency and Ethics Full 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 Our Products behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Global and Community Impact outcomes (Additional) Reporting SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Transparency and Ethics Full 6.6, 6.6.3, 6.6.7, Reporting Parameters non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws 6.8.7 and regulations (Core) GRI Index UN Global Compact Index SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative Community Impact, Partial 6.3.9, 6.5.3, impacts on local communities (Core) Land and Biodiversity 6.5.6, 6.8 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Community Impact, Partial 6.3.9, 6.5.3, operations with significant potential or actual negative Land and Biodiversity 6.5.6, 6.8 impacts on local communities (Core) 122 united nations global compact INDEX UN Global Compact Index Contents Our Approach to Citizenship The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally acceptOur Operations ed principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As stated by Lexmark’s CEO, Paul Rooke, “Lexmark International has and will continue to support the initiatives and principles of the UN Global Compact.” Below is an index of our reporting against the UN Global Compact principles Our Products within the content of this 2013 performance update of our Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Global and Community Impact Reporting Reporting Parameters Principle Description Report Section Number GRI Index UN Global Compact Index 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights Human Rights Policy Supply Chain 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights Human Rights Policy Supply Chain 3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Human Rights Human Rights Policy 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Human Rights Human Rights Policy 5 Support effective abolition of child labor Human Rights Human Rights Policy 6 Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation Human Rights Human Rights Policy Lexmark Code of Business Conduct 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges CSR Policies & Leadership CSR Policy Env. & Social Justice Policy Env. Health & Safety Policy Climate Change Policy 123 united nations global compact INDEX Contents Principle Description Report Section Our Approach to Citizenship Number Our Operations 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Energy Consumption Our Products Greenhouse Gas Emissions Global and Community Impact Water Management Reporting Waste Management Land & Biodiversity Reporting Parameters Environmental Management GRI Index UN Global Compact Index 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Product Lifecycle Acoustics Materials Emissions Energy Use Product Certifications Supplies Packaging Innovation 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Transparency and Ethics 124
