COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 www.impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION ON ON PROGRESS PROGRESS2011: 2013:IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT INTERNATIONAL The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses Thethat UN Global Compact isto are committed a strategic aligning policy initiative for and their operations businesses strategies with ten are committed thatuniversally to aligning accepted their operations principles and in the areas strategies of human with ten rights, universally labour, acceptedand environment principles in the areas anti-corruption. of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. www.impactinternational.com 1 www.impactinternational.com 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Human Rights Environment Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2 Principle 8 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Labour Standards encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 Anti-corruption the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 10 Principle 5 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, the effective abolition of child labour; and including extortion and bribery. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. www.impactinternational.com 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL WHY WE EXIST “INSPIRE & DEVELOP” At Impact, we help people work together to make a better world: a world in which people and organisations can achieve their potential, grow sustainably, and be happy doing it. We believe in the power of experiential learning and we use it to release human potential for leadership, change and innovation. The best XLB on the planet • A great place to work • A model of sustainable enterprise www.impactinternational.com 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL IMPACT: Who we are and What we do Impact International is a global people development company, established in 1980 in the UK. We now operate in over 50 countries from 16 offices covering the Asia Pacific, Americas and EMEA regions. We are a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact and have won a number of awards for being a Great Place To Work®, as voted for by our employees. We are committed to becoming a model of sustainable enterprise, exploring new ways to do business and strengthening the bottom line. It is our belief, borne from real experience, that all commercial organisations can embrace this concept of ‘doing well by doing good’. Impact help people work more effectively together. Since 1980 we have assisted organisations with sustainable business transformation and people development. We constantly innovate and evolve our thinking and methodologies in response to the ever-changing market and global economic climate. Doing this ensures that our people remain engaged and motivated and this in turn helps us to retain our standing as a global leader in our field. Our focus is on developing inspirational leaders, accelerating change and enabling organisations to be agile and innovative. These key areas provide the foundations for all of our services. We work with a variety of organisations including Barclays, BP, bwin.party, Lend Lease, Menter Mon, Help Age, PepsiCo, ScottishPower, Siemens, Sony, Swiss Re, Thomson Reuters, Toyota, UBS and the Welsh Government. www.impactinternational.com 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID WILLIAMS Founder and CEO, Impact International Impact International signed up to the UN Global Compact in June 2005. As signatories to the UN Global Compact we are committed to demonstrating the progress we are making in each of the ten principles. Key to the progression of these principles is the commitment and support from our people. In a recent survey (source: Great Places To Work® Survey 2013) 99% of our employees said that ‘Management is honest and ethical in its business practice’. 98% said that ’Impact manages its impact upon society responsibly’ and 93% said that ’Impact is a great place to work’ The company is now firmly established as a transnational business, with bases across America, Asia Pacific and Europe. Our UK headquarters sit at the heart of the organisation and is actively investing in developing young talent and growing business further across continental Europe. The last year has seen Impact International achieving another significant improvement in global performance and organisational growth. www.impactinternational.com 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID WILLIAMS cont. . . Over the next 12 months we will be actively growing our business in Asia and we will see further development in the Middle East, across South America and in South Africa. Ensuring we maintain the same high standards in terms of labour, human rights, environment and anti corruption will be a priority for us. Three developments in 2013 that will continue to help us towards our goals are: ✔ The successful launch of a new partnership with The Institute for Leadership and Sustainability (IFLAS). We are working collaboratively with the Institute to help people and organisations transition into a more fair and sustainable future. ✔ Impact UK won the Great Place To Work® Institute's award for ‘Best UK Work Place’ (medium category). This is recognition of the positive culture and unique organisational principles that have enabled the company to continue to flourish for the past 34 years. ✔ Two new Non Executive board members have been appointed during 2013, creating a board of six experienced directors who are actively supporting and challenging the growth of the company as it commits to a new five-year plan towards 2020. In this years report, there are updates and progress made in Australia, Japan, the United States, Poland and the UK. As in previous years, our report demonstrates success and failure against our 2013 targets. Our Report is in the public domain and can be viewed via a link on our website or on the UNGC website. www.impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of make sure that they are not complicit in human rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and abuse CONTEXT: Impact International is committed to supporting the implementation of all aspects of human rights. As a service organisation, we can support these principles in two tangible and measurable ways. The former is around how we engage and educate our people in this area and the latter is about providing innovative approaches to engage and influence across our clients and supply chain. As an international organisation we recognise that there are differences in accepted practices with regard to standards in safe working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights, however we seek to develop consistent best practice across all regions and work to the highest standards rather than only adhering to local legal minimums. 2013 Target: To measure and report on the progress of ‘All Together Now’. Our UK based initiative that aims to bring all our values driven initiatives under one umbrella. Progress: ✔ We carried out a UK wide survey to find out if and how our employees engaged in our internal initiatives (these include Learning in the Community), the Impact children’s holiday, Work Inspiration, our environment programmes, Impact Aid…). ✔ Business in the Community (BITC) provided us with some useful insights around measurement and ways of communicating ✔ Representatives from each initiative started meeting on a 6 weekly basis to share updates, to identify opportunities to link activities and support each other. www.impactinternational.com 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL We acknowledged two challenges: • The ATN initiative created more confusion and complexity in how we talk about our values driven initiatives. • We had good communications as a team (of representatives) so could reach out via email or meet with people individually to discuss opportunities. As a result of this we decided to meet every 6 months, to share ideas and ask for support when needed. During our December 2013 meeting we met to share each initiative’s measurements and updates which can be seen in this report (pages 10, 11, 12) 2013 Target: To merge our two specialist consultancies – the Relief & Development Group and Impact Beyond into a single entity and create a clarified offering that will allow Impact to more effectively serve the not-for-profit sector. Progress: Whilst we have been unable to progress this target we have seconded an employee into Wasafiri (previously the R&D Group which is an alliance of consultants who help people and organisations generate concerted action to overcome poverty and crises). 2013 Target: To develop at least 2 new relationships with not-for-profit organisations (in addition to continuing to work with existing clients and partners). Progress: We have identified, managed and developed a number of mutually beneficial relationships with new partners through our internal ‘Learning in the Community’ initiative and externally through our ‘Community Action Learning’ programmes as is detailed below. www.impactinternational.com 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Internal: All Impact employees are expected to complete a minimum of three days working in the local community on a project of their choice. We call this ‘Learning in the Community’ (LiTC) Our target was to uphold 70% engagement. In 2013 in the UK a total of 149.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 210 days – 71% In 2012 in the UK a total of 165.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 243 days 68% In 2011 73% of UK staff contributed GPTW survey said that 99% of UK employees ‘feel good about the way we support our communities’. One local partner we supported in 2013 said ‘Impact’s invitation to work together during 2013 has helped Growing Well in two key ways. Financially their donation towards our organisation has enabled our core service delivery, at a time when access to charitable funds is become increasing challenging. More importantly, pro-bono support from one of their consultants enabled skilled and professional facilitation for a series of board and staff meetings that helped the organisation progress through significant organisational change’. Beren Aldridge At Growing Well, they believe that working as part of team, growing food and sharing the experience with others can help people recover from mental health problems. Our biggest LiTC staff commitment is the annual Children’s Holiday, a 5-day residential holiday for locally disadvantaged children. This is an overall time commitment of 48.5 days and involves 13 people during the week to make it happen. We work with social services and families in deprived local areas to provide a holiday full of activities and adventure to increase their confidence levels. For many it is the first time they have been away from home or been on holiday at all. www.impactinternational.com 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL External: We worked with more than 70 not-for-profit organisations through our ‘Community Action Learning’ (CAL) programmes in the UK. CAL aims to develop leadership capability for participants whilst providing real value to our partners. 45 of these organisations were new to us in 2013. Our principles of practice: Integrity: we will never exploit or compromise a programme partner. Partnership: we create programmes in which every voice is heard, every interest represented and every heart engaged. Sustainability: we strive to generate economic, social, cultural and environmental capital in all our activities and to identify and progressively reduce any detrimental impact of our activities. Humanity: through our work, we strive to enrich and inspire and to be receptive to the richness and inspiration of our clients and partners. Learning: learning is what we sell but it must be the product of everything we are and do, our own learning and our joint learning with our clients and partners. Our community partners range from schools, social enterprises, charities and NGO’s. They focus their energy on providing better Education, Human Rights of children and women, support for homelessness and rehabilitation of people struggling with substance misuse. These partners include Restless Development, Shakespeare Schools Festival, The Foyer Federation, Catch 22 and many more. Globally we designed more than 60 powerful developmental programmes for more than 1000 corporate participants through our ‘Community Action Learning’ programmes. Our programmes are designed to meet the needs of our partners and our clients. They have included the creation of social media strategies, data management systems, enterprise skills workshops, numeracy and literacy skills programmes. When we work outside of the UK we often experience more Health and Safety responsibilities and additional risk assessments need to be carried out as we are often working in more fragile environments. We always carry out site visits to ensure we have assessed these risks for our partners, our clients and our employees and we have a process in place to review and document any learning points. These updates are shared every two months to the global business via our Health and Safety website. Some of which is in the public domain http://www.impactinternational.com/safety/ We believe that CAL can provide a powerful platform to exchange ideas, challenge assumptions and create shared value approach. Building open, honest and mutually beneficial relationships with our partners is absolutely key to the success of any engagement. In 2013 we increased the number of people we employ to source and maintain our community partner relationships from 2 to 3. www.impactinternational.com 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2013 Target: To identify a global project that engages people from a variety of our global offices through our ‘Learning in the Community ’Initiative. Progress: Whilst our commitment to Learning in the Community is extremely strong in the UK (71% of employees spend 3 days supporting a charity of their choice as part their development plans) we have been unable to identify a global partner and project that the global business can engage in. This is still something we would like to achieve. Other progress beyond targets Community Action Learning Programmes outside the UK Australia: Long term CAL programmes in Mossman District Hospital and Community Centre, Western Australia. Designed by Impact for Lend Lease. A project involving stakeholder dialogue with Elders and the design and creation of a new community space. This involved 240 employees from Lend Lease on a CAL team development programme, working with the same community partner over a 6 month period. Our relationship with this community spans a 5 year period and is ongoing. India: Providing 5 charities and social enterprises (who focus on the Human Rights issues of women and children) with 20 high potential global leaders from Thomson Reuters. The participants travel to India and work inside the offices of the community organisations (often in slum areas around Mumbai) for 5 days and a further 6 weeks (remotely) to tackle organisational challenges faced by the partner. Poland: In 2012 we delivered our first CAL solution to an International client operating in Warsaw, Poland. We partnered the food manufacturing organisation with the Polish Foodbank and their relationship has continued to develop. Whilst we have developed more relationships with NGO’s we have been unable to engage our clients in this type of engagement. www.impactinternational.com 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Community Partner Networking Event: To progress and develop our relationships with our London community partners we sponsored and delivered a structured networking event in London. More than 30 organisations were invited to meet, share and look for ways to support each other. As a direct result of the networking event we have set up a webpage and platform for these organisations to continue to share ideas and create a community of support. Internal practices: Work Inspiration UK: We work with local schools and provide a week of Work Inspiration for 6 children aged 15. They gain valuable hands on work experience where they are tasked with a series of different projects across the business. The students get to meet and ask questions to senior staff members including the CEO and UK Manager. The students work on real projects alongside staff members across the Impact business (Marketing, Business Development and CAL). We ran two of these events in the past year and have two more scheduled for 2014. Learning in the Community, Japan: 19 people from our Japan office (including our Founder and CEO, David Williams and our Chairman of Japan) volunteered their time for 2 days to revisit the Tsunami-hit area and remove stones from rice field. www.impactinternational.com 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2014 Our central purpose through 2014 in respect of our commitment to the UN Global Charter will be to influence our clients and our supply chain with regards to their practices. To this end our specific targets in the realm of Human Rights are: è Provide a community partner networking event in London for our partners to help build and share knowledge between Impact and our partners è Set up a community partner networking event with our local community partners in the Lake District to help build and share knowledge between Impact and our partners è Deliver a Community Action Learning networking event for our corporate clients in London to help our clients better understand how they can create shared value partnerships with community organisations è Continue to engage our corporate clients in Community Action Learning Programmes outside of the UK. We will report on CAL in Europe and beyond è Identify opportunities to share our commitment to UNGC and other social initiatives to our clients and other SMEs (specifically presentations at Business in the Community Events) www.impactinternational.com 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 3 Principle 4 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 5 Principle 6 the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CONTEXT: Impact International recognise that our key asset is our people. Consequently Impact is committed to adhering to, and going beyond, all legal requirements to provide fair, flexible and appropriately remunerated employment to all our directly employed and freelance contract staff. Key labour related issues for Impact involve providing a safe and healthy work environment, flexible working structures (both in terms of available contracts for staff and day to day working practices) and providing transparent remuneration and appropriate benefits for contract staff. Impact employ a large number of ‘contract’ or ‘freelance’ staff across our global offices. Because of their freelance status such staff often have the least access to representation and forms of collective bargaining. 2013 Target: The success of the ‘Future Leaders’ programme and ‘Four Seasons’ can be measured through the 2013 Great Places to Work® Survey. We will share the 2012 and 2013 results from the’ Learning and Development’ section of the survey. www.impactinternational.com 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Progress: The Future Leaders Programme has enabled 16 employees from around the world to take part in a multi modular Leadership Programme in New York, Asia and Europe. Additional learning and development opportunities have included Coaching qualifications, the Impact Internal programme bringing together local and international employees for a week long development programme in the Lake District, as well as numerous functional team events and off-sites. According to the Great Place to Work® survey 74% said ‘I am offered training or development to further myself professionally’. 2013 Target: Create an event for long term associates. This is to ensure they are updated on new policies, Health and Safety approaches and to provide opportunities to keep them connected to the business Progress: Through 2013 we have created a number of new engagement and development events for our associate staff: • The 'Academy’ a branded suite of programmes to signpost key strategic developments for associate and employed staff • Hot House day – offering updates on strategic elements of the business and our practice • Standard 'training and development sessions' virtually as well as face to face to allow us to engage remote and internationally based associates • A week long induction event for recent new associate recruits this is now being offered globally 2013 Target: We need to improve upon our Safety Management systems and deliver a strategy that communicates the progress made in all regions. We have identified ‘Champions’ in each region and will report on the progress made in those regions Progress: Australia: produces a quarterly report in line with our Safety Management systems UK: There has been a significant focus in the UK on safety training this year with many managers and staff completing their IOSH award, Safety Advisor passing his NEBOSH Fire Safety Certificate exams, Maintenance staff passing an Elevated Work Platform course and most staff being trained in the use of our three new defibrillators. www.impactinternational.com 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL We also passed our British Canoe Union (BCU) Centre Approval, Achilles and Adventuremark safety audits. A busy year upgrading many UK safety systems saw the beginnings of a new online safety training system for staff and safety as a key component of the first Associate Academy week run at Impact. Again this year we have passed two external audits: BCU and Adventuremark Achilles This year we passed the BCU Scores were down on last year, inspection with a grade 1 but we felt that this was mainly due to a different Auditor and in all areas. We have decided that we will no longer apply for maybe last year’s scores were a centre approval next year and bit high. We scored 87% for we will no longer require our safety and 83.6% for quality staff to update their coaching qualifications with the BCU. and 76% for environment. We have kept up to date with UK safety legislation changes this year. RIDDOR 2013 came into force on 1 October and this has been reflected in our policy and training. Total accidents Our total accidents went down 3 from 10 to 7 from last year. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2013 Target: Engage a more diverse and international associate team by creating a selection event aimed at international associates. Progress: 2013 has seen a significant focus on diversifying our associate pool, particularly in the ASPAC and Americas regions. We have recruited a number of new associates in both regions, development events have been run and Impact UK has had a full time member of staff focused on developing capacity and capability in the ASPAC region. 2013 Target:. We need to ensure that all associates regardless of their location take part in and understand our core policies such as safety inductions and our Duty of Care policy. We will report on the numbers of people who have attended these events. Progress: 21 new people in the UK have been inducted. Many were new employees. Progress Beyond Targets: ✔ Launch of the Impact Weave – a virtual platform that provides a visual, interactive, engaging display of all full time and associate people who work with Impact globally. It enables us to share skills, interests and strengths to help us to find the right people for the right work across regions ✔ Awards from Bersin for our practice and from trainingindustry.com for being a top 20 leadership development provider ✔ Best Workplace in the UK (medium category) award from the Great Place To Work® institute. ✔ Relevant feedback from the Great Place to Work® survey in terms of Labor standards include: • 96% said that ‘People are treated fairly regardless of their age, race, sexual orientation, race or ethnic group’ • 96% said ‘Our facilities contribute to a good working environment’ • 99% said ’There is a “family” or “team” feeling here’ www.impactinternational.com 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2014 è Offer the Impact Academy in the ASPAC and Americas regions. è Develop an online health and safety training resource to ensure all staff globally are inducted to and working to best practice standards. è Deliver a series of Academy 'hot house' days to ensure all associates are working to best practice and aligned with Impact's strategic focus. è Run an engagement survey of all UK Associate staff. è Continue developing learning platform for safety induction. è Develop mobile phone friendly emergency response card that can be kept on phones. è Develop a robust and practical food safety system that can be used on programmes in mountain huts. è Continue to encourage other countries to adopt a consistent approach to safety. To date, very little information has come back from other offices. www.impactinternational.com 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 7 Principle 8 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environmental challenges; responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. CONTEXT: Like all businesses Impact faces considerable environmental challenges. As a service organisation our key challenges are around resource usage in our programmes, office energy efficiency and transport. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2013 Target: Develop a clear travel policy that states which form of transport should be used for which purpose with the aim of reducing overall travel and greater use of low carbon methods. Progress: We have had an initial consultation with key stakeholders to gather information and data to help inform a clear position. However, we have not yet created a policy that can be communicated to all staff. We will strive to complete this in early 2014. 2013 Target: Work with at least one of our suppliers to help them deliver their services or products in a more environmentally sound method. Progress: Utilising our internal focus group we have identified a suitable supplier. However, we are yet to begin the consultation process with that supplier. This will be a target for 2014. 2013 Target: Work with Friends of the Lake District on the ‘ Debris Dive’. Providing admin support, boat drivers, canoeists. Divers will be taking rubbish and debris out of Lake Windermere. This will be cleaned and made into art work by local children. Raising awareness of rubbish and the damage it causes to our natural environment. Progress: Impact were a key member of the team who made the Debris Dive a success. Impact provided support via 21 volunteers whose roles included: logistics, reception staff, power boats, canoeists, rubbish handlers, radios and most importantly the key logistical point of contact before, during and after the event. For more information see the Impact website: www.impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2013 Target: Expand the environmental policy team through the identification of key individuals within the business with the aim of shared responsibility for environmental performance. Progress: We have created an ‘Environment Team’ which includes individuals representing a cross section of the business who meet regularly to discuss environmental issues that have a significance for Impact. The selection process for this team was voluntary and inclusive for all, so the people on the team are those who want to be included. The outputs from this team have been a number of environmental projects happening in parallel, with shared responsibility and increased activity over previous years. 2013 Target: Maintain an award for the Impact International LLP Environment Management System. Progress: Impact has maintained its position working closely with a number of environmental organisations including the Lake District National Park Authority, Cumbria Woodlands, Cumbria Business Environment Network and Friends of the Lake District. Impact currently holds the top standard of award – Gold – from Cumbria Business Environment Network for our Environmental Management System, for which we have not applied for an alternative. This will be a target for 2014. 2013 Target: Switch the Windermere hotels to a renewable electricity tariff by the end of 2013 if economically possible. Progress: This has been researched and it is not currently economically viable to switch suppliers. However, further opportunities to change our energy tariff to include a greater proportion of renewable sources will be researched for 2014, with viable options implemented. 2013 Target: Quantify the possibility of wood fuel for the Windermere hotel fireplaces, replacing coal where reasonably practicable. Progress: Through the establishment of a woodland management plan we have been able to better quantify, manage and supply the hotels with wood supplied from our woodlands and reduce the quantity of coal used. More than this we have been able to create areas of woodland for coppicing with the specific objective of increasing our wood fuel production capability. www.impactinternational.com 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL PROGRESS BEYOND TARGETS Estate Management: The Impact estate has a clear management plan which has been created in consultation with local stakeholders, the Lake District National Park Authority and Cumbria Woodlands. In 2013 this work has included coppicing, firewood production, the eradication of invasive species alongside thinning and glade creation to increase biodiversity. We have red squirrels in our woodlands and have set up a monitoring and management programme alongside Red Squirrel Watch. Cumbria Woodlands: The chair of the Cumbria Woodlands board is an Impact employee who has taken this role as part of our own volunteering scheme, Learning in the Community. Cumbria Woodlands' main aim is to improve and increase sustainable woodland management. A secondary aim is to increase the amount of new woodland in targeted locations. Impact also helped to deliver a conference for the organisation. Client Work: Sustainability focussed client work included: working with Menter Mon to provide 2,000 redundant energy workers in North Wales with career opportunities in new sustainable industries/developments and multi-modular work with a large multinational consumer goods company to deliver results in line with their sustainable living plan. Learning in the Community: All Impact employees are expected to complete a minimum of three days working in the local community on a project of their choice. In 2013 the environmental projects that were chosen included: 21 staff volunteering for the Friends of the Lake District Debris Dive in Windermere, TBLI Investment group keynotes and chairing, delivering an Earthwatch conservation lecture, ongoing support for the Institute for Leadership and Sustainability in Ambleside, delivering at a conference on international development in Oxford, delivering a day on the Forum for the Future MA in sustainable development. Networks: Impact has continued to be an active member of a number of environmental organisations both locally and globally. In 2013 our support continued for: • Local: Adventure and Environmental Awareness Group, Lake District National Park Authority Carbon Landscapes project, Cumbria Tourism Sustainable Tourism Forum, Cumbria Woodlands – chair person, Friends of the Lake District – Debris Dive, Windermere Reflections, Nurture Lakeland member • National: The Prince’s May Day Network, Business in the Community, Royal Geographical Society with IBG • Global: UN Global Compact www.impactinternational.com 22 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2014 è A reduction of carbon emissions resulting from energy use of 30% by 2015 (from 2009 levels). è Publish a clear travel policy that states which form of transport should be used for which purpose with the aim of reducing overall travel and increasing use of low carbon methods. è Work with at least one of our suppliers to help them deliver their services or products in a more environmentally sound method. è Gain a new award for the Impact International LLP Environment Management System. è Create better access to the estate woodlands to encourage hotel guests and Impact staff/participants to get closer to the woodland and increase awareness of environmental issues. 2014 target to complete these pathways and involve partners (and maybe local school children) to produce information boards around the trails. è Clearer communication, including the website, of environmental position for internal staff and external stakeholders including clients and auditors. è Update the London Office Code of Practice for environmental performance. è Complete a cost benefit analysis of including renewable sources in our energy supplier tariff. è Increase international office engagement in environmental issues affecting Impact and qualify progression of country specific environmental policies. www.impactinternational.com 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTEXT Impact firmly believes that all businesses should work against corruption. We have strong internal policies communicated to all staff (through our staff handbook) about expectations for professional and ethical behaviour. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013: IMPACT INTERNATIONAL Communication on Progress Produced by: Impact International Cragwood House Windermere Cumbria LA23 1LQ t: +44 (0)15394 88333 e: jo.appleby@impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com 25
