sustainability report A better bank contributing to 2013 a better world 3 index Chairman’s message 4 1 Our sustainability strategy 6 2 Engaging with our stakeholders 8 3 Applying the sustainability policy to our operations  16 4 Enhancing client centricity  26 4.1 Retail & Private Banking 26 4.2 Commercial & Merchant Banking 35 4.3 Handling complaints 40 5 Inspiring and engaging our people  42 6 Our environmental impact 50 7 Our contribution to society 56 Appendices Appendix 1 Figures 2013  62 Appendix 2 Independent Assurance Report 72 Appendix 3 Basis for reporting  74 Appendix 4 Stakeholder dialogue  76 Appendix 5 Objectives and performance in 2013 80 Appendix 6 Glossary 84 4 chairman’s message chairman’s message 5 I am proud to present the ABN AMRO Sustainability obligations. We will continue this work for as long as Report for 2013. This report shows the results of our necessary in the future. efforts this past year to make our bank more sustainable in the broadest sense of the word. We worked hard in In the spirit of sharing our expertise, we organised a 2013 to achieve these results and look forward to seminar on national Budget Day in the Netherlands on continuing on this path in the years to come. Restoring how to improve the sustainability of existing homes in the trust in banks is the biggest challenge for the sector, and Netherlands. Afterwards, we presented a report to the we must do our part to meet this challenge. Dutch Minister for Housing and Government Services on sustainable housing construction. We want to engage our wide range of stakeholders – most importantly, our clients – in an ongoing dialogue Turning to our core business of financing, we made great that involves them in our decision-making. To this end, we strides this past year in implementing our sustainable set up a Stakeholder Board in 2013 which analyses and finance policy. We assess our clients on sustainability defines the issues our stakeholders would like to see criteria, which are based on our environmental, social and addressed. We strive to maximise transparency in all our ethical standards. communication. This report is designed to inform our stakeholders about Sustainability is part of our corporate strategy. As such, how we are working to embed sustainability across our our commitment is part of the decisions we make at every organisation and the progress we made in 2013. Beyond business line across the organisation. We aspire to secure that, we welcome ideas and feedback on our results, a leadership position in sustainability. To achieve this, we: especially on how to approach material issues affecting pursue sustainable business operations; our stakeholders and the bank. Please feel free to contact put our clients’ interests centre stage and build us at duurzaamheid@nl.abnamro.com. ­sustainable relationships; use our financial expertise for the benefit of society; finance and invest for clients in a sustainable manner. We took various measures in 2013 to inspire and engage our employees in order to secure their commitment to our ambition. As part of our drive to pursue sustainable business Gerrit Zalm operations, we rebuilt our sustainability reporting systems Chairman of the Managing Board in 2013 so that we can provide greater transparency about our progress on several fronts. An external auditor has provided assurance on a selected set of performance indicators. This means we have taken an important step in living up to the first element of our long-term strategy. We will continue to refine our measuring and reporting systems as we move forward. We are committed to putting clients’ interests centre stage and to building lasting relationships. As part of our commitment, we actively approach clients who are straining under the weight of the adverse economic climate. We recognise the impact on them of being unable to pay the mortgage or having to sell their home. Our goal is to help these clients gain a better understanding of their financial situation so that they can cope with their 6 our sustainability strategy our sustainability strategy 1 Creating a better future based on trust and sustainability We have mapped out a clear strategy to address the sustainability issues that our clients and the bank face in today’s world. Our aim to make a meaningful contribution to society is at the heart of our pledge to be a better bank contributing to a better world. Drawing on our sustainability ­strategy, we are taking steps every day to live up to this pledge. At the same time, global resources are being depleted and human rights violations are widespread. To address the risks relating to climate change, human rights and shortages of raw materials, fresh water and food, we need to pursue a more responsible way of doing business. Addressing these risks is also creating opportunities for our clients and our bank: we are developing new markets, new products and services, and new forms of collaboration. One of the five elements of our long-term corporate Better world ­strategy is the commitment to invest in our future. We use our financial expertise for the benefit of society. We expanded on this strategic priority in our sustainability We finance and invest for clients in a sustainable strategy, which focuses on taking action now to secure a manner. better future for our bank, our clients and the world. Our sustainability strategy is based on two pillars, each We can only be successful in achieving our ambitions if of which consists of aspirations in two areas: we continue to inspire and engage our employees. In March 2013 we launched our strategy up to 2017, including our Better bank sustainability strategy. We are currently in the process of We pursue sustainable business operations. translating the bank-wide strategic sustainability goals and We put our clients’ interests centre stage and build targets into concrete goals for each of our businesses. sustainable relationships. We intend to implement these plans in 2014. 7 A better bank contributing to a better world Better bank Better world Sustainable Clients’ interests centre Financial expertise Sustainable finance business stage and sustainable for the benefit and investment operations relationships of society services Inspire and engage our people We also started improving our sustainability reporting This report describes the progress we made in 2013 in ­systems in 2013. Our goal is to accurately measure and carrying out our sustainability strategy. The table below report on our progress by means of key performance shows where the results for each element of our strategy ­indicators (KPIs). We aim to receive assurance on the are discussed in this report. complete report in the coming years. These future reports will focus on material issues relating to the four pillars of our long-term sustainability strategy. This roadmap started Strategy Results in 2013 in 2013: we obtained assurance on a distinct set of ­quantitative data with a focus on our internal organisation. Sustainable business operations Sections 2, 3 and 6 This will help to engage our people in the bank’s drive to Clients’ interests centre stage and embed sustainability across the organisation. We will sustainable relationships Sections 2 and 4 only be able to live up to our pledge to be a better bank Financial expertise for the benefit contributing to a better world if we have the critical mass of society Sections 4 and 7 of our employees’ commitment behind us. That is why we Sustainable finance focused our efforts in 2013 initially on our internal activities and investment services Sections 3 and 4 – pursuing sustainable business operations. Our approach Inspiring and engaging is twofold: we give employees the means to minimise our people: a two-way street Section 5 their own environmental footprint on the job. The results of these efforts are visible and measurable. At the same time, we want to achieve a change of ­behaviour among staff by instilling a sense of responsibility to work in a ­sustainable manner. One of our Business Principles, for ­instance, is ‘I am ­committed to sustainable business ­practices’. 8 engaging with our stakeholders 2 engaging with our stakeholders ABN AMRO takes its stakeholders’ interests seriously. It is our responsibility to manage the ­impacts of our activities. In doing so, we systematically balance the bank’s interests with those of our stakeholders. Our stakeholders’ support will be vital to restoring trust in the banking sector, and to our own long-term success. We define stakeholders as groups or individuals that are Plain Language programme a few years ago. As part of affected by our activities, products and/or services, and this programme, all communication about products and who themselves can affect our ability to achieve our services has been rewritten with a view to making client ­objectives. ABN AMRO distinguishes between various information clear and understandable for 90% of the groups of stakeholders and seeks to play a specific role ­population. Plain language puts the client, his level of for each one (see figure on page 9). knowledge and personal circumstances centre stage. Financial reporting is another area in which we have 2.1 Transparent communication ­enhanced transparency. Our efforts in communicating clearly with our shareholder and other stakeholders have We aim to communicate openly and transparently and to been successful: in November 2013 we were awarded the maintain an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. This prestigious Henri Sijthoff prize for our 2012 Annual Report dialogue can take various forms. We organise client panels in the category unlisted companies. The jury was particularly and employee meetings, for instance, and perform client impressed by the clarity of writing, transparency of satisfaction research and ‘culture scans’. Outside the bank, ­information about the company, our strategy, investor we also take part in parliamentary hearings and public ­relations, corporate governance and sustainability. ­debates, and we clarify our culture, conduct, initiatives and strategy for the benefit of our regulators. We contribute to It is our policy to respond to media requests for informa­ research by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and tion, unless we are prevented from doing so for privacy, we consult with a wide variety of civil society organisations. confidentiality or regulatory reasons. We made increasing use of social media (Twitter, Facebook, Google+, LinkedIn, Plain language and communication are important YouTube) in 2013 to maintain contact with our stakeholders ­preconditions for transparency. In the past, use of – primarily with clients, the general public and potential ­language at ABN AMRO tended to be complex, legal and employees, but also explicitly with opinion formers such formal. In a drive to change this, the bank launched a as journalists and bloggers. 9 Credit rating agencies, Government departments analysts be a stable financial institution, be a financially robust and comply with all legal rules, well-managed enterprise pay taxes and premiums Sector organisations Legislators Employees Civil society support interests, keep apply all legal rules be a good employer that one organisations informed can be proud of apply principles of responsible business conduct Professional Local communities counterparties, suppliers be a reliable partner ABN AMRO stakeholders support the needs of local partners Consumer organisations Clients Supervisors Press supply good products keep money safe, supply good be a stable financial be communicative and and services at fair prices, products and services at fair institution, comply with all transparent put clients centre stage prices, put clients centre stage legal rules and directives Shareholder, The public, society debt investors support sustainable create sustainable value economic growth 10 engaging with our stakeholders 2.2 The materiality principle ­removed from their account without their permission will be refunded. Regular dialogue contributes significantly to identifying the areas that our stakeholders consider important. ABN AMRO has been offering its business and corporate We apply the materiality principle when engaging on clients an ‘Online Banking Security Check’ since sustain­ability topics. This means in practice that we focus ­September 2013. The tool enables us to offer these clients on the issues that are most important to our key stake­ customised advice on how to use the bank’s services as holders as well as to our business and that we are actually securely as possible. in a ­position to influence. Mortgage market ABN AMRO aims to maintain its mortgage portfolio at 2.3 Material issues or below 2012 year-end volumes. Due to market circum­ stances, the volume of outstanding mortgage loans Examples of material issues that featured in 2013 and ­declined in 2013. ABN AMRO was, however, and still is the actions we took in response to extensive stakeholder willing to offer mortgages, provided the client meets consultation include: the required risk profile. Availability and security of payments In 2013, consumer and other public interest organisations, There was widespread media coverage in 2013 on the clients, parliament and the media focused on the subject availability of online banking. In the Netherlands, payment of residual debt (where the value of the mortgage loan systems were confronted with a number of attacks and ­exceeds the market value of the property). ABN AMRO disruptions over the year. ABN AMRO’s systems also advisers have been actively contacting clients since 2012 ­suffered a DDoS attack on 18 April 2013, resulting in a very to make them aware of the risks and consequences of short interruption in the availability of the website, online ­potential residual debt. In the meantime, the bank has banking and mobile banking on that day. ABN AMRO works ­approached 140,000 of these clients. The aim is to create ­constantly to prevent disruption to payment systems as mutual understanding that action is required and to jointly much as possible, and to minimise the impact of any that find ways of reducing or removing residual debt. Subject does occur. Thanks to these measures, ABN AMRO’s to certain conditions, it is also possible for clients to fund ­Internet Banking, Mobile Banking and Quick Banking residual debt as part of a new mortgage. Since 1 September ­services achieved an availability rate of over 99.7% in 2013, clients with a mortgage that exceeds the value of 2013. This does not, however, make the rare disruptions the property have been able to pay off their mortgage any less inconvenient for our clients. We therefore ­further early, without penalty, up to the value set under the Real enhanced our communication in 2013 by actively reporting Estate Valuation Act (Wet ­waardering onroerende zaken – disruptions on our website and via social media, and by WOZ). Depending on the terms and conditions of their ­informing our clients of possible solutions via these same contracts, clients without r­ esidual debt can make redemptions channels. In terms of functionality, ABN AMRO was of up to 15% of their mortgage penalty-free each year. named best internet bank in the Netherlands in 2013. Lending to small and medium-sized enterprises Online fraud – and in particular compensation for any Businesses, sector organisations, parliament and the losses suffered – was another important theme to the media highlighted the issue of lending to small and public in 2013. Clients, consumer organisations and ­medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) throughout 2013. ­parliament all asked banks to clarify their policies in this Banks, they argued, were hindering SMEs by failing to regard. The Dutch Banking Association and the Consumer provide credit facilities. While ABN AMRO experienced a Association responded by drawing up uniform rules for sharp decline in the number of loan applications in 2013, secure online banking. These are due to come into effect the percentage of loans granted by the bank fell only in 2014 and will apply to retail clients of all Dutch banks. ­marginally (34.2% in 2013 compared with 37.0% in 2012). Provided that they have observed the security rules, SMEs with sound business plans could and still can obtain ­consumers who suffer losses will know that amounts loans from us. In the context of responsible lending, ­how­ever, we are not prepared to fund losses. 11 Past due loans ABN AMRO investigated the report and established that Dealing with past due loans was once again a pressing its activities did not provide a material ground to engage social issue in 2013. ABN AMRO clearly lives up to its with Finmeccanica on the issue of weapons supply nor ­responsibilities in this area: a large number of our to reduce its (small) investments in the company. ­employees have been assigned to assist clients facing ABN AMRO also argued that the communications payment difficulties. The Mortgage Care Team, for systems were delivered before sanctions against the ­instance, helps retail clients who can no longer pay their Assad regime were in place and that they did not qualify mortgages, while the Financial Restructuring & Recovery as weapons under ABN AMRO’s policy oncontroversial (FR&R) department assists business clients that are weapons. ­struggling to meet their f­ inancial obligations. We work with the client to find a s­ olution rather than turning to a Investing in the manufacture of nuclear weapons collection agency or – in extreme cases – having to do a In 2013, the Fair Banking Guide stated that ABN AMRO forced sale or seek b ­ ankruptcy. Our joint approach works: has a very good controversial weapons policy in place. in 2013 no fewer than 95% of our clients with mortgage In a report published in February 2013, they concluded arrears recovered within six months, and FR&R was able that we do not finance nuclear weapons producers. to recover over 70% of loan values for its business clients. The report also stated, however, that a number of funds offered by ABN AMRO contained stocks of companies Sustainability policy that could be linked to nuclear weapons. We extended We actively engage with NGOs and other stakeholders to our Controversial Weapons List in 2013 to include a explore dilemmas that could arise in serving clients and in number of companies involved in the manufacture of the choices we make. In doing so, ABN AMRO regularly nuclear weapons. These companies are based in discusses its position with respect to a range of issues. ­countries that have not signed the Non-Proliferation Examples of activities discussed in 2013 are: Treaty and that are not NATO members. The Cont­ro­ versial Weapons List applies to all funds for which The supply of equipment to the Assad ABN AMRO has investment management control. regime in Syria In a report published in January 2013, peace and Animal welfare in livestock transport and development organisations IKV Pax Christi and Oxfam meat processing Novib criticised ABN AMRO and nine other Dutch financial In a report published in July 2013, the Dutch Society institutions for continuing their investments in companies for the Protection of Animals criticised ABN AMRO and that supplied equipment to the Assad regime in Syria. four other Dutch banks for investing in livestock transThe bank has made very small investments in one of port and meat processing companies without ensuring these companies, Finmeccanica, which supplied that these companies guarantee animal welfare. communications systems to Syria prior to 2011. ABN AMRO explained that it examines, as standard Biodiversity project with clients in Brazil Daan Wensing heads the Natural Capital and Value Chains ­capital into time, place, scale and risk. By including the right ­department at the International Union for Conservation of Nature ­criteria in its funding policy, ABN AMRO can help protect (IUCN). He also manages the IUCN NL’s business network natural capital. We’re in the process of launching a biodiversity ­Leaders for Nature (LfN). “ABN AMRO has been involved with project in the agrifood sector in Brazil with business clients of the LfN network from the beginning”, Wensing says. “Together ABN AMRO. The aim is to analyse their impact on regional with other multinationals, we try to protect biodiversity and ­biodiversity and how they can consistently reduce that impact. ­ecosystems worldwide and to use natural resources sustainably. We can then gradually make the client portfolio more ABN AMRO’s impact on biodiversity and ecosystems is relatively sustainable and help businesses achieve a continuous limited, but it occurs indirectly via lending. Banks play a hugely ­improvement process with the prospect of concrete action.” important role as drivers of development and transforming 12 engaging with our stakeholders language and Plain communication are important ­preconditions for transparency 13 Greater transparency on lobbying The research organisation SOMO published the results of a We agree with that and are taking the following measures: study into the lobbying activities of Dutch banks on 17 December We will provide more information about our exchanges with 2013. In ABN AMRO’s case, ‘lobbying activities’ consist of the legislators and policymakers on our website, in our Annual ­exchange of information between the bank and the government Report and in our Sustainability Report. concerning the impact on the bank of legislation and regulations. We will publish our policy on issues of material importance SOMO’s report states that lobbying is an effective means of to our stakeholders, such as putting clients centre stage, ­approaching stakeholder dialogue and sharing knowledge, with the housing market, lending to SMEs, and the bank’s better regulation as a result. The study’s recommendations relate ­remuneration policy. primarily to providing greater transparency about lobbying. Our contributions to public consultation on legislation will be made available on our website. Our lobbyists will be entered in the transparency registers in The Hague and Brussels. practice, whether its clients comply with animal welfare farmers concerned, yet we do have a business relationregulations and that it would exclude businesses that ship with Bunge in other countries. As ABN AMRO is do not comply. We informed the Society that our a big player in agricultural trade finance and as we are ­existing procedures guarantee the observance of committed to the prevention of land grabbing, we have animal welfare by our livestock transport and meat entered into dialogue with the company to discuss the ­processing clients and that we therefore do not consider broadcast and how the s­ ituation in Brazil relates to our it necessary to introduce additional measures. sustainability policies. In a report on the issue in 2012, the Fair Banking Guide Shale gas drilling recognised ABN AMRO’s efforts in preventing land In July 2013, there was some debate about potential grabbing. shale gas drilling in the Netherlands. Funding of such projects is not in scope as shale gas extraction is not Presence in tax havens yet practised in the Netherlands. However, ahead of The tax affairs of multinational corporations were the possible future investment decisions, ABN AMRO ­subject of worldwide debate in 2013. The media, politicians ­updated its sustainability policy for the oil and gas and NGOs focused in particular on the activities of sector in 2013. For highly complex initiatives such as ­companies in tax havens. shale gas drilling, we will apply a case-by-case approach in an effort to reach decisions that are consistent with In the interests of transparency, ABN AMRO provided our principles, meet international best practices and ­details on its website of the kind of companies it has enjoy local support. ­registered in tax havens. For the most part, these are ­dormant companies related to former activities of Prime Land grabbing Fund Solutions and are in the process of being wound up. In October 2013 a Dutch current affairs programme Others include companies that are directly linked to featured a story on alleged land grabbing in Brazil by ­banking activities, such as the operation of ships and the Bunge, an agricultural commodities company. ABN AMRO management of ABN AMRO investment funds or office and several other Dutch banks were said to be indirectly buildings. involved in the company. In response to this, we explained that we do not wish to be associated with The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists land grabbing in any shape or form given its adverse revealed details in 2013 of the activities of individuals and effects on local communities. We have a strict policy in companies in tax havens. These ‘Offshore Leaks’ included place to prevent the practice. ABN AMRO is not associated the information that ABN AMRO had registered companies with Bunge in Brazil, nor with any of the factories or for clients in these tax havens, leading to suggestions in 14 engaging with our stakeholders the media that we had colluded in tax evasion. With the were adopted in 2013. One example is the fourth ­information we provide on our website, we repudiated ­amended European Capital Requirements Directive these suggestions. (CRD IV), which introduces a number of measures, ­including a cap of 100% on variable remuneration in 2014. Remuneration policy In addition, the Dutch Finance Minister announced a new New standards and definitions regarding fixed and ­ proposal for legislation (Wet Beloningsbeleid Financiële variable remuneration in the Netherlands and Europe Sector), i­ntroducing further restrictions on variable pay and ABN AMRO’s external ratings Investors who do business in a socially responsible way are we receive from several Sustainable Rating Agencies. It is a ­increasingly attracted to sustainability qualifications. We recogfurther contribution to the transparency we want to achieve as nise this, which is why we began in 2013 to publish the scores we keep our stakeholders informed. Sustainable Rating Agency Focus Rating 2013 Latest rating change oekom research AG Provider of information on the social and C (Prime) 05/09/2013 ­environmental performance of companies, sectors and countries. IMUG Provider of consultancy and research services in Positive 21/12/2012 the area of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Socially Responsible Investment (SRI), market research and marketing Sustainalytics Provider of sustainability research and analysis in 71 (out of 100) 02/12/2012 the area of Responsible Investment (RI) and Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) markets. Benchmark Rating 2013 Rating 2012 Rating 2011 Transparency benchmark 176 (out of 200) 153 (out of 200) 122 (out of 200) First get our own house in order ABN AMRO recently came into contact with the Utrecht risks of financial investment structures to be so opaque. It will ­Sustainability Institute (USI). The USI organises a programme of take years to reform the financial system as a whole, but public meetings called Sustainable Finance Lab (SFL) to discuss ­changing the mindset is itself a step in the right direction. ways of making the financial sector more sustainable. Former ABN AMRO needs to get its own house in order in the years Dutch Environment Minister Jacqueline Cramer is USI’s director: ahead. That’s a major challenge. But making products and “It’s important for us to learn from past mistakes”, she says. equity funds more sustainable is also a good thing in terms of “We talk with banks at SFL meetings about issues such as how customer service. We want to maintain this dialogue with certain mechanisms came about. Or how it was possible for the ABN AMRO so we can contribute to that process.” 15 ­claw-back possibilities for the entire Dutch financial sector 2.4 Stakeholder Board as from 2015. This, the Finance Minister stated, will give the Netherlands the strictest bonus policy regime In 2013, ABN AMRO set up a Stakeholder Board to further in Europe. professionalise bank-wide stakeholder management. ­ The new board is made up of senior managers from the ABN AMRO has taken measures to comply with all bank and met four times in 2013. ­relevant remuneration requirements for its employees and will continue to do so. Starting in January 2014, the bank The Stakeholder Board has set out a new stakeholder is due to lower the variable income component for ­management approach and performed stakeholder ­members of its Management Group (senior managers in ­analyses. It has also determined which issues our key management layers directly below the Managing Board) ­stakeholders consider most important, what they expect from a maximum of 100% to at most 20% of their annual of ABN AMRO, and whether there is any gap between salary – ahead of legislation to this effect. their expectations and the bank’s activities. Lastly, the ­Stakeholder Board approved a programme to ensure Negotiations are underway on a new collective labour that a structural dialogue on the most pressing, current agreement for ABN AMRO staff in the Netherlands. issues is maintained in 2014 with the bank’s most relevant ­Moderation of employment conditions such as pay and ­stakeholders. No attempt will be made to avoid delicate ­benefits, including pension schemes, are among the subjects that clients or the public consider important. main topics of discussion. Topics of this kind include: putting clients’ interests centre stage; the mortgage market; lending to SMEs; A concise review of the exchanges that occurred between ­remuneration policy; and ABN AMRO’s place in the ABN AMRO and its key stakeholders in 2013 in respect of Dutch banking landscape. specific sustainability issues can be found in Appendix 4. Engaging with an ecological stakeholder It is important to keep in close contact with our stakeholders. ­broadest sense of the word: from investment to the New World As part of that commitment, we recently talked to the environof Work (NWW). We’re in intensive contact about NWW in mental organisation Natuur & Milieu. This ecological foundation ­particular. ABN AMRO wants to position itself as an innovative is committed to a sustainable and healthy world, and campaigns employer, which is why it has embraced our national NWW for clean energy, smart mobility and a good diet. Olof van der ­campaign. Collaboration is a win-win for us both: we can Gaag is its head of marketing campaigns. “We share the ­achieve more by working together.” ­challenge with ABN AMRO of bringing about a transition”, he says. “So our discussions are about sustainability in the 16 applying the sustainability policy to our operations applying the sustainability policy to our operations 3 ABN AMRO has guidelines for assessing sustainability risks. Together, these guidelines form the bank’s environmental, social and ethical policy, ESE policy for short. We apply them when ­assessing clients, applications for loans and other transactions. In 2013, we made further strides in ­enhancing our ESE policy and in applying it more consistently to our everyday business ­operations. One manifestation of this is the increasing number of instances in which our ESE risk experts provided advice to the businesses. A separate project was set up to improve the ­application of our sustainability policy in the bank’s commercial loan business. We expect to ­finalise this project in 2014. The process of embedding sustainability in our ‘know your customer’ procedures was completed for most of the bank’s businesses during the course of 2013. Environmental, social and ethical risks, also known as sustainability risks, form part of ABN AMRO’s bank-wide risk model. To this end, we again defined our sustainability risk appetite in 2013 and included specific sustainability risks in our approach to monitoring the bank’s operational risk. 3.1 Client acceptance policy As part of the screening process, we asked 123 clients active in sensitive sectors such as energy extraction, palm The client acceptance process examines whether clients oil, tobacco and chemicals to certify in writing that they are involved in activities that feature in ABN AMRO’s would observe our Exclusion List. We asked for this ­Exclusion List. This list sets out the activities ABN AMRO ­explicit endorsement of our Exclusion List in appropriate is unwilling to support or be associated with. It applies to cases. In 2013 we took an important step forward in all the bank’s services, with the exception of securities ­guaranteeing the integrity of our clients’ supply chain by transactions on behalf of clients, which are subject to adding the FPIC principle – Free, Prior and Informed our policy for investments (see Section 3.4). ­Consent – to our client acceptance procedure. To view the complete Exclusion List, go to abnamro.com/en/ Sustainability/risk-management 17 The acceptance process for payment transactions by 3.2 Policy for lending ­internationally operating corporate clients active in ­high-risk sectors, such as energy extraction and mining, Our ESE policy for lending requires that we identify the now includes an additional due diligence. These clients are sustainability risks for each commercial loan application. assessed on their sustainability policy and commitment, In higher risk cases, we perform an additional due their sustainability management systems and their ­diligence based on our environmental, social and ethical ­reputation in this area. standards. Corporate clients who have loans with the LC&MB Sustainability Risk Management We clients asked2020clients Weasked to certify to certify in writing in writing that they would that they 2013 observe would our Exclusion observe ListList our Exclusion Client Credit Total acceptance process x20 process Agricultural commodities 160 89 249 Energy 129 63 192 Energy commodities 193 82 275 Metals commodities 187 50 237 Transport 208 52 260 Other sectors 26 26 52 Total 903 362 1,265 18 applying the sustainability policy to our operations bank of less than EUR 1 million are considered low risk. Category C: projects with minimal or no social or The figure below illustrates how the ESE policy is ­applied ­environmental impacts. within the credit application process. The aim of the ­process is to identify potential sustainability risks and if such risks exist, to determine whether they can be 3.4 Policy for investments ­adequately managed. The higher the potential risk, the better the client’s social and environmental performance ABN AMRO is set to introduce its Sustainability Policy ­ has to be. This does not mean, incidentally, that we do for Investments (SPI) in 2014, initially planned for 2013. not accept transactions with a higher risk exposure. Its implementation was postponed as there was ­insufficient consensus about details of the policy. The SPI has the same set-up as the policy for lending 3.3 Project financing policy and is based on the bank’s Sustainability Risk ­Management Policy. It makes a distinction between ABN AMRO applies the Equator Principles to all project ­investments made by ABN AMRO itself and investments ­finance and project advisory services and ­welcomes made on behalf of clients. This latter category can be the changes made to them in 2013 (see also equator­subdivided into asset management, investment advice principles.com). We actively participated in ­discussions and purchase and sale orders received from clients. about their implementation as a member ­financial The SPI describes the sustainability criteria the bank ­institution of the Association of Equator Principles. In 2014, uses and the relevant decision-making structure. the bank i­ntends to align its project financing policy with ABN AMRO offers its clients a range of sustainable the ­updated Equator Principles (Equator ­Principles III), ­investment solutions, and interest in these products is which will apply to a wider range of financing products. growing. Starting in 2014, we will require our investment In addition to project financing, this will ­include pre-financing, fund suppliers to sign the United Nations Principles for ­bridging facilities and project-related financing. Responsible Investment (UNPRI), to which the bank is also committed. The Equator Principles make a distinction between three types of projects: In addition to distributing the sustainable investment Category A: projects with potentially significant ­adverse funds of other asset management companies, the bank social or environmental impacts that are ­diverse, offers proprietary sustainable investment products. ­irreversible or unprecedented. This i­ncludes both individual investment mandates and Category B: projects with potentially limited adverse a number of investment funds managed by our private social or environmental impacts that are site-specific, banks in France and Germany. In our sustainable largely reversible and readily addressed through ­investment portfolios, we exclude certain investments ­mitigation measures. and i­nclude only forerunners in sustainability. Credit application process Risk Monitoring & Assessment Approval determination Reporting Identify sustainability risk Determine risk level: Meets requirements = Meets requirements = of transactions Low medium high standard procedure standard procedure Perform adequate due Does not meet Does not meet diligence requirements = requirements = extra monitoring/ progress report conditions or withdrawal (and supervision report) 19 Sustainability department ABN AMRO’s Sustainability department is responsible for: experts, boosting commitment to these themes across ­ developing the bank’s sustainability policy; ABN AMRO. The reporting process is structured as follows: evaluating and advising on sustainability risks relating to Progress on the long-term sustainability strategy is reported loan and investment applications; every month to the Managing Board member responsible stimulating sustainable products and other initiatives by for sustainability. ABN AMRO clients; Sustainability is presented to the Managing Board and the encouraging and facilitating dialogue on sustainability issues Supervisory Board as part of the long-term strategy at least inside and outside the bank; once a quarter. supervising internal sustainability initiatives such as CO2 An annual sustainability report is drawn up for the bank’s ­reduction; ­stakeholders. reporting on sustainability results. Individual sustainability results are reported to senior ­management from the different sections of the bank. In addition to the central Sustainability department, many of the bank’s other departments have their own sustainability Our standard investment products and services, too, We exclude all oil and gas exploration within the Arctic need to meet strict criteria. We do not, for example, allow region. We may, however, provide general loans to our clients in Europe to invest in companies in any way clients involved in this activity. The bank expects these ­involved in cluster weapons, and related positions have clients to meet the highest environmental and safety been closed. Our stringent policy applies equally to standards. ­investment products offered by non-listed companies. We only provide funding for new coal-fired power ­stations that meet strict emission and energy efficiency standards. Existing power stations are financed only if 3.5 Industry-specific policies their environmental performance shows marked ­improvement. In addition to its general sustainability policy, ABN AMRO The scope of the new policy is broad and encompasses works with customised guidelines for a number of such things as electricity generation, renewable energy, ­high-risk industries. We call this our industry-specific and oil trading and storage. ­sustainability policy and constantly monitor our policies to take ­account of changes taking place in our clients’ 3.5.2 Policy for the defence industry businesses, in the market and in society as a whole. In 2013 we updated our policy for the defence industry in response to new Dutch legislation banning investments 3.5.1 Policy for the energy industry in cluster munitions. The policy is up for a complete review The new policy for the energy industry was completed in in 2014, in line with amendments to international guidelines 2013 and is due to be fully approved in the first weeks of and technological developments in the defence industry. 2014. It was drawn up in close consultation with clients, We will call on experts from outside the bank for this energy experts and the bank’s own staff and sets clear ­purpose. standards for our clients in the energy industry. The main aspects of the policy are: 3.5.3 New industry-specific policies: We plan to assess individual applications for direct manufacturing and real estate ­funding of shale gas extraction. Important assessment 2013 saw the start of new policies for the manufacturing criteria are the proper use of best practices and local and real estate industries. Here, too, the policies have support for shale gas extraction. been drawn up in consultation with relevant stakeholders We operate an exceptionally restrictive policy towards – clients, trade associations, industry experts, including nuclear energy. NGOs, and our own employees. 20 applying the sustainability policy to our operations As the biggest environmental and social risks in manu­ We set up a project to further integrate sustainability facturing relate to production, we encourage our clients to ­criteria in the loan application procedure of large corporates consider the production circumstances in the countries in and small and medium-sized businesses. The project is run which they are active. The ESE policy for the manufacturing by relationship managers, risk managers, process specialists industry pays special attention to clients with activities in and sustainability experts. During the fourth quarter of 2013, electronics, food and beverage, clothing and textiles and we made concrete plans for the integration of sustainability diamonds and jewellery (see Section 4.1.4). criteria in the loan application procedure and in the systems used. The integration process is scheduled to be The environmental impact of the real estate sector is ­completed in 2014, after which all loan applications (with a ­substantial. In the European Union, real estate is threshold of EUR 1 million) should be assessed against the ­responsible for 42% of total energy consumption and for bank’s ESE policy and the results systematically recorded. 35% of CO2 emissions. Research has shown, moreover, that a good sustainability record has a positive impact on As part of our Sustainability Policy for Lending, we did the value and occupancy rate of real estate. We are in the a quick scan of all existing clients of the business lines ­process of investigating whether and how factors such as ­Business Banking, Corporate Clients and Large Corpoenergy efficiency, public transport availability and the use rates. They were screened for sustainability risks and of sustainable materials have been incorporated in the ­subsequently divided according to their level of risk: low, policy. We expect to finalise our policy for the real estate medium or high. This exercise has provided us with a sector in 2014. ­general overview of our existing loan portfolio, potential sustainability risks and the sustainability performance of our clients. 3.6 Our sustainability policy in practice Moving on to our project financing policy, a total of ten project finance transactions were assessed against We are working to integrate sustainability more effectively the Equator Principles in 2013. Two projects were found in our day-to-day business operations. A number of key to have a potentially strong negative environmental and ­developments in 2013 are set out below. social impact (Category A), seven projects a potentially ­limited adverse social or environmental impact Each year we define the ‘risk appetite’ for the bank. (Category B) and one project had minimal or no adverse As part of this process, we define our sustainability risk impact ­(Category C). The number of projects in appetite, for the bank as a whole as well as for each high-­income/OECD countries totalled four. Details of ­individual entity. We strive to make the risk appetite the r­ esults can be found in ­Appendix 1 of this report. more concrete every year. Making the palm oil sector more sustainable A prospective client recently approached us to open a business ­initiative to make both palm oil plantations and the purchase account. It was a trader in palm kernel husks, which are used as and sale of palm oil more sustainable. We made membership biomass in energy generation. Another bank had turned it down, a precondition for opening the account. The client agreed as the sector was not viewed as sustainable. There are indeed and has undertaken to move toward purchasing on a 100% regular reports of deforestation, greenhouse gas emissions ­RSPO-certified basis. We will see to it that this actually due to forest fires, and poor working conditions on plantations. happens, as we think it is very important that all parties in the palm oil chain live up to their responsibilities. For that reason, we expect our clients to be members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). This is a sector 21 Tax policy We recognise the important role taxation can play in our We do not use secrecy jurisdictions or so-called tax havens for sustain­ability strategy, where we use our financial expertise for tax avoidance, nor do we create or help create tax structures the benefit of society. that are intended for tax avoidance, have no commercial sub­stance and do not meet the spirit of the law. Our transfer We aim for a moderate tax risk profile, acting at all times in pricing is always based on the arm’s-length principle. ­accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and guided by relevant international standards. Our aim is to comply with the Products we offer that include tax advantages for clients are spirit as well as the letter of the law and with any legitimate disonly acceptable when these products fully meet the regulations closure requirement at first demand. We seek to develop strong, in force, are transparent and do not contravene the intended mutually respectful relationships with national tax authorities purpose of these regulations. We are transparent about our based on transparency and mutual trust. ­approach to tax and comply with all the relevant rules regarding transparency. In 2013, the risk experts at the Sustainability department If the client is not interested in pursuing this, we advise screened the content of 329 applications for financing against approval and will scale back or end the relationship. with a potentially high sustainability risk as well as six clients looking for services other than credit. A total of 335 cases In 2013, an unconditional positive recommendation was required an additional ESE due diligence. The screening given for 228 transactions and/or clients, in 78 cases we ­related chiefly to transactions in agriculture, mining, the advised positively subject to supplementary conditions, energy industry and the defence industry and its suppliers. and 14 clients/transactions were advised negatively Based on this due diligence, our ­recommendations for (see appendix 1). credit applications were either ­positive, positive subject to supplementary conditions or negative. Since June 2013, all new clients at Business Banking and Corporate Clients are screened with the aid of the Where the recommendation was negative, this did not ­Exclusion List as a standard part of the client acceptance ­necessarily mean that we parted with the client concerned. procedure. Existing clients have already been screened In these cases we first try to develop an improvement against this list. plan with the client and to set a time limit for its implementation. If the client agrees, we give a positive The management teams of all business units perform ­recommendation subject to supplementary conditions. an annual strategic risk analysis in which sustainability is Risk experts screened the content of 335 applications Our risk experts focused explicitly on human rights in with a potentially high sustainability risk Our risk expertstofocused relation explicitly the client’s on human activities casesin relation in 131rights Risk experts screened the content of 335 applications to the client’s activities in 131 cases with a potentially high sustainability risk 22 applying the sustainability policy to our operations Further embedding sustainability at ECT Energy, Commodities & Transportation (ECT) is part of Large ECT continued to structurally integrate sustainability in the ­Corporates & Merchant Banking (LC&MB). In 2013, ECT’s senior credit and client acceptance processes. Credit proposals management committed to using its strong market knowledge now include a sustainability assessment, and a screening of and trusted client relationships to make a positive contribution clients and prospects by ECT’s sustainability team has become to society and sustainable development. a compulsory component of the client acceptance process. In the year under review, ECT further embedded the use of the Appendix 1 provides a review of the number of ECT clients sustainability tools it introduced in 2012 in virtually all industries and loans screened for sustainability risks per industry in which it is active. The tools enable relationship managers to and process (credit and client acceptance). In 2013, identify their industry’s sustainability risks and to determine the ECT screened a total of 1,265 clients and activities. performance of their clients in addressing these risks. A team of sustainability experts at ECT supervises the process and The purpose of the Sustainability Management Operating ­coaches the relationship managers and commercial staff. System we designed for ECT is to allow systematic client In this way, they can ensure the effective application of the benchmarking, to accurately monitor clients’ sustainability ­sustainability tools and policies in ECT’s day-to-day business performance and to ensure more comprehensive sustain­ operations. The tools for the oil and gas industry were finalised ability reporting. The system is due to be rolled out at ECT in in 2013, aligning the process with our policy for the energy ­January 2014, followed by other LC&MB businesses during industry. the course of the year. a permanent element. During the course of 2013, various ­programme. All staff at ID&JG worldwide took part in points for improvement were identified on the basis of the p ­ rogramme in 2013. these analyses. We discovered, for example, that our ­Exclusion List had not yet been integrated in the client In another development, we again joined forces in 2013 ­acceptance process of our financial advisory services at with other financial institutions and our stakeholders in Corporate Finance & Capital Markets (CFCM). an effort to enhance our influence and to promote the Additionally, monthly integrated risk reporting has been ­importance of sustainability issues among our clients. ­introduced in all commercial business lines. The reports explicitly address sustainability risks. Based on these ­reports, the Sustainability department examines whether 3.7 Our commitment to human rights the units have adequately integrated the bank’s sustain­ ability policy in their day-to-day operations. The bank set up a Human Rights Working Group in 2013 consisting of Sustainability department staff as well as In our industry-specific policy, we developed a Sustainable employees from the Risk, Compliance, Legal, HR and Fashion Guide for clients in the clothing industry in Public Affairs departments. The working group exchanges ­collaboration with communication consultants Schuttelaar views on our responsibility and role, and that of our & Partners. This tool has its roots in the bank’s ESE policy clients, in the advancement of human rights. The working for the manufacturing industry and will be presented group’s input is used to further develop our policy on during the Amsterdam Fashion Week 2014. human rights. The Sustainability department supported the International Of the 335 clients and transactions screened, our risk Diamonds & Jewelry Group (ID&JG) in developing ­experts focused explicitly on human rights in relation to and ­implementing a sustainability awareness training the client’s activities in 131 cases. 23 Corporate Governance Our corporate governance goals in 2013 included applying more in keeping with the bank in today’s world and with enhan­elements of the Guidance on Board Effectiveness (Leidraad ced staff involvement. In the year under review, this led to the ­Effectief Bestuur). One result was that the implementation of our ­participation model, in which downsized works councils strategic objectives – one pillar of which is sustainability – is (half the current size) work closely with groups of participants now monitored more strictly and discussed each quarter by the from the organisation. These are employees who make Managing and Supervisory Boards. Progress made in the ­themselves available for a limited portion of their time for ­implementation of Customer Excellence throughout the organi­specific projects carried out by the chosen members of the sation and across all business lines is also addressed during works council. The term in office has also been reduced. this monitoring process. Client centricity, transparency and Both these changes will result in greater flexibility and ­simplification are important aspects of Customer Excellence – ­mobility within employee consultation. Additionally, making all of them relevant themes in the long-term strategy. better use of employees’ knowledge and experience will ­enhance the quality of decision-making. The model will be At the beginning of 2013 the bank also drew up governance tested during the new term and developed further. ­principles that offer guidance when making choices about ­structuring the organisation. The latter includes elements such The detailed corporate governance report is included in the as the approach to decision-making and accountability, annual report. It includes an account of the structure and ­organisation structure and management style. composition of the Supervisory and Managing Boards, the lifelong learning programme and self-evaluation. For more There was also a strong focus in 2013 on renewing employee ­information, see abnamro.com. consultation. The aim here was to achieve a form of consultation ABN AMRO is now actively involved in a number of department set up a pilot project with ID&JG in an ­initiatives in the area of human rights, including: effort to chart the human rights risks involved in the ­diamond and jewellery industry and to develop a method UNGCOP. This project seeks to establish a global to reduce these risks. We succeeded in doing so thanks ­business community to share best practices in human to our engagement with clients and industry experts. rights due diligence and risk management. At the 2013 United Nations Forum on Business and Human Rights, the UNGCOP presented its first results in the form of 3.8 Our plans for the future a guidance note. The UNEP Finance Initiative Human Rights Work Our plans for 2014 include: Stream. This group, part of the United Nations Environfinalising the integration of sustainability criteria in our ment Programme, is committed to exploring the credit business and know-your-customer procedures; ­relationship between human rights and financial sector updating our policy for the defence industry; practices. The Work Stream’s objective is to develop finalising our investment policy and policy for the an understanding of human rights and how they apply ­manufacturing and real estate industries; to financial institutions worldwide, so that financial continuous training in sustainability awareness and sector professionals are equipped to make responsible knowledge; decisions within their spheres of influence – as an improving management information and reporting ­employer, provider of financial services, or purchaser about the implementation of and compliance with the of goods and resources. bank’s sustainability policy. The Peer Learning Group on Human Rights of the Global Compact Network Germany. ABN AMRO is an active participant in this group. In 2013 the Sustainability 24 applying the sustainability policy to our operations Ethics & Integrity These days, stakeholders of the financial industry are focusing more and more on integrity and the ethical aspects of products and conduct. ABN AMRO ­acknowledges this development and has responded appropriately. Steering on good conduct In 2013 ABN AMRO decided to broaden the scope of its compliance function to include conduct and conduct risk. In line with this, the name has been changed into Group Compliance & Conduct. The department supports the bank in delivering behavioural change where and when needed and acts as the bank’s navigator for good conduct. Ethics Committee We want our clients to perceive us as trusted, professional and ambitious. These core values must be reflected in the behaviour of our management and staff. We have developed our Business Principles to guide our staff in their daily work. In practice, however, we see that client centricity and profitability sometimes conflict with each other. This may give rise to dilemmas. One of the activities of the new Compliance & Conduct department is to set up and take part in a bank-wide Ethics Committee. The goal of the committee is twofold: to assess and analyse dilemmas related to culture, ­behaviour and ethics and to support the Managing Board in developing the bank’s vision on how to handle ­dilemmas in day-to-day banking practice. The Ethics Committee kicked off in the first quarter of 2014. Drivers of good conduct ABN AMRO introduced its Business Principles in 2012 as guidelines on how we want to deal with our clients, colleagues and society as a whole. Still, various stakeholders are placing increasing emphasis on the integrity of business conduct. In response to this and to underline the importance we attach to encouraging the right culture and behaviour in our organisation, we drew up a monitoring & testing framework to enable the bank to better steer on good conduct and on doing the right thing. 25 We define doing the right thing as committing to our mission, identifying with our purpose, ­delivering on our s­ trategy, living our core values and Business Principles, and complying with and acting in the spirit of internal and external rules and regulations. We refer to this as good conduct. The monitoring & testing framework is based on our company mission, strategy, corporate values and Business Principles. This has resulted in drivers of good conduct, which should help everyone in the ­organisation do the right thing. At ABN AMRO, the eight drivers of good conduct are: Clarity – everyone understands what good conduct is; Role modelling – everyone sets a good example; Discussability – everyone discusses issues and dilemmas regarding good conduct internally and feels free to do so; Achievability – everyone has sufficient resources (time, knowledge, experience, budget, etc.) to properly p­ erform their job while acting with good conduct; Engagement – everyone endorses good conduct and is encouraged by the organisation to do so; Transparency – everyone understands the impact of their own conduct and is aware of the conduct of others; Accountability – everyone is accountable for their own good conduct and feels free to ­confront those who do not show good conduct; Sanctionability – everyone in the organisation is rewarded for good conduct and punished for bad conduct. Monitoring and testing these drivers of good conduct will enable the organisation to assess employee ­behaviour and allow management to intervene where behaviour is not up to standard. We plan to implement monitoring and testing of drivers of good conduct bank-wide in 2014. Security and Intelligence Management In 2013, ABN AMRO’s Security and Intelligence Management department contributed to the fight against ­financial crime (such as e-crime, bribery, corruption and money laundering) by further shaping public-private collaboration. Only by joining forces can private parties and government effectively combat financial crime to ensure a safe and honest banking environment for clients and society alike. An initiative in which ABN AMRO and some of its peers teamed up with the Dutch National Police to reduce the number of gas ­attacks on ATMs is just one example. Anti-corruption Acting with integrity is at the core of our culture. That is why we have a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption. This policy is endorsed by senior management. We do so not only to comply with laws and ­regulations, but mainly because we are serious about our responsibility to counter the adverse effects of ­corruption on society. In 2013 our Managing Board chairman informed all staff world-wide about the bank’s ­anti-corruption policy and their role in this. To further enhance awareness of the topic, a global online training programme is set to be launched in 2014. 26 enhancing client centricity centricity enhancing client 4 Retail & Private Banking and Commercial & Merchant Banking are firmly committed to putting clients’ interests centre stage and to building lasting client relationships. This commitment guides us in all our business decisions. It is reflected in the sustainable and responsible products and services we offer and in our day-to-day business operations. 4.1 Retail & Private Banking clients during the development of our website, online ­banking and mobile banking services. In our in-house In 2013, Retail & Private Banking took further steps ­Usability Lab, clients provide suggestions for improvement towards embedding client centricity in its operations of our online customer experience. and expanding and enhancing its offering of sustainable solutions – ranging from responsible mortgage lending Answers to today’s questions to sustainable private investment, and from loans and Many of the questions our retail clients have, relate savings products that help create a better environment to f­ inancial issues. Should I buy a home or rent one? to financing companies that make a positive contribution Do I want to continue working or shall I retire? Is it to the community. wise to save, pay back my loan, give away my money? We are happy to assist them to find the answers to all 4.1.1 A better bank: retail clients’ these questions by offering a range of services: our interests centre stage ­financial planning handbook, online tools, seminars, As part of our commitment to client centricity, we actively ­practical tips and devices, information on the internet and, involve our clients in the development and improvement of course, our personal expert advice. All of which help of our services. One way in which we do this is by inviting our clients find the answers to today’s questions. feedback from a community of 300 of our most loyal clients. All important client information is first presented Carefree living to this community and to our online panel of 5,500 clients Some of our clients have been affected by the economic for their input. Similarly, we frequently ask our clients for situation and ABN AMRO lives up to its responsibilities feedback after they have been in contact with our staff or in this regard. We have taken various initiatives to help after visiting our website. This provides us with a better clients prevent mortgage arrears and optimise their debt understanding of how clients rate our services, enabling situation since the financial crisis started five years ago. us to continually improve and to tailor them even more In 2012, ABN AMRO took a further important step in this closely to their needs. We also interact actively with area: more than 230,000 clients were actively approached 27 as part of various programmes. In its Responsible Mortgage before they default on their mortgages. ABN AMRO called &L ­ ending programme, for example, Retail Banking focused a total of 31,000 clients. This resulted in 13,700 clients on clients at risk of facing financial difficulties. Trained in taking part in financial coaching sessions (a conversion ­financial coaching, 200 of the bank’s dedicated advisors ratio of 44%). In addition, clients had 6,500 consultations help clients gain insight into their financial situation and with a financial advisor to help them make changes to find a customised, realistic solution, approaching them their mortgage or consumer loans. Customer Excellence We launched Customer Excellence three years ago. Customer both large and small, this past year in the CE context. Excellence (CE) is a new way of working in which we put our We reduced the size of reports and offers, for instance, clients’ interests centre stage and structure our organisation so ­distri­buted fewer hard copies and processed more forms that clients get the best possible service as quickly as possible ­electronically. Managing Board reporting was cut from forty and at the lowest possible cost. Over 50% of our employees have pages to six. Thanks to these and similar measures, we saved since been actively involved in this initiative, and we now have almost one million sheets of paper compared with 2011. CE is 220 certified CE experts in-house. also bearing fruit in terms of efficiency: throughput times have been reduced, we now have a digital ‘SOP Store’ for all our Customer Excellence has three main goals: greater client standard operating procedures, and client request losses have ­satisfaction, greater employee satisfaction and greater cost been reduced by our ability to identify customer wishes even ­efficiency. We once again implemented a series of changes, more effectively. 28 enhancing client centricity Additionally, since 1 September 2013, clients with a Retired ABN AMRO employees teach other retirees how mortgage that exceeds the value of the property have to take full advantage of the benefits of Internet Banking. been able to pay off their mortgage penalty-free up to But we offer more than financial services alone. In 2013 the value set under the Real Estate Valuation Act we introduced a tool to help the 800,000 or so people in (Wet waardering onroerende zaken – WOZ). Clients the Netherlands suffering from arthritis or other muscle or without negative equity can repay up to 15% of their joint ailments to remove their bank cards from an ATM slot mortgage penalty-free each year. after they’ve completed a transaction. This gesture was well-received by the target group, on social media and by Designed especially for children: financial education special interest groups. and a youth bank account Our retail bank seeks to tailor products and services to 4.1.2 Retail banking products and services best suit the target groups we serve. In this vein, we are for a better world committed to helping our young clients learn about ABN AMRO seeks to offer products and services money. We’ve developed various initiatives for that that are beneficial to its clients. That is why we have ­purpose, including the Dutch financial education website developed a set of criteria for approving new products Money: extra.abnamro.nl/geld. Aimed at children aged and services. The kind of questions we ask include: between nine and eleven, the site offers videos, games How does the p ­ roduct add value for the client? and quizzes about money. In another initiative with the How t­ ransparent is it? What will it cost the client? Is the ­independent Nibud budget advice foundation, ABN AMRO ­product appropriate for the client? And will it ­contribute has developed a primary school course ‘Be a Hero with to building sustainable, lasting relationships with our your Money’. The course is given by employees who clients? In doing so, we meet society’s demand for visit schools to give primary school pupils lessons in ­transparency and clarity. ­handling money. Designed especially for the environment: GreenLoans Our product range for children also includes a specially and Green Savings Deposit ­developed bank account, the only current and savings GreenLoans, an initiative of ABN AMRO subsidiary ALFAM ­account in the Netherlands designed for parents Consumer Credit, has been developed especially for who want to teach their children how to manage ­private individuals wishing to make green investments their cash. such as solar panels. The loans themselves are financed in turn by sustainable funds. In this way, GreenLoans contriDesigned especially for the elderly: online banking butes to energy conservation and a sustainable society. workshops and card retriever Another sustainable savings product developed for retail For our senior clients we offer online banking workshops. clients is ABN AMRO Groenbank’s Green Savings Deposit. Racing for a hospital charity ABN AMRO organised the ‘Racing for Emma’ event on Sunday part in the racing event. ABN AMRO employees could also 21 April 2013, to support a children’s hospital charity, the Emma enter a company team in return for two hours’ gross salary. Children’s Hospital Support Foundation. For one weekend, The money raised was enough to provide two intensive-care we turned our car park at Foppingadreef in Amsterdam into a rooms with sleeping facilities for parents of sick children. ­go-kart track. The idea was to raise money for the charity and to The Emma Children’s Hospital AMC Support Foundation ­ give current and former patients, their families and friends, a awarded ABN AMRO a prize for the most original sponsorship great day out. The youngsters got to race on the Saturday, and event. were presented with medals afterwards. In addition to go-karting, there were activities like a rap workshop, a craft corner, and a life-size Wii tennis game. The go-karts were then made available on the Sunday to business teams, who could pay to take 29 Our retail bank seeks to tailor products and services to best suit the target groups we serve These client savings are used to invest in government-­ ­sustainable solutions, investments and initiatives. approved green projects such as wind farms, solar panels A special logo shows clients which products and services or the creation of new natural areas. Green Savings make a real contribution to society. In this way we ­Deposits enable our clients to contribute directly to a ­encourage our clients to bank sustainably. better environment. In addition to developing green products, we can all 4.1.3 A better bank: private banking clients’ ­contribute to sustainable banking by making small interests centre stage ­changes. One way in which ABN AMRO does so is by ­offering clients the possibility of conducting more and Transparency and investment propositions more of their banking affairs online. And this brings us a Clients and regulators alike are calling for greater step closer to paperless banking (for our activities in this ­transparency. Apart from expecting good advice, many of area, see Section 5.1.2). our private banking clients are looking to gain more insight into the services we offer and the costs we charge. We Web pages dedicated to sustainability have effectively responded to this in our drive to truly put In order to show clients how we embed sustainability in our clients’ interests centre stage and have introduced our strategy and operations, and how they themselves three new concepts for investment advice in the can contribute, our website for retail clients has pages ­Netherlands: Comfort Investment Advice, Active ­dedicated to sustainability (abnamro.nl/nl/overabnamro/ ­Investment Advice, and Trading. In this new setup, clients duurzaamheid, in Dutch only). The website details our can choose the desired level of involvement in their The 200 The 200 dedicated dedicated advisors advisors of our of our Mortgage Mortgage Care Care Teamhelp Team The Green The Green Savings Deposit Savings invests Deposit in in ­governmentinvests clientshelp whoclients who face difficulties face financial financial difficulties government-approved approved green projects green projects mortgage care 30 enhancing client centricity ­investment portfolio. Additionally, we offer them a clear Next Generation proposition and transparent fees and charges. The charges We are seeing a growing interest among the next are based on the frequency with which clients want ­generation of private banking clients to put their financial advice about their investments. Outside the Netherlands and intellectual resources to work for social goals and, in we aim to introduce similar advisory concepts in 2014. doing so, to contribute to a better world. This young Another change is that investment fund managers no ­generation is keen to take the initiative to make their longer pay retrocession fees to the distributors of the ­family’s existing investment portfolio more sustainable. funds. Clients can now see directly what they have to At the same time, they are using their resources to make pay for our advisory services. a positive social or ecological impact, where possible in combination with financial returns. In response to this, Our efforts in this area have not gone unnoticed. In 2013, we have made impact investing workshops a standard ABN AMRO Private Banking won the award for best component of the Global Next Generation Family Business ­Website for Wealth Management for the second year in a Seminars, which Private Wealth Management has been row. The award is based on an annual benchmark survey ­offering since 2010. Similarly, the Generation Next conducted by the Swiss research agency MyPrivateBanking Academy programme that ABN AMRO MeesPierson has Research, which compares the websites of fifty leading been offering in the Netherlands since 2008 includes an private banks. The websites are judged on the basis of array of workshops ranging from investing and wealth their navigation & structure, content & interactivity and transfer to philanthropy and art. The success of the global social media. ABN AMRO Private Banking’s website was network Nexus, which seeks to bring ultra-high-net lauded in particular for its content & interactivity. worth next gens into contact with social enterprises, The award is testament to the success of our efforts is proof of the next generation’s interest in socially to provide clients with clear information and greater ­responsible b ­ usiness. Nexus has grown to over 1000 ­transparency. members w ­ orldwide in less than three years. In May Embedding sustainability in R&PB’s organisation In 2013, Retail & Private Banking (R&PB) took further strides initiatives undertaken in the business. The creation of this ­towards firmly embedding sustainability in their operations. new position has resulted in the structural implementation Three key developments took place in this regard: of the Controversial Weapons List, a significant increase in sustainability awareness among R&PB staff, broad support Our Investment Engagement Committee (IEC), set up in 2012, for sustainable investment and enhanced external com­ defines the approach we take to integrating sustainability into munication about sustainability at ABN AMRO. Additionally, our regular investment services. The most important developR&PB will seek to tailor its sustainable products and ments in 2013 were the IEC’s decision to add more companies services more specifically to the countries in which it opeto the Controversial Weapons List of businesses excluded rates. from our investment universe and corporate loans, as well as the decision to discontinue relationships with fund managers The Retail & Private Banking Sustainability Steering Group who do not comply with the relevant laws on Cluster Weapons. was established in October 2013. The steering group is As the IEC’s decisions impact the entire organisation, all chaired by Chris Vogelzang, the Managing Board member ­commercial business lines are represented on the Committee, responsible for Retail & Private Banking. It is designed to as are the Risk and central Sustainability departments. drive sustainability initiatives by the business. In the short The IEC is chaired by Caroline Princen, the Managing Board span since its inception, the steering group has endorsed member responsible for sustainability. the focus on sustainable investment by Private Banking as well as Retail Banking’s commitment to provide more In March 2013, R&PB appointed a senior manager responsible ­sustainable and responsible services. for sustainability. It is the R&PB Sustainability Manager’s duty to further integrate, coordinate and monitor sustainability 31 2013, ABN AMRO Private Banking sponsored the Nexus We have tightened our procedures and systems to ­European Youth Summit in London, which will be organised ensure that these kinds of securities cannot be again in 2014 in addition to an exclusive partnership in ­included in our systems in the future. the Netherlands. We added a number of non-listed companies to our Controversial Weapons List. These companies are 4.1.4 Private banking products and services ­relevant because, although they are not listed, they for a better world may have public loans outstanding. Based on the conviction that private capital is a major We also added some companies involved in nuclear force contributing to enhanced sustainability, we set great weapons to the Controversial Weapons List. These store by working with our clients to achieve a better world. companies are based in countries that have not signed We do so by offering customised advice, products and the Non-Proliferation Treaty and that are not NATO services. Our activities form part of the Capital4Change members. initiative and consist of: Our policy on controversial weapons is stricter than Sustainable investment the recently amended Dutch legislation in this area. Impact investing Philanthropy advice The investment funds sold and distributed through the ABN AMRO network should act in accordance with Dutch Sustainable investment legislation and may not hold more than 5% of the assets ABN AMRO distinguishes various grades of sustainable in companies involved in the production of controversial ­investment. Our regular investment product range is weapons. As we have no direct control over the invest­increasingly integrating sustainability in its service offering. ments of these funds, we cannot impose stricter criteria. One such development was the introduction by the bank A large majority of these funds meet the relevant criteria; of the Controversial Weapons List in 2012. The list includes a very small number do not. ABN AMRO intends to businesses involved in the production of controversial ­discontinue the distribution of these investment funds in 2014. ­weapons. Shares or bonds in companies that feature on this list are no longer sold through ABN AMRO. The excluABN AMRO is a signatory to the United Nations Principles sion of companies on these grounds applies to the bank’s for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) and investment entire investment product offering. In 2013, we made funds distributed by the bank have been requested to further strides in this area: sign the UNPRI or an equivalent statement. More than 85% of our contracted asset managers are now UNPRI signatories. Our goal for 2014 is to do business only with external managers who have signed the UNPRI or an ­equivalent statement. Procedures and systems for the implementation of the Procedures Controversial and systems Weapons List for the been have implementation tightened of the Controversial Weapons List have been tightened 2013 32 enhancing client centricity In general, investor interest in sustainable investment Nudge, an online consumer platform that connects more ­continued to grow. This growth was driven mainly by than 30,000 consumers, businesses, causes and policy­ongoing demand for sustainable mandates in the makers in the Netherlands to share expertise and ideas ­Netherlands, Germany and France. We also saw a marked and promote sustainability. The second beneficiary of the increase in our socially responsible investment (SRI) Fund is the first Social Impact Bond launched in the funds. However, due to a change in the duration strategy ­Netherlands (see also Section 4.2.2). of our SRI money market fund in France, the growth achieved is not reflected in our total sustainable investABN AMRO also supported other national and international ments. This duration change caused the investment initiatives in impact investing in 2013. We were the premium volume of that fund to drop, which had a significant sponsor, for instance, of the Impact Days. This event was impact on our total sustainable investments. Our clients’ organised by PYMWYMIC (Put Your Money Where Your sustainable investments amounted to EUR 4,649 million Mouth Is Community) – a community of wealthy families, at the end of 2013, compared with a portfolio worth philanthropists and individual investors who help raise EUR 4,931 million in 2012. ­capital for for-profit companies aiming to bring about p­ ositive social change in the world. And we are a corporate In response in part to client demand, ABN AMRO took member of the TBLI CLUB™ – a circle of dedicated part in the Sustainable Investment Week held in the ­sustainable and impact investment professionals, ­Netherlands in October 2013. The event was organised ­investors and asset managers. The bank hosts meetings by the Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable and a senior delegation took part in their conference ­Development (VBDO). Its aim is to introduce a wider with a view to building sustainable and impact investing public to sustainable investing. expertise in the organisation. 2013 also saw the launch of the ABN AMRO Global In our international private banking network, our French ­Sustainable Equity Fund. The fund selects companies in private bank Neuflize OBC (NOBC) is the sustainable each industry that are well ahead of their competitors in ­development champion. It consistently succeeds in terms of sustainability and goes in search of businesses ­embedding sustainability in all its activities. In 2013, NOBC that offer real solutions for sustainable development. became a leader in socially responsible investing (SRI) in It now forms part of the bank’s discretionary portfolio France, with a new range of six SRI Funds. NOBC is also ­management offering but our aim is to make the fund set to play an active role in microfinance. It has entered ­available to all clients starting in 2014. into an agreement with a social bank, Credit Cooperatif, to this end. Under the agreement, NOBC will act as Impact investing ­guarantor and bring Credit Cooperatif’s services to the Impact investing, also known as social impact investment, ­attention of its Institutions & Charities clients. is about funding companies that pursue social goals based on a financially sound business model. These companies Within the Institutions & Charities segment, religious seek to make a positive contribution to the community ­organisations have become an important client group for while at the same time generating financial returns. the bank. As part of its involvement in the crowdfunding ­Microfinance funds are probably the best-known example platform SEEDS (see Section 4.2.2), ABN AMRO is of impact investing. In addition to providing attractive ­advising churches on the feasibility of crowdfunding as ­returns for investors, these funds contribute to poverty a source of financing. In this way, ABN AMRO provides a ­reduction in the regions in which they invest. platform for both churches and investors to connect with each other. ABN AMRO is the first bank to match In March 2013, Private Banking reinforced its involvement ­investors and the Church through crowdfunding. with impact investing by establishing the proprietary ABN AMRO Social Impact Fund. Through the fund, the Dutch Charity Association bank itself invests directly in socially responsible ventures The Dutch Charity Association (VFI) has been a client of in the Netherlands. The fund is an example of how the ABN AMRO Institutions and Charity since 1994, and since bank is playing an active part in the development of impact 2012 also one of our partners. ABN AMRO and VFI coopeinvesting. The first beneficiary of the Social Impact Fund is rate closely in the area of payments and CSR for VFI’s 33 Our clients’ sustainable investments amounted to EUR 4,649 million at the end of 2013 34 enhancing client centricity members. As a bank committed to the community, we are ­business to a sustainable long-term future. In line with delighted to work for many of the 120 charities affiliated the bank’s strategy, ID&JG has launched a sustainability to the VFI. ABN AMRO works with the VFI’s members to initiative to encourage both staff and clients to work explore relevant themes such as payments, new trends ­towards shaping a more sustainable future. It focuses and product development, sustainable business practices on those areas where the impact is biggest: its clients and the harmonisation of payments within Europe (SEPA). and their business models. Philanthropy advice ID&JG’s sustainability programme has defined three Last year, we reported on the start of the bank’s philanphases. In 2013 it completed the first phase, aimed at thropy advice services to private banking clients in the ­creating awareness among employees worldwide. ­Netherlands who want to make a difference with their ­Sustainability awareness sessions were held across the wealth. The benefit to our clients is that we provide them globe. Sustainability has been embedded in ID&JG’s with advice and financial solutions for strategic giving as ­processes – assessing credit proposals, drawing up well as a network of potential organisations. At the same ­compliance reviews and client onboarding being just a time, we help them achieve the most favourable structure few examples. to support their philanthropy. A year on, in 2013, we had given philanthropy advice to more than 170 clients. ID&JG will be embarking on the second phase in early ­Satisfaction among these clients was high. Our philanthropy 2014. This will entail entering into dialogue with clients to services have created more awareness among clients of create a common understanding and to jointly go in search the impact of their giving, ensuring that it ties in nicely of solutions. Transparency and business models will be with the mission of the organisations they support. some of the topics addressed. During the programme’s We see a clear relationship between philanthropy advice final phase – also envisioned for 2014 – ID&JG will and various forms of sustainable and mission-related focus on practical solutions, positive recognition and on ­investment: the advisory process makes clients aware ­monitoring clients with the aim of using sustainability that they can make an additional positive contribution to ­criteria in selecting clients and deals. society by converting their investment portfolios into ­sustainable investment portfolios. 4.1.5 Our plans for the future Our ambitions for 2014 are based on the plans we drew International Diamond & Jewelry Group: on the road up in 2013 and include a range of initiatives. We intend to: to a more sustainable future continue to create awareness among all Private Sustainability is also embedded in the mission statement ­Banking staff in the Netherlands and abroad about of the International Diamond & Jewelry Group (ID&JG): ­sustainability issues and Private Banking’s approach ID&JG aims to be a leading and proud partner to the in this area; ­diamond and jewellery industry, striving to lead the We are aware that our impact is greatest if we assist our clients – whatever business they are in – to make the transition to sustainability 35 offer training in sustainable investment to all client-­ This feedback enables us to further improve our client facing staff providing investment services; communication. organise client events to adequately inform our clients about sustainable investment options and encourage Another example of concrete results is the Dutch plain greater client involvement in sustainability; language course, which kicked off successfully in 2012. embed sustainable investment more firmly in our All 220 C&MB employees involved in writing external ­general investment process; communication material had completed the two-day expand our impact investing product range; ­training by the end of 2013. We plan to organise follow-up make the ABN AMRO Global Sustainability Equity sessions to ensure that they can enhance their writing Fund available to all clients; skills on an ongoing basis. introduce philanthropy advice services for our private banking clients outside the Netherlands. Industry knowledge Our thorough understanding of the industries in which our clients operate, enables us to offer expert advice and 4.2 Commercial & Merchant Banking assistance – also when it comes to financial activities (C&MB) where sustainability is at play. We serve the following ­sectors: Construction, Financial Institutions, Food, Health­ Commercial & Merchant Banking (C&MB) is the bank’s care, M ­ anufacturing, Leisure, Oil & Gas, Government & business partner for Dutch industry. Driven by the con­ Education, Real Estate, Retail, Telecommunications, Media viction that sustainable business practices are the key to & Technology, Transport & Logistics, Utilities, Business ­success, we have placed sustainability at the core of our Services and Agriculture. The examples below ­illustrate products and services. Sustainability brings both opportuhow we integrate sustainability in our sector ­approach. nities and risks. By responding effectively to this, we seek to add value for our clients, seize opportunities, manage A good example is the Transport & Logistics team, which risks, inspire our people and take our corporate social has incorporated sustainability in its financing activities, ­responsibility seriously. We are aware that our impact is seminars and reports. In 2013, the Inland Shipping unit greatest if we assist our clients – whatever business they ­financed no fewer than three innovative vessels with are in – to make the transition to sustainability. For we are ­diesel-electric propulsion. One of these ships, the Greencommitted not only to successfully managing our own stream, was named the most innovative ship and received sustainability performance, but also that of the clients the KNVTS Ship of the Year award during the Maritime with whom we do business. In short, we are on our way Awards Gala on 31 October. It is the world’s first barge to becoming a better bank contributing to a better world. ­powered solely by Liquid Natural Gas (Mono-LNG). All parties to the transaction – Peters Shipyards, Inter4.2.1 A better bank: clients’ interests stream Barging, Shell Nederland and the ship owner – centre stage showed a commitment to securing the financing with One of the bank’s five long-term strategic choices is to put ABN AMRO for this sustainable project. A similar clients’ interests centre stage. In this section, we describe LNG-­powered tanker, the Greenrhine, was christened some of the initiatives we took in the process towards in ­September. ­becoming a better bank for our clients. The food sector is another interesting example, because Transparency it is typically riddled with sustainability dilemmas. Factors We set great store by offering our clients clear and that play a role are the company’s place in the value chain, ­transparent information and we made great strides in this the degree of internationalisation, corporate strategy, area in 2013. Almost 85% of all client communication was ­management’s commitment and the range of stakeholders. rewritten as part of the bank’s Plain Language programme. That is why we do not offer our clients standard, Our staff have found that clients appreciate the clarity and cut-and-dried solutions. We judge every individual case readability of the reworked texts. Over 200 corporate on its merits. In 2013, ABN AMRO Food made a point of clients gave feedback on these changes in 2013 in a maintaining a dialogue with clients about sustainability survey held among readers of client information. issues. Large and small client sessions were held to 36 enhancing client centricity Solar energy at Wieckse “The sun features at the very heart of the Wieckse brand, so it and Italy, and now we have this project in the Netherlands. made total sense to install 3,632 solar panels on the roof of the We initially funded the panels through Solar Access, on a brewery in Den Bosch. The power they generate is used directly ­site-by-site basis. In this case, though, we wanted a financier for brewing, including Wieckse’s famous white beer”, says that could help us with similar projects worldwide. ABN AMRO Lieke Bouwhuis of Heineken, which owns the company. turned out to be the ideal partner.” ABN AMRO is investing its The project is the largest of its kind to be completed in the own funds in this project, because they are convinced that ­Netherlands without a subsidy. The panels are expected to ­sustainable solar power can contribute significantly to a better ­generate around 855,000 kWh of electricity a year. world. Heineken plans to install solar panels in Spain, Greece and Nigeria too in the years ahead and to build on the success “We began to install solar panels in 2010”, Peter Jonkers – in Italy. Lieke Bouwhuis’ colleague – explains. “We started in Belgium ­discuss such issues as sustainable leadership, investing Another notable example is the 2013-2014 Transport & in sustainable initiatives, sourcing, and the CFO’s role in ­Logistics Sustainability report, published jointly by Nieuws­addressing issues on other than purely financial grounds. blad Transport and the Port of Amsterdam. The report In a drive to join with our stakeholders – in this case our ­addresses sustainable initiatives by individual companies, clients – to explore opportunities in the food industry, we chain partnerships and the modal shift. It was distributed have started to empower our relationship managers to among 30,000 companies in the Netherlands and Belgium. enter into dialogue about these dilemmas. Dutch Green Building Week Outdoor Grazing Covenant The Dutch Green Building Week was organised for the The Outdoor Grazing Covenant (Convenant Weidegang), third year in a row in 2013. C&MB sponsors the event, signed by C&MB in 2012, now has the support of 60 which aims to highlight the important role sustainable ­players active in the agro-food chain. The objective is to ­building plays on the road towards a healthier, more maintain the current level of dairy farms with outdoor ­sustainable society. ­grazing in order to keep as many dairy cattle as possible in the open air. Our relationship managers took this initiative Shipping finance a step further in 2013 by considering the level of outdoor C&MB’s Energy, Commodities & Transportation unit (ECT) grazing – and its implications for the price of milk – when has fully integrated sustainability in its day-to-day business giving advice to clients. operations, both in the Netherlands and abroad. In the year under review, ECT entered into dialogue with other Sustainability research Dutch banks active in shipping finance. Our goal is to In 2013, too, ABN AMRO published several reports in ­leverage our combined influence to bring about improvewhich ­sustainability was a central theme. In its Sustainable ments in existing ship demolition practices. We expect our Housing Report, we underline that the Netherlands can example will inspire shipping banks around the world to again serve as an example to the rest of Europe. Providing set up similar initiatives. More on ECT in the section on innovative funding of initiatives to save energy and reduce our sustainability policy (Section 3). carbon emissions will not only give fresh ­impetus to the construction industry, but also benefit the environment. 4.2.2 A better world: products and services The report was presented to Stef Blok, Dutch Minister Sustainability has come to play an ever greater role in for Housing, by Managing Board chairman Gerrit Zalm at the development of products and services. In this a seminar on Budget Day in September. It addresses context, C&MB developed its own set of moral criteria ways to improve the sustainability of existing homes in in 2013, which it applies when assessing and approving the Netherlands. new p­ roducts and services. Here is a selection of our 37 ­sustainable initiatives, which will help us and our clients examples. Financing tailored to the different stages of contribute to a better world. their business is now available for social entrepreneurs. At the same time, we see that a growing group of Socially responsible business solutions ­high-net worth individuals are looking for investment Social entrepeneurship opportunities with a positive impact on society. ABN AMRO believes in the potential of social entrepreABN AMRO has responded to this by bringing them neurship and actively supports entrepreneurs wishing to into contact with social entrepreneurs. make a positive impact on society by balancing social and financial returns. It was this belief that inspired us to Social Impact Fund become a founding partner of Social Enterprise NL. The ABN AMRO Social Impact Fund was established in the Netherlands at the beginning of 2013. The fund invests Making our know-how and expertise available to this the bank’s own assets in social enterprises. With an initial target group is just one way in which ABN AMRO offers capital of EUR 10 million, the fund is set to invest in some support. In 2013, the bank organised two workshops on 15 businesses, each enterprise receiving between about ­financing. Taking this a step further, we will be organising EUR 0.5 and 1.5 million. several events in 2014 to advise social entrepreneurs on how to review their business models. In 2013, ABN AMRO By investing and participating in these enterprises, saw the start of a partnership with the consultancy firm ABN AMRO contributes to the development of the social ‘dutch’ and the Impact Accelerator, in which ten businesses impact market. This is a young market in which the were given the opportunity to pitch their ­business plans. demand for expertise and capital is considerable. The fund Two of them were then invited to take part in a threeis designed to enable the bank and other market players month c­ oaching programme. After the programme has to discover what works and what doesn’t. With this in been completed, ABN AMRO will bring them into contact mind, the Social Impact Fund aims to invest in an array with potential investors. of enterprises, ranging from sustainable energy and ­enhanced waste disposal, to biosystems, labour market In a separate development, the bank set up a coaching access, neighbourhood improvement, development aid, pool for social entrepreneurs – in 2013, 40 entrepreneurs ­alternative healthcare models, education and culture. received coaching in personal development and in further professionalising their business models. SEEDS SEEDS is a crowdfunding platform for socially responsible In addition to standard bank loans, we offer social businesses. The bank’s research into crowdfunding, begun ­entrepreneurs alternative forms of financing, geared in 2009, resulted in a pilot in 2013 in which three enterprises ­specifically to their needs. The Social Impact Fund and were successfully financed by a large number of small the crowdfunding platform SEEDS are just a few ­investors. Partially in response to the great interest InstallationInstallation of 3,632 solar panels of 3,632 on theonroof solar panels of aof a the roof 40 social 40 social entrepreneurs entrepreneurs received received coaching in 2013 brewery generates 855,000 855,000 brewery generates kWh energy per year kWh energy per year coaching in 2013 3,632x x40 38 enhancing client centricity shown, we decided in 2013 to follow up on this pilot ­investors with the money they save on social benefits. ­project. ABN AMRO is now actively promoting crowd­ The Social Impact Bond was launched in December 2013. funding through SEEDS. On 25 November, SEEDS ABN AMRO is also engaging with other cities to investigate ­launched a search for entrepreneurs looking to raise the possibility of setting up Social Impact Bonds. ­finance online. Investors can make a difference by ­investing in the socially responsible enterprises on SEEDS. Energy and environmental financial solutions nl; investments are w ­ elcome from as little as 10 euros. Energy Saving Loan Starting in 2014, the platform will present information The Energy Saving Loan is a good example of the sustain­ about the entrepreneurs, detailing what they do and able products we offer our clients. In this way we seek how they intend to make a p ­ ositive social impact. to help them make their processes more sustainable by offering tailor-made technical and financing solutions. Social Impact Bond We put clients with high energy bills in contact with A Social Impact Bond is a new financial instrument that ­companies that supply energy-efficient cooling and helps private investors finance social interventions. It is ­heating systems. Installation costs are financed by a contract between investors and the public sector that ABN AMRO, with repayment of the loan plus interest shifts the risk for a social service programme from governearned back entirely through the reduced energy bill. ment to the private investor. The investor, in turn, is The resultant savings can amount to 20-30%. We offer ­supported financially by the government – be they local this approach to clients as an integrated solution. Clients or ­national government – if the programme achieves an can save energy via the Energy Saving Loan without agreed goal. This set-up encourages investment for the ­impacting their budget at all. In 2013 we assisted a pursuit of social goals. ­plastics processing company, a cheese trader, a metal processing business, a transport company and a theatre. ABN AMRO maintained a dialogue with the city of ­Rotterdam during the year under review in an effort to Sustainable real estate financing launch the first Social Impact Bond on the European The real estate sector is increasingly active in the field of ­continent. We selected a project – the Buzinezzclub – sustainability. ABN AMRO wants to support sustainable which seeks to help young unemployed people return to innovation and help its progress. One notable example in school or re-enter the labour market, either in employment this field is a client that designed an innovative plan for the or by starting their own business. Two investors, the Start development of a sustainable business park. We financed Foundation and the Social Impact Fund, have committed one of the buildings in this business park to make property to invest in this initiative. The faster the youngsters find a development in the Netherlands more sustainable job – compared with a control group – the higher the (see box). return on investment. The city of Rotterdam will pay the Social Impact Fund: investing in a variety of social enterprises Contract between private investors and the public sec Social Impact Fund: investing in Contract between private a variety of social enterprises investors and the public sector social impact bond 39 ABN AMRO Lease In another project, ABN AMRO Lease teamed up with Hybrid technology is gaining ground. During the year GreenFox for the leasing of energy-efficient light fittings. under review, ABN AMRO Lease examined the residual GreenFox works with sheltered workshops to convert value and useful life of the ever more popular hybrid cars. existing light fittings to the latest technology. This results We have provided finance to the tune of EUR 4.3 million in an average energy saving of 40% on lighting. for electric and hybrid cars and ABN AMRO is in the ­process of funding more hybrid cars. Also in 2013, ABN AMRO Lease introduced parking spaces equipped 4.2.3 Our plans for the future with charging stations for electric cars. We will build on the plans we drew up in 2013 to further contribute to the success of our clients. In 2014 we Like last year, ABN AMRO Lease signed a leasing deal for intend to: a biogas-driven Combined Heat & Power (CHP) installation. continue to invest in our people by enhancing their The biogas is generated by two fermentation installations knowledge of sustainability issues; that our client already operates, enabling the client to further embed this know-how in our financial advice ­produce green electricity for approximately 1,400 and products to enable our clients to make the households a year. ­necessary investments; Start Green ABN AMRO Venturing Holding B.V. is a joint shareholder of the ­investment in Rodenburg Biopolymers, market leader in potato Start Green Venture Capital investment fund, through which it starch-based bioplastics. After years of development, the ­finances young, green technology companies. Venture capital funding provided by Start Green will enable Rodenburg is hard needed for sustainable innovations, as entrepreneurs Biopolymers to launch its innovative bioplastics on the market. are finding it particularly difficult to raise the capital they need during the early stages of development. Start Green Venture Rodenburg Biopolymers has joined forces with Heijmans, a Capital plays an important role in this regard. These innovative ­construction and infrastructure company for the development companies bring sustainable technology to the market on the of biodegradable products. With carbon emissions being 30 to strength of a strong patent position. 70% less than those produced by standard, petroleum-based plastics, bioplastics have a more sustainable environmental Since its inception in 2006, Start Green has developed a portfolio ­footprint. They are increasingly being used in the car industry, of eleven investments, one of which has meanwhile been as well as for packaging, in agriculture, horticulture and in ­successfully sold. Among the fund’s activities in 2013 was an ­consumer electronics. Park 20|20: Cradle-to-Cradle® business park Park 20|20 in Hoofddorp is the first Dutch Cradle-to-Cradle® The construction of the Bluewater headquarters has prompted business park, covering an extensive area of 92,700 m . 2 an entire chain of innovation: some forty preferred suppliers We funded Bluewater’s new headquarters, as it is a good have committed themselves to delivering exclusively example of how to make the real-estate market more sustain­ cradle-­to-cradle materials, all of which will have a logical able. The new-build project not only contributes to sustainable place in the ­biological or technical cycle. It really turns the ­innovation, part of the revenues it will generate have also been old approach ­upside-down, thinking about future dismantling earmarked to tackle vacancy problems in Hoofddorp. We are and re-use even before we start to build. putting our financial knowledge to work and funding sustain­ ability initiatives in the hope of creating a snowball effect. 40 enhancing client centricity continue to assist our clients in making the transition complaints falling further from 172,000 in 2011 to 139,000 to sustainability; in 2013 (with the exception of the Group’s subsidiaries). roll out a Sustainability Management Operating System This decline may be attributed to the enhanced efficiency at ECT. The system enables client benchmarking, of our banking processes and the simplification of our ­monitoring of clients’ sustainability performance and products. The Netherlands Authority for the Financial comprehensive sustainability reporting. During the Markets (AFM) has acknowledged our efforts in this area, course of the year we will also start preparations for giving us a rating of 4.7 for complaints management in 2013 rolling out the system to other C&MB businesses. on a scale of 1 to 5, up from 4.2 in 2012 and 3.8 in 2011. The three most common areas of complaint in 4.3 Handling complaints 2013 were the same as those in 2012: 1. Payments (authorisation not provided, incorrect At the Complaints Management department, we have ­beneficiary account, account debited incorrectly) worked hard to raise awareness about complaints by 2. Cash (failed cash dispenser withdrawals, failed ­addressing such questions as: How do complaints affect ­transactions using multipurpose ATMs) our clients? And how should I engage with my client to 3. Cards – Issuing (incorrect transfer of electronic solve the problem? The downward trend seen in recent purse balance) years continued, with the number of client inquiries and Customer Arena on complaints handling We organised a Customer Arena on complaints handling in In the second round, employees ask the clients questions. ­September 2013. Customer Arenas put clients centre stage both This gives us insight into our clients’ experiences and literally and figuratively: clients sit at a table in the middle of a ­expectations. In the final round, clients share what they would room surrounded by bank employees. The aim is to engage in like to see changed. an open dialogue on a given theme. The main findings show that clients want to be treated as During the first round of the Customer Arena, clients have the equals by the bank, they want to be kept informed of how their floor, answering questions such as: What did you find positive complaint is being handled and they want more personal about the processing of your complaint? How can we improve contact with the employee handling their complaint. These complaints handling? And what would you say are the key ­insights help us to put ourselves in our clients’ shoes, allowing ­concepts of the complaints handling procedure at ABN AMRO? us to assess the complaint more effectively. The Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) has acknowledged our efforts in this area, rating us 4.7 for complaints management in 2013 on a scale of 1The to 5,Netherlands up from 4.2 inAuthority 2012 and for 3.8 in the2011. Financial Markets NumberNumber of complaints 172,000 in down fromcomplaints down and of client inquiries 2011 (AFM) has acknowledged our efforts in complaints to 139,000 in 2013in 2011 to 139,000 in 2013 from 172,000 management 4.7 172,000 5 4.2 142,000 139,000 4 3.8 3 2 1 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 41 Looking at the top 3 high-impact complaints, that is ­question “What is the most important issue for you in to say complaints that could result in high claims for the c­ omplaints handling process?” ­damages or loss of reputation, we see that Payments still heads the list, followed closely by Mortgages in Any complaint regarding a breach of privacy is harmful second place. Most of these complaints relate to to our clients’ interests. Examples are if the bank reveals repayments on m ­ ortgages which, according to our clients, client details to a third party without authorisation or if have not been correctly administered. personal information is not properly secured. We received 52 complaints in this regard in 2013; in three of these 4.3.1 What did we achieve? cases, the bank agreed with the client’s standpoint. By handling complaints effectively, we can make a Another way we aim to serve our clients’ interests is ­difference for our clients. And by exceeding their by providing first-rate investment advice. There were ­expectations, we ensure that our clients become our 28 c­ omplaints in this area in 2013; in one of these cases ­ambassadors. This is how we are working to restore the bank agreed with the client’s standpoint. our clients’ trust. 4.3.2 Our plans for the future We made client inquiries and complaints a high priority in In 2014, Complaints Management intends to: 2013, making this issue a fixed item on the agenda of MT focus on finding a customised solution to every ­inquiry ­meetings business-wide and in our daily huddles. or complaint, in close consultation with the client These daily h ­ uddles are part of the Customer Excellence ­concerned. We will seek to formulate a challenging ­programme, where employees discuss which client vision, our s­ tarting point being the client’s complaint inquiries and complaints they have handled themselves and emotions; and which have been forwarded to the internal complaints engage in even more direct customer feedback after settlement team. Our goal is to learn from complaints and their complaint has been settled to hear how they have to ­continuously improve our service. experienced our service. This should enable us to keep learning from our experiences with clients. We need thorough, accurate information about each client inquiry or complaint if we are to improve our results on this front. In addition to existing management information, we use ‘text mining’, a computer program that retrieves management information from the entire database, rather than from specific fields only. The Complaints Management department helps raise awareness among employees who are in contact with clients daily by offering presentations and workshops. Staff from 90 branches attended these sessions in 2013. As a result, we are seeing a growing awareness among employees of the importance of taking responsibility for handling complaints. This raised the percentage of complaints solved straight away to more than 50% (2012: 32%). We also listened more carefully to our clients’ opinions in 2013, holding an extensive satisfaction survey on their ­experiences with the bank’s complaints settlement ­process. The main outcome of the survey was that our clients’ experience of complaints handling differs from that of the bank. The Customer Arena (see box) also yielded ­valuable information in this respect, addressing the 42 inspiring and engaging our people inspiring and engaging our people 5 ABN AMRO understands that an organisation is only as good as its people. One of the key elements of our long-term corporate strategy is our ambition to be a top class employer. In an ­uncertain economic climate and a rapidly changing world, we cannot afford to miss out on talent. We want to be an employer for whom the best people from different backgrounds are eager to work. To this end, we drew up a roadmap based on three aims: defining our corporate identity, developing a culture of excellence and creating the best place to work. Our focus in 2013 was on developing policies to help us achieve our long-term goals and introducing tools for our people. Our ambitions are reflected in the HR activities we undertook in 2013, an overview of which is provided in this section. Against this background, we aim to develop an organisation we can be proud of. A culture that encourages employees to rise to challenges and where employees have a say in creating their own working environment. The activities we carried out in 2013 took us closer to achieving these goals. 5.1 Our corporate identity Values and principles We are developing a corporate identity founded on a A corporate identity that employees are eager to embrace ­values-based working environment. Our core values are is key for attracting and retaining talent. We want our Trusted, Professional and Ambitious. These values, ­employees to be proud of ABN AMRO and to be our brand ­combined with client focus, are at the heart of the bank’s ambassadors. To this end, we are cultivating our corporate positioning. By successfully implementing these values, identity and promoting values and principles designed to we will continue to build a strong culture and corporate increase engagement and promote integrity. identity, allowing us to raise company pride and ­engagement among staff. We promote our core values 43 Trusted Professional Ambitious We at ABN AMRO believe trust is all We at ABN AMRO understand banking. We at ABN AMRO are always stretching about establishing and maintaining lasting As true professionals, we have a thorough our boundaries and striving to achieve relationships. We take the time to get to grasp of the banking industry and the more for our clients. We always strive to know our clients by listening to their discipline to achieve results. improve ­ourselves. specific needs and aspirations. We genuinely believe in our profession We make it our business to know what’s Our goal is to find the products and and take responsibility by saying “no”, going on in the market and to respond services that are right for our clients. if saying “yes” would not do right by our proactively, and we do everything possible When we make a promise, we always live clients. to understand what clients really need up to it; when we communicate with our and to craft innovative soloutions. clients, we are always straight-forward We create solutions that are simple, and never have hidden agendas. understandable and workable, and we Our optimism about the future drives strive to improve ourselves every day by our ambtion to offer our clients more. Our commitment to responsible banking working together and learning from one At ABN AMRO, we aren’t afraid to means we carefully weigh risks and another – and from our clients. venture outside our comfort zone to put returns so that our clients know their our ambition to work for our clients. money is in good hands at all times. 44 inspiring and engaging our people and Business Principles every day – and we hold every Our training offering, includes several courses on putting employee accountable for living up to these values and clients’ interests centre stage and will be updated regularly principles. on the basis of our aspirations in these areas. Our Business Principles guide us in how we engage with Our efforts to create a meaningful corporate identity each other and with our clients. In a business as varied have been recognised outside the bank. The annual as ours, we need a common set of principles we can fall Dutch Intermediair Image Survey ranked us the number back on in any situation. The Business Principles are 8 employer in the Netherlands for 2013, rising from ­derived from our core values, our aim to put our clients’ number 9 in 2012 and from number 11 in 2009 2011. ­interests centre stage and the competencies we require In addition, we received Top Employer certification from of our people. They inform us on how to behave in virtually the Top Employers Institute. This certificate is only every situation and help us handle the many dilemmas ­awarded to companies that achieve the highest standards we face in our day-to-day work. of excellence in HR strategy, policy implementation, ­employment conditions and employee development. The Business Principles and our commitment to client centricity play an important role throughout the Human Employee engagement Resources cycle. We are incorporating them into job The commitment and satisfaction of our employees were ­descriptions and recruitment advertisements in the measured in 2013 in the Employee Engagement Survey ­Netherlands and we used them as the basis for the new (in 2012 and previous years with the Culture Scan). The Employee Engagement Survey in 2013 (see box). At the survey included questions about client centricity and a same time, staff performance targets and the leadership number of Business Principles. We firmly believe that competencies required of managers reflect the spirit of ­engaged employees deliver better performances and the Business Principles and client centricity. We will maintain closer relationships with clients – and that, ­continue to pursue our efforts in these areas in 2014. in turn, improves corporate performance. I aim to provide I take I only take risks I am committed I am a passionate I build my clients with responsibility I understand to sustainable professional relationships through the best solutions business practices collaboration Employee Engagement Survey The results of the Employee Engagement Survey show that their immediate manager (76%), our client focus (77%) and ­employees are increasingly proud of ABN AMRO and feel more fair treatment (74%). involved with the organisation. The engagement score rose to 74% in 2013 from 55% in 2012. This score was calculated similarly These results give us the information we need to take to how the Culture Scan results were calculated in 2012. action to increase engagement and improve our values-based Pride in working for ABN AMRO rose by 22% compared with working environment. Managers discuss the results with their 2012. Our workforce is increasingly positive about the organi­­ teams and draw up improvement plans tailored to their specific sation on other fronts too. Staff have a positive perception of requirements. 45 5.2 Culture of excellence ­support potential managers in their development. Our leadership programmes are designed to help We define a culture of excellence as a culture in which ­managers learn more about themselves, create oppor­ employees strive at all times to excel on behalf of the tunities to grow and discover how to unlock their staff’s client and to perform better every day. We need our full potential. The Personal E-Survey (360 feedback) ­organisation to be agile. This begins with every individual gives leaders insight into their strengths and weaknesses employee’s ability to get the most out of their talents and in ­relation to their role as leaders within the bank. to continuously evolve. As an employer, we believe it is up We organised 21 leadership programmes, with a total of to us to give our people clear targets and guidance and to 504 participants, in 2013. Following a training day for our enable them to be the best they can be. We challenge Dutch managers in 2012, we held international leadership ­employees to put their talents to work and allow them to days in the US, Asia and Europe for all of the bank’s experiment along the way – that is the best way to learn. ­international leaders for the first time. These bank-wide We cannot afford to overlook talent, so we devote special programmes are designed to help leaders carry out the attention to recruiting, developing and retaining our ABN AMRO strategy and develop an effective leadership ­diverse workforce. In doing so, we focused on the areas style. Around 800 managers participated in these three listed below in 2013 – and we aim to build on our work events. We will be holding leadership days again in 2014, in these areas in the coming years. both in the Netherlands and abroad. Recruitment Accountability We aim to attract the right people for the entire Performance management is the process of creating a organi­sation. Our approach to recruitment is to engage working environment in which people are enabled to in a ­dialogue with our target group by using social media, ­perform to the best of their abilities. It is the vehicle by ­content marketing, and campaigns specifically targeting which managers communicate what is required of staff trainees, starters and experienced professionals. and give feedback on how well they are performing. In addition to our recently launched recruitment site, A culture of excellence benefits from the right perforwe opened our mobile recruitment site in early June, mance management, where managers guide staff in ­responding to the growing need of our target groups to ­exhibiting outstanding behaviour. We use performance use mobile devices when looking for a job. management as an instrument to strengthen the culture in terms of client centricity, collaboration and responsibility, Leadership to engage in an on-going dialogue on performance, In the belief that leaders are the catalysts for change, ­learning and talent development, and to continuously we devote special attention to developing our managers ­improve employability and client service. Our performance and promoting a constructive, inspiring leadership style. management framework is designed to achieve a balance As part of our succession planning, we identify and in financial and non-financial targets, quantitative and loyee engagement score rose to 77% in 2013 55% in loyee 2012 engagement score rose to 77% in 2013 55% in 2012 Employee engagement 10,289 of our Dutch employees and 1,150 employees score rose to 74% in 2013 11,000outside of our Dutch employees and the Netherlands were employees 450able outside to access their the Netherlands were able to access their email and calendar 2012 from 55% in 2012 via an app email and calendar via an app 2012 NL 10,289employees 11,000 employees 1,150 450 employees employees 2013 2013 46 inspiring and engaging our people Our diversity focus in 2013 We focused on a broad range of target groups in 2013. Achieve bank-wide awareness and promote commitment Our objectives were to: and dialogue: We organised a conference on cultural diversity which Recruit and promote women to senior management positions: ­explored how diversity can help us in a rapidly changing ABN AMRO signed the Talent to the Top charter in 2009, world. ­underscoring our ambition to place more women in senior Our Gay Bankers Network conducted a survey in the management positions. Our target for 2014 is to place women ­Netherlands on ‘being yourself at work’. The survey in 20% of senior management positions (19% in 2013) and in showed that 20% of ABN AMRO employees do not feel 25% of upper middle-management positions (22% in 2013). comfortable revealing their sexual orientation. This is a This is an increase of more than 3% over the last two years. little better than the Dutch average of 30%. In this respect, the increasing number of female graduates We published a magazine called ‘MIX’, which provides are a key target group. We are also focussing on recruiting ­inspiring examples of diversity within the bank. female trainees and retaining and promoting women to senior management positions. In 2013, 55% of our trainees were Embed diversity in the organisation by integrating it into women. ­existing HR processes: We are committed to recruiting a diverse workforce, and As a result, Intermediair named ABN AMRO best in class we have set up a mentoring programme for multicultural within the Dutch banking industry in terms of women talent. Additionally, we organise events and workshops ­advancing their careers. The bank scored 7 out of 10 points aimed at promoting diversity within the organisation. in the Dutch Topvrouwen bedrijvenranking (ranking of women in senior management positions); numbers two and three in In addition to these four objectives, we aim to employ at the ranking scored 6 and 4 out of 10 respectively. least 25 disabled people by the end of 2014; fourteen of these ­positions have been filled so far. The number of positions we Increase recruitment and promotion of bi-cultural employees: offer is large compared with other knowledge-intensive Another key target group are students with culturally diverse ­organisations. backgrounds, the number of which is set to grow in the coming years. We only had a limited number of trainees with culturally diverse backgrounds in 2012. This rose slightly in 2013. We aim to further increase this number in the coming year. Diversity: target for 2014 = 20% women in senior Diversity: target for 2014 = 20% women in Diversity of employees NL in 2013 management positions (19% in 2013) senior management positions (19% in 2013) (in percentages) Men Women 7 or lower 35 65 8-9 61 39 10-11 71 29 Subtop1 78 22 Top2 81 19 1 Job levels 12 and 13 (Hay). 2013 2 Job levels 14 and 15 (Hay), Management Group and Managing Board. 47 ­qualitative targets, and behavioural ­aspects to help us they can develop their talent. Equally, personal initiative adhere to our strategy, internal standards and external and freedom of choice are replacing standard solutions ­regulations. Each employee draws up their own personal when it comes to matters such as fringe benefits, work performance plan based on the ­performance management schedules and work location. Allowing employees to framework and additional business guide­lines. This plan take control of their working lives will result in a mature contains clear, balanced targets and ­explicitly addresses employment relationship in which staff take responsibility behaviour. The targets are defined in a dialogue between for their performance and choices. Some of the initiatives the manager and employee and ­reflect how to translate we took in 2013 to make ABN AMRO the best place to the business strategy to individual performance. The work are described below. ­employee’s progress is evaluated at r­ egular intervals throughout the year. We are in the p ­ rocess of enhancing Sustainable employability the focus of our performance m ­ anagement system on We encourage employees to take the initiative to put their ­behaviour. talent to work and give them the means and opportunities to stay healthy, motivated and knowledgeable in their Control functions within the bank, such as HR, Risk and field. With this in mind, we introduced a sustainable Compliance, support managers and staff in complying ­employability budget in 2013 which gives all staff access with the performance guidelines and objectives. to tools that help enhance their employability. The tools, Our performance management system is linked to the such as training or employability scans, can be tailored to way we reward our people. each employee’s specific needs. Staff can save the budget for a maximum of three years. Diversity First and foremost we believe that a diverse workforce We encourage our Dutch employees to make use of will help us to achieve the best results for our clients. ­UitgesprokenTalent.nl, a platform we introduced in 2013 to Having a workforce that reflects the make-up of society help employees gain insight into their talents and options. and our client base will benefit our performance. Beyond Staff have access to self-assessments, exercises and that, we believe that diversity is our social responsibility – workshops designed to inspire them to pursue their one we take very seriously. Our Diversity & Inclusion ­personal and professional development. policy aims to create an e ­ nvironment in which talented people from all walks of life feel welcome, can be themDespite our efforts to promote sustainable employability, selves and are valued for their strengths. An environment staff reductions are sometimes inevitable during a reor­ga­ where they are given the freedom to help the bank and nisation. We are committed to helping redundant staff find its clients succeed, r­ egardless of race, gender, cultural another job. Our Employability Centre in the ­Netherlands, background, age, sexual orientation or physical disability. for example, offers staff the services of a job coach to find work either within or outside the bank. Almost all job Collective labour agreement in the Netherlands ­vacancies in the Netherlands are open first to ABN AMRO We intend to implement the changes resulting from the employees only, with redundant staff having priority. new collective labour agreement, which is due to be signed in 2014. All employees based in the Netherlands A total of 550 employees were given notice of redundancy are subject to the collective labour agreement, except in 2013. Approximately 12% (25% in 2012) of these emmembers of the Management Group, who make specific ployees were placed in internal jobs and 30% were placed employment arrangements with the bank. E ­ mployment in temporary jobs within the bank (35% in 2012). A total of ­arrangements can also be made by other staff if desired. 155 employees (350 in 2012) sought coaching from the bank’s Employability Centre, 25% of whom found permanent internal or external jobs (45% in 2012). 5.3 Best place to work New World of Work We aim to create a working environment in which The New World of Work is a series of measures designed ­employees can reach their full potential and make a to empower employees to work flexibly and remotely. ­difference. We give our people the space to grow so that This way of working relies on trust and responsibility: as an 48 inspiring and engaging our people The New World of Work is a series of measures empower designed to employees to work flexibly and remotely 49 A total of 83 trainees were employed in 2013, all of whom participated in a programme consisting of assignments lasting from three to six months ­employer, we trust our people to live up to the agreements while participating in professional and personal development they make with their managers and to use the ­flexible courses. More information about the traineeship can be ­arrangements responsibly. Besides helping employees found on abnamro.com. achieve a healthy work-life balance, we think the New World of Work will help us to achieve our goal of becoming Employee representation the best place to work, while reducing our ecological footWe want our staff to give management their feedback and print, raising employee satisfaction and increasing efficiency. input on major changes in the organisation and decisions that affect the workforce. This is organised through This way of working is becoming increasingly popular ­employee councils. ABN AMRO’s management supported among staff. A total of 10,289 of our Dutch employees the council in the Netherlands in opting for a new staff (up from 1,000 in early 2012) and 1,150 employees based ­participation model in late 2013. In addition to dedicated outside the Netherlands were able to access their emails council members, participants can be appointed from and calendar via an app at year-end 2013. We also offer our ­various backgrounds to contribute relevant knowledge and people a voice and data subscription on their own mobile expertise. devices to encourage employees to work wherever and whenever they want. 5.4 Our plans for the future This way of working helped us to reduce our office space from 266,000 sq.m. in 2012 to 256,000 sq.m. in 2013. We will continue our efforts to be an employer of choice on our journey to becoming a top class employer. Traineeship Our focus for the coming years will be on executing To attract talented trainees, we have set up the Next ­policies to help us achieve our long-term goals and on ­Generation Professionals trainee programme. This giving our people the tools they need to be the best ­programme is unique in that it allows candidates to they can be. choose from a range of career tracks and to design their In 2014 we intend to further tailor staff performance own ­programme. Participants receive coaching and ­targets and the leadership competencies to reflect the ­training in becoming professionals in their field, and spirit of the Business Principles and client centricity. ­support in their personal development. The programme Leadership days have been scheduled to be held makes use of ­innovative tools designed to position again in 2014, both in the Netherlands and abroad. ABN AMRO as an ­attractive employer. We will implement the new collective labour ­agreement in the Netherlands. A total of 83 trainees were employed in 2013, all of whom participated in a programme consisting of assignments ­lasting from three to six months. Most trainees are assigned to a project for which they are immediately responsible, 50 our environmental impact our environmental impact 6 ABN AMRO wants to be a better bank contributing to a better world. This starts with improving our own operations, and so we have identified five areas to reduce our own ecological footprint: energy, mobility, paper, waste and water. Energy is a key focus: we are aiming to reduce our ­consumption by 20-30% in the next years – and we already managed to achieve a 16% reduction in 2013. On mobility and carbon emission reductions, 2013 saw a range of initiatives to help reduce ­commuter travel. One of these – and a key driver for the bank in many ways – is the further ­digitisation of our operating procedures, products and processes. This does not just lower carbon emissions as we commute less, but also cuts paper consumption. Lastly, we reduced our non-­ recyclable waste in 2013 by 9%, and we are aiming to further reduce this by another 10% in 2014. Our efforts were rewarded: we won the Facility Manager of the Year Award for our achievements in reducing the bank’s ecological footprint. 6.1 Reducing our ecological footprint to raise the quality of our office buildings at Foppingadreef in Amsterdam, Vestdijk in Eindhoven and Daalsesingel in 6.1.1 Energy consumption Utrecht. These measures included the optimisation of Energy consumption is a key contributor to the bank’s technical equipment at these buildings, replacing ecological footprint, and our stated aim is to achieve a windows at the Vestdijk site, and introducing solar panels ­reduction of 20-30% between 2013 and 2017, compared at the Foppingadreef head office and the Vestdijk site. with our 2012 baseline. In 2013, we cut consumption by At Foppingadreef, hot water now comes from solar boilers. 16%, mainly thanks to the closure of some of our By greening our buildings in this way, we achieved our ­buildings and the greening of others. We took measures stated aim of getting at least 100,000 square metres of 51 our office space up to an energy A label. We have applied In September 2013, our head office building at Gustav for a BREEAM certification for these offices (BREEAM Mahlerlaan launched ABN AMRO’s new Innovation is an international environmental assessment method for Centre and Work Spaces. Energy-efficient LED lighting buildings). Our innovative office accommodation concept was installed, and the floors of the Innovation Centre helps save on space at our head office buildings and feature an optimum colour scheme to reflect light, makes for an increasingly smart use of the available ­keeping required artificial lighting to a minimum. square metres. We plan to install energy-efficient LED lighting in other offices whenever we refurbish and/or replace lighting Other energy-saving initiatives in the normal course of business. In November 2010 we set an energy reduction goal for Through the purchase of European wind energy our data centre of 15% for 2013. We have exceeded ­certificates, we now ensure that the electricity we that target, with a reduction of 19%. ­consume is 100% green. Our offices and branches have been fitted with smart In 2013, ABN AMRO once again took part in Earth Hour electricity and gas meters where possible. This allows and the Night of the Night. us to monitor and optimise our equipment and eliminate unnecessary energy consumption resulting from 6.1.2 Paper consumption ­failures and incorrect settings. Digitisation is a key driver for the bank. Our increasingly ABN AMRO received the 2013 EC Greenlight Award paperless offering of products and services has allowed us in Brussels in March 2013. This sustainability prize was to make huge savings on paper. Half of our retail clients, awarded for financing and participating in GreenFox’s for instance, no longer receive printed bank statements. ‘pioneering concept’. GreenFox converts energy-wasting In addition, we pro-actively approach corporate clients still light fittings into energy-efficient lighting, with using paper bank statements to encourage them to ­investment costs recouped from the energy savings. change to digital-only information. ABN AMRO will choose 52 our environmental impact the sustainable way for any mail we do still send, using various initiatives to reduce travel by its employees or double-sided printing and 100 percent recyclable stationery make it more sustainable. and envelopes, with biodegradable window film in the We offer a range of opportunities to encourage window envelopes. We have also opted for carbon-neutral ­employees to work wherever and whenever they want. delivery by PostNL, for the use of certified mail houses For instance by providing laptops and a mobile app that throughout the chain (ISO 14.001) and for the adoption of gives access to the bank’s network, hot-desking and Milieukeurmerk Post (proof that we meet stringent criteria working in satellite offices, as well as enabling video and that our deliveries affect the environment significantly conferencing. These are all ways to help employees less than the average postal delivery.) Also in 2013, we travel less. further improved our mobile banking app and our Internet We encourage public transport use by paying for the Banking service, enabling our clients to check their season tickets of all employees who wish to take up ­accounts and do their banking business online or on the opportunity – a total of 6,099 in 2013. their mobile phones. ABN AMRO is promoting electrically powered transport: the Gustav Mahlerlaan office building has access to Taxi-E And we do not just digitise for our clients; within the bank cabs, which use exclusively green electricity. Electric itself, we are increasingly digitising our products and cars and scooters are provided for the use of employees ­processes. In 2013, we cut our paper consumption by at the head office and a number of bank branches. 75,000 sheets per week by providing two computer To encourage the use of public transport, ABN AMRO screens when doing administration work and checking took up the Low Car Diet challenge in 2013, which saw ­digital documents instead of paper. Similarly, we now send one of our managers stop using her car for ten days each other scans instead of physical copies of documents. and travel by public transport. The initiative was We are saving close to 4 million sheets annually this way. ­communicated internally as well as externally. Next year, more managers and senior managers are set to Towards the end of 2013, we also started the rollout of go on the Low Car Diet. access card printing, known as FollowYou Printing, as a We offer train tickets to stimulate the use of public way to cut internal paper usage. This will enable employees transportation between our headquarter buildings at to print only by using their access cards, which should Gustav Mahlerlaan and Foppingadreef. ­encourage well-considered printing, cut down on paper We are currently working on proposals for our fleet of use and help measure printer usage by employees and lease cars that should result in lower carbon emissions. ­departments. Our fleet itself is growing smaller, and when we do have to add new cars, we select cars with low carbon 6.1.3 Mobility emissions where possible. In 2013, the percentage of Commuter and business travel are major contributors to our lease cars with carbon emissions below 100g/km carbon emissions and footprint. ABN AMRO is developing grew to 20%. 33% savings on paper 33% savings on paper 12% 23% 33% 2010 2011 2012 2013 53 Energy consumption 16% reduced by in 2013 Target: 20-30% in 2017 Energy consumption reduced by 16% in 2013 Target: 20% in 2017 16% 20-30% 2012 2013 2017 54 our environmental impact 6.1.4 Waste 6.2 Our suppliers ABN AMRO aims to separate waste as much as feasible, and to encourage its use as a raw material for new We believe that our responsibility in the field of sustain­ ­products or for generating energy. In 2013, the amount of ability extends beyond our own business operations – ­ non-recyclable waste was reduced by 9%, and we are we expect the same commitment from our suppliers aiming for a further reduction of at least 10% in 2014. and consider it part of our chain responsibility to purchase responsible products and services. When selecting 6.1.5 Water ­suppliers, we apply the FIRA Rating System, which ties At the Gustav Mahlerlaan and Foppingadreef head in closely with international guidelines for socially office buildings, all basin and kitchen taps have been ­responsible business, such as ISO 26000 and the Global ­replaced by water-saving devices, saving up to 90%. Reporting Initiative (GRI). FIRA helps us to get a handle In 2013 work started on the installation of a geothermal on the sustainability performance – environmental and heat pump at our data centre. The system is due to be social – and the transparency of our suppliers. We have completed in 2014 and should reduce our water use by access to the CSR profiles that these companies provide 21 million litres per year. through FIRA. 6.1.6 Other initiatives In 2013, we placed 39% of our expenditures with We are always looking for ways to make our internal ­FIRA-registered suppliers, well over double the percentage ­operations more sustainable. In 2013, we also saw the in 2012 (16%). Our aim is to boost this figure even further ­implementation of the following initiatives: by encouraging our current suppliers to sign up to FIRA. ABN AMRO signed a new catering contract this year, A FIRA commitment is a prerequisite for all new guaranteeing that at least 70% of the products in our purchasing contracts that we sign. company restaurants are sustainably sourced and/or ­organic. By focusing on purchasing products and services from Since 2013 we have been using standard cradle-to-cradle suppliers that operate responsibly, we contribute to a carpet solutions when replacing and refurbishing. ­sustainable supply chain while at the same time reducing our own ecological footprint. The ‘Silver’ rating awarded In October 2013, we won the Facility Manager of the by FIRA in December 2013 is recognition of the bank’s Year Award for our achievements in making ABN AMRO’s ­efforts to enhance transparency about its sustainability operations more sustainable (see box). performance. Karin Kersten: Facility Manager of the Year Karin Kersten, Facility Management Director at ABN AMRO, “Sustainability is firmly entrenched in how ABN AMRO was nominated Facility Manager of the Year in 2013. She earned does business”, she says. “It’s a part of everything we do. this distinction with an innovative and influential approach in We recently decided to offer bottles of tap water, for instance, the area of sustainability and carbon footprint. Attendees at the instead of a French mineral water brand. Tap water is more 600 Minutes Facility Management Conference voted for the ­sustainable and doesn’t have to be transported. Clients, guests ABN AMRO candidate out of 125 nominees. Kersten was the and employees have all responded positively to our choice, keynote speaker at the conference in October 2013, where and awareness of sustainable options is growing. If we add up she received the award. all the little things we do, we can achieve bigger changes as a bank. ‘Little big things’, we call them. I’m proud of that.” 55 6.3 Our plans for the future Our aim for 2014 is to improve the energy performance of another 50,000 square metres of our real estate portfolio to an energy A label – taking some 330,000 square metres (36% of our real estate portfolio) to energy A label by the end of 2014. One of our key drivers in 2014 will be the further ­digitisation of our products and processes, and encour­ aging more digital collaboration. We are gearing up to a future in which clients will increasingly demand ­digital products and services, and ever larger numbers of employees will work – or want to work – online only. This should help both to reduce our paper consumption (goal 10% per year) and to lower our carbon emissions. In the years ahead, we will continue to actively seek ways to improve sustainability and transparency by ­increasing the number of FIRA-registered partners and suppliers. For a more concrete implementation of its sustainability agenda, ABN AMRO supports Green Deal Circulair Inkopen (circular procurement). This is an initiative of companies in the public and ­private sectors in partnership with a number of financial institutions and aims to implement two such purchasing drives in 2014. Cradle-to-cradle purchasing essentially means that ABN AMRO guarantees that its suppliers can put to optimum effect, in a new cycle, products or materials that have come to the end of their useful life or current use. The innovative cooling system at our data centre in ­Amstelveen is due to be completed in 2014. It should help save 7% on energy consumption and cut water use by 21 million litres a year. 39% of our expenditures placed with FIRA-registered suppliers 39% of our expenditures placed with FIRA-registered suppliers FIRA 39% 56 our contribution to society our contribution to society 7 An important pillar of our strategy is that we use the financial expertise of our staff to the benefit of the community, thereby contributing to a better world. We do so via various forms of social sponsorship and by helping good causes. This way, we can give something back to the community. 7.1 ABN AMRO Foundation ABN AMRO Foundation gives concrete form to the bank’s social commitment by encouraging employees As a leading bank in the Netherlands, ABN AMRO has an to volunteer for community projects. We have a whole influence on society. We recognise this and take our social range of initiatives and projects, primarily focusing on: role very seriously. There is more to it than simply putting promoting life skills our clients’ interests centre stage. We want to support overcoming social isolation people who need it, even where there is no direct comdirect aid mercial benefit in doing so. Because the quality of the community is important to all our futures. In 2013 our employees volunteered 11,707 times on ­ behalf of the Foundation and spent a total of 46,175 hours helping our social target groups. In 2013 our employees gave 342 lessons to Life skills In 2013 our employees primary schoolgave 342 lessons to pupils The difference between not coping and standing on primary school pupils your own feet, and between being underprivileged and ­privileged, can sometimes be very small. Yet circum­ stances prevent many people from bridging the gap. We are eager to help others take that step and give their future a positive new direction. This can take many forms: some employees coach reading skills in primary schools 342 lessons or read stories to nursery children to encourage literacy. Others go into schools to give pupils lessons on handling money. In 2013 our employees gave 342 such lessons. 57 We have employees too who act as budget coaches to to assisting this ‘forgotten’ group by organising social victims of traumatic events who need help getting their ­activities through which staff help look after elderly ­finances back on track. Or who coach micro-entrepreneurs people. Employees have been visiting isolated old people and other business start-ups. What is special about our for eight years now, to bring them a Christmas tree and ­approach is the use that employees make of their time decorate it together. During the 2013 festive season, and skills: people for people! 1,483 elderly people sat beside an ABN AMRO Christmas tree. Our employees also help prepare and serve meals Social isolation through Resto VanHarte – an organisation that brings Individualism and population ageing are two factors ­together socially isolated people at easily accessible ­intensifying isolation among old people. We are committed ­restaurants in community centres and support facilities. Malala Yousafzai wins International Children’s Peace Prize ABN AMRO has been a committed sponsor of KidsRights, ever The Children’s Peace Prize for 2013 was awarded to since the Dutch children’s rights organisation was founded. 16-year-old Malala Yousafzai from Pakistan, who was also ­KidsRights launched the International Children’s Peace Prize a ­nominated in 2011. Malala became world-famous when the few years ago. It is awarded each year to a child who has served ­Taliban in Pakistan shot her in the head. She received the prize the rights of children in a unique way, anywhere in the world. because of her commitment to girls’ education throughout the This ‘Nobel Prize for children’ encourages young people and world, even at risk to her own life. ­rewards initiatives that make a real difference to the personal environment of children and the community as a whole. 58 our contribution to society Direct aid It was this that inspired us to become the founder and In the present crisis, increasing numbers of people are main sponsor of the Young Entrepreneurs Foundation, having to turn to social organisations for help. At the same which offers young people in their final year of college time, these organisations have fewer resources to offer a specially designed programme supervised by an the help so desperately needed. Our employees are highly ABN AMRO coach. The programme focuses on how to aware of these issues, and provided immediate aid to create a successful business in sustainable goods. such organisations in the shape of food parcels or financial contributions. For the third year running, the bank gave Education employees the option in 2013 of giving up all or part of In the field of education, we have been the main sponsor their Christmas hamper, resulting in 7,423 food parcels. of both the National Read Aloud Days and the Children’s As the outcome of this initiative exceeded 7,000 parcels, Jury for several years now. To this, we added the principal the bank donated an extra EUR 15,000 to the National sponsorship of the Children’s Book Week in 2011. Our goal Food Bank. In addition, still-working second-hand in each case is to promote the pleasure of reading, while ­computers are donated to charities. simultaneously improving literacy skills. In 2013, the Children’s Book Week included a writing 7.2 Community sponsorship ­contest in which Dutch children’s author Paul van Loon challenged children to finish a spine-chilling story that he Our community sponsorship policy reflects the idea that had started. There were over 800 entries, with some of we want to be a better bank contributing to a better world. the children being helped with their writing by ABN AMRO To contribute to society as effectively as we can, we give volunteers. The best three were picked by a jury made up our employees the opportunity to contribute themselves. of our Managing Board chairman Gerrit Zalm, Richard There are three pillars to our community sponsorship ­Krajicek and Paul van Loon. The winners were invited to policy: bring their entire school class to ‘The art of reading’, a enterprise ­performance that took Paul van Loon on a musical journey education through his best-loved books. The children got to meet sport and talk to the popular children’s horror writer after the performance. Enterprise ABN AMRO plays a role at the heart of society. We try to Sport take every opportunity to be innovative and progressive, ABN AMRO has sponsored sports activities for decades. and in doing so we offer our clients optimum service. ­ The ABN AMRO World Tennis Tournament, hockey and golf That takes ambition, entrepreneurship and a professional are among the most visible examples. To give an extra mentality – skills we want to foster in young people too. social boost to Dutch sport, we also support a range of 1,483 Christmas trees for old people Employees volunteered for community Employees volunteered for community 7,423 food parcels handed in target groups 11,707 times target groups 11,707 times 1,483 Christmas trees for old people 7,423 food parcels handed in x1,483 x7,423 11,707 59 ­initiatives designed to make sport accessible to everyone. Support for SUPPORT We encourage physical exercise for young people from The ABN AMRO Support for SUPPORT Foundation, deprived areas via the Richard Krajicek Foundation, and ­established within the bank itself, assists the SUPPORT we help the Youth Sports Fund to create opportunities for Foundation in its efforts to provide refuge and guidance children up to 18 years old that do not have the money to to street children in Mumbai, India. These children face a join a sports club. As part of our sports sponsorship we range of problems because of drugs and other circum­ also help tennis clubs in the country reduce their energy stances. SUPPORT was founded in 1985 and is run by consumption. ABN AMRO is ‘FairShare Partner’ to the ­volunteers. It is one of only a few organisations in India Fund for Special Needs Sports. This means that with a rehabilitation programme for drug-dependent street ABN AMRO devotes 2% of its sports sponsorship budget children, and probably the only one to also allow girls into to disabled sports. In tennis, we organised the World its programme. SUPPORT provides children with accomWheelchair Tournament for the fifth year in a row. In golf, modation and helps rebuild their lives using an approach ABN AMRO is the title sponsor of the ABN AMRO that has proven to be highly effective. Their addiction is ­Disabled Open. All our sponsorship events are climate tackled first. The children are then enrolled in school and neutral. given assistance in finding gainful employment. Children’s Bank in India ABN AMRO raised funds for SUPPORT in a variety of We also invest in a better world outside the Netherlands. ways in 2013, including a digital auction. A special auction The management team of ABN AMRO Private Banking site was set up on which employees could not only bid ­International helped set up a special bank for street children for articles and services, but also offer items for sale. in Mumbai, India. The aim of the ‘children’s bank’ is to Funds raised in earlier years went towards the purchase ­provide a safe depository for the savings of homeless of a piece of land for the purpose of building a new relief children, teach them how to manage their money and centre. Construction got under way in 2010 and the centre ­encourage them to get back into mainstream education. officially opened its doors in 2013. It accommodates up to The bank is run by children for children, volunteering under 150 children. adult supervision. The children’s bank has attracted over 400 clients since opening in March 2011, and their savings grew by over 40% in 2013. A new area of expertise at the 7.3 Our plans for the future children’s bank is microfinance, with a select number of children granted small loans to finance such things as In 2014, we intend to start with a theme-based school parties or a business start-up. In addition to money, ­approach for our community activities. the children’s bank furnishes information and training Our goal for 2014 is to have over 10,000 employees ­sessions in diverse areas such as health, computer take part in ABN AMRO Foundation’s community ­training, accounting and children’s rights. ­projects. Hermien Bakker: Christmas Angel Hermien Bakker is a Senior Citizens Adviser at ABN AMRO. year earlier. She told us she was going to spend Christmas She also volunteers for the ABN AMRO Foundation in the with her family. Her daughter saw the tree at her mother’s ­Eindhoven region. Hermien has been a ‘Christmas Angel’ since place last year, and asked about it at the nursing home where the beginning of the Foundation’s Christmas tree campaign. the old lady was staying. She was shocked to hear that her Angels are volunteers who make sure isolated elderly people mother had been given the tree because she was lonely. have a really nice day. Since then, she has visited her mother frequently and they now spend Christmas together. So, not only did we give the “Something special happened in 2013”, Hermien says. lady a few hours’ company, we also helped ensure that she “We called on a lady we’d also given a little Christmas tree a now gets regular visits.” 60 appendices 61 appendices 62 appendix 1 appendix 1 figures 2013 Financial Figures 2013 In EUR millions 2013 2012 Total assets 372,022 393,758 Equity attributable to shareholders 13,555 12,864 Assets under management 168,300 163,100 Operating profit before taxes 1,571 1,424 Net profit 1,160 1,153 Staff and other operating costs In EUR millions, unless stated otherwise 2013 2012 Total staff costs 2,357 2,151 Total staff and other operating costs 4,528 4,420 Staff costs per fte (in EUR) 105,747 93,282 Staff and other operating costs per fte (in EUR) 203,150 191,682 Non Financial Figures 2013 (2012 figures not assured by our assurance provider) Security and privacy 2013 2012 Complaints Sustained Complaints Sustained Client complaints about non-compliance with privacy guidelines by ABN AMRO Netherlands 52 3 24 3 Client complaints about non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes by ABN AMRO Netherlands 28 1 54 2 63 Application of Equator Principles Category and number of reviewed projects (EP scope in 2013 is new) 2013 2012 Country Category Category Risk Classification A B C Total Total A B C Total Within Beyond EP scope EP scope Emerging markets 2 3 1 6 3 3 0 6 0 6 High-Income OECD 0 4 0 4 3 1 0 6 3 9 Total 2 7 1 10 6 4 0 12 3 15 Review of project financing by region (EP scope in 2013 is new) 2013 2012 Region Category Category Risk Classification A B C Total Total A B C Total Within Beyond EP scope EP scope Africa 0 2 0 2 0 2 2 2 Asia 1 0 1 2 2 0 2 2 Europe 0 3 0 3 2 1 6 3 9 Middle East 1 1 0 2 1 1 1 1 North America 0 1 0 1 1 0 South America 1 1 Total 2 7 1 10 6 4 0 12 3 15 Review of project financing by industry (EP scope in 2013 is new) 2013 2012 Sector Category Category Risk Classification A B C Total Total A B C Total Within Beyond EP scope EP scope Energy production 1 1 0 2 2 0 2 2 Infrastructure 1 2 1 4 3 1 5 5 Mining 1 1 Oil & gas 0 4 0 4 1 3 4 4 Telecom 3 3 Total 2 7 1 10 6 4 0 12 3 15 64 appendix 1 Review of project financing based on assessment/status (EP scope in 2013 is new) 2013 2012 Status Category Category A B C Total Total A B C Total Within Beyond EP scope EP scope Closed 0 4 1 5 3 2 2 2 4 Not approved 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 In process 2 3 0 5 3 2 7 7 Not realised 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 3 Total 2 7 1 10 6 4 0 12 3 15 Closed The financing request for which an Equator Principle compliance advise has been given is approved and the financing documentation has been signed. Not approved The financing request for which an Equator Principle compliance advise has been given has not been approved. In process The financing request and/or administrative processes have not yet been completed. Not realised The project will not go ahead; request withdrawn by client or external lead manager. Advice provided by the Central Sustainability Department (the figures for 2013 are presented in a new classification) 2013 Sector Number Type of advice Conclusion of advice Client Request for Other Approvals Qualified Rejections Pending Withdrawn acceptance finance requests approvals Agriculture 26 21 5 17 7 2 Chemicals 23 23 17 4 1 1 Defence 32 21 10 1 18 9 5 Energy & Public utilities 40 39 1 31 8 1 Fishery 4 4 4 Forestry 4 3 1 2 2 Infrastructure 2 1 1 2 Manufacturing industry 14 12 2 12 1 1 Mining & Metals 66 64 2 41 18 2 4 1 Miscellaneous industries 29 28 1 21 7 1 Oil & Gas 61 61 42 14 2 2 1 Tobacco 7 7 5 2 Transport & Logistics 8 5 2 1 4 1 1 1 1 Other industries 19 17 2 16 1 1 1 Total 335 302 27 6 228 78 14 11 4 Defence Industry involved in the production of or trade in defence-related goods and services, and suppliers to defence-related companies. Miscellaneous industries Companies operating or investing in multiple sectors or industries, with none of them a clear main category. Other industries Residual category for companies that do not fit into any of the other Sustainability-identified industries, e.g. real estate and waste disposal companies. Client acceptance Request for advice prompted by ‘increased ESE risk’ indication in the annual review of the client relationship or when a new client opens an account. Request for finance Request for advice prompted by ‘increased ESE risk’ indication in the request for finance procedure or in the annual review of an ongoing loan. Other requests Other requests for advice prompted by ‘increased ESE risk’ indication in the procedures for developing funds and products, or entering into relationships with suppliers. Approvals Approval means that the client and/or transaction is or is expected to be in compliance with the bank’s sustainability policies. Qualified approvals Qualified approval is given if the client and/or transaction is not currently in compliance with the bank’s sustainability policies but is expected to meet ­requirements within an agreed timeframe. Rejections A rejection means that the client and/or transaction is not and/or will not be in compliance with the bank’s sustainability policies. Pending Pending means that the advice is yet to be forthcoming, possibly because further questions have been asked of the client or because specific information is missing and needs to be provided before advice can be given. Withdrawn Withdrawn means that the request for advice has been withdrawn by ABN AMRO’s internal departments. 65 LC&MB Sustainability Risk Management 2013 2012 Client Credit Total Client Credit Total acceptance process acceptance process process process Agricultural commodities 160 89 249 109 99 208 Energy 129 63 192 81 69 150 Energy commodities 193 82 275 132 86 218 Metals commodities 187 50 237 121 92 213 Transport 208 52 260 131 28 159 Other sectors 26 26 52 14 17 31 Total 903 362 1,265 588 391 979 LC&MB Sustainability Risk Management Number of requests related to sustainability screenings and assessments. LC&MB Sustainability Risk Management* 2013 Client acceptance process: Credit process: Total Sustainability reputation Sustainability analyses screenings performed performed Agricultural commodities 160 83 243 Energy 129 58 187 Energy commodities 193 76 269 Metals commodities 187 43 230 Transport 208 52 260 Other sectors 26 26 52 Total 903 338 1,241 * Performed Sustainablity screenings and assessments. LC&MB client acceptance process Application of procedures and internal rules leading to the formal acceptance of an entity as a client by the authorised LC&MB committee. Sustainability reputation screening is part of this process. LC&MB credit process The process to observe when applying for/changing/extending a credit facility: sustainability assessments are part of that process. Total sustainable assets under administration In EUR millions 2013 2012 Sustainable investments under management 3,217 3,310 Sustainable investment products 1,195 1,374 Sustainable savings products 238 248 Total 4,649* 4,931 * Due to rounding Financing In EUR millions 2013 2012 Sustainable financing Groenbank* 392 502 * The loan portfolio contracted as we stopped furnishing new sustainable loans in December 2010. The current portfolio will be continued and current contracts honoured until expiry. 66 appendix 1 Client focus Contracts channel In millions 2013 2012 Internet Banking contracts* 5.6* 5.6 Number of households using Internet Banking 3.5 3.4 * Internet Banking contracts includes also Commercial & Merchant Banking. Employees Number of employees 2013 2012 Number of employees Global (FTEs) 22,289 23,059 Number of employees Netherlands (FTEs) 18,550 19,290 Number of employees Global FTEs 2013 2012 Private Banking 3,523 3,648 Retail Banking 6,227 6,335 Commercial Banking 3,048 3,249 Merchant Banking 2,204 2,142 Group functions 7,287 7,685 FTEs per business line men/women Global (new in 2013) FTEs 2013 2012 Men Women Not registered Men/Women Private Banking 1,772.2 1,750.8 3,648 Retail Banking 2,852.8 3,374.1 6,335 Commercial Banking 1,709.5 1,338.4 3,249 Merchant Banking 1,488.6 715.4 2,142 Group Functions 4,029.4 2,531.9 7,685 Total 11,852.5 9,710.6 725.6* 23,059 * Some subsidiaries do not require registration of the sex of their employees. Breakdown of employees by age NL In percentages 2013 2012 < 24 0 1 24-29 7 7 30-39 26 26 40-49 35 35 50-59 27 26 > 60 5 5 67 Breakdown of employees by job level NL In percentages 2013 2012 7 or lower 48 49 8-9 20 20 10-11 20 20 Subtop 9 9 Top 3 2 Diversity of employees NL In percentages 2013 2012 Men Women Men Women 7 or lower 35 65 35 65 8-9 61 39 61 39 10-11 71 29 73 27 Subtop1 78 22 78 22 Top 2 81 19 83 16 1 Job levels 12 and 13 (Hay). 2 Job levels 14 and 15 (Hay), Management Group and Managing Board. Geographical distribution of employees In percentages 20131 20122 Netherlands 84 84 Europe (other) 11 12 Asia 3 3 USA 1 1 Other 1 <1 1 Based on headcounts. 2 Totals for 2012 does not add up due to roundings. Absenteeism NL In percentages 2013 2012 Absenteeism (trend total) 3.52 3.86 Breakdown of employment contracts Global In percentages 2013 2012 Staff, permanent 85 86 Staff, temporary 4 4 Agency staff 4 4 Contract staff 7 6 68 appendix 1 Breakdown of workforce by employment contract Global In percentages 2013 2012 Full-time 74 74 Part-time 26 26 External inand outflow and reason Global FTE 2013 2012 Inflow 1,192 1,583 Outflow 1,962 2,749 Natural turnover 677 n.a. Reorganisation 403 n.a. Other 882 n.a. Figures training costs Global 2013 2012 Total training costs (in Eur millions)* 43.9 41 Training costs as a percentage of staff costs 1.9 1.9 * The total amount ABN AMRO spent on training its employees worldwide. In contrary to sustainable report 2012, this figure is related to staff costs in stead of labour costs. Figure for 2012 also recalculated to staff costs 2012. Environment Energy consumption Electricity consumption NL (in kWh, GJ and kTon CO2*) kWh E GJ E kTon CO2 kWh E GJ E kTon CO2 2013 2013 2013* 2012 2012 2012 Subtotal electricity consumption 135,378,097 488,730 0 160,254,772 576,917 4.3 Total purchased green electricity by certificates 135,378,097 150,000,000 * Greening electricity supply through the procurement of certificates. Natural gas consumption NL (in kWh, GJ and kTon CO2) kWh Natural GJ Natural kTon CO2 kWh Natural GJ Natural kTon CO2 gas 2013 gas 2013 2013 gas 2012 gas 2012 2012 Subtotal natural gas 49,600,013 179,061 10.03 59,414,653 213,893 12.00 Heating and cooling NL (in kWh, GJ and kTon CO2) kWh GJ kTon CO2 kWh GJ kTon CO2 District heating District heating District heating District heating 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 Subtotal heating and cooling 26,450,730 95,490 5.34 32,430,000 117,090 6.55 Total energy consumption NL 211,428,840 763,281 15.37 252,099,425 907,900 22.85 * Some of the comparative CO2 figures have been restated due to adjusted emission factors. 69 Energy reduction In percentages 2013 Reduction in energy consumption in 2013* compared with situation in 2012 16 * The reduction of energy consumption is due to the closure of premises and energy efficiency measures. Energy key figures kWh 2013 GJ 2013 kWh 2012 GJ 2012 Energy consumption per m 2 (Total m2 708.741) (in kWh, GJ) 298.32 1.08 310.34 1.12 Energy consumption per 36h FTE* (in kWh, GJ) 11,397.78 41.15 13,068.92 47.07 * Total FTEs ABN AMRO NL (Global and subsidiaries excluded). Paper consumption NL 2013 2012 Reduction compared with 2010 (%) 32.7 23.4 Total in tons 2,338 2,660 Total waste per fte (in kg/fte) 126 138 Paper with FSC eco label (in tons) 2,300 2,601 Paper without FSC eco label (in tons) 38 59 Business travel by lease car NL (in kilometres) 2013 2012 Total distance travelled by lease cars 105,612,495 112,743,461 Total CO2 emissions of lease cars (in kTon CO2) 20.09 21.32 Average per lease car 37,142 36,989 Average per FTE 5,693 5,845 Business air travel In kilometres 2013 2012 Global* Netherlands Global* Short-haul (up to 3,700 km) 33,733,851 21,886,350 28,259,659 Long-haul 10,088,575 6,687,536 8,451,442 Total distance 43,822,426 28,573,886 36,711,101 * Global is including the Netherlands. Business air travel (number of flights) 2013 2012 Global Netherlands Global Short-haul (up to 3,700 km) 2,505 1,531 2,637 Long-haul 8,094 6,363 8,520 Total number of flights 10,599 7,894 11,157 70 appendix 1 CO2 emissions In kTon CO2 2013 2012 Global Netherlands Global Short-haul (up to 3,700 km) 6.49 4.21 5.54 Long-haul 2.29 1.51 1.90 Total (in kTon CO2) 8.78 5.72 7.44 Total CO2 emissions 2013 2012 kWh GJ kTon CO2 kWh GJ kTon CO2 Electricity 135,378,097 488,730 0.00 160,254,772 576,917 4.3 Natural gas, Heating and Cooling 76,050,743 274,551 15.37 91,844,653 330,983 18.55 km GJ kTon CO2 km GJ kTon CO2 Business travel by car (lease cars) 105,612,495 20.09 112,743,461 21.95 Business air travel in the Netherlands 28,573,886 5.72 23,971,176 4.86* Total CO2 in kTon in the Netherlands 41.2 49.66 CO2 emissions in tons per FTE in the Netherlands 2.22 2.57 * This number is recalculated. It is based on the 2013 air km Global vs. air km Netherlands ratio. Waste 2013 2012 ton % kg/FTE tons % kg/FTE Containing paper 1,724 56.3 2,185 58.6 Items specified as hazardous materials (e.g. batteries, toner cartridges) 9 0.3 12.36 0.3 Other 201 6.6 303 8.1 Plastic 19 0.6 26 0.7 Residual waste 1,110 36.2 1,217 32.6 Total 3,064 100 3,731 100 Total kg waste per FTE 165 193 Residual waste reduction in 2013 over 2012 (%) 107 8.8 Other waste The annual amount of waste that is recycled excluding waste containing paper and plastic. Residual waste The annual amount of waste left after recyclable waste is stripped out. Hazardous waste The annual amount of collected hazardous materials, including batteries and empty toners. Employees in the Netherlands with public transport season ticket paid by the bank 2013 2012 1st class 287 n.a. 2nd class 5,812 n.a. Total 6,099 6,031 71 Community ABN AMRO Foundation NL 2013 2012 Net contribution devoted directly to social projects (in EUR)* 700,000 1,015,000 Number of times employees volunteered (excl. food parcel campaign) 11,707 13,561 Number of food parcels 7,423 5,038 Number of projects 358 403 * The total amount the Foundation spends on projects for the local community, not including general Foundation costs (e.g. communications costs). Social Sponsoring (NL) In EUR 2013 2012 Donations 150,000 25,000 Sponsoring 548,000 91,600 72 appendix 2 appendix 2 independent assurance report To the readers of the Sustainability Report 2013 others, that the assurance team possesses the specific of ABN AMRO Group N.V. knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed We were engaged by the Managing Board of ABN AMRO to provide assurance on sustainability information, and Group N.V. (further ‘ABN AMRO’) to provide assurance on that they comply with the requirements of the Code of the data included in Appendix 1 – Non Financial Figures Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International 2013 of the Sustainability Report 2013 (further ‘Appendix 1 Federation of Accountants to ensure their independence. – Non Financial Figures’). The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, including Work undertaken the identification of material issues. Our responsibility is Our procedures included the following: to issue an assurance report based on the engagement A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify outlined below. relevant sustainability issues for ABN AMRO in the reporting period. Scope Reviewing the suitability of the internal reporting Our assurance engagement was designed to provide limited guidelines including conversion factors used. assurance on whether the 2013 data in Appendix 1 – Evaluating the design and implementation of the Non Financial Figures is presented, in all material respects, systems and processes for the collection, processing in accordance with the reporting criteria. and control of the information in the Report, including the consolidation of the data. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business are aimed at determining the plausibility of information level responsible for providing the information in and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level Appendix 1 – Non Financial Figures, carrying out internal of assurance. control procedures on the data and consolidating the data in Appendix 1 – Non Financial Figures. Reporting criteria and assurance standard Evaluating internal and external documentation, based ABN AMRO applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines on sampling, to determine whether the information in G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative supported by internally Appendix 1 – Non Financial Figures is supported by developed guidelines as described in Appendix 3, Basis for sufficient evidence. Reporting of the Sustainability Report 2013. It is important to An analytical review of the data and trend explanations view the performance data in the context of these submitted by all businesses for consolidation at group level criteria. as far as related to Appendix 1 – Non Financial Figures. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Conclusion Dutch Standard 3410N: “Assurance engagements relating Based on the procedures performed, as described above, to sustainability reports.” This standard requires, among nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 73 information in Appendix 1 – Non Financial Figures is not No assurance on the comparative data presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the No assurance procedures were performed regarding the reporting criteria. 2012 data included in Appendix 1 – Non Financial Figures. As a result, we do not provide assurance on these Observation comparative data included in the Appendix 1 – Non Without affecting the conclusion presented above, Financial Figures. we would like to draw the reader’s attention to the section Our sustainability strategy which explains that obtaining Amsterdam, 7 March 2014 assurance on a distinct set of quantitative data is the start KPMG Sustainability, of ABN AMRO’s roadmap to receive assurance on the Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. complete report in the coming years. These future reports will focus on material issues relating to the four pillars of their long-term sustainability strategy. Accordingly we W.J. Bartels RA, Partner recommend ABN AMRO to design and communicate such a roadmap in its next report and to add performance information related to material topics to the assurance scope. 74 appendix 3 appendix 3 basis for reporting We publish this Sustainability Report for everyone who organisation must be in good order. It also means is interested in ABN AMRO’s sustainability performance. securing the involvement of our employees. In addition, This involves a diverse group of stakeholders including the information was supplemented with easily accessible clients, employees, investors, shareholders, NGOs and and recognisable results of our efforts to enhance the sustainability rating agencies. Not all sustainability ­sustainability of our products and services. We will ­information available to ABN AMRO has been included ­continue to gather more and more quantitative information, in this report. Additional information, including various so that assurance can be provided on all key performance policy papers setting out our sustainability policy, is indicators within the next few years. posted on our website (abnamro.com/en/Sustainability/ risk-­management). In some cases, financial data that are relevant from a ­sustainability perspective were also included in this report. This Sustainability Report covers the period from 1 January For a comprehensive overview of the bank’s financial 2013 to 31 December 2013. Unless specified otherwise, it ­results, please refer to the 2013 Annual Report of sets out the results for the entire ABN AMRO organisation ABN AMRO N.V. worldwide. Reporting standards Data collection The purpose of this report is to present ABN AMRO’s Sustainability is a bank-wide responsibility. This means ­sustainability results in an accessible manner. In compiling that every business unit is actively engaged in sustainability this Sustainability Report, we took the GRI 3.1 (Global and reports both internally and externally (through this ­Reporting Initiative) standard, including the Financial Sustainability Report) its own economic, environmental ­Services Sector Supplement, as our basis. This standard and social performance in this area, in both qualitative provides us with a tangible guideline for determining the and quantitative terms. Feedback from our internal and subjects that we could and should report on. An overview ­external stakeholders was, of course, also used in of the GRI indicators we selected for inclusion in our ­compiling this report. Further details on this subject can report is contained in our GRI Index and can be found at be found in the section on stakeholder management abnamro.com/sustainability under Reporting. (Section 2). Future This year, we requested an external auditor to provide This report has been structured around our long-term assurance on a distinct set of quantitative data. We consider ­sustainability strategy. This means that we want to report it an ­important step on our roadmap to receive assurance on the subjects that are relevant (material) to us as a on the complete report, with a focus on material issues bank and on the role we aim to play in this connection. ­relating to the four pillars of our long-term sustainability The long-term sustainability strategy was drawn up in strategy. This means, first and foremost, that our internal 2012 and was mentioned for the first time in our 2012 75 Sustainability Report. 2013 was the first full year in which we were able to give shape and substance to this strategy in a targeted manner. However, this is still in progress. Going forward, we aim to make more and more information available: information that is relevant to our stakeholders and information that ABN AMRO is able to access and report on; information that provides insight into how ABN AMRO is steering its organisation towards a ­sustainable future. With the future implementation of the new G4 reporting standard, we expect to further ­enhance the quality of our reporting, while also moving a step closer to integrated reporting. 76 appendix 4 appendix 4 stakeholder dialogue: sustainability issues discussed and outcome Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Civil society organisations Amnesty International Telephone and written contact Companies and human rights Knowledge sharing, input for our own human rights policy Banktrack Face-to-face contact Sustainability policies of banks Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO's ­sustainability policy Fair Banking Guide Written and face-to-face Sustainability policies of banks, Knowledge sharing, scores in EBW reports, (Eerlijke Bankwijzer, EBW) ­contact in connection with annual EBW update, research assessment of policy, input on our own ­sustainable practices surveys into sustainable practices ­policy in the researched areas and on policy and ABN AMRO's scores in ­related to ship demolition, implementation these, participation in an EBW ­nuclear weapons, animal event ­welfare, livestock transport, transparency and accountability, human rights Equator Principles Participation in conference Launching of Equator Knowledge sharing, contributing to policy Principles 3 development on Equator Principles Fair Wear Foundation Face-to-face contact Sustainable practices in the Knowledge sharing, input for our own clothing industry ­sustainable supply chain policy Global March Against Child Face-to-face contact Sharing information and Knowledge sharing, input for our own human ­Labour ­expertise about child labour, rights policy specifically in the diamond and jewellery sector Greenpeace Face-to-face contact Sustainability policies of banks Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s ­sustainability policy IFAW International Fund for Telephone and written contact Sharing information and Knowledge sharing, input for policy Animal Welfare ­expertise about CITES treaties ­implementation and our Exclusion List as part of a discussion of an issue with a corporate client IUCN International Union Participation in various Biodiversity, natural capital Knowledge sharing, input for our own for Conservation of Nature, ­meetings on nature conser­ nature conservation policy ­Leaders for nature vation (partici­pated in 2013) Natuur en Milieu Face-to-face contact Energy and climate, energy Cooperation in the development of energy (environmental organisation) transition of business clients, and environmental policies campaigns targeting businesses and retail customers NJCM Dutch Section of the Presentation at human rights Businesses and human rights Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO's International Commission for conference ­human rights policy Human Rights Oxfam Novib Written contact, board member Land rights/land grabbing, Knowledge sharing about ­ABN AMRO’s attended meeting ­status of commitments made policy to prevent land grabbing with regard to land grabbing 77 Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Oxfam Novib & IKV Pax Christi Written contact Alleged involvement in supply We took note of information provided, of weapons to Syria ­investigated the exact situation and our ­possible involve­ment, and found no material grounds for engagement Solidaridad Participation in round table Sustainable gold programme Knowledge sharing, input for our own conference on sustainable ­sustainable mining policy ­mining SOMO Stichting Onderzoek Completion of survey, face-toTransparency about lobbying Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO's Multinationale Ondernemingen face and written contact activities ­lobbying activities, input for our own policy, improving transparency of our lobbying ­activities based on SOMO's recommendations SOS Faim Reaction to publication Speculation in the Knowledge sharing on agro-commodities ­agro-­commodity market policy Urgewald Face-to-face contact Sustainability policies of banks Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO's ­sustainability policy VMR Vereniging voor Presentation at environmental Sustainability policies of banks Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO's ­Milieurecht conference ­sustainability policy Vlinderstichting Face-to-face contact Biodiversity Development of co-creation to promote ­biodiversity Wereldnatuurfonds/ World Participation in training course Biodiversity Knowledge sharing and gathering, Wide Fund for Nature on biodiversity and banks, ­engagement of company knowledge sharing and request to engage Virunga National Park Professional counterparties, suppliers, partners, networking organisations ASR, Delta Lloyd, ING, Contact via online discussion Long-term Energy Efficiency Drafting road map for financial service ­Rabobank, SNS, Dutch Banking platform, participation in Covenant ­providers on how to approach energy Association (NVB) ­consultation group on energy after 2020 Blue Orchard Finance S.A. Face-to-face contact Introduction with a view to possible ­cooperation/information sharing Clifford Chance Face-to-face contact Human rights Knowledge sharing Corio Face-to-face contact Social enterprise Knowledge and network sharing, giving ­shape to Social Impact ‘Doneer de Zon' partnership, Contact via platform Sustainable energy Creating sustainable energy awareness at Ballast Nedam/zonline/­ schools, running crowdfunding projects for Urgenda solar panels on school roofs First Climate Face-to-face contact Footprint, emissions Looking for ways to achieve zero emissions FMO Face-to-face contact Sustainability policies of banks, Knowledge sharing, exploring common biodiversity ground for cooperation, for example through an investment fund ICTSC International Centre Face-to-face contact Introduction with a view to Knowledge sharing on ABN AMRO's for Trade and Sustainable ­possible cooperation/­ ­sustainability policy, input for our own trade ­Development information sharing financing policy Jong Ondernemen Face-to-face contact Social enterprise Knowledge and network sharing, in the ­context of partnership with ABN AMRO's Business Banking division Milieu Centraal Face-to-face contact Communication about Knowledge gathering on how ABN AMRO sustainability should communicate on sustainability Oblivion/Slimmemeterportal Face-to-face contact Sustainable energy Special solar energy offer for all ABN AMRO staff RBS Foundation India Face-to-face contact Sustainability policies of banks, Knowledge sharing, in particular relating to community investment ABN AMRO Foundation SAI Social Accountability Participation in training course Corporate accountability, social Knowledge gathering on social auditing, ­International auditing sharing ABN AMRO's sustainability policy with participating companies Cooperation with Social Face-to-face contact Social enterprise Knowledge sharing, co-creation relating ­Enterprise NL PwC, CMS to social enterprise (services to social ­advocaten, Utrecht University ­entrepreneurs, traineeships) Slimmemeterportal.nl BV Face-to-face contact Footprint, energy consumption Providing schools and tennis clubs with ­insight into their energy consumption Stichting Duurzame Scholen Face-to-face contact Footprint, energy consumption Development of market propositions Stichting Energy Valley Participant in network Sustainable energy Development of market propositions Stichting kiEMT Participant in network Sustainable energy Development of market propositions 78 appendix 4 Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Stichting Nudge Group contact Footprint, energy consumption Improving sustainable practices at tennis clubs Support for Support Foundation Face-to-face contact Sustainability policies of banks, Knowledge sharing, in particular relating to community investment ABN AMRO Foundation Sustainalytics Face-to-face and written Sustainability research Purchase of data for investment and lending ­contact assessments, improving ABN AMRO's ­product offering TNO Participation in panel Green building Knowledge sharing, assessment and ­discussion ­discussion of the report Meters Maken ­produced by ABN AMRO Group Economics Triodos Investment ManageWritten contact, completion of Sustainable investment, Knowledge sharing with regard to ­ ment questionnaire ­eligibility test for sale via ABN AMRO's sustainable investment ­Triodos Investment ­products and their eligibility for sale via Management ­Triodos Investment Management Van Doorne Advocaten Face-to-face contact Social enterprise Knowledge and network sharing VBDO Participation in analyst Sustainable investment, Knowledge sharing, input for our own policy, ­meetings, press conference, ­position on shale gas drilling, sponsoring (with ASN Bank) of VBDO ­survey miscellaneous meetings, tax evasion, human rights of sustainable saving and investment ­written and face-to-face ­contact Vodafone Participation in stakeholder Via VBDO, ABN AMRO Knowledge sharing meeting ­participated in a stakeholder dialogue on sustainability at Vodafone WBCSD World Business Face-to-face contact Sustainable business practices Knowledge gathering, participation in Council for Sustainable WBCSD meetings ­Development Sector organisations Modint Face-to-face contact Sustainability in the clothing Knowledge sharing, input for our own ­industry ­sustainable supply chain policy Esco Netwerk Nederland Face-to-face contact Financing of Energy Service Knowledge sharing Company (Esco) KIVI Koninklijk Instituut van Giving a workshop Policy with regard to weapons Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO's Ingenieurs (Defensie en manufacture and sustainability ­sustainability policy focusing on weapons ­Veiligheid) in the defence industry MVO NL Face-to-face contact Sustainable business practices Knowledge and network sharing, knowledge gathering, exploring common ground for cooperation NVB Dutch Banking Face-to-face contact Code of conduct with regard to Knowledge sharing between Dutch banks ­Association mortgages, responsible lending Verbond van Verzekeraars Participation in consultation Long-Term Energy Efficiency Drafting road map for financial service group on energy Covenant ­providers on how to approach energy after 2020 VNO-NCW Face-to-face contact Sustainable business practices Knowledge and network sharing, knowledge gathering about various topics, such as doing business internationally Rating agencies IMUG Written contact, completion of Participation in benchmark ABN AMRO's sustainability rating questionnaire IMUG sustainability rating bank bonds 2013 oekom Written contact, completion of Participation in benchmark ABN AMRO's sustainability rating questionnaire ­oekom Corporate Rating 2013 Transparency Benchmark, Written contact, completion of Participation in Transparency ABN AMRO's sustainability rating Dutch Foreign Ministry questionnaire benchmark 79 Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Supervisors DNB De Nederlandsche Bank Completion of questionnaire, Sustainability policy of De Knowledge sharing, assessment of DNB's participation in stakeholder ­Nederlandsche Bank sustainability policy meeting AFM Written and face-to-face Policy for the defence industry Procedure to verify whether companies are ­contact, participation with other involved in cluster munitions production banks in meeting on ­cluster munitions Government departments Agentschap NL Face-to-face contact Financing PPS/Energy Service Exploring possibilities Company (Esco) Agentschap NL (climate unit) Participating in working comImproving Power Usage Exploring possibilities, significant mittee of Environmental and ­Efficiency (PUE) ­improvement of PUE Building Inspectorate ILO International Labour Face-to-face contact Human rights, labour rights, Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO's ­Organization working conditions ­sustainability policy, knowledge gathering on human and labour rights, establishing contacts for Uzbekistan project Ministry of Economic Affairs, Participation in consultation Long-Term Energy Efficiency Helping to draft 4-year plans for Foreign Ministry and groups Covenant 2008-2012/2013-2016/2017-2020, providing ­Agentschap NL ­information on 2013, which Agentschap NL will c­ onsolidate with input from other MJA3 ­participants OECD Participation in conference OECD Guidelines for MultinatioKnowledge gathering, input for our own nal Enterprises, sustainable ­international business policy business practices OHCHR Office of the High Face-to-face contact Human rights Introduction with a view to possible Commissioner for Human ­cooperation/information sharing Rights Permanent Representation of Face-to-face contact Introduction via PR to Introduction and knowledge sharing the Netherlands in Geneva international organisations with a view to possible cooperation/ information sharing UN GCOP United Nations Participation in workshops Business and human rights Human rights policy development ­Global Community of Practice UN Global Compact Germany Participation in webinars and Business and human rights Pilot project ID&JG within the framework of workshops the Peer Learning Group on Business and Human Rights, input for our own policy ­regarding the diamond industry UN Global Compact Face-to-face contact Sustainability policies of banks Knowledge sharing on ABN AMRO's ­Netherlands ­sustainability policy, knowledge gathering UN PRI United Nations Reporting of performance/­ Sustainable investment Reporting by ABN AMRO on implementation ­Principles for Responsible results for the ABN AMRO of UN PRI ­Investment company report and the UN PRI annual report UN EPFI United Nations Face-to-face contact Business and human rights Knowledge sharing and gathering, ­Environment Programme ­participation in Human Rights Workstream ­Finance Initiative Various Dutch ministries Participation in various Sustainable investment Exploring financing options for various meet­ings, written and ­sustainable initiatives, Green Deals, face-to-face contact contributing materially to initiatives including Revolving Fund for Energy Conservation Werkgroep Energieakkoord Participation in working group Energy Agreement Several ABN AMRO employees helped to forge the Energy Agreement 80 appendix 5 appendix 5 objectives and performance in 2013 On track Partly achieved Not achieved Subject Objective reported in 2012 Status Performance in 2013 Our sustainability Use our position in the business Ongoing. We played a formative role in such initiatives as the Dutch strategy ­community to promote sustainability ­National Energy Agreement, the Energy Savings Fund, various OECD working groups, the IUCN and several Green Deals Report more transparently on our Ongoing. Our reporting in 2013 on the year 2012 was a major ­performance (where possible ­improvement. Our transparency benchmark score has climbed from ­introducing quantitative targets) 156 to 176 points. Some quantitative targets have been set Engaging with our Seek customer feedback on more of Clients can comment on nine Retail, Private Banking and Commercial stakeholders our products Banking products on the ABN AMRO website, and three products will be added to this range as soon as possible Structure and carry out materiality An initial materiality analysis has been carried out to take analysis based on input from stock of the issues to be addressed. In 2014 we will set up a ­stakeholders full analysis Further professionalise bank-wide A Stakeholder Board has been established to coordinate the bank’s ­stakeholder management stakeholder management policy A survey of stakeholder needs has been held Stakeholders are increasingly being informed about and i­nvolved in the development of bank policy Increase stakeholder engagement via We took various initiatives to dialogue with clients, the social media, taking a clear position press and the general public We plan to do the same with other stakeholders in 2014 The channels in which we took clearer positions on s­ ustainable ­topics were mainly offline 81 Subject Objective reported in 2012 Status Performance in 2013 Applying the Finalise integration of sustainability sustainability policy into know-your-customer procedures to our operations Improve investigations into human Ongoing. An internal Human Rights Working Group has been set up and rights performance of clients and exchanges views on the social responsibility of ABN AMRO and its ­human rights implications of trans­ clients to respect human rights. The group’s input is used to further actions (based on revised OECD ­develop the bank’s human rights policy ­guidelines) Take ESE criteria on board in Initiated. Implementation of ESE criteria to be completed in 2014. ­assessments of business loans. A quick scan of all C&MB clients has been performed. The lending ­Improve ­management information on ­portfolio has been analysed and potential sustainability-related risks sustainable performance of clients assessed. Result: insight into the sustainability performance of clients and sustainability implications of transactions Review sector policy on energy Energy: on track. New ESE policy for the energy industry was approved and defence on 22 January 2014 Defence: partly on track. Policy incorporates new Dutch legislation and regulations with regard to a ban on investments in cluster munitions. In 2014 the policy will be revised Apply revised Equator Principles. Started. Completion expected in Q1 2014 Introduce sustainability risk Project has been initiated, and planning was made in Q4 2013 ­assessment into the procedure for ­Completion expected in 2014 processing lending applications from both large businesses and SME clients. Finalise investment policy The Sustainability Policy for Investments (SPI) will be finalised in 2014 Enhancing client Continue to dedicate ourselves to Ongoing. Most important step in 2013 was the introduction of investment ­centricity R&PB the client advice concepts, in which clients pay a fee for advisory services and no retrocession fees are paid to distributors of funds Devote more attention to sustainable Ongoing. Examples are: investment products and services, Launch of ABN AMRO Social Impact Fund and integrate sustainable elements Launch of ABN AMRO Global Sustainable Equity Fund into traditional investment products We have urged our external asset managers to confirm that the ­investment funds that they sell through us do not invest more than 5% of their assets in companies involved in the production or sale of controversial weapons We participated in the Sustainable Investment Week Apply sustainability screening where Ongoing. Examples: possible to bonds, investment funds All investment funds distributed by the bank have been requested to and several other investment sign the UNPRI or an equivalent statement ­products Our expertise in sustainability screening of investment funds has grown and continues to develop Prepare Exclusion List of companies A potential Exclusion List has been compiled. An engagement strategy that violate the UN Global Compact for some of these companies has been proposed principles Introduce negative (worst-in-class) A potential Exclusion list has been compiled of companies that lag their sustainability screening peers in sustainability. An engagement strategy for some of these ­companies has been proposed Introduce positive (best-in-class) Started. Completion expected in 2014: ­sustainability screening Positive screening is taking place in sustainable mandates in the Netherlands, Germany and France Senior investment management has been familiarised with positive screening A conceptual approach for positive screening has been developed 82 appendix 5 Subject Objective reported in 2012 Status Performance in 2013 Enhancing client Simplify product range and product The Plain Language project involved rewriting nearly 85% of all client ­centricity C&MB descriptions information Sustainability has been one of the Ongoing. Examples in 2013: ­pillars of C&MB’s strategy since 2013. A financing/investment proposition has been developed to This should boost activity levels. ECT finance solar parks for commercial clients in particular will be developing action Launch of Social Impact Bond points Financing of CHP and electric/hybrid cars ECT specific: inland shipping unit has financed three ships with ­innovative propulsion systems Handling complaints Listen more carefully to clients in Ongoing. Examples are: the complaints procedure and apply Survey held on customer satisfaction with complaints handling lessons learned from complaints to In a Customer Arena we listened to the wishes of our clients improve our organisation Inspiring and Start engagement survey to The commitment and satisfaction of our employees were measured in ­engaging our people continuously monitor and improve 2013 in the Employee Engagement Survey ­employee engagement Work towards becoming employer of Ongoing. Examples: choice, on the way to becoming a Commitment and satisfaction of employees was measured Top Class Employer The engagement score rose to 74% in 2013 from 55% in 2012 uitgesprokentalent.nl platform helps employees gain insight into their talents and options Leadership days Enforce the new collective labour Collective labour agreement has a term of 1 year Negotiations for 2014 agreement and human resources are ongoing. ­programme in the Netherlands Redundancy scheme (Social Plan) is valid through 2015 Further promote sustainable A sustainable employability budget has been introduced. With this employability in the years ahead ­budget all staff can access tools that help enhance their employability, such as training or employability scans Strengthen our position in the We set up the International HR Centre of Expertise in 2013. This centre Dutch job market and expand career coordinates succession planning, talent management and international ­opportunities outside the ­Netherlands executive vacancies, facilitating recruitment and management ­development in our international community Our environmental See that more than 100,000 m2 of At our Foppingadreef, Vestdijk and Daalsesingel offices, the necessary ­impact ­office space is A label and BREEAM measures have been taken. BREEAM certificates to be received in 2014 certified in 2013-2014 Pay for public transport season tickets for all employees Further reduce environmental Ongoing. Energy consumption reduced by 16% in 2013. ­footprint Target for 2017: a 20-30% reduction compared with 2012 Continue to reduce paper Examples: consumption Around 50% of bank statements are sent to the client digitally Commercial clients are pro-actively approached with a proposal to exchange all information in digital form Mobile Banking app and Internet Banking have been further improved Employees have reduced their consumption by 75,000 sheets a week in 2013, for example through working with two screens, digital checks, scanning of documents Increase the number of FIRA-­ 38.7% of expenditure is allocated to FIRA-registered suppliers, registered partners and suppliers ­compared with 16% in 2012. The Gustav Mahlerlaan premises to Our Gustav Mahler head office was the first large office building in be awarded LEED Gold certification in the Netherlands to apply for LEED certification. The LEED organisation 2013 has requested more detailed information than initially foreseen. Gold certification is expected to be awarded in 2014 83 Subject Objective reported in 2012 Status Performance in 2013 Our contribution to More focused, theme-based Themes for Foundation: promoting life skills, overcoming social society approach to our community activities ­isolation, direct aid Themes for Sponsoring: enterprise, education, sport Using our financial expertise for Examples: the benefit of the community and Employees give lessons on handling money to primary school pupils ­charities Employees coach micro-entrepreneurs as part of the microfinance project Coaches for social entrepreneurs See that employees participate > Employees volunteered 11,707 times in Foundation projects 10,000 times in social projects ­organised by ABN AMRO Foundation Corporate Apply elements of the Guidance on One result is that the implementation of our strategic objectives – Governance Board Effectiveness in 2013 one pillar of which is sustainability – is now monitored more strictly and discussed each quarter by the Managing and Supervisory Boards. Another result is that the bank drew up governance principles that offer guidance when making choices about structuring the organisation Renew employee consultation This has led to the participation model in which downsized works ­councils (half the current size) work closely with groups of participants from the organisation. The term in office has also been reduced Compliance Pay special attention to compliance Example: Training activities procedures for marketing and ­encourage transparent and ­comprehensible communication 84 appendix 6 appendix 6 glossary Abbreviations DDoS attack A Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack is an attempt to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its users. One common method of attack involves saturating the BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental target machine with so many requests that it cannot respond to ­Assessment Method legitimate traffic – a hacking method typically targeting sites or ESE Environmental, Social, Ethical services hosted on high-profile web servers. NWW The New World of Work Diversity The distribution of employees (headcount) by gender or age in the Netherlands. Terms Donations Financial contributions to a civil society organisation for which we do not seek a return in any shape or form. ABN AMRO Foundation ABN AMRO Foundation is a stichting under Dutch law encouraging ABN AMRO volunteers to give Due diligence Research, often performed during mergers and back to the community. acquisitions, to establish the correctness of the information ­presented to the buyer of a company and to identify the risks and Absenteeism (trend total) Is the rolling average of the latest opportunities of the company being acquired. ­absenteeism percentage, annualised. Business air travel All flights bought from preferred-supplier travel Emerging markets A reference to emerging countries not agents BCD Travel and AV Travel, from and in the following coun­included in the World Bank’s high-income OECD countries list. tries: the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, France, G ­ ermany, Switzerland, Jersey, Hong Kong, Singapore and the United States. Energy consumption The reported data refer to the bank’s energy consumption in the Netherlands. This includes our head Central Works Council (CWC) The overarching works council offices, data centres, bank branches, regional offices and ATMs. made up of representatives from the four works councils of Our subsidiaries are not included in this scope. ABN AMRO TOPS, Retail & Private Banking, Group Functions and Commercial & Merchant Banking and from the works Energy Covenant Utrecht (ECU) A covenant aimed at reducing ­councils of ABN AMRO’s subsidiaries. energy consumption in the Utrecht region of the Netherlands. Commercial Banking Part of the bank offering financial ­services Equator Principles A framework for credit risk management to business clients with turnover of up to € 500 million per annum. that is used to establish, assess and control the social and ­environmental risks involved in project finance. Crowdfunding Obtaining financing and conducting fundraising via an internet platform whereby investors can invest small amounts of money in a project or start-up. 85 Equator Principles: Categories The Equator Principles Green Savings Deposit A deposit is a type of saving under ­distinguish three categories of projects: Category A − Projects which savers entrust their money to a bank during a set period with potential significant adverse social or environmental of time, with the bank using this money to grant loans. A green ­impacts which are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented; ­deposit is a savings product offered by a green bank, which will ­Category B − Projects with potential limited adverse social or only give loans to companies that are engaged in sustainable ­environmental impacts that are few in number, generally ­activities (‘green companies’). ­site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures; and Category C − Projects with minimal Greening electricity Compensating carbon emissions through or no social or environmental impacts. the purchase of certificates. Equator Principles: Scope Project finance that meets the Groenbank A Dutch bank whose stated intent is to finance two criteria in ABN AMRO’s Policy for Project Finance and the ­sustainable projects. If a project is recognised as sustainable by Application of the EPs require the actual application of the EPs: the Dutch government, Groenbank is able to furnish a green loan this is project finance within the scope of the EPs. The Equator at more favourable rates. Principles are also applied to certain loans related to a new ­capital investment but which do not meet the two criteria; Group Functions This part of the bank is responsible for staff ­application of the EPs is not compulsory: these loans are outside functions, services and activities that aren’t directly related to the scope of the EPs. clients (account holders), e.g. Communications, Finance and IT. External inand outflow Internal FTEs (permanent and Guidance on Board Effectiveness (Leidraad Effectief Bestuur) ­temporary): employees that leave the bank or change contract Based on the UK Guidance on Board Effectiveness, the type. There are a couple or reasons for reporting: − Natural ­guidelines are intended to help the Supervisory and Managing turnover: employees that leave the bank of their own volition Boards function and cooperate as effectively as possible. during the reporting period; this includes employees retiring or taking early retirement. − Reorganisation: employees leaving the High-income OECD countries OECD member states described bank based on the social plan after having been given notice − as high-income countries by the World Bank, which publishes Other: employees leaving the bank that do not fall within one of the list on its World Databank the outflow categories, e.g. change of contract, leave of (data.worldbank.org/income-level/OECD). ­absence, outsourcing, expat contract, etc. Impact investing Investing in solutions to social and FIRA International guidelines aimed at ensuring that suppliers ­environmental issues, while achieving financial returns. gradually improve their sustainability performance. ISO 26000 Guidelines for socially responsible business. Food Parcels ABN AMRO employees are invited to put together Milieukeurmerk Post: Proof that we meet stringent criteria and a Christmas parcel for food banks using a specially provided box. that our deliveries affect the environment significantly less than the average postal delivery. (milieukeurmerkpost.nl/142/ FTE FTE means fulltime-equivalent. 1 FTE = 36 hours a week. post-verzenden/over-het-milieukeurmerk-post/). Unit of account for expressing the extent of employment or size of the workforce. Large Corporate & Merchant Banking (LC&MB) Part of the bank offering financial services to large business clients with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) An international organisation turnover in excess of € 500 million per annum. LC&MB also offers that establishes guidelines for corporate sustainability reporting. specialist financial services to clients in specific sectors: real estate, financial institutions, energy, commodities and Greenhouse protocol Methodology to calculate carbon transport (ECT). ­emissions from fossil fuels in traffic, aviation, transport, ­electricity production and heating. Modal shift The transition from road transport to other types of transport, particularly rail and shipping. 86 appendix 6 OECD guidelines These guidelines from the Organisation for Social sponsoring Financial contributions to a civil society Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) set out what ­organisation for which we receive something in return. the Dutch government (and 43 other governments) expects of businesses abroad in terms of sustainability. The guidelines Social enterprise Social enterprises are organisations that deal with issues such as chain responsibility, human rights, have the same objectives as charities, but at the same time apply child labour, the environment and corruption. the management principles of the private sector, including the need to grow and the ability to achieve a healthy financial return. Outdoor Grazing Covenant (Convenant Weidegang) ­ A social enterprise is basically the same as any other business: The covenant’s objective is to maintain the current level of dairy the company provides a product or service and has a revenue farms with outdoor grazing in order to keep as many dairy cattle model. Making money is not the social enterprise’s main goal, as possible in the open air. Convenant Weidegang now has the it is a means to achieve its real mission: creating social impact. ­support of nearly 60 players active in the agro-food chain. Stakeholder Board The board is in charge of coordinating Paper consumption Netherlands Centrally bought paper the bank’s stakeholder management. It is chaired by Managing ­consumed by ABN AMRO in the Netherlands on an annual basis. Board member Caroline Princen and consists of senior managers responsible for stakeholder relationships in various areas, such Paper with FSC eco label This is certified eco paper, indicating as consumer affairs, business, the workforce, supervision and that it is less harmful to the environment based on predefined sustainability. environmental criteria. FSC certification provides environmentrelated information about wood and paper products sourced Sustainable assets under management Sustainable assets from sustainably managed forests. under management break down into two categories: 1. ABN AMRO Group investment funds that explicitly base their Personnel Expenses Exepenses which includes salaries and investment approach and decisions on sustainable criteria. wages, social security charges, pension expenses relating to 2. Sustainable mandates involve assets whose owners have ­defined benefit plans and defined contribution plan expenses. given the bank responsibility for the investment approach and investment decisions. This specific type of mandate explicitly Private Banking Part of the bank offering financial services and factors in sustainability criteria in the investment approach products to high-net-worth private clients. Private Banking also and decisions. offers specialist financial services to specific groups of clients, such as charities and private wealth funds. Sustainable employability Sustainable employability is the extent to which employees are willing and able to remain Project finance Project finance for the purposes of the Equator productive, motivated and healthy, within or outside the Principles is described in ABN AMRO’s Policy for Project ­organisation. ­Finance and the Application of the Equator Principles as finance meeting two criteria: Sustainability risk appetite The level of sustainability risk that 1. new capital investment (or an increase thereof) an organisation is prepared to accept before action is deemed 2. repayments deriving from cash flows generated by the necessary to reduce it. It represents a balance between the investment itself ­potential benefits of innovation and the threats that change ­inevitably brings. Retail Banking Part of the bank offering financial services and products to retail customers. Sustainable investment products Typically, standard ­investment products do not systematically and explicitly factor SEPA The Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) encompasses the in the social and environmental effects of investments on the 27 member states of the EU plus Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway ­environment, where sustainable investment does. Sustainable and Switzerland. Within this area, individuals and businesses investments reflect our assessment of risk and return in can make and receive domestic and international payments in ­relationship to social and environmental effects. a uniform manner. 87 Sustainable savings Sustainable savings are used by banks to lend to sustainable companies and projects. Tax haven A tax haven is a state, country or territory where certain taxes are levied at a low rate or not at all on private ­individuals and companies with accounts there. Financial laws and regulations are typically relaxed in such tax havens. Training costs Training costs of ABN AMRO employees ­worldwide. UNEP FI (United Nations Environmental Protection Agency ­Finance Initiative) UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP and the financial sector. Over 200 institutions, including banks, insurers and fund managers, work with UNEP to understand the impacts of environmental and social considerations on financial performance. (unepfi.org). UNGCOP A project to establish a global business community to share best practices in human rights due diligence and risk ­management. UNPRI The United Nations Principles for Responsible ­Investment. 88 89 90 Contact details Address ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Sustainable Development Gustav Mahlerlaan 10 1082 PP Amsterdam Internet abnamro.com/sustainability abnamro.com/corporatereporting Email duurzaamheid@nl.abnamro.com
