United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Period covered: February 2013 – February 2014 Statement of Continued Support BrownFlynn is a corporate responsibility and sustainability consulting firm anchored in the belief that by doing good and doing well, individuals, organizations and society as a whole, will win. That is just one of the reasons why we continue to support The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As the first U.S.-certified training partner of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an Advisory Board Member of the Corporate Responsibility Officer Association, and member of countless other like-minded organizations, we are tirelessly working to help companies embed responsible business practices into their overall strategy. Furthermore, we have more than doubled our efforts around educating individuals and organizations on a breadth of topics such as the GRI G4 reporting guidelines and how they compare to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, materiality, sustainability governance, value chain mapping, and more. Though our firm is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, our clients and strategic partners are global, as is the importance of sustainability and corporate responsibility. Sincerely, Barb Brown Margie Flynn Principal & Co-founder Principal & Co-founder The Ten Principles of the UNGC Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals BrownFlynn supports the UNGC’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other principles that protect human rights. We have not experienced any direct impacts on human rights, nor are we aware of human rights violations in the products or services in our supply chain. Implementation We utilize our Sustainable Purchasing Policy to help screen against any offending products or services from our value chain. We do not have the scale or resources to perform our own investigations of the products we purchase, so we rely on the markets, government or other thirdparties to identify troubling products or services. Measurement We have had no known human rights violations or fines from any regulatory bodies and we have no international workforce to monitor. We encourage our clients with international operations to support and uphold the protection of human rights throughout their value chains via continuous transparency and disclosure. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Our people are the most important asset of our firm; without them we would not be in business. We invest time and treasure into providing them a safe, healthy and happy work environment, and support their personal and professional development in every way feasible. Our office policy outlines employee benefits, rights and responsibilities, and our mission, vision and values are communicated and carried out on a daily basis. BrownFlynn is a women-owned, small business, but we are encouraged by the fact that our success defies statistics and we have the opportunity to serve as an example to other small, minority-owned firms. Implementation BrownFlynn does not discriminate based on gender, age, race, religion, ethnicity, etc. We ensure employees are paid a fair and comparable wage, have access to and are eligible for benefits, and work in a safe and healthy environment. We have an open-door policy wherein employees are encouraged to offer honest feedback and/or suggestions to management (when applicable). Further, we conduct mid-year and annual performance reviews for all employees as a formal venue for discussion. We are always in compliance with all relevant labor regulations. Measurement At the present time our gender diversity ratio is 25% male, 75% female. Since our last Communication on Progress our workforce has grown by 13%. Because of this we have outgrown our current office space and are in the process of moving to new office space to allow for continued growth. Our new office space is located in an existing, historic building that we are renovating with all local vendors, and we are in very close proximity to public transportation for employees and out of town clients to use when traveling to our offices. We have no incidents of labor violations, investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other related labor events. To read more about our labor practices, please see the For Our Business section of our 2011/2012 Sustainability Report. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals As a corporate responsibility and sustainability consulting firm, we are committed to the preservation of our planet. We understand the impacts we (as humans) have on the environment and recognize that natural resources are finite. We strive to walk the talk every day both individually and collectively as a firm. To reduce our carbon footprint, we work remotely as often as we can without sacrificing productivity and collaboration, and conduct conference calls with out of town clients when it’s not necessary to travel for an in-person meeting. We compost, recycle all of our recyclable waste, and conserve electricity, heat and water where feasible. Our office environmental policy includes all of the above, as well as the purchasing of recycled and post-consumer products from sustainable vendors and suppliers. Implementation Per our office environmental policy, every employee has a recycling bin at their desk that feeds into larger receptacles in our office that capture all paper waste. When the receptacles are full a vendor comes to pick them up to recycle. We have other receptacles for plastic, aluminum, and cardboard, and a receptacle for composting. All of them are properly labeled so employees know what can and can’t be recycled. Other sustainable practices we employ:  We purchase office supplies and food items in bulk to reduce packaging waste  We use ceramic dinnerware to eliminate kitchen paper product waste  We use cloth towels in our restrooms to eliminate paper towel waste  We turn off lights when rooms aren’t in use, unplug electronics that aren’t in use, and turn down (or off) the heat when we leave in the evening  We have recently transitioned all old laptops to new, more efficient models Also, as previously mentioned, we are in the process of renovating office space in a historic building in downtown Cleveland, which we are set to move into in late April 2014. This space is in very close proximity to public transportation for all employees to use. Measurement As previously mentioned, we are always mindful of our energy consumption, especially over the past 12 months. We have seen a substantial decrease in our energy consumption due to employees working remotely more often, as well as continuing to be conscious of energy consumed when employees are in the office. For more information on our environmental practices, please see the For Our Business section of our 2011/2012 Sustainability Report. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Much like human rights, as consulting services providers, corruption is not a material issue. Nonetheless, we have zero tolerance for corruption and follow all applicable laws. Implementation Our anti-corruption policy is to be fully compliant with the law. Measurement of Outcomes We evaluate our anti-corruption performance against the applicable laws. We have not had any corruption issues, nor do we expect to have any.
