[17th December 2014] To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Scanmed Multimedis reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Joanna Szyman CEO Scanmed Multimedis S.A. Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Care for adherence to human rights constitutes a significant element of corporate responsibility management strategy in the Scanmed Multimedis Group, which in 2013 and 2014 improved the management system in this scope. In the second quarter of 2013 on the basis of external audit conducted by a consulting company CRiDO Taxand, Scanmed Multimedis Group was selected as one of several companies in Poland, and the only one from the medical industry, to participate in the project of implementation of the SA8000 norm in cooperation with the Employers of Poland, CRiDO Taxand, Responsible Business Institute and ICAN Institute. The SA8000 Norm, which is the only certified CSR norm in the workplace, establishes the requirements in areas constituting the highest risk for entrepreneurs and also indicates the highest expectations from employers regarding the conditions in the workplace. Adjustment of a corporation to fundamental principles and rules which this norm is based upon allows for building ethical culture of the organization and draws the particular attention to the staff, which is the highest value in a corporation. The decision on the implementation of the norm was dictated by the need of continuous improvement and raising the management standards. The norm gives a chance for communication of information on high standards in the workplace in relation to external stakeholders. In 2013 the project of implementation of the norm in the organization was finalized with certification of both companies of the Group Scanmed Multimedis S.A. and Scanmed S.A. in the third quarter of 2014. Implementation · The Ethics Committee has been appointed – a collegial body independent in its opinions, which monitors the adherence to ethical standards in the Scanmed Multimedis Group, solves the appearing ethical problems and supervises the functioning of the Ethical Code developed in the Group. · In the Scanmed Multimedis Group the Patients’ Rights Ombudsman is also active. The Ombudsman’s tasks, apart from monitoring the respecting and exercise of patients’ rights include, inter alia, the informative and educational activity for patients and employees. The Ombudsman prepares cyclical reports for the Management Board on complaints and requests and monitors the patients’ satisfaction . · Employees have the possibility to notify about the breach of human rights or principles of the norm SA8000, also maintaining the anonymity of the notifying person via the SA8000 platform launched in the organization. The platform serves for management of ethical culture building process, increase of the awareness of employees in the scope of business ethics and CSR assumptions, as well as for maintenance of continuous relations and contact with employees. · Scanmed Multimedis Group continuously conducts trainings in the scope of human rights. Employees during the training sessions may become acquainted with subjects connected with the human rights, such as the occupational safety and health, requirements of the SA8000 norm, standards and Code of Ethics effective in the Group, containing provisions regarding human rights, patients’ rights, personal data protection or courses which allow the staff to prepare for caring for patients coming from other cultures. · Equal Opportunities Committee is also active in the Group. Its objective is the supervision over the practices used in the Group related to employment and fair working conditions in the aspect of „Diversity and equality of chances”. It also conducts the evaluation of diversity of employment and conditions of employment; analysis, assessment and reporting to the Management Board of the cases of discrimination; assessment of availability of services and adjustment of the infrastructure to various groups from the society; promoting diversity; assessment of employees’ access to various opportunities; application to the Management Board to take up action aimed at correcting equal employment opportunities. Measurement of outcomes · In 2013 in the Scanmed Multimedis Group no cases of breaking human rights or discrimination on account of sex, religion, age, ethnic or national origin were detected. · In 2014 in two companies of the Group Scanmed Multimedis S.A. and Scanmed S.A. the certification of the norm SA8000 was conducted. · Trade unions have representatives in the Ethics Committee and the Equal Opportunities Committee. · In 2013 in the Scanmed Multimedis Group no actions were identified which could threaten the right to freedom of associations and the right to collective labour disputes; the Group did not identify this type of activities among its suppliers. Labour Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Area of occupational safety and health is a significant element of the management system, including the scope of personnel policy and of a modern corporation. Scanmed Multimedis Group provides safe and hygienic work environment to its employees, co-workers and subcontractors, and also takes up pro-active and effective activities to prevent potential accidents or detriment to health and to prevent any other possible hazards. The companies within the Group meet the obligations pertaining to the occupational safety and health required by the law and practice everything which is obligatory in this scope. Involvement of Scanmed Multimedis Group in the sphere of occupational safety and health is reflected in such actions as, inter alia: introductory and periodical OSH training for employees, trainings in the scope of the requirements of the norm: PN-N 18001:2004 Occupational Safety and Health and Social Accountability 8000:2008, adjustment of workplaces pursuant to the requirements of law and ergonomics and equipping the employees with protective clothing, identification of hazards and assessment of occupational risks, organization of work and workplaces in the manner protecting employees from accidents and health hazards, systematic inspections and reviews of workplaces, analysis of occupational safety and health conditions and of the work environment, supervision over the safety management system and internal audits, audits of subcontractors in the scope of occupational safety and health requirements as well as requirements of the Group in the above scope, cooperation with the external OSH inspectors, trade unions, cooperation with the National Association of OSH Service Employees, application of systemic solutions in order to eliminate noticed irregularities, analyze causes of accidents in the workplace, events conductive to potential accidents, dangerous situations and various hazards. Implementation · In the Scanmed Multimedis Group the OSH Committee is active and its is responsible for reviewing the workplace conditions, periodical assessment of the status of occupational safety and health, opinionating the measures implemented by the employer aimed at prevention of accidents and occupational diseases, forming conclusions relating to the improvement of work conditions and cooperation with the employer in performance of its obligations from the scope of occupational safety and health. · None of the Scanmed Multimedis Group companies in 2013 noted any activities limiting the freedom of association. Three trade unions are active in the Group. Membership in the trade unions is declared by 15% of full time employees of the Group. The most numerous trade union is the National Union of Nurses and Midwives, which associates 62 persons. · In 2013 in the companies Scanmed Multimedis and Scanmed the PN-N 18001:2004 norm was implemented: Occupational safety and hygiene management systems. In 2014 both Companies underwent a certifying audit conducted by the external accredited entity, which was finalized by granting to both companies the certificate confirming that the norm requirements were met. · A representative of the higher level management for OSH matters was appointed, who is responsible for providing the safe and hygienic workplace and for implementation of OSH elements, included in the norm SA8000. · The Management Board of Scanmed Multimedis Group remains in continuous contact with trade unions representatives and they inform on the undertaken activities and accepted strategies on a current basis. Regularly, once a quarter, meetings of the Management Board with the representatives of trade unions are held, during which discussions on the issues essential for employees and trade unions take place, moreover the Management Board always becomes acquainted with conclusions and remarks of trade union representatives. · In 2013 the Scanmed Multimedis Group did not identify any activities which may constitute hazard for the right to freedom of association and the right to collective labour dispute among its suppliers. · Within the framework of the safety and health policy performance the highest level of management provides consultations with employees and their representatives, information on all aspects of occupational safety and health connected with their work. The highest officers of the management introduced such organizational solutions for employees and their representatives could have the time and funds enabling them to actively participate in the processes of planning, implementation, maintenance, verification, remedial and preventive actions as well as all other activities for continuous improvement of measures performed within the scope of occupational safety and health. · The Group provides all its employees with access to protective vaccinations, e.g. against Hepatitis B and flu. In 2013 the percentage of medical employees vaccinated against Hepatitis B amounted to 98%. · In the Scanmed Multimedis Group the mandatory annual first aid trainings are conducted and they include all employees of the Group. For medical personnel they are conducted in the BLS (Basic Life Support) standard in the cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and the remaining employees participate in the basic scope. Trainings finish with issuance of the applicable participation certificate. · The Occupational Safety and Health Committee informs the employees on occupational diseases during obligatory introductory and periodical trainings. Measurement of outcomes · In the employment structures women are a dominating group. They occupy positions at every level of the structure from specialist to managerial positions. · In 2013 in the Scanmed Multimedis Group 37% of concluded contracts with employees were full time employment contracts, and 63% were civil contracts, out of which contracts with women constituted 85% of employment contracts and 58% were civil contracts. · The age group which dominates among Scanmed Multimedis Group employees are young persons aged 26 to 35 years of age. Another group which is most often represented in our employee population are persons aged 36-40, this is why the personal policy of Scanmed Multimedis Group is addressed, inter alia, to these age groups. In total these groups constitute 44% of all employees. · The Group does not employ anyone aged below 18. Especially important group of employees are persons aged 50+. In Scanmed Multimedis this group accounts for 25% of employees and in Scanmed for 20% of employees. The Group Policy aims at providing these persons with fair conditions of work as well as with fair conditions for retirement. · In 2013 the Scanmed Multimedis Group the Occupational Safety and Health Department did not receive any applications, requests, etc. which would be contributed by trade unions. · So far in the organization no occupational diseases have been detected or suspected, therefore no assistance programs have been offered to employees or their families. · Regularly once a year the review of management processes is organized, in which the highest level of the management takes part. During the review the performance of assumed goals is summed up, including the activities in the scope of OSH management policy. · In 2014 the Scanmed Multimedis Group conducted certification of SA8000 norm. Environmental Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals The area of activity of the Scanmed Multimedis Group is a medical services sector. The influence of the Group on the natural environment includes the production of various kinds of waste, including medical and hazardous waste, such as the emission of gases during combustion of fuels by medical ambulances fleet. The Scanmed Multimedis Group actively undertakes initiatives aimed at preservation of the natural heritage and natural resources for future generations. The Group has identified waste management, water, heating and electricity consumption as well as CO2 emissions as the significant impact on the natural environment. The Integrated Management System Policy of the Scanmed Multimedis Group was published on the website http://scanmed.pl/polityka-zintegrowanego-systemu-zarzadzania/, containing provisions on the goals in the scope of environmental protection, including, inter alia, goals related to monitoring and restricting the impact of the organization on the natural environment, perfection of the Integrated Management System in the scope of environment and care for the natural environment, especially by prevention of contamination, and promoting transparency in communication with the surroundings. One of the elements of environmental protection is a procedure of identification and access to applicable legal requirements and other requirements the organization has undertaken to meet, which are connected to its environmental aspects, as well as to the specification how these requirements apply to environmental aspects of the Company activity. The Group warrants that all applicable requirements have been taken into consideration at establishment, implementation and maintenance of the environmental management system and they are subject to regular verification. The Group perceives its role in the natural resources management within its business activity pursuant to the principles of the balanced development of the Group in the following practices: · search for business (organizational) solutions allowing for reduction of the impact of the conducted business activity on the environment, · education of consumers, employees and suppliers in the scope of responsible attitudes and behaviour (inter alia, balanced consumption, minimization of energy use), · requiring the partners in the supply chain to comply with optimization of energy consumption and use of renewable sources of energy, · requiring the suppliers to adhere to legal norms concerning the environmental protection, environmental policy of the Scanmed Multimedis Group, principles of safe work and proper waste processing, · creation of desired attitudes in employees fostering energy effectiveness, · increase of the level of transparency of its own activity – spreading knowledge and good practices, · creating of programmes and facilitating attainment of environmental goals. Implementation · Activity of the Scanmed Multimedis Group for the benefit of natural resources management is based on the balanced development principles through: implementation of the environmental management system ISO 14001 (the first certification of the system was conducted in 2013), care for natural environment, especially through the prevention of contamination, raising of employees’ awareness pertaining to the impact of the Scanmed Multimedis Group on the surroundings – the environment, people and nature, good practice communication – educating partners in the supply chain, requiring the suppliers to meet the criteria in the scope of minimization of negative impact on the environment and the respective verification, striving to increase the use of recycled materials, development of pro-environmental designing (eco-design), taking up activities aimed at restriction of the amounts of produced waste, segregation of waste in the organization. · The Group regularly makes reports in the scope of using the environment, however it is exempted from charges on that account due to the small scale of its activity. In case of CO2 emissions to the atmosphere by the medical ambulances fleet the company is exempted from this kind of charges.  Within the Group regularly once a year the review of management processes is held, in which the highest level of the management takes part. During the review the performance of assumed goals is summed up, including the activities in the scope of environmental management policy. · Within the environmental activity the organization takes up activities aimed at restriction of the amount of hazardous waste, including personnel training in the scope of classification and segregation of waste and implementation of solutions which are possible and safe for the patient in the scope of using the non-disposable medical equipment. · The Group declared taking up activities in the area of the environment in the Integrated Management System CSR Policy and of the balanced development, what the Group communicates to its external and internal stakeholders, inter alia, via its website, making regular reports from the scope of waste production, emission to the atmosphere and publicly communicating the reports on the approved and performed environmental goals. · Regular measurements of identified significant aspects, including the produced waste of particular kinds, natural resources use, fuels and emission to the atmosphere. Within the Group also the cyclical tests and measurements are taken regarding the electromagnetic field produced by the medical equipment and ionizing radiation created by the X-ray devices which is the equipment operating in particular medical entities of the Group. · The Group is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact initiative – „Caring for Climate”, supporting business representatives in development and implementation of strategies minimizing the negative impact of companies on the environment. Joining this initiative the Group entered the group of business representatives from all over the world, who actively take up activities for the environmental protection. Measurement of outcomes · In 2013 the Scanmed Multimedis Group was not penalized by any fines or non-financial sanctions for failure to adhere to the law or environmental protection regulations. · In 2013 the trainings for employees and subcontractors were conducted regarding the impact on the environment. They included the subjects such as correct selection and segregation of waste, environmental aspects, requirements of the norm ISO 14001:2004, regulations of the law in the area of the environmental protection and restriction of the use of heating and electricity. In total 460 employees completed the training. · In 2013 also a 2-month informative action for employees was organized pertaining to the environmental protection, during which all employees every week received communications in a form of mailings regarding the pro-ecological lifestyle, segregation and savings of plastic, glass, recycling, confirming water, electrical energy and awareness raising activities in the scope of environmental protection, such as making informed choices in pro-ecological shopping. · the system of stickers informing on pro-ecological behaviour was introduced, such as “Be eco! Turn off the light” or „Be eco! Turn off the water”. · In 2013 in three facilities of the Group in Krakow, including the Scanmed St. Raphael’s Hospital a system was implemented which segregates the communal waste, including the introduction of containers for segregation of plastic, glass, paper or plastic caps. It also offered training for personnel in the scope of solid waste and informative action was conducted for patients and staff in this scope, including, inter alia, posters and leaflets describing the correct segregation of waste. · The waste segregation system implemented in 2013 allowed to restrict the amount of communal waste by segregating glass, paper and plastic. In the scope of application of recycled materials the Scanmed Multimedis Group also performs selective collection of used batteries. In 2013 in the St. Raphael’s Hospital approximately 6 kg of batteries were collected. For the last two years also the carton packaging has been collected, in 2013 almost 240 m³ of this kind of packaging was collected. Anti‐Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Since 2012 the Scanmed Multimedis Group has adopted the Code of Ethics, valid and effective for all its employees, which was developed by an interdisciplinary team of persons representing various departments and organizational units of the Group. The contents of the Code of Ethics appointed an organ responsible for the care for its principles and solving ethical problems referring to the areas of activity of Scanmed Multimedis Group, this organ being the Ethics Committee consisting of employees from various groups of professionals. Performance of the adopted CSR strategy of the Group including the continuous development and perfection of the Management System, especially in the responsible business area, as well as emerging conclusions and requests from employees, gave an effect of updating the regulations of the Code of Ethics in the beginning of 2014, inter alia, with issues regarding the approval of benefits, and of the Procedures Code for suppliers. The Code of Ethics refers to such values as fighting illegal bribes and corruption, including such issues as the prohibition of passive corruption, prohibition of active and indirect corruption and regulations of the law, as well as ethics in the medical industry. Implementation · In 2013 in the Scanmed Multimedis Group the total number of employees participating in the trainings on the subject including the issues of ethics, corruption and anti-corruption procedures amounted to 647. · Within the process of induction of all new employees and in the regular system there are trainings offered, inter alia, concerning the subjects of ethics, corruption, security of information. They also include the reference to all values contained in the Code of Ethics and make its contents available to the employees. Also, in the scope of introduction of changes in the contents of the Code the informative actions are being conducted. The Code of Ethics of the Scanmed Multimedis Group is available to all interested stakeholders on the website. · The procedure preventing money laundering and financing terrorism was implemented. · The Ethics Committee was appointed. Measurement of outcomes · In 2013 no attempts of corruption or money laundering was noted in the Group. · Within the Group regularly once a year the review of management processes is organized, in which the highest level of the management takes part. During the review the performance of assumed goals is summed up, including the activities in the scope of corruption counteraction policy.
