Sustainability inspires Sustainability Report 2011 www.siemens.com Key performance indicators Key sustainability indicators FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Economic Revenue generated by the Environmental Portfolio (in billions of €) 1 29.9 27.4 26.8 in % of total revenue 41 36 35 Ratio of R&D expenses to revenue (in %) 5.3 5.2 5.1 Environment Accumulated annual customer reduction in carbon dioxide emissions generated by elements from the Environmental Portfolio (in millions of tons) 2 317 269 212 Improvement in environmental performance – CO2 emissions (in %) 3 22 18 17 Improvement in environmental performance – primary energy and district heating (in %) 3 26 23 25 Improvement in environmental performance – electrical energy (in %) 3 12 11 13 Improvement in environmental performance – waste (excluding construction waste) (in %) 3 14 10 12 Improvement in environmental performance – water (in %) 3 33 28 29 Employees and society Total employees worldwide (in thousands) 1 360 336 333 Total employees worldwide (in thousands) 2 402 405 405 Employee fluctuation rate (in %) 2, 4 12.9 12.9 17.4 Proportion of women (as a percentage of employees in management positions) 2 14.6 13.7 13.6 Expenditure on continuing education (in millions of �) 2 251 225 228 Expenditure per employee on continuing education (in �) 2, 5 608 560 562 External Sustainability Audits 284 203 –7 Fatal accidents (Siemens) 2, 6 3 4 4 Rankings Points in Dow Jones Sustainability Index 90 87 82 Points in Global 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index 97 98 85 1 Continuing operations. 2 Continuing and discontinued operations. 3 Relative to the baseline year, fiscal 2006. 4 Employee fluctuation rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary departures to the total number of Siemens employees for a fiscal year. 5 Travel expenses not included. 6 The figures do not include commuting accidents. 7 Planning and pilot phase. The title photo shows children of our employees visiting a Siemens factory in Krefeld, Germany. Their parents work here on the mobility solutions of the future. Contents 4 Foreword Strategy 7 One Siemens 8 Cooperation 10 Materiality portfolio 11 Outlook 12 Stakeholder dialogue with Tim Flannery Sustainability 14 Supplier 22 Stakeholder dialogue with Jackie Bray along the 24 Own operations value chain 32 Stakeholder dialogue with Karl-Friedrich Rausch 34 Customer Cross-functional 44 CO2 management along the value chain 46 Sustainability at healthcare topics 48 Siemens Integrity Initiative 50 Stakeholder dialogue with Robert Greenhill Facts and figures 52 Reporting method 54 Innovation 56 Customers and portfolio 58 Compliance 60 Environmental protection 66 Product responsibility 68 Occupational health and safety management 70 Employees 74 Suppliers 76 Corporate citizenship Additional 80 Independent Assurance Report 82 UN Global Compact information 84 UN CEO Water Mandate 85 Global Reporting Initiative 86 Notes and forward-looking statements 88 Information resources Foreword Ladies and gentlemen, Children are our future. To pass on to them a world worth living in is our obligation. And this is where we, as a company, have a contribution to make – with innovative products and solutions and through a commitment to greater sustain­ ability in our supply chain, at our own locations and, not least, at our customers. Because sustain­ able development for the benefit of the genera­ tions to come concerns us all. 4 Governments, societies and companies faced major challenges in 2011 – challenges like Fukushima, energy transformation, the Arab spring, the debt crisis and the highest carbon dioxide emissions in history. If rigorously implemented, Germany ’s new energy policy will create opportunities for climatefriendly, environmental technologies. And it’s here that Siemens can make a difference – worldwide. The good news is that sustainability has made a great deal of progress and that it still harbors major potential. The bad news is that not enough has been done to ensure that our children will have a world worth living in over the long term. Developing sustainable solutions for a world population soon approaching the seven-billion mark requires even closer cooperation with both internal and external partners. That’s why we’ve made an express commitment to the goals and principles of the Global Compact and the CEO Water Mandate of the United Nations and why we’re active participants in organizations like the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBSCD), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the World Economic Forum (WEF) and the World Resources Institute (WRI). Our progress toward becoming a highly sustainable company has made us optimistic. In fiscal 2011, we generated revenue of €29.9 billion – or 41% of our total sales – with our Environmental Portfolio. In the same period, our green technologies enabled customers to reduce their carbon dioxide footprint by 317 million tons – an amount equal to nearly 1% of the world’s total energy-related annual CO 2 emissions. For this commitment and for our rigorous sustainability strategy, we were honored with the German Sustainability Award. In the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, we were again No. 1 in the Diversified Industrials category, having further improved our performance. And with a score of 97 out of a possible 100 points, we were among the top 500 companies worldwide in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the fourth time in a row. External assessments like these show that we’re still on the right track. Because sustainability didn’t become a guiding principle at Siemens only yesterday – as the 40th anniversary of our Environmental Office attests. We recognized the importance of environmental protection very early on, actively fostering ecofriendly behavior at our Company as far back as 1971. When it comes to sustainability, we have the greatest impact now – as then – on our own activities. However, we also feel increasingly responsible for our entire supply chain. To show how we’re honoring this responsibility in practice, the first part of this report takes you on a journey along our value chain worldwide. An example from China illustrates how we’re helping a supplier cut his future energy costs. A stopover in Charlotte (U.S.) provides an insight into the high sustainability standards we’ve set for our own activities. And a look at our work on the ICx train demonstrates how seriously we take customer retention while jointly developing mobility solutions for the future. Sustainability is our guiding principle. We’re on course, but we still have a long way to go. Constructive dialogue with our stakeholders and the Siemens Sustainability Advisory Board – a committee of leading international experts – is helping us achieve our goals. To further develop our sustainabilityrelated activities, we seek dialogue with all our stakeholders. We’re looking forward to continuing this exchange of ideas with you. Peter Löscher Barbara Kux President and CEO Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG der Siemens AG and Chief Sustainability Officer 5 Our sustainable corporate strategy Sustainability remains a core task for governments, society and business. What is needed are clear, binding and forward-looking answers. As a company that is active in around 190 countries worldwide, we bear a great responsibility – for our employees, for our shareholders and for the societies in which we operate. Sustainable practices are firmly anchored in our corporate culture, based on our company values of being responsible, excellent and innovative. 6 Sustainability is the guiding principle in everything we do, at all hierarchical levels within the Company. We are aware of the associated high standards and the possibility of conflicting goals. Never­ theless, the aim to create sustainable added value remains a key element of our corporate strategy. We are convinced that sustainability, in this sense, is also a business opportunity, and one that is worth seizing. One Siemens – an expression of our sustainable corporate strategy We have paved the way with One Siemens, our framework for sustainRead more about able value creation and capital-efficient growth. We already occupy One Siemens at: leading positions in many markets today, but we’re not content with www.siemens.com/one-siemens that. Our aim is to continuously improve our performance relative to the market and our competitors. We know our business activities depend on market dynamics and the requirements of our customers. That’s why we’ve defined three strategic directions to guide us on our way into the future: >> We focus on innovation-driven growth markets with long-term growth potential, where we hope to capture leading positions or extend our lead if we’ve captured them already. A central role here is played by the products and solutions in our Environmental Portfolio: They enable us to make a major contribution to environmental and climate protection while also strengthening our standing in these growth markets. In the year under review, we generated revenues of €29.9 billion with our Environmental Portfolio, which is 41% of our total revenue. Our target for the future is to generate €40 billion by the end of fiscal 2014 and we will continue to strive for this goal even though it will be more challenging to achieve due to our planned initial public offering of OSRAM AG. Not only because we think it’s achievable, but also because we’re pursuing an ecological goal with our Environmental Portfolio at the same time: to reduce our customers’ CO2 emissions. With products and solutions from the Siemens Environmental Portfolio, our customers were able to save 317 million tons of carbon dioxide in fiscal 2011 – that is roughly equivalent to 1% of the world’s energy-induced CO2 emissions or nearly 40% of the emissions in Germany. We know that our Environmental Portfolio can help improve our customers’ ecological impact. And we can even prove it thanks to an external audit. Thanks to our innovative, efficient products and solutions, our customers saved 317 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions during fiscal 2011 (see Environmental Portfolio on page 56 for more details). From a sustainability point of view, our focus on innovation-driven growth markets also means strengthening the innovative power of the Company as a whole. We managed to make progress in 2011 in this respect too, as the ratio of research and development expenses to revenue shows. In the year under review, we had an R&D intensity of 5.3% – the year before it was 5.2% (see the “Innovation” chapter on page 54). 7 >> In addition, and that is our second strategic direction, we aim to get closer to our customers all over the world. The central argument in this respect is our global value chain: Today, we are not only active in around 190 countries in the world, but also purchase from local providers in many of those countries, since a competitive, globally balanced and localized network of suppliers is vital to Siemens’ long-term success. Being a strong partner also means selecting and qualifying our suppliers in accordance with the same strict rules that apply to us (more details are provided in the “Suppliers” chapter on page 74 and in our three reports on the following pages). By “strong partner,” we understand a close customer relationship based on trust – something we work for every day at all levels of the Company, from the Managing Board to our service staff on site (see the “Customers and portfolio” chapter on page 56). >> Last but not least, we use the power of Siemens. Our employees are our greatest asset. With their commitment, qualifications and inventive spirit, they play a key role in our success and are the true “power of Siemens.” To ensure it stays that way, we encourage lifelong learning and continuous development throughout our workforce on all five continents. We spent €251 million on this in the year under review. With 402,000 employees, that equals €608 per person. Our international orientation and worldwide presence give us a competitive advantage based on the diversity of our employees. In our ten largest Regional Companies, for example, we have employees from 140 countries; men and women from different generations with multifaceted qualifications, educational backgrounds and cultural perspectives. Tapping this wealth of experience and increasing it by fostering dialogue between our employees is more than just one initiative among many; it ­contributes to the sustainable development of the entire Company (learn more about this in the “Employees” chapter on page 70). Leveraging the power of Siemens also means strictly adhering to clear principles of integrity – ­something we also expect of our partners and suppliers. These principles focus on such themes as anti-corruption, environmental protection, and occupational health and safety management (see the chapters “Compliance,” “Environmental protection” and “Occupational health and safety management” on pages 58, 60 and 68). As these examples clearly show, sustainability is not just embellishment at Siemens, it’s the central theme of a corporate strategy that points the way to the future. Sustainability requires close cooperation The importance we attach to the topic of sustainability is also evident from its central positioning within the Company ’s organization. In contrast to many of our competitors, we have anchored the theme at the highest level and made it a matter for the Managing Board. A cross-departmental and cross-functional committee, the Siemens Sustainability Board, defines the guidelines for our sustainability activities. It is the central steering and decision-making body for sustainability at Siemens and – in line with its importance – is headed by Managing Board member ­Barbara Kux. The Sustainability Board, staffed by top representatives of the Sectors and all relevant specialist functions, convenes regularly to set the strategic focus of our sustainability activities and 8 Global value chain > Germany, page 34 > U.S., page 24 > China, page 14 Siemens is not only active in around 190 countries, but also purchases locally in many of those countries, since a competitive, globally balanced and localized network of suppliers is vital to our company ’s long-term success. approve appropriate measures and initiatives. It is advised by a comFurther informationen on the orga­ mittee of leading international experts, the Siemens Sustainability nization of our sustainability activities is available at: Advisory Board. A corresponding unit, the Corporate Sustainability www.siemens.com/sr/organization Office, supports the above-mentioned boards in their work and coordinates company-wide programs and measures. As the composition of the Sustainability Board shows, we see sustainability as a company-wide task that requires clear structures and close cooperation between various units within the Company. The classical silo mentality wouldn’t get us anywhere. Only collaboration between all relevant target groups in the Company and solution-oriented dialogue with our external stakeholders can generate concepts and solutions that help us achieve our corporate goals. That we take this issue seriously at Siemens is evidenced by the fact that cooperation across organizational boundaries for the benefit of the Company pays off for our employees. Senior managers, for example, receive additional compensation if they participate in this kind of cooperation. But we don’t stop there: We want to get all our employees interested in sustainability and strengthen their commitment to it. For this purpose, we introduced our “Sustainability at functions” initiative in fiscal 2011, 9 with the aim of clearly showing all our employees what role sustainability plays in sales and customer relationships, for example, and how each and every one of us can act more sustainably. And last but not least, there’s our Siemens Integrity Initiative, with which we supported our first concrete projects in fiscal 2011 (see page 48). This initiative shows how we help spread our own high sustainability standards beyond Company boundaries. Our involvement with major national and international sustainability organizations is yet another testament to the importance of sustainability at Siemens. In 2003, for example, we joined the United Nations’ Global Compact, and last year we became a member of the newly founded LEAD Initiative, an alliance of companies that show particular commitment. In addition, A detailed overview of our memberwe work together with organizations like the World Business Council ships and partnerships is available via our ­sustainability platform on the for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), the United Nations Environ­Internet at: ment Programme (UNEP), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the www.siemens.com/sr/memberships World Economic Forum (WEF) and the World Resources Institute (WRI). We also play an active role in various sustainability initiatives. As part of a WBCSD initiative, for instance, we promote sustainable urban development throughout the world – one example of many that show how our business and sustainability activities coincide and in many cases even complement each other. Another initiative we support is the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which promotes greater transparency in carbon emissions reporting. Our aim here is to use our knowledge and experience to help other companies reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. And as part of Future Dialogue, which we organized with the Max Planck Society and the Economist Conferences, we share and discuss ideas on our planet’s future with international experts. Materiality – the result of intensive dialogue This selection of examples shows how we promote sustainability at all levels: locally, regionally and globally – because wherever we’re active as a company, we bear responsibility (see the three reports below). From our daily work we know that specific requirements can change quickly, and sometimes even dramatically. This makes it all the more important to look at our own principles and practices on a regular basis in order to critically examine their effectiveness and, if necessary, adapt them to changed circumstances. For this purpose, we regularly analyze and prioritize the topics that are important to us and our stakeholders, and derive appropriate standards to be applied using the principle of materiality as an orientation. Our materiality portfolio highlights key sustainability topics and their Our materiality portfolio 2012, including importance for our stakeholders and Siemens. We prepare the portfoa detailed explanation of the key topics we have determined, is available on the lio annually and consulted more than 30 external stakeholders and Internet at: experts from science, industry, politics, non-governmental organizawww.siemens.com/materiality tions and consultancies in fiscal 2011. We then combined the outcome of this dialogue with the assessments of our specialist departments. The result is now available: our materiality portfolio 2012. By dealing with the topics it contains, we are able to identify opportunities, minimize risks and provide answers to the questions of tomorrow. 10 Materiality portfolio 2012 Increasing importance for stakeholders > Resource > Sustainability in > Innovation productivity the supply chain > Environmental Portfolio > Integrity > Sustainable > Diversity > Internal resource > Employee company > Demographic efficiency satisfaction > Human rights strategy Megatrends change Processes > Employee recruiting & > Stakeholder > Urbanization retention engagement > Climate change > Risk > Globalization management > Reporting/KPIs > Corporate > Health & safety > Localization of citizenship > Affordable & the value chain personalized healthcare > Resource security Increasing importance for Siemens (for sustainable business success) Outlook – sustainability remains a core topic The awards we received during the year under review show that we’re on the right track. In the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), a sustainability ranking by Dow Jones and SAM, Siemens was once again ranked first in the “Diversified Industrials” category, which also includes companies like 3M, General Electric and Toshiba. We even managed to improve our score compared to the previous year: with 90 out of a possible 100 points, we achieved our best result to date. We were also successful in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which included Siemens in its Global-500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the fourth year in a row. Scoring 97 out of 100 possible points, we once again showed an excellent result and were thus able to maintain our place among the top 500 companies worldwide. Last but not least, our commitment to sustainability was also honored in Germany, where we received the German Sustainability Award 2011 for our consistent and rigorous sustainability strategy. All this shows that we’ve put things on the right track and have taken a big step forward again in fiscal 2011. But it’s also true that further steps must follow. We’ve therefore set ourselves ­corresponding goals. www.siemens.com/sr/sustainability-strategy 11 Stakeholder dialogue with Tim Flannery Tim Flannery Tim Flannery is a member of the Siemens ­Sustainability Advisory Board. In 2011, he was appointed to head the Climate Change Com­ mission established by Australian Prime Minister. He is professor at Macquarie University, Sydney. Tim Flannery has been following the sustainlonger payback times. So vision, determination and careful planning are ability debate for a long time and from differ­essential. As difficult as the challenges are, there can be no doubt that risent perspectives in academics as well as in ing to them will play a big role in dethe political arena. Sustainability for him is fining the winners of tomorrow. a key issue in view of the changes the world In terms of products and solutions for is facing. Dwindling resources and a carbon-­ customers, what is needed? Tim Flannery To address global chalconstrained world as well as growth ambitions lenges such climate change, we need to have efficient and low-carbon prodof societies, especially in emerging countries, ucts and solutions in all areas of our are making it imperative to decouple growth lives. This will require disruptive innovations, because the rate of imfrom resource consumption and environmenprovement we have seen in the past is tal ­degradation. not enough. This is a huge challenge because we will need to overhaul complete infrastructure systems, e.g. Why do you think sustainability is im(with r­ espect to own operations and in the area of energy and electricity or portant for Siemens? processes) to be prepared for the mobility and transportation. But let’s Tim Flanner y Companies need to be changes ahead and to prove that connot forget: This is also a major busiprepared for a different future: Chalducting business sustainably creates ness opportunity. Efficient products lenges such as decoupling economic value. and solutions and renewable energy growth from resource consumption technologies offer huge market potenand climate change will lead to enorIn terms of walk the talk – what is estial today. And I am sure that governmous changes in the business envisential? ments will increasingly offer incenronment. New forms of regulation, Tim Flannery Companies like Siemens tives to drive that change – the rising prices for certain raw materials must strive for resource efficiency in recently introduced Carbon legislation and changing customer requirements all its operations and processes. This in my home country Australia is just are inevitable. This has implications has a positive effect on the bottom one example. for a company like Siemens, both inline through reduced costs, but it is ternally and externally: first, it is a not an easy task as the low-hanging How do you view the role of the Susgreat opportunity to deliver sustainfruit is already harvested, e.g. in the tainability Advisory Board? able s­ olutions to customers who are area of energy efficiency. Now, the Tim Flanner y The Siemens Sustainfacing the very same constraints; secchallenge lies in addressing more funability Board engaged with the Comond, it is essential to “walk the talk” damental issues which often have pany at every level including the very 12 Every day, we are building the world our children will grow up in. Commitments of corporations to sustainability, both in their own practice and in their products, are important factors in deciding the quality of future life. That’s why we must strive to excel at sustainability. highest. Seeing how changes are in the political arena are required – to ­being implemented, I know that our make sure that efficient technology inputs are valued and acted upon. and solutions that are already availIt’s been both a huge pleasure and a able today will be implemented in valuable learning experience for me large scale. as well. What’s your recommendation for How do you view Siemens’ current Siemens? sustainability position? Tim Flannery With its innovative techTim Flannery There is a clear recogninologies in many critical infrastruction in the Company that the future ture areas, Siemens has the capacity will be very different from today, and to be a key player in the transition tovery significant investments in enerwards a green economy, and I encourgy-related technologies are taking age maintaining this strategy. At the place. I think Siemens is in a good posame time, I would hope that Siemens sition relative to its competitors, as its shows how its own activities contribrating as the ‘best in class’ in the Dow utes to overarching societal goals Jones Sustainability Index reveals. such as limiting the concentration of But so much more needs to be done. CO2 in the atmosphere, so that the I can’t emphasize enough how clearly global temperature increase remains environmental research shows that at or below 2 °C. Siemens has a highly our future must be radically different. motivated and brilliant staff. As challenges increase, the importance of What kinds of innovations will lead to such human resources will grow, and a different, sustainable future? new perspectives and skills will be reTim Flannery First of all, I think we will quired in all companies. see what I call the “electrification of the economy :” Different energy sources will be integrated, with electrical power playing a major role. Information technologies will be an important lever for achieving this integration. Second, micro-generation with small gas, biogas, micro-wind and hydro turTim Flannery “Siemens has the capacity to bines, especially in developing countries, will become more and more imbe a key player in the transition towards portant. Last but not least, innovations a green economy, and I encourage maintaining this strategy.” 13 Value chain: Supplier Sustainable supplier ­relationships in China Siemens has been making medical equipment in China since 1992 – and increasingly uses local suppliers. The relation­­­­ship with CIMC Tank Equipment (CIMC) in Nantong shows just how successful and profitable such cooperations can be. > Supplier in Nantong > Siemens’ factory in Shenzhen Siemens produces magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) systems in Shenzhen, China. One important com­ ponent is made beforehand by our supplier CIMC in Nantong. Close collaboration with our local suppliers strengthens our knowledge of local ­markets, while our external partners benefit from our technological know-how. Xiaojun Dai (left) Xiaojun Dai, the Head of Purchasing at Siemens in Shenzhen, coordinates all procurement processes. This includes selecting suitable suppliers, handling quality assurance and ensuring delivery reliability and dependable, efficient logistics. Xian Zhang (right) Xian Zhang, Deputy Managing Director and Head of Production at CIMC, is responsible for the Siemens project. His goal is to keep expanding the rela­ tionship of trust with Siemens. > Supplier in Nantong From supplier to partner: Cooperation with a future Nantong, production site of CIMC Tank Equipment Xiaojun Dai from Siemens and Xian Zhang from the supplier CIMC Tank Equipment, which produces vessel kits for Siemens, got to know and respect each other during their collaboration. What started out for Siemens as a broad-scale search for a supplier that could meet demanding technical requirements, has evolved over the past ­three-and-a-half years from a joint development project into an extremely successful working relationship benefiting both companies. Xiaojun Dai and Xian Zhang talk about their experience and future projects. Xiaojun Dai When we sent you our first inquiry regarding the production of vessel kits in November 2008, we didn’t know if CIMC could meet all our requirements – ­especially since we needed a supplier that not only had the technological expertise, but would also comply with our stringent sustainability requirements covering aspects such as occu­pational health and safety and environmental protection. Supplier Own operations Customer 15 CIMC abides by the very highest ­standards of quality. Every ­single pro­ duction step is accompanied by strict controls. In a final stage, the vessel kits are subjected to detailed testing. Our controller ensures that the machine tools work correctly and accurately. Xian Zhang We were delighted to receive your inquiry. I still recall very clearly that when we spoke the first time, we soon realized that we shared the same views in many points – both regarding the necessary technological expertise and the required sustainability standards. Xiaojun Dai Yes, that’s right. We then addressed both issues at the same time. But first you had to complete our supplier > Supplier in Nantong qualification process. Xian Zhang Yes. Right at the start we had to prove that, apart from business-specific minimum requirements, we were also able to meet Siemens’ quality and environmental ­protection requirements and complied with the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers in all points. Xiaojun Dai And so what posed the bigger challenge for you: technical implementation of the component or our sustainability requirements? Xian Zhang Definitely the technical implementation. Despite our extensive know-how, we needed just over two-and-​ a-half years to make a prototype that was ready for series production. Siemens helped us a lot in this regard, advising us on production and productivity, challenging our ­processes and giving us valuable tips on how to optimize > Supplier in Nantong them. We benefited enormously from that. Now we make Vessel kits the vessel kits in top quality. That’s harder than it looks, Large current-carrying coils generate the because the tolerance is just one millimeter, while the powerful magnetic field of an MRI system. The coils are cooled by liquid helium in a diameter is around two meters multi-walled vessel. To prevent the helium from escaping it must be produced accu­ Xiaojun Dai I think we both learned a lot. The first prototypes rately and be completely leak-proof. were ready in September 2009 – and things proceeded very quickly from then on. After extensive testing, we awarded you the order in October; the vessel kit was examined and certi­fied by TÜV NORD. Series production then began. Chunfeng Liu, Managing Director of CIMC Tank Equipment “We’ve benefited greatly from the cooperation with Siemens. Siemens is an 16 important strategic partner for us.” 3,120 employees That is how many people work at CIMC in Nantong. Our supplier is the world’s largest manufac­ turer of stainless steel shipping containers; it also produces and sells high-pressure vessels for production plants and tank trucks. > Supplier in Nantong ~ 50 percent The value of purchased products and services amounts to about half of our revenue – so suppliers are critically important. That’s why Siemens offers them the possibility of further improving their energy efficiency and has launched its own program to enable that: the Energy Efficiency Program for Suppliers. > Siemens’ factory in Shenzhen Every step in the assembly of the highly sensitive MRI devices pro­ duced in Shenzhen is controlled and ­documented with great precision. > Siemens’ factory in Shenzhen Xiaojun Dai But that wasn’t all. Parallel to technical development, we pushed forward with sustainability as well. Xian Zhang It was clear to us from the outset that if you want Supplier of Siemens to be a supplier of Siemens, you can’t just be good – you have The Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers to be very good. That’s why we were pleased to undergo defines the requirements that the Com­ pany’s suppliers around the world have to an external Sustainability Audit, especially since this evalfulfill. Among other things, it prohibits corruption, bribery and child labor and uation by external experts also proved worthwhile for us. includes environmental protection and occupational safety measures. Xiaojun Dai The audit confirmed our assessment from the www.siemens.com/sr/code-of-conduct qualification phase: CIMC is very well positioned in terms of sustainability. You soon put our subsequent suggestions – further improvements in occupational safety, for example – into practice … Xian Zhang … because they were very useful stimuli that benefited our company as a whole. In particular, the close cooperation with Siemens once more spelled out the great Sustainability importance and economic significance of sustainability. Ensuring that our high sustainability require­ ments are also implemented in the supply Xiaojun Dai What are the concrete benefits for CIMC? chain is a core part of our supplier manage­ ment processes. Learn more at: Xian Zhang Siemens supported us, for instance, in rolling out www.siemens.com/sr/supplier www.siemens.com/sr/supplier-training specific guidelines and processes and more efficient work methods that help us meet sustainability standards and increase productivity; moreover, the successful audit further strengthened our sustainability profile. And finally, the product certification by TÜV NORD provided international confirmation of the quality of our work – all aspects that are useful in other projects and benefit the entire company. And these things ultimately benefit Siemens as well. 19 > Siemens’ factory in Shenzhen The MRI system’s sensitive technology is reliably protected by the multi-walled vessels surrounding it. Our MAGNETOM ESSENZA just before ­being completed and shipped. We have developed it specifically to meet the ­requirements of the entry-level market segment, and it is very popular worldwide. > Siemens’ factory in Shenzhen Xiaojun Dai Both of us also gained a lot of knowledge. And we’re happy to have found a local partner who delivers ­reliable quality. That’s why we’re talking about how we can further expand our cooperation with CIMC. Xian Zhang We’d be delighted about that. Personally, I’m also eagerly awaiting our further joint sustainability projects. Xiaojun Dai We also recently launched our Siemens Energy (EEP4 S) Efficiency Program for Suppliers (EEP4 S) in China and are The multilevel Energy Efficiency Program offering it to our suppliers. It starts off with an Internetfor Suppliers (EEP4S) offers Siemens’ suppliers the chance to review the energy aided assessment, followed by on-site analyses by Siemens’ efficiency of their production processes. If required, Siemens provides support in energy experts, the results of which can be used to derive implementing sustainable energy-saving energy-saving measures. We have already held initial measures following the evaluation process. Learn more at: detailed talks on this. www.siemens.com/sr/EEP4S Xian Zhang Yes, and we’re very interested in it, especially since it addresses ecological and economic dimensions alike. In a nutshell: If we can cut energy costs and also protect the environment, it’s a win-win situation for all of us. Xiaojun Dai I look forward to continuing our work together in the future. The MRI system’s receiver units, which are designed specifically for different ­regions 20 of the body, are produced locally. Precision and reliability are extremely important here. > Siemens’ factory in Shenzhen Additional topics > Sustainability seminars in China Since the summer of 2010, Siemens has conducted regular working meetings with suppliers in China on the subject of sustainability. Their objective is to sharpen awareness for sustainability and promote its active implementation in the supply chain. Another objective is to demonstrate that sus­ tainability generates a competitive advantage that benefits all the partners involved. The meetings convey the various elements and processes of Siemens’ Sustainability Program, including Detection Modules such as the Self Assessment and Sustainability Audits, as well as the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. Apart from practical tips, participants also obtain information on how Siemens implements this issue internally. Extensive training materials round out the meetings. > Siemens Healthcare Support Center One of our three global Healthcare Support Centers is located in Shenzhen. In addition to over-the-phone product support by service technicians specializing in various fields, it offers capacity for training customers from Asia and the western U.S. Some 40 customers a year take part in training at Shenzhen. > Siemens’ factory in Shenzhen Stakeholder dialogue with Jackie Bray Jackie Bray Jackie Bray, a single mother, is one of 700 new employees hired and trained during the expansion of the Siemens ­Charlotte Energy Hub. To staff the expanded Siemens Charlotte Enerearned less for my family than I do now. And I didn’t get any benefits until I gy Hub, about 700 high-skilled jobs have already joined Siemens. I lived my days praying not to get sick or have a toothache! been added to its existing workforce of nearly Siemens not only has jobs, but provides 700 employees. Siemens has partnered with the the training to put the right people in those jobs. And it’s not just for people Central Piedmont Community College (CPCC) and on the management track. Look at me – the ­University of North Carolina Charlotte (UNCC) if I can work here, anybody can work here. The one thing I remember most to offer skills ­assessment, recruiting and training from my hiring process was when I first failed the test and the test administraopportunities to prepare its expanded workforce tor said, “Siemens is not going to give up with the necessary advanced skills. on you.” That was so amazing because not a lot of companies would do that. In fact, when I got my job here I called my How important is it for you to have a What is needed to do such a job? daughter crying and said, “guess what,” qualified job? Jackie Bray First and foremost, you need and she said, “you got the job,” and I reJackie Bray As a single mother, it’s very great people. And those people have to plied “Shawn is going to Disney world.” important for me to have a job – espebe trained to use sophisticated equipNow that I work here, I can send him. cially for the insurance and benefits. It’s ment. Specifically, you need a basic unAnd I can provide things for my daughalso important to feel my work is rederstanding of mechanical skills and a ter that I couldn’t give her before. You warding, which it is because I feel qualdiverse background so a company like just don’t know what that means to me ified and empowered to do my job well. Siemens sees you can learn multiple as a mother. Getting this job was everyI think everybody goes to work to do a things. In my area, multitasking is a big thing to me, it really was. good job and if you’re not qualified, it’s thing. You definitely need technical exnot going to happen, you’re going to pertise and a really good attitude toHow was your specific training and struggle and be frustrated. But when ward teamwork. This is all possible bewhat did Siemens do in this regard? you have the proper training, you can cause Siemens invests in its workers. Jackie Bray The process all began with soar. I need gratification from everyEven before you get here, they help pay an application. If you make it past that thing I do and if you’re not getting the for your training and certification. If you step, you are then asked to complete proper training, you can’t get that. I’m need some extra training, they make a series of tests and certifications. You also grateful to be part of a company sure Central Piedmont Community Colmust score a certain level for each step that does so much to ensure a better fulege (CPCC) offers what you need. Once before proceeding. The two most chalture for the community where my you’re here, you get more training and lenging tests, which cover blueprints daughter and grandson will grow up. certifications than most companies ofand troubleshooting, are now offered as Siemens is doing so much about going fer in my experience. separate courses at CPCC to provide ad“green” and reducing emissions – that’s ditional instruction. After you pass the one of the things I love most about this How did you come to Siemens? tests, you interview once or twice beplace. They ’re making cleaner power for Jackie Bray When I was laid off, I had fore being hired. Once in the door, you everybody and that’s just amazing. been working two jobs, which together do about 30 days of New Employee 22 Everybody goes to work to do a good job and, if you’re not qualified – it’s not going to happen, you’re going to struggle and be frustrated. But when you have the proper training, you can soar. ­ rientation, which includes training in O product lines and four generations all the classroom and on the factory floor. working together. This could be chalI learned everything there, from how to lenging, but it isn’t because we all have work on a team to how to rig a lift. Since a common goal and I think that really then, I’ve continued to train. Most classshines through. Everyone here is genues are mandatory, but some are options inely nice and happy and it really shows. I may elect to help me be more wellrounded for whatever comes next. I feel So, will you go with your daughter and the attitude at Siemens is that training grandson to Disney when the time is always ongoing and employees are comes? always learning. I don’t see Siemens Jackie Bray Nope – it’s about them. And as a company that would ever say “OK, you know me, I’ll be like “I gotta work.” now you know enough,” because I don’t think you can ever know enough. How do you consider the new apprenticeship program that gives young people a chance to gain college credit and practical instruction on the job – the way it’s done in Germany? Jackie Bray The program Siemens has with CPCC is amazing. If it had been around five or ten years ago, my daughter would still have been in school and I might have been able to do more for Jackie Bray “Siemens does so much in her and perhaps she’d have a different regard to going ‘green’, that’s one of life today. the things I love most about this Looking back, what do you think? place. They ’re ­making cleaner power Jackie Bray I am extremely grateful for the opportunity to be part of a company for everybody.” like Siemens and I know I’m really making history right now. I’m always proud to wear my uniform and be part of Siemens. This place is amazing, and anybody who knows me or has spoken to me knows I don’t mind telling you how great my job is. People may not always want to hear that, but I always say it. Working at the Charlotte Energy Hub is also unique because it has multiple 23 Value chain: Our own operations The future is “green” Siemens continued to expand its global ­production network for gas turbines in 2011. At the Charlotte site in the state of North ­Carolina, an existing plant was expanded, creating about 700 new jobs. With our ­cutting-edge gas turbine production plant, we are setting new standards for quality, ­productivity, competitiveness and flexibility – our contribution toward a “green” future. > Siemens’ plant in Charlotte Beyond supplying the U.S. market, Siemens plans to export plant equipment worth US$400 million a year from Charlotte. The plant cooperates closely with Central Piedmont Community College (CPCC) and the University of North Carolina Charlotte (UNCC) in recruiting and training new employees. Jennifer Roberts (left) Jennifer Roberts is a member of the Mecklenburg County Board of Com­ missioners, the governing body for the Charlotte area. Roberts has a back­ ground in teaching and international banking and has been a local leader on issues including job creation, edu­ cation, and the environment. Mark Pringle (right) Mark Pringle manages Siemens Energy ’s factory in Charlotte. The mechanical engineer has worked in the power plant business for more than 30 years, and can lay claim to developing and estab­ lishing Siemens’ gas turbine service and repair business in Houston, Texas. > Siemens’ plant in Charlotte Energy-efficient, ecological and excellently qualified Charlotte, a Siemens production site With an investment of more than US$350 million in its Charlotte site, Siemens has expanded its global turbine and generator production network and created 700 new jobs with a future in a region where unemployment is high. And thanks to Siemens’ ­positive relationships with public institutions there, these positions are being filled with well-qualified employees. At the beginning of planning for the new factory, Siemens con­ tacted Charlotte’s local authority, Mecklenburg County, and the college and university. Today, County Commissioner Jennifer ­Roberts is with Mark Pringle at the factory, where he is updating her on the current status of the facility and its plans for the future. Jennifer Roberts Mr. Pringle, the region is proud of Siemens’ “green” factory. What’s so special about it? Supplier Own operations Customer 25 Extreme precision and accuracy are the basic prerequisite for the high-quality production of our gas turbines. Continuous training mea­ sures are therefore part of everyday working life for our employees. The energy-efficient medium-volt­ age switchgears are also from Siemens and distribute electricity to the individual power consumers in the factory. Mark Pringle Some of the most progressive things are only apparent when you take a second look. They start with the particularly lean way in which production is organized. At the new factory, we need 9,000 m 2 less space than com> Siemens’ plant in Charlotte parable plants once required. As a result, we were able to cut costs and emissions when it was constructed, and we reduce carbon emissions during operation, too. Jennifer Roberts What specific environmental objectives did Siemens pursue with the new building? Mark Pringle Under our internal “Green Building” program, we built new offices and production sites in compliance LEED with the sustainability standard LEED – Leadership in “Leadership in Energy and Environmental Energy and Environmental Design. The standard for our Design” (LEED) is a system for classifying the ecological footprint of buildings. It sets Charlotte plant is the demanding LEED Gold standard. standards for environmentally friendly, resource-saving, sustainable building Jennifer Roberts What special measures were required to construction. ful­fill it? Mark Pringle Measures range from very good insulation of walls and ceilings to economical continuous-flow heaters for the washbasins to water-efficient toilets. Then there’s Siemens’ energy-efficient products. Jennifer Roberts Does that mean you also use your own ­products? Mark Pringle Of course! We use Siemens medium-voltage switchgears, and the power distribution and circuit ­breakers in the halls come from a Siemens facility in ­Spartanburg, South Carolina – which is like buying from a neighbor. The machines’ controllers, like the building’s > Siemens’ plant in Charlotte monitoring and energy control systems, also come from Siemens’ global network. Jennifer Roberts Your employees must also be very proud of the factory! Michael Süß, Member of the Managing Board of Siemens AG and CEO Energy Sector “With a growing share of renewable energies in the energy mix, highly flexible CCPPs will be increasingly vital as the backbone 26 of power supplies.” 18 percent less area is required by the new gas turbine plant in Charlotte compared to traditional produc­ tion sites. Concretely, that means approximately 9,000 m2 less space. Parts of the plant already meet the requirements of the LEED Gold standard for power consumption and carbon emis­ sions by production buildings. > Siemens’ plant in Charlotte 700,000 tons This is the enormous amount of carbon dioxide that can be avoided – every year – by every new combined cycle power plant (CCPP) with a Siemens 8000H ­turbine and 570-megawatt out­ put, compared with the average for all power plants world­wide. That is equivalent to the emis­ sions of 330,000 cars with an annual mileage of 14,000 kilome­ ters each. The photo shows an F-class turbine. > Siemens’ plant in Charlotte With around 60,000 employees in all 50 federal states, Siemens has ­established itself as one of the main employers in the U.S. The photo shows an employee working on final assembly of a component for our highly efficient gas turbine. For us, practice and theory are the two sides to successful training, which is why we rely, not only in Charlotte, on the model of ­alternating between college and practical instruction on the job. > Siemens’ plant in Charlotte Mark Pringle Our employees see that we don’t just talk about environmental protection and energy efficiency, but also take action. They ’re especially proud of our new gas turbine production facility. Jennifer Roberts And what’s unique about Siemens gas turbines from Charlotte? Mark Pringle They ’re very economical, which makes them a key factor in climate-friendly power generation. A state-ofCCPP the-art CCPP with a Siemens 8000H turbine and 570-megaWith a net efficiency of 60.75%, the watt output can reduce carbon emissions by up to 700,000 ­Siemens-constructed CCPP ­Ulrich ­Hartmann currently holds the world’s tons a year compared to the average for all power plants ­record for ­combined cycle power plants. worldwide. Jennifer Roberts That’s amazing! Yet it seems to me that investing in a new factory for gas turbines was a very bold move. Everyone expects progress to come from wind, solar and water power generation. Mark Pringle That’s true, and that’s why we’re working hard on that at Siemens, too. For instance, we’re one of the ­leading suppliers of wind turbines. However, renewable ­energies will not yet be able to cover the next generation’s power requirements. Jennifer Roberts So CCPPs are a key element of the right energy mix? Mark Pringle Our highly flexible H-class turbines are also ideal when a larger share of available power is generated from renewable sources of energy that fluctuate, such as wind and solar power. If the sun’s shining brightly and there’s a stiff breeze, they stay switched off, but when renewable energies can’t deliver – such as at night, or when there’s dense cloud cover or no wind – the turbines can be up and running at maximum power in a matter of minutes. > Siemens’ plant in Charlotte Jennifer Roberts I assume older power plants can’t manage that. 29 At the Central Piedmont Community ­College, well-trained teaching staff mem­ bers look after our new employees. To make sure they are fully acquainted with the specific Siemens requirements, some of the teachers have gone through ex­ tensive training themselves in Germany. For Siemens, lifelong learning is an inte­ gral part of the corporate strategy. For this ­reason, our employees also continue to take part in further training activities even after completing their initial training. Mark Pringle In the U.S., which is the world’s largest electricity market, coal is still our most important source of energy. > Central Piedmont Community College However, the average age of our coal-fired power plants is already 40 years. That means they can only respond slowly to fluctuations in demand, they don’t use coal very efficiently and they ’re big environmental polluters. Jennifer Roberts But that’s surely not just true of the U.S. Export Mark Pringle No, it isn’t – and that’s why we want to export Siemens Energy not only supplies the U.S. power plant technology worth US$400 million a year from and other countries with a 60-Hertz power grid from Charlotte, it exports all Charlotte. over the world. Jennifer Roberts Hearing that makes me proud, especially since Charlotte and the surrounding region benefit a lot from it. The Charlotte area suffers from high unemployment, which made us all the more happy to support Siemens in finding and training 700 additional employees for the new production facility. Mark Pringle It was especially important for us to familiarize the new employees quickly with the specific demands of a cutting-edge production plant. We get a lot of support for Central Piedmont Community College this goal from Central Piedmont Community College (CPCC) and Siemens’ training partner CPCC has seven the University of North Carolina Charlotte (UNCC). locations and some 70,000 students, making it the largest community college system in North and South Carolina. Jennifer Roberts We’re delighted about that, especially since both institutions have also benefited from working with Siemens. Siemens makes high demands, but it also shares its knowledge: For example, some members of the college’s Mechatronics instructor training staff completed their mechatronics instructor training at The Siemens Mechatronics System Siemens in Germany. They were very enthusiastic about ­Certification Program (SMSCP) supports colleges and universities worldwide in that experience. You also recently began an apprenticeship integrating established modules from the German training system into their existing program that gives young people a chance to gain college educational programs. credit and practical instruction on the job – the way it’s done in Germany. Mark Pringle We’ve introduced that model here, and we’ll be expanding it even further. After completing their training, these young people are excellently qualified for a successful career with us. Jennifer Roberts This is a model for the future, and we look ­forward to continuing to work with Siemens. 30 > Siemens’ plant in Charlotte Additional topics > Encouraging young talent at the university level In order to meet future requirements for excellently qualified engineers in the field of power plant technology, Siemens supports the Energy Production and Infrastructure Center (EPIC) at the University of North Carolina Charlotte (UNCC). Together with other energy sector companies here in the region, Siemens is committed to ensuring, among other things, that the industry ’s requirements are reflected in con­ crete curricula at EPIC. A US$4.3 million donation by Siemens is enabling the UNCC to bring in guest lecturers, award ­scholarships and – what’s very important – to set up a labora­ tory (Siemens Large Manufacturing Solutions Lab). > “Green” challenge for the city Charlotte was recently assessed in the U.S. and Canada Green City Index. This unique study, which was conducted by the Economist Intelligence Unit on behalf of Siemens, compares the environmental and climate protection objectives and ­performance of 27 cities in the U.S. and Canada. Nine cate­ gories are analyzed in detail: CO2, energy, land use, buildings, transport, water, waste, air and environmental governance. The “greenest” city in the U.S. and Canada Green City Index is San Francisco. In second to fifth place for U.S. cities are New York, Seattle, Denver and Boston. www.siemens.com/greencityindex > Central Piedmont Community College Stakeholder dialogue with Karl-Friedrich Rausch Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch Karl-Friedrich Rausch is the Member of the Man­ agement Board of DB Mobility Logistics AG in charge of the Transportation and Logistics Division and is responsible for the activities of DB Schenker. He is responsible for the issue of sustainability on the Management Board of Deutsche Bahn. Karl-Friedrich Rausch has been responsible for What role does rail transport play in this? sustainability on the Management Board of Karl-Friedrich Rausch Rail is a strong pillar for us in developing climate-friendly Deutsche Bahn (DB) since 2011. The group has solutions in passenger and freight set itself a clear goal. In order to continue dealing transport. No other means of transport can match it for environmental compatsuccessfully with the opportunities and chalibility. Our clear goal is to transfer more lenges in its market, DB has decided to anchor traffic to rail. The European Union has set unambiguous targets in this regard: sustainability more rigorously in its corporate By 2050, half of all passenger and freight transport above a distance of strategy and organization. Rausch is a member 300 km is to be shifted to rail and ship. of the Board of Governors of econsense, Forum In reaching that goal, it will be important to link the means of transport in a for Sustainable Development of German Business. reasonable way. For Siemens, for example, we’ve developed a transport conWhat role does sustainability play no longer possible, customers can comcept for delivering commuter trains to ­regarding mobility and transport? pensate for their CO2 emissions by inRussia by three means of transport: on Karl-Friedrich Rausch The concept of susvesting in climate projects. land, water and rail. tainability is intrinsic to the future viability of our business. The key question What are the greatest challenges facing What is DB doing to make rail transport for us is: What do we have to do to be Deutsche Bahn regarding sustainable even more attractive and sustainable? successful over the long term? In view mobility and logistics? Karl-Friedrich Rausch The order we’ve of the increase in passenger and freight Karl-Friedrich Rausch Fortunately, we can awarded Siemens for the ICx is an importransport, one of our core challenges is look forward to global growth. Yet that tant example of how we wish to make to keep emissions from increasing with also means we need to be especially passenger rail travel more appealing the growth of the market. Mobility and careful about the ecological impact we and sustainable. We’re jointly developlogistics service providers have a vital make. We not only offer transport sering a high-speed train that offers cusresponsibility to propose solutions here. vices on rail, but also by road, water and tomers greater comfort, can be made The transport sector accounts for a quarair. The rail network we run is a complex up flexibly in line with demand and ter of global CO2 emissions, making the infrastructure, and we are Germany ’s saves energy thanks to better aerodymobility and transport market the seclargest energy consumer. To adapt our namics and lower weight. There are ond-largest CO2 emitter after the energy networks to future challenges, we are similar investments in our rail cargo industry. It‘s clear that transport compaspending a lot of money on modernizfleet, for example our purchase of diesel nies must deliver solutions to ­reduce the ing our fleet, for example. Like most locomotives with particulate filters. CO2 they generate. We at DB Schenker companies, we also have to tackle tasks As I already mentioned, we at DB Schendid that last year with our Eco Solutions. relating to demographic change and our ker have also introduced Eco Solutions. Since then, we‘ve offered a CO2-free or attractiveness as an employer. DB is one One product from this series is “Eco lower CO2 alternative for all transport of Germany ’s largest employers and Plus,” with which we offer customers and logistics products. If a ­reduction is providers of training. completely CO2-free rail transport. 32 We at Deutsche Bahn regard a corporate policy geared toward sustainability as not just being a social task. It is also vital to our commercial success. In the area of passenger transport, we What can customers do to promote susoffer the product “bahn.corporate Umtainable logistics and personal mobility? welt-Plus,” which enables completely Karl-Friedrich R ausch Our passengers CO2-free trips for business travelers. Our and freight customers are key stakegoal is to provide completely CO2-free holders and in some cases have highly rail transport by 2050. By 2020, the diverse requirements. We also rely on share of renewable energies in our electheir feedback so we can develop furtricity mix is to be 35%. We intend to rether and offer products that meet their duce our specific CO2 emissions 20% by needs. “Green” products are of worth then compared with 2006 – across all only if people buy them, for example. our means of transport. Those are all Power from renewable sources is more measures that will strengthen rail expensive. We as a business enterprise transport even more from an ecological can’t bear these costs on our own. perspective. What role do cooperation and partnerships play in that? Karl-Friedrich Rausch One thing is clear: We can achieve our environmental objectives only by working together with our stakeholders, customers, suppliers and owners. The ICx is a good example of how Siemens and DB are working together with a sustainable approach. When we initially discussed the issue of sustainability in the summer of 2011, we held many valuable talks on best practices with other companies from both our sector and others. DB also backs the Karl-Friedrich Rausch “Together with Siemens, 2 °C Initiative, in which entrepreneurs we’re developing a high-speed train that – have joined forces to limit global warming to 2 °C compared with pre-industrial among other things – offers customers levels through their business activities and by supporting policymakers. greater comfort, can be made up flexibly in line with demand and saves energy thanks to better aerodynamics and lower weight.” 33 Value chain: Customer Efficient fleet for Deutsche Bahn Siemens’ proximity to markets all over the world makes it a strong local partner for its customers – the ICx train project is a part­ nership with new dimensions. > Berlin > Krefeld > Erlangen Siemens develops the ICx trains for Deutsche Bahn (headquarters in Berlin) at the Erlangen and Krefeld plants. ­A ssembly of the first cars will begin in Krefeld in mid-2013. Ulrich Höbel (right) Ulrich Höbel is in charge of the ICx ­project at Deutsche Bahn. Among other functions in the past, the vehicle engineer was responsible for redesigning the ICE 1 and managed Deutsche Bahn’s project for the second ICE 3 series. He already knew Martin Offer from that project. Martin Offer (left) Martin Offer is in charge of the ICx ­project at Siemens. Previously, the electrical engineer looked after the ICE 3 project at Siemens and was involved in development projects for high-speed trains and streetcars. > In the ICE train to Krefeld, Germany A partnership with vision Siemens plant in Krefeld Ulrich Höbel and Martin Offer know each other well. As managers of the ICx project at Deutsche Bahn and Siemens respectively, they and their teams have dealt with each other extensively and suc­cessfully. With a potential volume of up to 300 ICx trains by 2030, the contract signed in May 2011 is not only the biggest single investment in Deutsche Bahn’s history but also the biggest order in Siemens’ history. The first ICx is due to leave the Krefeld plant for trials in mid-2015. However, many of the details are already being planned in depth on the computers at the factory. Ulrich Höbel Mr. Offer, what can you already show me of the new ICx here today at the plant? Martin Offer You won’t see an ICx in production yet but you can see the Siemens Velaro D, which is an enhanced ICE 3 for Deutsche Bahn. Our design engineers are making good progress and the virtual ICx is nearly finished.  Illustration: ICx at Berlin Central Station Supplier Own operations Customer 35 In the virtual reality lab of the Siemens R&D department in Krefeld, design engineers can use 3D goggles to move through the new ICx well before production actu­ ally begins. 3D simulation is an integral part of the ICx development process and also of the coordi­nation between Siemens and its ­suppliers. Later, the design data can be integrated ­directly in the production process. Ulrich Höbel The 3D computer graphics of the ICx fascinated me when we were still negotiating the contract with Siemens. They let you make a very good assessment of many details at an early stage of the development process. Martin Offer The virtual ICx is also worth a look now. Since > Siemens plant Krefeld then, we have obviously developed the train much further. And in parallel to designing the details, we are already using the 3D computer data to plan production here at the Plant in Krefeld Krefeld plant . Siemens builds regional and high-speed trains for the global market at its Ulrich Höbel And if I have understood your experts correctly, plant in Krefeld. Some of the roughly 2,200 employees at the location are you can integrate the 3D design data directly in the assem­ engaged in research and development. bly and service instructions. Martin Offer Employees of Siemens and Deutsche Bahn can zoom into the details on screen to do complicated tasks quickly and precisely. That’s what we at Siemens under­ stand as a sustainable process chain in the rail industry. Ulrich Höbel To support this process, Deutsche Bahn will be providing Siemens with the operating data for the ICx while the project is in progress. Martin Offer We will be able to use this data to make the ICx even better in respect to costs, the production pro­ cess and, last but not least, subsequent energy con­ sumption – although current passenger trains are highly ­energy-­efficient. Ulrich Höbel Energy efficiency is an important factor for many environmentally aware rail customers – and for us as a company, too. Even after many years of improving > Siemens plant Krefeld our energy efficiency, Deutsche Bahn is still the biggest consumer of energy in Germany. And that has a major impact both on our operating costs and on our carbon ­d ioxide footprint. Dr. Rüdiger Grube, CEO and Chairman of the Management Board of Deutsche Bahn AG “In the ICx, we are laying the foundations for long-distance rail transport of the future and setting new standards when it comes 36 to reliability, environmental friendliness and comfort.” 150 working days This is how long it takes on average at the Siemens plant in Krefeld from the start of the body shell for a Velaro D high-speed train to its handover to the test and validation center. The R&D, production engineering, production and assembly departments work with digital design data throughout the process. A PC at the assembly station supports printed diagrams and assembly instructions. > Siemens plant Krefeld 30 percent less weight per seat than the ICE 2 – that is just one feature of the new ICx. With longer cars and the elimination of one gangway and two heavy bogies, the ICx is not only a world-beater when it comes to the use of space but is also lighter overall than trains of the same length. The photo shows the interior of a Velaro D. > Siemens plant Krefeld Construction of the body shell ­requires sound mechanical skills, precision and experience. Between the individual production stages, employees use a laser ­measurement system to inspect the body shells of end and inter­ mediate cars, which can be up to 28 meters long. > Siemens plant Krefeld Martin Offer The ICx consumes up to 30% less energy per seat than its predecessor. To achieve this, we have come up with many new ideas. For example, the train is compara­ Powercar tively light. By using longer cars, the Powercar concept and Powercars are driven intermediate cars trailing bogies with inside bearings, we have reduced the that have all parts of an electric drive unit underneath – transformer, power conweight of a 200-meter train by about 20 metric tons … verter, cooling system and traction motor. The 5to 14-car ICx trainsets will be Ulrich Höbel … while increasing the seating capacity at the ­available in 24 configurations consisting of Powercars and unpowered cars. same time. Martin Offer The ICx has seven long cars instead of eight c­ onventional ones. So although the train stays the same length, it has fewer gangways and therefore provides space for up to 499 passengers. In addition, its lower weight and improved aerodynamics will reduce running resistance and, in turn, costs. On top of that, our P ­ owercar concept allows Deutsche Bahn to configure the ICx to meet varying requirements. Ulrich Höbel That will give us greater freedom when operat­ ing the trains. All train configurations are conceivable – ­consisting of 5 or up to 14 cars. Having more Powercars on routes with many starts and stops means that we will be able to accelerate faster and reach higher speeds. Martin Offer But Mr. Höbel – a perfect passenger train must do more than just use little energy … Ulrich Höbel Naturally the trains must please or, even better, fascinate the passengers. People want to get on and off ­easily, sit comfortably in an environment with good acous­ tics and air conditioning and, of course, travel quickly, ­reliably and safely. And that is what they will get. From 2016 on, they will be able to travel on the most modern train in the world – the ICx. Martin Offer At Siemens, we are very proud to have won the order for this ambitious ICx project. What led Deutsche > Siemens plant Krefeld Bahn to sign a contract extending until 2030? 39 Maintenance of the new heating and power station at the Siemens plant in Krefeld. It generates electricity and heats the plant’s paint shop and o ­ ther factory sections. Ulrich Höbel We want to cut costs in order to be more com­ petitive. One way to help achieve this goal is to standardize our fleet. The ICx platform will gradually replace various train series, and will make up 70% of our seating capacity in long-distance passenger transport by the end of the ­contract period. It will simplify operations and maintenance. The best way of ensuring this is a long-term partnership. Martin Offer The contract period is advantageous for both companies because we can use the data from ICx operations > Siemens plant Krefeld to improve trains scheduled for later delivery. Moreover, the planning certainty that we gain will enable us to set up a very efficient process to produce turnkey trains of high quality at an attractive price. Ulrich Höbel As far as the new ICx is concerned, we have ordered design, engineering and production from a single source. From previous procurements of vehicles for longdistance transport, we are familiar with Siemens and its partners. In the final analysis, Siemens won the ICx order based on its overall package of technical concept and cost effectiveness. Martin Offer Siemens strives to operate with very fair methods, so we insist that our suppliers and partners comply with the demanding Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. Ulrich Höbel We welcome the fact that the contenders for ICx Code of conduct orders committed themselves to comply with the code of In 2009, Siemens was the first member conduct published by the German Railway Industry Associa­ of the German Railway Industry Asso­ ciation (VDB) to sign the association’s tion (VDB). Collaboration based on trust is key to the success code of conduct. www.bahnindustrie.info of our long-term ICx partnership. Heat recycling: Large circulating heat exchangers extract heat from the ­exhaust air in the production halls and use it to warm incoming fresh air. To protect the health of our employ40 ees, manipulators handle heavy work on the trains’ body shells. > Siemens plant Krefeld Additional topics > Energy-saving production And it’s not just the trains from Krefeld that save energy and are environmentally friendly. This is true of the Siemens plant itself: Between fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2011, the site reduced its yearly CO2 emissions by 23% (4,700 tons) to just 16,000 tons. Other measures are currently being implemented. Each year, we expect them to reduce CO2 emissions by an additional 2,500 tons and energy costs by €800,000. To begin with, we examined our offices and production halls on the basis of the Siemens Energy Efficiency Program and quickly came to the conclusion that it would be worthwhile to install our own heating and power plant. Since the fall of 2011, it has been generating electricity and delivering waste heat both for heating the production halls and drying the paint on the trains. This meant converting pumps and valves of the halls’ air heaters to the latest energysaving design, installing circulating heat exchangers, and insulating facades and roofs. A new central building management system generates further savings. > Ecofriendly logistics Assembly of the first ICx is scheduled to begin in Krefeld in mid-2013. Siemens is already collaborating with its suppliers on an ecofriendly logistics concept. To this end, external ­storage facilities are being combined in a new central warehouse at the Krefeld plant. The goal is to use rail for transportation as much as possible. Body shells are no longer going to be delivered from a partner’s plant in Görlitz by heavy-duty trucks. When combined in whole trains, they can be transported just as quickly by rail but with much lower energy consumption. > Siemens plant Krefeld Sustainability is our guiding principle, a key factor in all we do. Part I of the report provided informa­ tion about sustainability along the value chain. In part II, selected indicators are used to show how Siemens performed in fiscal 2011 in its efforts to meet the economic, environmental and social demands placed on it. But first we’d like to present some cross-disciplinary topics to show you how sus­tainability is practiced and controlled at Siemens beyond classic organizational boundaries. 42 Contents part II 43 Cross-functional topics 44 CO2 management along the value chain 46 Sustainability at healthcare 48 Siemens Integrity Initiative 50 Stakeholder dialogue with Robert Greenhill 52 Facts and figures 52 Reporting method 54 Innovation 56 Customers and portfolio 58 Compliance 60 Environmental protection 66 Product responsibility 68 Occupational health and safety management 70 Employees 74 Suppliers 76 Corporate citizenship 79 Additional information 80 Independent Assurance Report 82 UN Global Compact 84 UN CEO Water Mandate 85 Global Reporting Initiative 86 Notes and forward-looking statements 88 Information resources II CO2 management along the value chain According to calculations by the Intergovernmental Panel on ­Program (EEP), which was launched in 2007, ensured that Climate Change (IPCC), the target of limiting the rise in global these targets were met (details are provided in the “Environtemperature to a maximum of 2 °C can be achieved if global mental protection” chapter on page 60). Our report gives exemission of carbon dioxide is reduced 80% by the year 2050. amples from our plants in Krefeld (page 34) and Charlotte Considering that energy-related 30.6 billion tons of carbon diox(page 24). ide were emitted into the atmosphere worldwide in 2010, that is a huge challenge. Company vehicles are another worthwhile approach when it comes to avoiding the production of carbon dioxide emissions. At Siemens we strive to reduce greenhouse gases at all stages As early as 2009, Siemens was one of the first companies to isof our value chain, and we regularly inform the public about sue a mobility guideline that sets incentives for using company the progress we have made. For this purpose we have been vehicles with low fuel consumption. With this approach we calculating greenhouse gas emissions from our own activiintend to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide by our Comties, our vehicle fleet and our power consumption in line pany fleet’s new vehicles in Europe to an average of 120 g/km with the international Greenhouse Gas Protocol Standard for by the year 2015 – a goal that includes not just cars, but also a long time. transport vehicles. As a comparison: In 2011 the average emission value for all newly registered Siemens cars in Germany In the fall of 2011, the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Stanwas 136 g/km, which is already 10 g/km lower than the ­German dard of the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World average of 146 g/km. ­Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) was published, which acts as an accounting basis for the CompaAll in all, we can be proud of the results of our efforts, as the ny’s greenhouse gas emissions throughout the value chain. current report shows: At 3.6 million tons 1, our emission of Together with other companies, Siemens played an active greenhouse gases in fiscal 2011 remained almost on the same part in the development and initial test phase of the new stanlevel as in the previous year even though Company revenue dard. As far as measures for reducing greenhouse gases are grew con­siderably. concerned, our Company sees three major spheres of influence: our own activities, our influence on suppliers and our Suppliers possibilities for reducing customers’ emissions with Siemens At Siemens, activities for climate protection address the entire products and solutions. supply chain. Using models that consider the energy efficiency of purchased materials and supplier products, calculations were made in the test phase of the Scope 3 standard along the OUR OWN ACTIVITIES Siemens supply chain (i.e. from the raw material sources to our We want to keep improving the energy efficiency of our plants plants). These calculations showed that four to six times more and office locations. This is where we have the greatest direct greenhouse gases were emitted than in our own manufacturinfluence and where efficient use of energy will directly reduce ing operations. These figures show the significance of supplienergy costs. Besides using electrical energy more efficiently, ers for climate and environmental protection. Obviously we we can also influence greenhouse gas emissions through the have less influence on their emission of greenhouse gases emission factor of the power we buy. From 2007 to 2011, we than on our own activities, but we do support them in their pushed ahead with an environmental program that focused, efforts to restrict energy consumption and reduce emissions. among other things, on two main targets: to reduce the intenTo this end, we are gradually extending our internal Energy sity of our carbon dioxide emissions by 20% and to improve our energy efficiency by 20%. Our internal Energy Efficiency 1 Measured on the basis of the GHG Protocol according to Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (travel). 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 79 Additional information 44 44 CO2 management along the value chain 46 Sustainability at healthcare 48 Siemens Integrity Initiative 50 Stakeholder dialogue with Robert Greenhill An average of percent –  that’s how much Siemens increased the global carbon dioxide efficiency of its production plants between 2006 and 2011. Efficiency Program to our suppliers. The Energy Efficiency Proroughly equivalent to the total annual carbon dioxide emisgram for Suppliers (EEP4S) identifies and assesses the potential sions of Berlin, Delhi, Hong Kong, Istanbul, London, New York for energy savings in production processes. Pilot projects have City, Singapore and Tokyo. shown that consumption can be cut by up to 17%, which is also financially attractive for suppliers. More details are provided in In addition to its environmental benefits, You can find more the “Suppliers” chapter on page 74 and in our supplier report our Environmental Portfolio enables us to information on the Siemens Environmental from China on page 14. compete successfully in attractive marPortfolio at: kets and generate profitable growth. We www.siemens.com/ environmental-portfolio set ourselves an ambitious growth target www.siemens.com/ CUSTOMERS in fiscal 2010: We want to increase reveenvironmental-portfolioWith the help of energy efficiency programs and environmennue from our Environmental Portfolio to report tal management systems, we work constantly on using energy at least €40 billion by the end of fiscal as economically as possible in our value chain. However, our 2014. In the first stage – fiscal 2011 – we have already earned products and solutions are our biggest lever when it comes to revenue of €29.9 billion. More and more research and developenvironmental protection. They enable our customers to lower ment projects at Siemens involve products and solutions that their energy costs while improving their carbon dioxide footenhance our Environmental Portfolio. See the “Innovations” prints. All products, systems, solutions and services that chapter, which begins on page 54, for information about our ­reduce negative environmental impacts and climate changeinvestments in research and development inducing emissions of carbon dioxide have been bundled in the Siemens Environmental Portfolio. OPPORTUNITIES Targeted carbon dioxide management throughout the value chain opens up outstanding opportunities for Siemens. By FY 2011 317 Mt ­cutting carbon dioxide emissions in our own manufacturing CO2 abatement FY 2010 269 Mt operations as well as at our suppliers and, in particular, at our at our customers FY 2009 212 Mt customers, we can make a major contribution to climate protection. The management consulting firm McKinsey assessed Siemens GHG emissions the technical opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emisFY 2011 3.6 Mt from production sions significantly in 2030 compared to levels expected under a “business-as-usual” development. The result: Our current CO2 abatement from newly installed products and solutions. technology portfolio already covers 37% of these opportunities. CO2 abatement from previous installations. In addition, our products and solutions enable us to reduce both our own and our customers’ energy costs and tap new Our target for 2011 was for the Siemens Environmental Portfoand sustainable fields of business. lio to help our customers save about 300 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year. With all the products and solutions from our Environmental Portfolio that have been installed for customers since fiscal 2002 and are still in use, we managed to surpass this target: We helped our customers reduce their ­carbon dioxide emissions by 317 million tons in fiscal 2011 – a quantity nearly 90 times the sum of our own emissions, and 45 Sustainability at healthcare Together with our customers and partners, we are working harm such as paralysis, blurred vision or speech, and difficulty to improve healthcare throughout the world and, in this proin comprehension. A complete recovery is only possible with cess, are focused on two main challenges: the aging populavery rapid diagnosis and treatment. Our computed tomogration and increasing disease chronicity. Our goal is to deliver phy (CT) scanners and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) systhe right answers to these challenges, not just for today but tems offer support for fast diagnoses in emergencies. And duralso for the future. ing treatment, our angiography and ultrasound systems can provide information about treatment efficacy while our laboraWe all know health systems need to operate much more effitory equipment provides additional answers throughout the ciently and effectively in the future in order to meet the abovetreatment and rehabilitation processes. mentioned challenges in a sustained manner. Fortunately, this is feasible – and with the potential for very positive results – We make comparable contributions when it comes to breast thanks to increasingly personalized medicine based on ever cancer: In preventive screenings, Siemens imaging systems more accurate diagnoses, genetic and metabolic data, and ashelp confirm or disprove suspected cases, and Siemens techsociated risk profiles. Preventive measures and earlier diagnonologies help physicians make exact diagnoses – for instance ses will be possible, therapy phases can become shorter, treatvia image-guided biopsies or diagnostic nuclear medicine ments can cost less, the quality of life can be enhanced, and (­PET-CT) – and monitor the therapy and progress of recuperahealth budgets can be relieved considerably. tion through tumor markers and the patient’s blood values. At Siemens, we are focused on three key initiatives: first, supSiemens has set a specific target: By 2014, we intend to have porting the fight against the world’s most threatening diseasour solutions used to diagnose or treat more than 90 million es; second, improving healthcare quality and productivity; people with the following six medical conditions: heart attack, third, enhancing access to healthcare. In the future, we will be stroke, breast cancer, lung cancer, HIV / AIDS, and tuberculosis. reporting on progress in these three fields every year, using In this way, we hope to help enable better patient care for the internal key performance indicators that we are documenting world’s most threatening diseases. in this report for the first time as basic figures for 2011. Improving quality and productivity Fighting the most threatening diseases in Healthcare According to statistics published in 2011 from the World Health Throughout the world, Siemens products were used to examOrganization (WHO), about 30% of all deaths can be attributed ine or treat roughly 180,000 patients per hour in 2011 2. As our to cardiovascular diseases, 15% to cancer, and 15% to infecsolutions become even more efficient through our innovative tions. Our healthcare technology solutions can help clinicians engineering, we intend to raise this figure to more than fight these diseases. Worldwide, more than 75 million people 200,000 patients by 2014 and thus significantly improve benefit from their use to diagnose and treat heart attacks, healthcare quality and productivity. strokes, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and breast and lung cancer 1. Expenses for healthcare are increasing at a higher rate than The following example shows the importance of our medical the gross domestic product (GDP) in many highly developed systems. According to the WHO, every year almost 15 million countries. According to the OECD, for example, healthcare people around the world suffer a stroke. Five million of them ­expenses in OECD countries as a proportion of GDP rose from die directly afterwards and another five million suffer lasting 7.8% to 9.5% between 2000 and 2009; in the United States they 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 79 Additional information 46 44 CO2 management along the value chain 46 Sustainability at healthcare 48 Siemens Integrity Initiative 50 Stakeholder dialogue with Robert Greenhill Over million patients  suffering from a heart attack, stroke, breast cancer, lung cancer, HIV/AIDS or tuberculosis were examined and treated with Siemens medical products in 2011. even constituted 17.4% in 2009 (OECD Health Report 2011). Often, these regions are already looking for technology that People in developed countries are expected to live longer in takes them beyond basic care. In addition, global demand for the future and the demand for high-quality health services will cost-optimized, first-class solutions is growing. We met this continue to grow. However, a broad availability of services can need by launching the SOMATOM Perspective at the end of only be ensured if costs remain affordable. One way to achieve 2011 5. this is to enhance healthcare efficiency. The potential is well known: as the WHO’s World Health Report 2010 states, 20% to All this shows how we are working to help clinicians and 40% of all global healthcare expenses are currently wasted due healthcare facilities throughout the world advance healthcare. to inefficient systems. As our mission states: “We innovate to advance human health” because good health provides all of us with the potential to Siemens offers pioneering solutions in this field as well. For lead happier lives and fulfill our dreams. example, syngo®.share 3 is a product that allows clinical imaging data in various file formats to be distributed and managed quickly and efficiently. That means clinics and medical practices can share imaging data, and physicians know immediately which images are available for their patients. This rapid access helps to improve the quality of treatment and saves precious time. Providing access to healthcare More than 830 million people had access to Siemens imaging systems in 2011 4. However, our goals are much more ambitious: We want to give more than one billion people access to our imaging systems by 2014. In addition to greater use of existing X-ray devices, CT scanners, and MRI systems, we want to improve basic healthcare in less developed countries through inexpensive medical technology. An example of how we are accomplishing this comes from China. Since 2005, Siemens has been successful there with the SOMATOM Spirit CT scanner. We adapted leading CT technology to the demands of basic care for less developed health 1 We based the calculation on the active installed base of Siemens equipment used for the systems. diagnosis and in the treatment process of stroke, heart attack, lung cancer, breast cancer, TBC and HIV / AIDS. Only equipment used in line with strongest recommendations in accepted medical guidelines is included. 2 We based the calculation on the active installed base of Siemens imaging equipment and The SOMATOM® Spirit is easy to operate, very reliable, and the associated utilization rates. Additionally, the worldwide in vitro diagnostic test volume exceptionally cost effective. This concept not only convinced was considered, adjusted by the average number of tests per patient. 3 syngo.share is a medical device of ITH icoserve technology for healthcare GmbH, Innsbruck, our customers in China, where more than 700 SOMATOM Spirit Austria. syngo.share currently is not available in all countries. 4 We based the calculation on the number of installed Siemens CT systems in 113 developing scanners are in use, but we also export much of the production countries (UN HDI < 0.785). Population covered per CT was derived from CT density in ­selected countries. in Shanghai to developing regions around the world. 5 Under FDA review. Not available for sale in the U.S. 47 Siemens Integrity Initiative In many markets around the world, Siemens engages in submit detailed project proposals. After careful examination, ­Collective Action with other companies and institutions to we chose 31 projects in a transparent process and concluded combat corruption and promote fair competition. The Siemens funding agreements in fiscal 2011. The total volume of funding ­Integrity Initiative plays a key role in this regard. Its objective for the first round is US$37.7 million. Detailed profiles of all is to strengthen the already close cooperation among the projects supported by the Integrity Initiative, including the ­various players and to fight corruption and fraud by means of amount of money allocated and a complete description of the well-defined projects. In the first round, we are supporting 31 selection criteria, are available on our corporate Website at: projects throughout the world with contractually agreed total www.siemens.com/integrity-initiative. Information is also funding of US$37.7 million. We concluded support agreements available there about the latest activities of the Initiative. Some with our integrity partners in fiscal 2011. Implementation of examples are given below to illustrate the breadth of the supthe projects has begun, and we can present initial positive ported projects. ­results here with reference to three sample projects. On July 2, 2009, the World Bank Group announced a compreINSTITUTO ETHOS – BRAZIL: TAKING A STAND hensive settlement with Siemens. As part of the settlement, IN THE BATTLE AGAINST CORRUPTION we agreed to cooperate in changing industry practices, clean Transparency and efficiency in the awarding of contracts for up procurement practices and engage in Collective Action with infrastructure projects related to the FIFA World Cup in 2014 the World Bank Group in order to fight fraud and corruption. and the Olympic Games in 2016 – that is the goal of our integWe made US$100 million available for the Siemens Integrity rity partner in Brazil. Instituto Ethos is dedicated to achieving Initiative. It will be used over the next 15 years to support orgagreater transparency in the awarding of public contracts, highnizations and projects that are dedicated to promoting clean er standards of integrity in relationships between the public markets and fair competition and that impact business sectors and private sectors and, not least, stronger civil control meaand countries in which Siemens operates. The initiative was sures in the awarding of contracts. launched on International Anti-Corruption Day on December 9, 2009, when for the first time we issued a global request for Siemens is supporting the project for five years with a sum of proposals for projects in the following two areas: US$3.11 million. In the first year, a cross-industry dialogue was initiated between the public and private sectors and civil soci>> Collective Action: The focus here is on projects that create ety at the national and local levels to promote broad support alliances between the public and private sectors with the for the project. The pact for integrity and industry agreements goal of strengthening compliance standards. were presented to companies and the general public in an ex>> Training and continuing education: These projects are to tensive campaign. Our integrity partner has ensured that local extend competencies and promote a culture of integrity as committees are founded at the venues of the upcoming large well as the exchange of knowledge between institutions and events for the purpose of examining local awarding practices stakeholder groups. on the ground. Three nationwide committees deal with Collective Action and specific issues, including the social responsi­ The initial response was impressive: In the first round, about bility of sponsors, investors and other financial backers of the 300 applications were received from 66 countries. From two sports events. these, we selected a shortlist of applicants and invited them to 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 79 Additional information 48 44 CO2 management along the value chain 46 Sustainability at healthcare 48 Siemens Integrity Initiative 50 Stakeholder dialogue with Robert Greenhill US$ million: this is the amount  of support agreed with our integrity partners in the first round of the Integrity Initiative. MAKATI BUSINESS CLUB (MBC) – PHILIPPINES: subsequent project activities. Our integrity partner examined MORE INTEGRITY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT the challenges for the management of Chinese companies The Shine Project of our integrity partner MBC aims to foster ­operating in selected high-risk countries; the NATC handed joint commitment by domestic and foreign companies in over the report with its key results to the Chinese government the Philippines to combat corruption and promote sustainable authorities. To intensify the dialogue regarding integrity development: All companies are to be able to work in the ­between government agencies and companies as well as mul­Philippine market under fair conditions. tinational companies in China, and to discuss international trends in this field, our integrity partner has initiated a discusSiemens will be supporting this initiative with US$1.04 million sion platform for these players (Compliance Executive Club). over four years. The MBC’s project partner is the European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines. The highlight of the project’s activities in the first year was the signing of an IntegINITIAL POSITIVE DEVELOPMENTS AND rity Pledge at a public event in September 2011. More than VALUABLE EXPERIENCE 800 companies and 25 government agencies and ten industry The diverse initial successes and performance of the projects associations have signed the pledge thus far. In addition, the to date show us that, together with our integrity partners and MBC began formulating an extensive code of conduct for Philthanks to the support of the Siemens Regional Companies, we ippine businesses. In a further focus area, our integrity partner have made solid progress with the complex and demanding devoted its energies to encouraging government institutions Siemens Integrity Initiative. Work on this project requires all to collaborate in two future activities. First, the code of conparties involved to learn from each other and find joint soluduct for the Philippine business world is to be closely intertions. Managing such a global initiative comprising 31 projects meshed with legal requirements. And second, the MBC intends in many countries, and working with a large number of exterto work with its project partner to support the Philippine govnal and internal parties, also marks new ground for Siemens – ernment in developing its own anti-corruption program. as a key element of our compliance management as well as in its d ­ imension as part of our global engagement for sustainable development. The experience our Company gains from workNEW CENTURY ACADEMY ON TRANSNATIONAL ing with the integrity partners is just as diverse and valuable. CORPORATIONS (NATC) – CHINA: INTENSIFYING We would like to take this opportunity to thank all of them for DIALOGUE AND PRACTICE SHARING their work so far. An intensive dialogue between government and business, recommendations for compliance legislation, and practice-driven With our commitment to Collective Action and Siemens’ Integcompliance training for domestic companies – these are the rity Initiative, we are pursuing a clear goal: We intend to make objectives of the project launched by our integrity partner a long-term contribution to fighting corruption and promoting NATC in China. clean markets beyond the boundaries of our Company – together with other stakeholders. This goal will guide us in the The Siemens Integrity Initiative is supporting the project of the future as well. organization – founded in 2005 – for a period of three years with US$0.89 million. The project kicked off with a campaign intended to win local partners. Analyses of Chinese and foreign legislation as well as of the management practices of Chinese and multinational companies supplied valuable information on proven compliance solutions and the latest trends for use in 49 Stakeholder dialogue with Robert Greenhill Robert Greenhill Robert Greenhill is Managing Director and Chief Business Officer at the World Economic Forum. His work areas include the role of business in society, sustainability issues, and the fight against corruption. The Partnering Against Corruption Initiative In November 2011, political leaders met at the G20 Summit in Cannes. Their fi(PACI) of the World Economic Forum is a global nal communiqué underlined the need for strong anti-corruption legislation as anti-corruption initiative offering a platform for a mandatory framework for helping companies to assist them in developing internal clean up the markets. How effective are voluntary standards like the PACI Prinanti-corruption measures and to facilitate Collecciples for Countering Bribery, and how tive Action with other companies, governments do they complement national legislation or international conventions? and civil society. Robert Greenhill The PACI Principles are a best-practice framework for developing and implementing a corporate antiMr. Greenhill, experts estimate that the specific business case for companies to corruption program. They are the backcost of corruption equals more than 5% engage in Collective Action against corbone of the PACI value proposition of global GDP (US$2.6 trillion), with over ruption? calling for an action and implementaUS$1 trillion paid in bribes each year. Robert Greenhill Corporate Global Citition-focused approach to tackling corWho pays the bill – and how are compazenship encourages companies to enruption. I would say the PACI Principles nies affected? gage with other stakeholders in adare an important complement to nationRobert Greenhill In addition to the direct dressing critical global issues. These al and international conventions for at costs, we should also consider the conissues are too complicated and inter-releast three key reasons: sequences of corruption: It distorts marlated to be addressed in isolation. Cor1. Through the peer exchange resulting kets, stifles growth, debases democracy ruption is a clear example. Collective from implementation of the Principles, and undermines the rule of law. It erodes Action with other businesses is necescompanies are continually exposed to the confidence of a society in its governsary to ensure that industry sectors the latest best practices in anti-corrupment and business leaders. The Arab work together to eliminate corruption. tion and corporate ethics – and these Spring was in part a reaction against corCollection Action with civil society and are usually more stringent than nationruption between business and governgovernment is necessary to ensure the al and international standards. ment. It is almost impossible to express right laws are in place and are being 2. When companies sign and implement these impacts in financial figures. But implemented. The business case for the PACI Principles, they level the busiI’m sure the total would be far beyond global companies is clear – some of the ness playing field in their locality, inthe numbers you mentioned. fastest growing economies in the world dustry or region. The Principles also today are among the most corruptive. play a key role in actualizing internaKlaus Schwab, the founder and ExecuCompanies cannot ignore these martional conventions such as the UN Contive Chairman of the World Economic kets, nor can they accept the historical vention Against Corruption as well as Forum, has repeatedly emphasized the level of corruption. Collective Action to national legislation. role businesses could or rather should fight corruption is a robust strategy that 3. Signing and implementing the Prinplay in helping strengthen good public enables companies to engage in imporciples is an explicit signal from managegovernance. Besides this concept of tant emerging opportunities while mainment that a company is committed to Corporate Global Citizenship, is there a taining the highest business principles. anti-corruption and ethics. In turn, the 50 Global companies have a vital role to play in combating corruption. Their global perspective means they can apply best practices from other regions, and are less vulnerable to local pressures. They can increase their impact through joining forces within the business sector and through collaboration with the public sector and civil society. Siemens’ Collective Action activities provide encouraging evidence of this. company is recognized for having the Tool which introduces a structured, correct ‘tone at the top,’ an important risk-based methodology for evaluating consideration in legislation like the Forand approving suppliers, contractors and eign Corrupt Practices Act in the U.S. other third parties. PACI signatories had and the Bribery Act in the U.K. an opportunity to learn from Siemens’ considerable experience in this area. Changing the rules of the game is a Finally, Siemens has been substantially challenge, even when companies join supporting Collective Action. Siemens’ forces and begin tackling the issue of US$100-million Integrity Initiative is anti-corruption collectively and across helping back key initiatives on a global sectors. What actions should companies basis. The company is also contributing like Siemens take, and what outcomes senior executive time to support Colleccan companies expect within which tive Action. Peter Solmssen, for examtime frame? ple, is playing an important global role, Robert Greenhill It has become increasincluding serving as vice-chair of the ingly clear that the fight against corrupWorld Economic Forum Global Agenda tion is not a preserve of any one stakeCouncil on Anti-Corruption, which deholder. Companies, governments and velops and advocates international antiother stakeholders such as civil society corruption policy. The best way for comhave to work in concert. Challenges panies to engage and commit is for their abound, such as the classic prisoner’s CEO and Board to declare that anti-­ dilemma when companies may hesitate corruption is a strategic issue that must to be the first to engage in anti-corrupbe addressed proactively, rather than a tion activities for fear of losing busicontrol issue to be managed reactively. ness. In this context, corporate leaderIt is not an issue that will be resolved ship is extremely important. Siemens overnight. However, changes have been has demonstrated leadership in various significant and accelerating over the ways. For example, in recent years it last few years. has demonstrated that a company can maintain state-of-the-art anti-corruption practices while competing successfully around the world. Moreover, Siemens is sharing best practices. EvalRobert Greenhill “Convincingly addressing the uating third-party business intermediscourge of corruption is one of the aries has become a critical compliance concern for global businesses, particubest ways for companies to build trust larly since the UK Bribery Act took effect with communities around the world.” last July 1. At a recent PACI meeting, Siemens presented its innovative Business Partner Compliance Process and 51 Reporting method REPORTING APPROACH for the most part, are different from those applicable to the Our Sustainability Report 2011 describes the strategy, organi­ ­ nancial information presented in our Consolidated Financial fi zation, initiatives and goals for ensuring sustainability at Statements. In particular, the standards and controls applied Siemens. It not only continues and supplements last year’s and the computer systems used during the preparation of the Sustainability Report, but also serves as our annual progress data can be less comprehensive in comparison. We reserve report on implementing the United Nations CEO Water Manthe right to change our internal guidelines regarding the in­ date and the Global Compact’s ten principles at the Company. clusion of data in the Sustainability Report without prior In addition, our Report is oriented to the recommendations of ­announcement. the Global Compact and Transparency International regarding anticorruption reporting. External review Not only have we prepared our Sustainability Report to high Review period and report boundaries quality standards, but we have also gone beyond typical in­ This Report is based on activities during Siemens’ fiscal 2011 dustry practices by voluntarily commissioning a full and (October 1, 2010 – September 30, 2011). Any exceptions are independent audit of the Report by PricewaterhouseCoopers ­indicated as such. In general, all of our fully consolidated comAG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC). The auditors‘ Indepanies are covered by the Report. Here, too, possible exceppendent Assurance Report can be found on page 80. For such tions regarding the data are indicated and explained. Minority limited assurance reviews, which provide a limited degree of equity investments are not included in our sustainability certainty, the review procedures are not as extensive as for a ­reporting. To provide an up-to-date picture of the Company, review of our financial reporting. The auditors merely confirm we also include information about important developments in that nothing has come to their attention during the audit that fiscal 2012 up to the editorial deadline on March 1, 2012. would cause them to believe that the information contained in the Report departs materially from the relevant sustainability During fiscal 2011, we announced our plan to publicly list reporting requirements. our subsidiary OSRAM AG. Following this move, we classified the business as a discontinued operation. The change was ­included in all disclosures on continuing operations in the Editorial notice present Report. In general, however, the reported information All references to tons in the Sustainability Report refer to relates both to discontinued and continuing operations; devia­metric tons. tions from this are indicated. Data collection Given Siemens’ size and global spread, gathering data poses a major logistical challenge. Moreover, our companies throughout the world are required to comply with local regulations concerning the compilation and definition of performance ­figures, which means that the generated data is not always comparable. Where applicable, we point out any significant limitations in the information presented in the Report. As a rule, no company-wide standards exist for the information published in the Sustainability Report. This applies in particular to specific financial figures, including, for example, the ­revenue attributable to the Siemens Environmental Portfolio. As a result, these figures may not be comparable with the data published under the same or similar designations by other companies. The data published in our Sustainability Report is collected through various internal reporting systems which, 52 Facts and figures 52 Reporting method 54 Innovation 56 Customers and portfolio 58 Compliance 60 Environmental protection 66 Product responsibility 68 Occupational health and safety management 70 Employees 74 Suppliers 76 Corporate citizenship Innovation Innovations are a mainstay of Siemens’ business success; they Additionally there are material research, electronics, sensor have always played a key role in mastering sustainability chalsystems, drive technology, energy conversion and energy manlenges. By making innovation a task with central importance, agement. The technology portfolio is enhanced with lightwe ensure that we maintain and expand our leading market house projects designed to generate new business opportuniposition as an integrated technology company. ties; these include electromobility, intelligent power networks (smart grids), the use of low-temperature waste heat and the Our research activities are aimed at developing the necessary processing and recycling of raw materials as well as the develtrailblazing technologies that enable Siemens to take a leading opment of alternatives to raw materials – all topics of great position in innovationand technology-driven growth markets. strategic importance. To do that, we need the world’s best experts as well as an open innovation strategy that also encourages collaboration with One important company-wide task of CT is to leverage synergy external partners. effects among the various technologies and application areas of the operating units and to maintain and expand contacts to universities and other research institutions. Scientists from Research and development a core task RWTH Aachen, for example, are working with Siemens engiAt Siemens, Managing Board member and Chief Technology neers in one of the first external Siemens research areas on Officer (CTO) Klaus Helmrich has responsibility for the Corpomethods and processes for the efficient and environmentally rate Technology unit (CT). This underscores the great imporfriendly production of the rare earth minerals used in permatance that innovation management has at the Company. Our nent magnets. Among the objectives here are the reliable asinnovative strength is regularly a topic at the Managing Board’s sessment of alternative deposits, the development of sustainannual strategy meetings, for example. In fiscal 2011, we reable methods for extracting these minerals, carrying out tained the three focal areas of our research and development lifecycle analyses for the extraction of rare earth deposits, and activities (R&D): (1) ensuring long-term future viability, (2) enformulating efficient methods for their reuse. hancing technological competitiveness, and (3) optimizing the allocation of R&D resources. Making the most of employee knowledge In fiscal 2011, intelligent innovation management again conWe value the knowledge and creativity of each and every tributed to developing key technologies and getting important Siemens employee. We also employ unconventional means to innovations ready for the market. Here are just a few examples. tap these valuable assets for research. This includes in-house, Our new electrolyzer makes it possible to store excess electriInternet-aided idea competitions as well as social media, which cal energy generated by wind turbines as hydrogen and is thus enable the effective use of the knowledge and innovation poan important energy storage component for the future. The tential of Siemens employees. On the social media platform newest generation of gas turbines achieves an efficiency rate Technoweb, for example, any employee can issue an urgent of 60.75% and output of 570 megawatts in combined-cycle oprequest and receive an informed answer in just a few hours. eration. High-voltage direct-current transmission (HVDC) can This saves time and money and is a way of making the knowltransport electricity with little power loss over thousands of edge of an integrated technology company available to everykilometers with a world-record transmission voltage of one. In addition, each year we award the titles of “Top Innova800,000 volts. And with our new blood test, the level of vitators” and “Inventor of the Year.” In November 2011, we honored min D in the body can be measured in just a few minutes. the twelve outstanding Siemens inventors of fiscal 2011, who together accounted for 730 invention reports and 636 individWorking with a worldwide network of experts, the task of Corual patents. At the same time, CT actively supports the work of porate Technology (CT) is to act as a strong innovation partner innovation workgroups, in which we support the patenting of for the operating units of Siemens and to secure the technoinnovations, for example. This helps us expand our patent logical future of the Company through expertise in strategiportfolio, develop new products and solve technical problems. cally important fields. To that end, CT is positioned in globally operating technology areas: To that end, CT is positioned in globally operating technology areas: software architectures and IT platforms, IT security, data monitoring and analysis, ­imaging and automation and communication technologies. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 54 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship Research and development figures for calendar year 2010 and – for the first time in the Company ’s With our R&D activities, we pursue the goal of further increashistory – in first place in the ranking of the European Patent ing our innovative strength. In fiscal 2011, Siemens invested Office (EPO). The statistics published by the US Patent and €3.925 billion in research and development in continuing Trademark Office (US PTO) show Siemens in ninth place for the ­operations. As a result, the R&D intensity, i.e. the ratio of R&D number of patents granted in calendar year 2010. This marked expenses to revenue, was 5.3% and thus higher than in the the first time since 2005 that we were ranked among the top fiscal years 2010 and 2009 (5.2% and 5.1%). ten. By comparison: in calendar year 2009 Siemens ranked third at the DPMA, second at the EPO and thirteenth at the US PTO. Figures for research and development 1 www.siemens.com/sr/innovation FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Spending on R&D (in billions of €) 3.925 3.558 3.597 R&D intensity 2 5.3% 5.2% 5.1% Inventions 3 8,600 7,900 7,100 First patent applications 4 4,300 3,700 3,700 Patents granted 53,300 51,400 49,600 1 Continuing operations; previous years adjusted to be comparable. 2 R&D intensity is defined as the ratio of R&D expenses to revenue. 3 Number of inventions submitted by Business Units based on an internal reporting. 4 First filings as part of the inventions submitted to patent offices. In carrying on research and development at the Company, the Sectors concentrate their R&D efforts on the next generation of their products and solutions and prepare them for market launch. The Industry Sector invested €1.6 billion with an R&D intensity of 5.0%, the Energy Sector €1.0 billion with an R&D intensity of 3.5%, and the Healthcare Sector €1.2 billion with an R&D intensity of 9.4%. In fiscal 2011, we had an average of some 11,800 R&D employees in Germany and another 16,000 R&D employees in about 30 countries outside of Germany, including the U.S., China, Austria, India, Slovakia, Switzerland, the U.K., Croatia, Sweden, Denmark, Mexico and France. Position in patent office statistics 1 2010 2009 2008 Germany (DPMA) 3 3 2 Europe (EPO) 1 2 2 U.S. (US PTO) 9 13 12 1 Complete figures for calendar year 2011 were not available from the patent offices as of the publication date. Sources: DPMA (German Patent and Trade Mark Office): published patent applications, EPO (European Patent Office): patent applications, IPO (Intellectual Property Owners Association): patents granted. Worldwide, Siemens holds about 53,300 patents (continuing operations) – in the previous year that number was about 51,400 (on a comparable basis). The number of published ­patent filings put Siemens in third place in the statistics ­compiled by the German Patent and Trade Mark Office (DPMA) 79 Additional information 55 Customers and portfolio Business success is a key element of sustainability. And deciYet this Portfolio is also intended to help our customers reduce sive for business success are long-term customer partnerships their carbon dioxide footprints, cut their energy costs and imand a strong local presence in the markets where our customprove their profitability through an increase in productivity. Our ers operate. One Siemens, our framework for sustainable value target for 2011 was to help our customers reduce their annual creation, concentrates on serving innovation-driven growth carbon dioxide emissions by 300 million tons. With all the Enmarkets and, at the same time, steadily expanding our customvironmental Portfolio elements that have been installed at cuser-oriented Environmental Portfolio. tomer locations since the beginning of fiscal 2002 and are still in use, we have exceeded our goal: By the end of fiscal 2011 we reduced customer carbon dioxide emissions by 317 million tons. The environmental Portfolio is a key driver of sustainable growth Customers and portfolio Thanks to the close relationships cultivated with our customFY 2011 FY 2010 1 FY 2009 1 ers, we develop a considerable share of our portfolio directly Revenue generated by the with them, and often even in their own companies. This ap­Environmental Portfolio (continuing plies in particular to our Environmental Portfolio, in which we operations; in billions of €) 29.9 27.4 26.8 bundle all those products, systems, solutions and services that Accumulated annual customer ­reduction in carbon dioxide make particular contributions to environmental and climate emissions generated by elements protection. They can be divided into three main categories: from the Environmental Portfolio (continuing and discontinued ­operations; in millions of tons) 317 269 212 >> First, products and solutions with especially high energy Number of Market Development ­efficiency, such as combined cycle power plants or intelliBoards (MDBs) established in gent building systems; ­conjunction with industry-specific >> Second, equipment and components for renewable enermanagement of key accounts 132 14 11 gies, such as wind turbines and solar power plants; and >> Third, environmental technologies for the provision of clean 1 Revenue and CO2 reductions adjusted for comparability due to changes in the portfolio. water and air.  2 We closed our Market Development Board for public authorities in 2011 due to changes in the portfolio. The qualification of products and solutions for our Environmental Portfolio is based on defined processes and strict criteSuccess on the basis of long-term customer ria. Once a year, the Siemens Sustainability Board approves relationships in a spirit of partnership changes in the composition of the Portfolio. In fiscal 2011, for Sustainable customer relationships are the basis for all our example, we added maintenance and repair for highly efficient business, and have been for over 160 years. We employ a strucgas turbines. tured key account management approach throughout the Company to look after our major customers. This means that we In fiscal 2011, we generated revenue of €29.9 billion with Porttailor our products and solutions to the size and regional site folio offerings – an increase of approximately 9% over the prestructures of our customers, but we also ensure that our key vious year’s revenue of €27.4 billion. account managers continually develop Siemens’ relationships to its customers and secure them over the long term. Key acWithin the framework of One Siemens, For more information count managers are evaluated on the basis of the growth of we have set ourselves a highly ambitious on the Siemens Environthese customer accounts. The Market Development Boards mental Portfolio, visit: growth target: By the end of fiscal 2014, www.siemens.com/ (MDBs) steer the key account managers. In concrete terms, emwe intend to exceed €40 billion in reveenvironmental-portfolio ployees from a variety of Business Units come together here, nue with our Environmental Portfolio – concentrating on customer segments such as the automotive and we will continue to strive for this goal even though it will industry, data centers or power utilities. With this approach, be more challenging to achieve due to our planned initial pubwe can offer a comprehensive spectrum of products and serlic offering of OSRAM AG. vices from all our portfolio elements and from a single source. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 56 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship Our Business Units bear worldwide responsibility for their busiwe have succeeded in shortening response times to customer ness, that is, for their revenue and profits. This benefits cusinquiries and speeding up deliveries. When implementing tomers of every size. Small and medium-sized enterprises and measures such as these, we place a high value on our longorganizations – and they represent the majority of Siemens term response to the information needs and comments of our customers – receive local support. Our large international sales customers in line with a customer support approach aimed at force, whose work is steered by our regional Clusters and Recontinuity. gional Companies, ensures that our business-specific sales strategies are implemented. Customers with major contracts or Our customer management system has also been recognized large-scale projects, in contrast, are served directly from the by outside institutions. In 2011, for example, Siemens was once headquarters of the respective Business Unit. again ranked first in Customer Relationship Management in the “Diversified Industrials” category of the SAM Dow Jones In addition, we regularly assess the strategic importance of the Sustainability Index. In addition, the Strategic Account Manmarket opportunities available to our Company. The Siemens agement Association (SAMA) designated our key account manSales Board determines whether the key account managers agement program the “Key Account Management of the Year” have met their targets and makes sure that within Siemens, for 2011. synergies in customer management are maximized. This approach is supplemented by our Executive Relationship ASSURING THE LONG-TERM QUALITY Program, in which all members of the Company ’s Managing OF CUSTOMER SUPPORT Board stay in direct contact with selected customers and mainTo assure the high quality and ongoing improvement of custain an ongoing dialogue with them to make certain they are tomer support at Siemens, we have introduced company-wide always familiar with customers’ needs. uniform training programs for both key account managers and the sales force. Moreover, the staff in both areas is trained on Thanks to these activities in particular, new orders in our key the topic of compliance to encourage conduct conformant account business have enjoyed growth that greatly exceeds with guidelines, which itself ensures our business success: the average. Absolute compliance with all laws and the Company ’s internal guidelines and regulations is an elementary aspect of all our worldwide marketing and sales activities. improving customer satisfaction Our business success is critically dependent on the satisfaction In fiscal 2011, we were able to develop our relationships with of our customers. For this reason, we measure customer satisour customers around the world even more strongly and imfaction in every unit of the Company. During the year under prove the corresponding business figures. We are aiming at review, we used the Net Promoter Score (NPS) once again as a generating significant growth in fiscal 2012 as well – a goal uniform standard for this purpose. This internationally recogthat we intend to achieve in particular in our target industries nized and commonly applied managerial performance indicaand across industry boundaries with our Environmental Porttor, which we determine annually on a worldwide basis by folio. means of customer surveys, measures the referral rate of our www.siemens.com/sr/customers customers. Our internal NPS target system, which is based on business-specific, regional and industry benchmarks, is used to set the target values for the Sectors and Clusters. The NPS for 2011 was based on the results of more than 25,000 interviews. As planned, this represents a strong increase over the approximately 18,500 interviews conducted the previous year. We use the results to strengthen our customer orientation and develop concrete measures for improvement together with our customers, using their feedback as a basis. For example, 79 Additional information 57 Compliance We understand compliance holistically – not just as adherence managers must exemplify compliance and ensure that busito the law and internal Company regulations, particularly the ness decisions and actions in their areas of responsibility are Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines, but also as the foundaalways in complete accordance with the relevant legal requiretion of all our decisions and activities, and at the same time as ments and our own values and guidelines. The new element an elementary component of business integrity. Compliance is Advice and Support emphasizes the compliance organization’s not a program; it is the way we conduct business and uphold role and function of helping all Siemens Business Units impleintegrity at Siemens. ment compliance, thus contributing to our long-term business success. This element encompasses tools such as the “Ask us” help desk, which answers employees’ compliance-related OUR COMMITMENT: questions, but it is primarily intended to foster close, trustful Only clean business is Siemens business cooperation between the Siemens units and their Compliance Preventing corruption and other violations of fair competition Officers. has the highest priority at Siemens. Our principle is: Only clean business is Siemens business. This means complying strictly Finally, we have also included Collective Action – cooperation with all laws and regulations and adhering to the principles of on the part of companies and other organizations in the battle ethical business conduct defined in the Siemens Business Conagainst corruption – in our Compliance System. We want to duct Guidelines. These Guidelines are binding for all Siemens make it clear that compliance at Siemens A detailed description employees worldwide and focus on the prevention of corrupgoes beyond internal measures and proof the Siemens Integrity Initiative is available on tion. Siemens is expressly committed to international convencesses and our relationships with busi48 and under: tions and recommendations for combating corruption. Examness partners and suppliers. The activiwww.siemens.com/ integrity-initiative ples include our active participation in the United Nations’ ties of many Siemens units form the Global Compact and our engagement in a variety of its local focus of this Collective Action and we support some of these networks. commitments at the group level; examples include our participation in the World Economic Forum’s “Partnering against Corruption Initiative” (WEF PACI, see also the interview with Compliance within siemens Robert Greenhill on page 50), the UN Global Compact’s workWe’ve also made compliance a permanent and integral part of ing group on the 10th principle, anti-corruption, and the OECD’s our business processes. Since we introduced the Compliance anti-corruption working group. Program throughout the Company, we have continually improved it and developed it further into an overarching compliOn October 7, 2011, the Company received the Year Three Reance management system comprising the three action levels port from the Compliance Monitor Dr. Theo Waigel, whom Prevent, Detect and Respond. The central element of the sysSiemens had engaged as part of the settlement reached with tem is the responsibility of all Siemens managers for compliU.S. authorities in December 2008. During Year Three, the ance. This management responsibility includes a role-model Monitor evaluated the sustainability of Siemens’ Compliance function for senior management, but goes even further: All our Program and its compliance risk assessment and compliance The Siemens Compliance System Management responsibility Prevent Detect Respond Compliance risk management  Whistleblowing channels “Tell us” Consequences for misconduct Policies and procedures and ombudsman Remediation Training and communication Compliance controls Global case tracking Advice and support Monitoring and compliance reviews Integration in personnel processes Compliance audits Collective Action Compliance investigations 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 58 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship program evaluation processes in addition to risk-based themes >> We intend to base our compliance risks analyses more closeand the implementation of Year One and Year Two recommenly on the specific circumstances of our respective business dations. As was set forth in the Settlement Agreement with the areas. During the year under review, we developed and piU.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the U.S. loted a new compliance risk assessment system whose use Department of Justice (DOJ), this Year Three Report contains will be mandatory starting in fiscal 2012 – initially for the (1) an evaluation of the open recommendations from the Year Sectors, Regional Clusters, Cross-Sector activities, and CorOne and Year Two Reports, (2) some new recommendations porate Departments. designed to improve the effectiveness of Siemens’ program for >> We intend to establish compliance even more strongly as an ensuring compliance with anti-corruption laws, and (3) certifiintegral aspect of all our business activities. cation by the Compliance Monitor once again that the Siemens >> We intend to further intensify interaction with our internal Compliance Program, including its policies and procedures, is and external stakeholders for the purpose of combating correasonably designed and implemented to detect and prevent ruption. For us, that means acting on our values, complying violations within Siemens of anti-corruption laws. with rules and regulations, and promoting responsible business practices in our markets through Collective Action and the Siemens Integrity Initiative. One focus of our internal COMPLIANCE INDICATORS measures is to strengthen in particular middle manageIn addition to the compliance indicators listed below, the Anment’s responsibility for compliance. nual Report 2011 contains information on legal proceedings, including corruption and antitrust proceedings. The compliance targets defined for fiscal 2012 are geared specifically toward these priorities. You can find more information Compliance indicators on this and on the achievement of compliance targets for the FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 year under review at:  Inquiries submitted to the www.siemens.com/sr/compliance-goals “Ask us” help desk 1,740 3,077 3,992 Incidents reported to the “Tell us” help desk and the ombudsman 787 582 565 anti-corruption reporting therein treated as plausible 683 502 439 In May 2010, the United Nations’ Global Compact and Trans­ Disciplinary sanctions 306 448 784 parency International published reporting guidance on the therein warnings 179 313 473 Global Compact’s 10th principle – anti-corruption. Siemens therein dismissals 77 108 244 helped develop the recommendations and participated in pilottherein other 1 50 27 67 ing them. On our website you will find an overview of the published Company information on compliance within the struc1 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and ­suspension. ture of the recommendations by the Global Compact and Transparency International. This overview is part of our progress report on the implementation of the ten principles of the priorities and targets for fiscal 2012 Global Compact. At the beginning of fiscal 2011, the compliance management www.siemens.com/sr/anti-corruption-reporting-index team defined four medium-term compliance priorities within www.siemens.com/sr/compliance the context of One Siemens. These priorities will govern the further development of those measures that prevent corruption and other violations of fair competition at Siemens. They are as follows: >> We want to optimize the effectiveness and efficiency of those compliance processes and tools that have already been introduced and proven their value. Projects intended to tighten our business partner due diligence process and in the gifts and hospitality area were an important part of this compliance priority during the year under review. 79 Additional information 59 Environmental protection Environmental protection, health management and safety – We monitor our environmental impact with absolute criteria, these are guiding principles of our Company and integral parts for example CO2 emissions in tons. To measure the environof our business processes. Siemens already set up a companymental performance of production locations that are required wide Environmental Protection Office 40 years ago, and since to implement an environmental management system, we also then we have consistently expanded our environmental mancalculate normalized, portfolio-adjusted key performance indiagement and adjusted it to meet new requirements. Our upcators. We use plant revenue as the normalization factor (prodated Environmental Protection, Health Management and duction manufacturing costs). This enables us to evaluate the Safety (EHS) Principles and Guidelines form the basis of our Company ’s environmental performance consistently over time, extensive EHS management systems. independent of portfolio changes at our plants. The first stage of our environmental program came to a successful conclusion at the end of fiscal 2011. Environmental Environmental management systems management systems that meet the ISO 14001 standard have If Company units exceed defined thresholds for resource conbeen rolled out throughout the Company Read more about this at: sumption, waste or emissions, they are required to introduce at all locations requiring them. In addiwww.siemens.com/sr/ an ISO 14001-compliant environmental management system tion, we have boosted our environmental environmentalprotection (EMS). The number of such locations rose to 321 in fiscal 2011, performance in the areas of energy, enerof which 256 were certified externally and 65 were certified by gy-induced CO2 emissions, water use and waste, and have qualified internal auditors. All locations that require an enviachieved most of the targets we set ourselves. We have also ronmental management system have now implemented one. established new targets for the years ahead, and intend to improve Siemens’ environmental performance further in the next Locations with environmental management systems 1 stage of our environmental program. FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 ISO 14001 256 243 209 182 Of those, number Reporting on environmental factors of EMAS-certified 2 and collecting environmental data ­locations 3 8 8 6 We record and monitor the Siemens An overview of the Self-certified 3 65 31 11 12 Group’s environmental impact and perforthreshold values is available on the Internet at: mance with the aid of a worldwide enviwww.siemens.com/sr/ 1 Data includes OSRAM. 2 EMAS: Environmental Management and Audit Scheme of the EU. The number of ronmental information system, the environmentalEMAS certifications has been adjusted from 2008 to 2010. Three EMAS locations management submit one joint SESIS report. These locations were counted as a single location in Siemens Environmental and Technical the past but are now counted individually. 3 Self-certified: Locations are permitted to certify their environmental management Safety Information System (SESIS), which is based on paramsystems internally in line with ISO 14001, provided they follow defined, in-house quality standards. eters such as energy use, resource consumption and emissions. If certain thresholds for these parameters are exceeded, Siemens locations are obligated to report this internally. In fiscal 2011, we used SESIS to evaluate 379 environmental ­reports from Siemens locations in 46 countries (including OSRAM). Once again, the basis for our reporting in fiscal 2011 changed in comparison to the previous year: 24 new locations were integrated and 16 were removed. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 60 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship Greenhouse gas emissions Emissions, based on electricity and district heating, raised Siemens stands by its global responsibility for climate protecslightly due to increased consumption. Emissions resulting tion. For this reason, we report our greenhouse gas emisfrom business trips also went up due to the greater number sions – Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 (travel) – on the basis of of flights. the guidelines in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol published by the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Our emission of SF6 fell further in fiscal 2011. Our goal is to Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). concentrate the use of SF6 at locations that are experienced and efficient in handling this substance, and this strategy has Greenhouse gas emissions (in equivalent tons of CO2) 1 already had a favorable effect on our emissions. (calculated using the model of the GHG Protocol) 2 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 Our reporting covers about 95% of our indirect and direct Scope 1 3 1,263,000 1,375,000 1,512,000 1,463,000 greenhouse gas emissions. The remaining 5% comprises Scope 2 3 1,841,000 1,806,000 1,855,000 1,988,000 greenhouse gas emissions caused by employee activities that Scope 3 4 478,000 431,000 413,000 454,000 are not reported directly. Emissions are calculated on the basis Total 5 3,582,000 3,612,000 3,780,000 3,905,000 of extrapolation. 1 Data includes OSRAM. Compared with base year 2006, we have improved our CO2 2 This timeline is based on continuing operations and is adjusted annually. All figures are extrapolated to 100% coverage; previous years adjusted for comparability. ­efficiency by 22% and thus exceeded our target of 20% by the 3 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) are from sources in the Company ’s end of 2011. ­possession or under its control. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) refer to consumption of purchased electrical energy and district heating. 4 Emissions from travel (flights, rail, rental cars). Improvement in environmental performance – 5 Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding. CO2 emissions, power (in %, base year 2006) Distribution of greenhouse gas emissions (in %) 1, 2 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 Target FY 2011: 20% Electricity and ­district heating 51 50 50 51 Natural gas, fuel oil, other fuels 28 29 28 26 SF6 6 7 10 10 Other Kyoto gases 3 1 2 2 1 Travel 13 12 11 12 5% 9% 17% 18% 22% 1 Data includes OSRAM. Environmental performance: portfolio-adjusted, based on aggregated plant revenue. 2 This timeline is based on continuing operations and is adjusted annually. All figures Status CO2 emissions, power (cumulative) Target (cumulative) are extrapolated to 100% coverage; previous years adjusted for comparability. 3 This includes greenhouse gases such as technical CO2, HFC, PFC, CH4 and N2O. In absolute terms, our greenhouse gas emissions have fallen by about 8% since 2008. Our Scope 1 emissions played an important part in this decline: Among other things, the reduction of CO2 emissions from our business vehicles has been noticeable. One factor in this result is that our fleet management has defined emissions per kilometer as a criterion for vehicle selection, which favors economical models. 79 Additional information 61 Energy consumption Improvement in environmental performance – All in all, our direct energy consumption in fiscal 2011 declined electrical energy (in %, base year 2006) by about 3% over the previous year. FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Direct energy consumption (in gigajoules) 1 Target FY 2011: 20% FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 Natural gas/liquid petroleum gas 9,405,000 9,545,000 9,009,000 9,861,000 Heating oil 189,000 264,000 315,000 294,000 Hard coal/ 1% 7% 13% 11% 12% brown coal 52,000 48,000 44,000 3,000 Gasoline/ Environmental performance: portfolio-adjusted, based on aggregated plant revenue. diesel fuel 2 400,000 487,000 322,000 269,000 Status electricity (cumulative) Target (cumulative) Total 3 10,047,000 10,344,000 9,690,000 10,428,000 Improvement in environmental performance – primary energy and district heating (in %, base year 2006) 1 Figures as collected in SESIS (including OSRAM), not extrapolated to 100% coverage. 2 Energy consumption reported in SESIS for vehicles and machines at environmentally relevant locations. FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 3 Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding. Target FY 2011: 20% Indirect energy consumption (in gigajoules) 1 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 Electricity 12,388,000 12,188,000 11,705,000 12,400,000 District h ­ eating 2,286,000 2,409,000 2,405,000 2,700,000 Total 2 14,674,000 14,598,000 14,110,000 15,100,000 16% 21% 25% 23% 26% 1 Figures as collected in SESIS (including OSRAM), not extrapolated to 100% coverage. 2 Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding. Environmental performance: portfolio-adjusted, based on aggregated plant revenue. Status Primary energy and district heating (cumulative) Our indirect energy consumption increased in comparison Target (cumulative) with the previous year, for example by 2% for electricity. This is due to higher capacity utilization at our production locations. Compared with base year 2006, we were able to improve our environmental performance in the area of electrical energy by Nonetheless, our Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) is beginning a total of 12%. However, we failed to reach our target of 20% by to take effect. By the end of fiscal 2011 we had conducted enthe end of fiscal 2011. Location analyses showed that there was ergy analyses at over 100 locations. In addition, Siemens Real little savings potential in the short term; in the medium and Estate (SRE), which manages our properties, realized savings long term, though, we expect positive effects from the energy potential at selected locations amounting to more than €7 milefficiency measures we have initiated. When it comes to imlion a year in reduced energy costs and about 17,000 tons of proving the environmental performance of primary energy and CO2 emissions. district heating, our total of 26% means we have clearly surpassed our target. Siemens recently started to keep centralized records of its energy consumption for business vehicles. The Company fleet During the next stage of our environmental program, we want consumed roughly 4.9 million gigajoules of energy in fiscal to continue reducing our energy intensity. The EEP is intended 2011, which is about 6% less than the year before. to help increase our energy efficiency at office as well as production locations. In addition, we want to roll out energy management systems at all environmentally relevant locations. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 62 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship EU emissions trading In calculating nitrogen oxides, we have assumed typical comSiemens operates two facilities in Germany that are covered bustion conditions in the relevant thermal processes, resulting by the European emissions trading system: a glass foundry in a figure of 353 tons for environmentally relevant locations for lamp production and a heating plant. Together they acin fiscal 2011. count for 1.5% of Siemens’ direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. Waste The environmental relevance of waste depends on how poAtmospheric pollutant emissions tentially hazardous it is and how it is disposed. We therefore There are other environmentally relevant industrial emissions differentiate between hazardous and non-hazardous waste and besides those important in a climate protection context: Volabetween recyclable waste and waste for disposal. We also identile organic compounds (VOC), for example, contribute to the tify construction waste separately, since this depends on the formation of ozone close to the earth’s surface and are responspecific building or demolition work and is not influenced sible for what is known as summer smog. Siemens uses these by production. organic compounds as solvents in paints and adhesives, in impregnation processes and for surface cleaning. Year on year, waste volume rose 11% (not including construction waste). This increase reflects primarily non-hazardous We also monitor the extent to which substances are used that waste for recycling, which has the least impact on the environdestroy the ozone layer in the stratosphere. As far as these ment because it is returned to the value chain, and can be exozone-depleting substances (ODS) are concerned, we comply plained partly by the inclusion of new locations and partly by with the Montreal Protocol, an international convention on the increased utilization of production capacity by some Divisions. protection of the ozone layer, and with country-specific legislative initiatives. Siemens still uses ODSs in some refrigerants. The waste recycling rate remained nearly stable at 78%. The slight decline can be attributed to individual demolition and Additional atmospheric emissions (in tons) 1 modernization measures that led to more waste for disposal FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 than during the year before. VOC 1,200 1,100 900 1,400 Waste (in tons) 1 Ozone-depleting ­substances in tons FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 of R11 equivalent 2 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 Non-hazardous waste 400,000 359,000 339,000 370,000 1 Figures as collected in SESIS (including OSRAM), not extrapolated to 100% coverage. Hazardous 2 R11 equivalence measures ozone depletion potential. waste 56,000 53,000 49,000 45,000 The reported VOC emissions have changed in comparison with Construction waste 35,000 30,000 27,000 10,000 the previous year. Among other things, this change is the result Total 491,000 442,000 415,000 425,000 of improvements in the method used to measure and record them. We will be enhancing the monitoring mechanisms in 1 Figures as collected in SESIS (including OSRAM), not extrapolated to 100% coverage. the future, thus establishing the prerequisites for more effective handling of VOC emissions. Recycling (in %, including construction waste) Emissions of R11 equivalents again remained on a continually FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 low level in the year under review. It is our goal in the next Share of recycling stage of our environmental program to completely replace in ­total waste 78 80 81 83 ODSs with environmentally friendly substances. 79 Additional information 63 Comparing waste data for production locations with plant revWater consumption (in cubic meters) 1, 2 enue shows that our environmental performance as regards FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 waste has improved considerably since fiscal 2008. At a total of Water 14%, we reduced our waste intensity by 4% over the previous ­consumption 15,180,000 14,990,000 14,110,000 14,990,000 year and consequently barely missed our target for 2011. 1 Figures as collected in SESIS (including OSRAM), not extrapolated to 100% coverage. 2 Does not include roughly 14.5 million cubic meters of cooling water drawn from Improvement in environmental performance – groundwater and surface water resources and returned chemically unchanged, but waste (excluding construction waste) (in %, base year 2006) warmed. FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Wastewater (in cubic meters) 1 Target FY 2011: 15% FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2008 Cooling ­water 2,030,000 2,100,000 1,660,000 2,310,000 Wastewater from employee ­facilities 6,380,000 6,570,000 6,350,000 6,080,000 2% 4% 12% 10% 14% Wastewater from manu­ facturing proEnvironmental performance: portfolio-adjusted, based on aggregated plant revenue. cesses (total) 4,450,000 4,160,000 4,060,000 4,250,000 Status Waste (cumulative) Target (cumulative) Other (incl. losses) 2,280,000 2,080,000 1,670,000 1,630,000 We have set ourselves the target of reducing waste intensity in Total 2 15,140,000 14,910,000 13,740,000 14,280,000 the future. We will also keep reducing waste for disposal and consequently improve our recycling rate. 1 Figures as collected in SESIS (including OSRAM), not extrapolated to 100% coverage. 2 Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding. Improvement in environmental performance – Water and wastewater water (in %, base year 2006) Water consumption and wastewater remained roughly constant, year on year. The volume of chemically unchanged FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 wastewater rose because we included a location that uses seawater for cooling purposes. The increase in absolute water figTarget FY 2011: 20% ures by around 200,000 cubic meters can be ascribed to new locations that were added in this fiscal year. Even so, we were able to raise our environmental performance in the area of wastewater by 5% in the period under review, thus reaching 33% and greatly surpassing our target of 20%. With our new environmental program, we want to improve the local situation at our facilities in terms of water stress and water 6% 21% 29% 28% 33% scarcity. To this end, we have identified potentially affected regions in which we have a presence, and will implement proEnvironmental performance: portfolio-adjusted, based on aggregated plant revenue. Status Water (cumulative) Target (cumulative) grams in the future that are adapted to local conditions in order to reduce the negative consequences of our water use. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 64 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship Expenditures and investments Environmental commitment at the company In addition to data relating to resources and emissions, we also The personal commitment of our employees is a key factor in record expenditures on and investments in environmental proour environmental efforts. This begins with minor activities – tection. Expenditures are operating costs; investments refer to such as cleaning the biotopes near our locations, putting up long-term investments in assets that are of benefit to environnesting places for falcons or planting trees – and extends to mental protection. In fiscal 2011, Siemens disbursed €62 milthe so-called green teams. These have been set up at many lion in operating expenditures and €51 million in investments. Company locations to implement environmental measures Investments were up considerably (€32 million) over the previthere. In addition, an environment prize is regularly awarded to ous year; many locations invested in more energy-efficient maemployees who have excelled by developing inventions or parchinery and modern building technology. ticipating in special initiatives relating to environmental issues. www.siemens.com/sr/environmental-protection Environment-related incidents and penalties We registered 22 incidents in fiscal 2011. These are occurrences that must be notified to the authorities (notifiable incidents) or that had an external impact on the environment. Seven of them involved releases into bodies of water or sewer networks, there were five instances of oil spill, and six of atmospheric emissions (plus four other incidents). We reported them all within the framework of our management systems, including external reports as required, eliminated the damage and analyzed the incidents to prevent them from happening again. Fines totaling €21,000 were imposed for ten incidents. Nature and wildlife conservation Nature and wildlife conservation have gained in importance at Siemens. Since the year under review, we have been documenting protected natural areas within a five-kilometer radius of environmentally relevant locations as part of a new risk assessment. Our climate and water strategies also play a major role in nature and wildlife conservation. Targeted programs, such as those to avoid water stress, can further reduce the negative environmental impact. 79 Additional information 65 Product responsibility Product responsibility has always enjoyed high priority at Product safety Siemens. In our work, we attach great importance to assessing Product safety has utmost priority for the entire Siemens prodthe product lifecycle as a whole. We develop our products prouct portfolio. Our goal is to design and manufacture products actively and thus contribute to minimizing their environmental that are safe in all respects. That applies both to tangible and impact during the production process as well as during the use intangible products. Our system to ensure product safety phase at our customers. Moreover, it is becoming increasingly important for Siemens to ensure that products are reused and >> avoids dangers and minimizes risks to users and third parties, resources are conserved. Products and solutions that perform >> provides binding rules for all our own and any third-party particularly well are included in our Environmental Portfolio. products that we market, >> underscores the emphasis we place on product safety along We take a holistic approach to product responsibility: We set our entire value chain, standards, monitor the products throughout their entire life>> and safeguards the sustainable success of Siemens and procycle, and communicate the added value to our customers. tects its reputation. Our Principles of Product Safety and the related guidelines deStandards for environmentally fine the framework for the methods and measures implementcompatible product development ed at Siemens and are binding for all Siemens units concerned The Product-related Environmental Protection department sets with product safety. binding standards for the development of environmentally compatible products and solutions. It helps us to identify and minimize the possible impact our products may have on human Lifecycle assessments health and the environment during their entire lifecycle. We The results of our lifecycle assessments (LCAs) confirm time thus contribute to preserving and improving people’s living conand again that areas for improvement are easier to identify if ditions and environment, taking ecological, economic, and sothe lifecycle is analyzed as a whole, largely irrespective of cial aspects into account. which product in our diverse portfolio is More detailed informabeing assessed. This allows environmention on lifecycle analyses is available at: Our standard for the environmentally Additional information tal impacts during the use and recycling www.siemens.com/sr/ compatible design of products and sysabout SN 36350 is availphases to be anticipated and avoided durLCA able at: tems (SN 36350) specifies minimum rewww.siemens.com/sr/ ing the development process. In particuquirements for the environmentally comSN36350 lar, the use phase is the most environmentally relevant for patible development of our products and many of our products and solutions. We therefore focus on solutions. It forms a binding part of the processes we use to resource and energy efficiency in the use phase of the prodcontrol the product lifecycle as well as our other project manucts, thus improving the ecological impact of our customers. agement processes. The Siemens standard is continually The key figures for the year under review confirm the efficacy adapted in line with international requirements, with correof our approach. sponding work instructions providing more detailed guidance. For this reason, one of the key guidelines of our SN 36350 stanIn fiscal 2011, we issued two instructions: The first makes it dard specifies that we analyze the environmental impact of our easier to implement the very heterogeneous battery regulaproducts and systems over their entire lifecycle. Our Corporate tions of the countries in the European Economic Area, while Technology unit and Business Unit experts For more information the second specifies product design requirements arising from assess the environmental impact, or “ecoon the Siemens Environmental Portfolio, visit: the dangerous goods law. In this way, we support the Business logical rucksack,” using dedicated softwww.siemens.com/ Units in implementing the respective legal requirements durware solutions and scientifically recogenvironmental-portfolio ing the planning phase. nized databases. In doing so, we meet the requirements of the international standards ISO 14040 / 14044, thus fully covering all the complexities of lifecycle assessment. Not only do we use full-scale LCAs, but, wherever expedient, simplified LCA methods (screening LCAs), such as cumulative energy demand (CED) or CO2 screening. Among other things, 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 66 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship CO2 screening is also used as a selection and control criterion We use it to describe the trend at Siemens of communicating for Environmental Portfolio products and solutions. the environmental impact of our products and solutions and transparently demonstrating customer benefits. A further inLifecycle assessment and environmental product declarations crease in the number of our lifecycle analyses and environ(percentage of revenue covered) mental product declarations confirms this trend. FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Full-scale LCAs 88 73 46 We are already demonstrating to customers how they can use Screening LCAs 94 95 76 their product or system in an environmentally compatible way EPDs 98 87 78 and thus improve their environmental performance. For the future, product-related environmental protection aims to in eference base: Divisions that prepare full-scale LCAs/screening LCAs or EPDs for R creasingly give our customers a comprehensive idea of the ­selected products/systems. No product-related coverage is calculated within a Division; the Division’s total revenue is included. Continuing operations; prior-year values ecological advantages of our products and solutions, while ­adjusted for comparability. keeping an eye on the entire ecological footprint. Our EPDs are prepared in close cooperation with the respective Environmental product declarations communications departments to ensure that the information We specifically use environmental product declarations (EPDs) they contain is not only factually correct but also meets Comto clearly and transparently inform our customers about the pany communication standards. environmental performance of Siemens products and solutions. To this end, we have a dedicated For more on our environcompetence center to bundle the indimental product declaraMarketing and communication tions, see: vidual expertise of each Business Unit. www.siemens.com/sr/ We make consistent and balanced information available to all This panel of experts meets regularly to EPD our stakeholders. On the basis of this Company-wide commudeal with common issues relating to lifenication policy, we safeguard our credibility and demonstrate cycle assessment and communication of the results in the that we take our responsibility seriously. form of environmental product declarations. The aim is to benefit from this expertise throughout the Company, to jointly We publish all in-house communication guidelines on the cordevelop solutions that apply throughout the Company, and to porate intranet. We also require all corporate information and promote greater transparency and commonality for this comits distribution to adhere to local statutory regulations as well plex issue. The competence center defines the requirements as generally applicable ethical and cultural standards. for EPDs in our SN 36350 standard. Through this mechanism, the standard is subjected to regular reviews and adapted to changing international conditions. No contradiction between environmental and customer benefits The juxtaposition of environmental and customer benefits in our Eco-Care-Matrix allows us to clearly illustrate the value our products and solutions add – for our customers, for the environment, and for Siemens. The Industry Solutions Division started to gather experience in fiscal 2010, accessing the results of its lifecycle assessment in the process. On the basis of the insights gained, it has integrated the independent information provided by the Eco-Care-Matrix into the respective environmental product declarations for a variety of products. This gives customers a document that juxtaposes environmental and customer benefits and contains all relevant environmental information. 79 Additional information 67 Occupational health and safety management Occupational health and safety management are key compoOCCUPATIONAL SAFETY FIGURES nents of our corporate culture and of prime importance in a Accidents worldwide (LTIFR) 1 strategy oriented to sustainability. Outstanding performance When recording lost-time injuries (LTI) with lost workdays, in health management and occupational safety thus enjoy a we incorporate national definitions. high priority at Siemens. Our proactive commitment here strengthens the competitiveness of our customers and forms In order to reduce the number of accidents, we have introthe foundation of our future success. duced sector-specific actions and programs, particularly on construction sites and in projects. Our approach to occupational health and safety management is international in scope, proactive and oriented toward longDuring the period under review, Siemens succeeded in further term development. In addition to a set of guidelines that conreducing the LTIFR of its employees to 0.42; for fiscal 2010 the centrate on occupational health and safety (OHS) and health LTIFR was 0.51 and for fiscal 2009 it was 0.63. management, we also include OHS topics in our Business Conduct Guidelines, our internal monitoring systems and our risk Our contractors also reduced their LTIFR to 0.32 from 0.41 in management and internal control systems. fiscal 2010 and 0.39 in fiscal 2009. LTIFR 1 employees and contractors OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 As a globally operating, integrated technology company with Employees 0.42 0.51 0.63 core activities in the fields of industry, infrastructure, energy Contractors 2 0.32 0.41 0.39 and healthcare, our employees and contractors are subject to a variety of risks. We counter these hazards both through cen1 Lost-time injury frequency rate: number of lost-time injuries (LTI) x 100,000/work trally formulated, globally applicable guidelines and specialhours performed; LTI are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work. ­Reporting from the previous years – broken down according to overall figures and ized standards, and through programs that allow for local adfigures for each Company unit – was dispensed with. In the future, our reporting will be aggregated according to employees and contractors. aptation. We also ensure that occupational safety is upheld at 2 Contractors who bill by time. contractor companies through the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. Fatal accidents involving employees and contractors Within the framework of our Zero Harm Culture program, we Regrettably, the number of fatal accidents increased slightly seek to anchor occupational health and safety as an integrated during the period under review, particularly among employees part of all our business and improvement processes. This is of contractual partners in India. We are continually developing designed to ensure that reactive behavior is replaced by a culprograms and measures to improve occupational safety there; ture of mutual awareness, and that hazards are eliminated as for example, we have held special events and safety days for far as possible. During the period under review, we conducted our contractors in India as well as conducting qualification pilot projects in facilities and on construction sites in Germany, measures and training. Portugal and Brazil, and we are planning to introduce the program at the global level during the current fiscal year. In addition, we will be integrating the topics of occupational safety and health management more rigorously in our project We investigate every accident, but particularly serious accibusiness, and have developed a global standard for this purdents, to determine their causes and take steps to prevent their pose. We also intend to increase our requirements as regards reoccurrence. When analyzing the causes of fatal accidents, occupational safety and adherence to guidelines when we sewe also call on the services of independent teams of experts. lect and train our contractors. The causes of accidents are communicated within the affected unit and, where appropriate, beyond it. This allows us to take precautions where similar machines, facilities or procedures are involved. Technical measures are amended as necessary through qualification measures. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 68 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship We have discontinued the practice of presenting specific figOur health management personnel work closely with other ures for commuting accidents as in last year’s report. In cases departments such as human resources or building managein which commuting accidents are regarded as work accidents ment to ensure the sustainable integration of good health in according to national definitions, we have included them as the Company. One example of this is the new “Siemens Office” work-related accidents in the figures for 2011. workplace concept, which we envision as an innovative, open office environment. It is characterized by different functional Fatal accidents involving employees and contractors elements for work, freely selectable workstations, options for FY 2011 FY 2010 1 FY 2009 1 mobile working and initiatives to enhance work-life integraEmployees 3 4 4 tion, all with the goal of supporting employees’ individual Contractors 12 8 3 strengths and their ability to perform. 1 Previous years adjusted for comparability. In order to integrate the Siemens approach to health into our new office concept, we have developed a concept that incorporates health-related requirements and includes need-based Occupational illness health initiatives. The spectrum ranges from measures for supThe total number of recorded cases of occupational illness porting healthy living and well-being at the workplace (e.g. relative to the number of employees has remained at a low ergonomic aids) to exercising or relaxation measures (such as level for many years. The corresponding indicator (occupationrooms for rest or relaxation) to an inspirational room design al illness frequency rate, OIFR) relative to 1,000,000 work hours and programs that promote team culture (such as team performed was 0.34 in the year under review (FY 2010: 0.39, events). Internal specialists guide the individual projects and FY 2009: 0.37). Here we report only the figures for Siemens AG support the implementation of each process. (calculated on the basis of recognized cases of occupational illness). Figures for other countries are based on the number Beyond this, we have also set ourselves the goal of harmonizof reported cases and are not comparable to the criteria used ing health management structures around the world. To this for Siemens AG. end, in a first step we have determined which health-related www.siemens.com/sr/safety services, resources, measures, processes and external service providers are already available at Siemens. In a second step we are currently evaluating this data to be followed by the develHEALTH MANAGEMENT opment of further projects. The world of work in the 21st century is subject to constant www.siemens.com/sr/health-management change – economic, political and social. Social changes are particularly visible in the form of demographic developments, changing work conditions and a continually shifting panorama of illnesses. Yet employees are a company ’s most valuable potential, and they must be supported and protected. In its business activities, Siemens offers answers to the social challenges of our time and invests actively in the health and well-being of its employees – and thus in the future and innovative power of the whole Company. The health measures available to our employees are composed of legally required activities for occupational health and safety as well as voluntary programs and measures for promoting and strengthening health and wellbeing, and cover the following areas: healthy work environment, psychosocial well-being, physical activity, healthy nutrition and medical care. 79 Additional information 69 Employees Siemens employees Qualified, creative and highly motivated employees have alFY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 ways been one of our biggest assets, and we consistently enSiemens 402,000 405,100 404,800 courage and train our employees so that they can fully realize Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East their diverse potential in the long term. One Siemens, our tar(as a percentage of employees) 58 59 60 get system for sustainably enhancing the Company ’s value, Americas provides the framework for these efforts. (as a percentage of employees) 22 23 23 Asia, Australia The creative potential and the commitment of its some (as a percentage of employees) 19 18 17 402,000 employees 1 are a particular strength of Siemens – one that we are keen to retain and make use of for the Company as 1 Commonwealth of Independent States long as possible. Employees in management positions FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Diversity in practice Siemens 49,900 50,800 49,100 Worldwide presence is one of our trademarks and our great Proportion of women advantage. The vast and diverse range of our employees’ capa(as a percentage of employees bilities, experience and qualifications gives us substantial in management positions) 14.6 13.7 13.6 competitive advantages in our global More information on markets. Women and men of different diversity, our commit1 “Employees in management positions” includes all managers with disciplinary ment to employee rights, responsibility, plus project managers. backgrounds and origins reflect our broad and details of our workcustomer base, enrich our fund of ideas, ing arrangements at: www.siemens.com/sr/ Proportion of women (as a percentage of employees) and reinforce our innovative drive. Knowdiversity FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 ing this, we specifically encourage diversity within the Company with our Diversity Initiative. We deSiemens 25 25 25 velop measures aimed at fostering and preserving diversity at Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 22 23 23 all hierarchical levels within the Company. Examples include Americas 26 26 26 the global networks set up to identify diversity topics across Asia, Australia 32 33 34 the Company, such as the network of approximately 160 Siemens Diversity Ambassadors, and GLOW, the Global Leader1 Commonwealth of Independent States ship Organization of Women. Above and beyond this, Siemens employees have themselves established a large number of ­local networks that function across different departments, thus contributing toward the Company ’s success. These networks target diverse issues such as enhancing environmental protection at local level, facilitating a cross-generational ­dialog, and encouraging diversity at all levels of the corporation. Members of these networks are available to employees worldwide, whether to lend a listening ear, provide mentoring or offer suggestions. 1 All the figures quoted in this section refer to continuing and discontinued operations. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 70 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship It goes without saying that disabled Further information We identify talented people and offer them challenging work. ­people are fully integrated at Siemens. about our training proThe uniform criteria we apply worldwide serve as a way of coorgrams for the disabled We train the disabled and promote their can be found at: dinating employees’ skills and potential with the requirements long-term employment in all areas of the www.siemens.com/sr/ of their new positions. Launched in 2005, You can find out employees-withCompany. disabilities the Siemens Leadership Excellence trainmore about work-life compatibility at: ing program and the associated Siemens www.siemens.com/sr/ Leadership Framework contain clear criwork-life-integration Training and lifelong learning teria for evaluating leadership qualities. In fiscal 2011, we invested €251 million, or More detailed infor­ They not only help managers develop the skills they require in €608 per employee, in our employees’ mation on continuing a targeted and personalized manner, but are also useful tools education at Siemens: training and continuing education, thus www.siemens.com/sr/ for ensuring that they all understand and work toward comgiving our people at all levels the chance employees mon goals. Today, highly qualified skilled workers and managto fully develop their potential. It begins ers actively choose companies that can offer them more than with our young new employees, whom we prepare for their just an interesting job. tasks in the global competitive arena with training programs worldwide. In Germany, we’re one of the largest private providTo ensure that we continue to be an attractive employer, ers of vocational training programs and professional training we give high priority to providing an HR policy that responds within the country ’s work-study system. flexibly to the changing career phases of employees and their diverse needs as well as to different generations of workers. Continuing education programs of a demanding nature enable our employees to enhance their skills. Our Global Learning Portal alone offers employees over 1,000 programs for businessSecond Global Employee Survey oriented learning. Around the world, our Further information on In fiscal 2011, 289,000 Siemens employees took part in our secemployees can avail themselves of the part-time study programs ond Global Employee Survey, which covered the topics of comcan be found here: Siemens Core Learning Programs to acwww.siemens.com/sr/ pliance, transparency and engagement and was conducted in quire the typical key qualifications they trainings 39 different languages worldwide. The results were even better need to excel in their respective spheres than in the previous year, again demonstrating the strong of competence. The programs are geared specifically toward commitment of our employees to Siemens’ values and stratethe challenges the employees have to tackle in the course of gy. But the survey also identified potential areas for further day-to-day business. In fiscal 2011, we supplemented our trainimprovement, which we will systematically work through being programs for project management and software developtween now and the next Employee Survey. ment with new programs targeting (next-generation) managers, HR employees as well as procurement and sales staff. We are enhancing our already strong feedback culture so as to steadily improve our work procedures and results, enhance We give qualified skilled workers and managers the possibility employee motivation, and further strengthen identification of completing academic degrees – such as a Bachelor in Engiwith our Company. neering in Electrotechnical Systems, a Master of Business Administration or a Master of Science – while they work. These courses are based on a combination of seminars and e-learning programs especially tailored for working professionals. 79 Additional information 71 The Siemens workforce in figures Employee fluctuation rate (in %) 1 Employee development FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 New hires increased again in the year under review, rising by Employee decision 5.2 5.1 6.1 22%, compared with 18% in 2010. Whereas departures were 27% Other reasons for departure 7.7 7.8 11.3 lower in fiscal 2010 compared with the previous year, the figure Total 12.9 12.9 17.4 for 2011 was virtually unchanged. The percentage of all terminations at the Company ’s initiative was 16% for the year, com1 Employee fluctuation rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary pared to 20% the year before. All other variations result from departures to the total number of Siemens employees for a fiscal year. changes in the scope of consolidation and other changes. Siemens employee hires Change in age structure FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Comparing employees by age group with the year before, the Siemens 74,400 60,800 51,700 distribution remained almost unchanged. As in the previous Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 32,650 23,300 19,500 fiscal years, the median age in 2011 was again 40. Americas 16,350 14,800 16,900 Age structure 2011 (as a percentage of employees) Asia, Australia 25,400 22,700 15,300 < 35 35 – 44 45 – 54 > 54 1 Commonwealth of Independent States Siemens 36 27 25 12 Europe, C.I.S.1, Women hired (as a percentage of new hires) Africa, Middle East 29 29 29 13 Americas 29 26 28 17 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Asia, Australia 64 25 9 2 Siemens 28 33 34 Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 24 28 28 1 Commonwealth of Independent States Americas 26 26 26 Asia, Australia 34 43 51 Working hours and working arrangements 1 Commonwealth of Independent States Average official weekly working hours 1 Siemens employee departures FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Siemens 39.1 39.2 39.1 Departures 52,600 51,400 70,500 Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 37.6 37.7 37.7 Americas 41.0 41.2 41.1 Asia, Australia 41.5 41.5 41.4 Retiring within the next five years (as a percentage of employees) 1 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 1 Contractually agreed weekly working hours at the end of the fiscal year. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States Retiring 12 11 11 Use of working hour programs at Siemens 1 Based on the Siemens worldwide average retirement age of 60. FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Part-time 16,100 24,200 24,600 Employees on leaves of absence 7,400 6,600 6,500 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 72 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship Continuing education Expenditure on continuing education (in millions of €) 1 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Expenditure on continuing education 251 225 228 1 Travel expenses not included. Expenditure per employee on continuing education (in €) 1, 2 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Expenditure per employee on continuing education 608 560 562 1 Figures are a mathematical average. 2 Without travel expenses. Trend in time spent on continuing education by employee category Compared with the previous fiscal year, the average number of hours spent on training by participants in the Siemens Leadership Excellence programs – including top management – ­remained unchanged in fiscal 2011. Training measures at corporate management level are decided and implemented as needed in close cooperation with the CEO and the Managing Board. www.siemens.com/sr/employees Average number of training hours per employee category 1, 2 FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Corporate management (approx. 0/year) 25 25 Top management New appointees (27/year) 56 56 54 Alumni (50/year) 25 25 25 New general management appointees (approx. 213/year) 94 94 109 New higher management appointees (approx. 357/year) 64 64 109 New management employees (approx. 404/year) 66 66 95 1 Based on Siemens Leadership Excellence program participants. 2 Only new hires were reported in fiscal 2009. New appointees also includes new hires. As the training measures on offer have been even more closely geared to the participants’ needs as determined by Siemens’ business, the average number of training hours has decreased in some areas. 79 Additional information 73 Suppliers Our suppliers play a key role in our value chain. A competitive, Sustainability Self Assessments globally balanced and localized network of suppliers is thereNumber FY 2011 1 FY 2010 FY 2009 fore vital to Siemens’ success. We aim to leverage this network Europe, C.I.S.2, Africa, Middle East 752 109 95 to best effect and continuously optimize it. To achieve this, we Americas 568 67 57 are committed to systematic Supplier Management that not Asia, Australia 1,557 777 110 only takes account of criteria like quality, costs and availability, Total 2,877 953 262 but also innovativeness and sustainability. Results FY 2011 To act in accordance with clear principles Find out more about “Green” category (no deviations) 1,692 of sustainability and integrity: That is the Code of Conduct “Yellow” category (minor deviations) 3 605 for Siemens Suppliers. what we expect not only of ourselves but It is based on the ten “Red” category (suspicion of serious deviations) 3 580 also of our suppliers. Our basic requireprinciples of the UN Global Compact and Total 2,877 ments – such as respect for the basic reflects the content of our Siemens Business rights of employees and environmental Conduct Guidelines: 1 Questionnaires initiated in the year under review and completed by the end of Q1 2012. protection – are defined in the Code of www.siemens.com/sr/ 2 Commonwealth of Independent States Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. Under code-of-conduct 3 Clarification of the situation by the responsible buyer, agreement on corrective measures within a defined period of time or conducting of an external Sustainability www.siemens.com/sr/ Audit. ­relevant clauses in our procurement conbcg tracts and our Conditions of Purchase, all Siemens suppliers must undertake to meet these requireIf deviations from our requirements are More information about ments and also promote compliance with them in their own identified, they must be remedied by the and examples of our system of detection modules supply chain. suppliers in question within a reasonable can be found at: period of time. If this is not done, we exwww.siemens.com/sr/ supplier-assessments We have also integrated sustainability Find out more about our clude the suppliers from any business ­requirements in all relevant Supplier Mansupplier management: with Siemens. In all we do, we are guided by the principles of agement processes, such as Supplier www.siemens.com/sr/ suppliers developing suppliers in close partnership and building up their ­Selection, Supplier Qualification and Supcompetencies for the long-term. plier Evaluation, as well as Supplier Development, and established appropriate internal control and monitoring mechaIn fiscal 2011, we again increased the number of Sustainability nisms throughout the Company. Self Assessments and external Sustainability Audits. Number of Supplier Quality Audits Identifying risks and deviations and with Sustainability Module by Region implementing measures for improvement FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Because our supplier network is very large and ramified, it is Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 96 62 98 not possible for us to inspect all suppliers to the same extent Americas 10 48 35 by auditing them on site. We have therefore established a sysAsia, Australia 188 236 210 tem of appropriate processes to enable us to identify potential Total 294 346 343 risks in our supply chain systematically. It consists of Sustainability Self Assessments, a Risk Evaluation conducted by the 1 Commonwealth of Independent States buyer, a Sustainability Module as part of Supplier Quality Audits, and Sustainability Audits by external auditors. If greater sustainability risks are identified, we specifically audit the suppliers in question on site. We pay special attention to inspecting suppliers in emerging countries where we increasingly purchase products as part of our Global Value Sourcing program. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 74 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship External Sustainability Audits We have also made sustainability requirements and fulfilling Number FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 2 them an integral part of the Siemens-wide training programs Europe, C.I.S.1, Africa, Middle East 24 20 – for buyers. Moreover, all employees with purchasing respon­ Americas 29 31 – sibility are obliged to take part in web-based training on the Asia, Australia 231 152 – topic of “Sustainability in the Supply Chain.” Total 284 203 – Agreed Improvements measures 3 FY 2011 REGIONAL RESPONSIBILITY AS A CUSTOMER Supply chain 295 As part of our Global Value Sourcing proMore information about Health and safety of employees 2,277 gram, we aim to increase the share of our this topic can be found at: Environmental protection 377 sourcing from emerging countries. In parwww.siemens.com/sr/ global-value-sourcing Legal compliance/prohibition of corruption and bribery 443 ticular in working with suppliers in these Respect for the basic human rights of employees 1,466 countries, our policy is to systematically develop and expand Prohibition of child labor 105 their competence in order to generate sustainable value added Total 4,963 for all the parties involved. 1 Commonwealth of Independent States 2 Planning and pilot phase 3 Improvements measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations Resource efficiency and from the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers or to structural improvements in management systems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the climate protection in the supPly chain supplier. Energy efficiency is one of the most effecMore information about tive ways we can help protect the climate. our Energy Efficiency ­Program for Suppliers The number of agreed improvement measures per supplier in This is where our Energy Efficiency Pro(EEP4S) can be found on response to external Sustainability Audits has risen sharply. gram for Suppliers (EEP4S) comes in. It the Internet at: www.siemens.com/sr/ This is mainly due to the fact that the audit protocol has been shows how suppliers can reduce greenEEP4S revised. As a result, we can describe and track improvement house gas emissions in their own producmeasures in greater detail. This also gives suppliers a better tion operations by using energy responsibly and making sparunderstanding of how identified deviations from the requireing use of natural resources. More information about carbon ments of the Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers can be dioxide management along the value chain can be found on remedied. Improvement measures are agreed with suppliers page 44. for all identified deviations and their implementation is checked by us. The deviations mainly relate to structural defiWe reported for the first time in the year under review on our ciencies in management systems and the lack of specific progreenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) caused by purchased cesses and guidelines at the supplier. In addition, serious deproducts and services as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project. viations were identified at 13 suppliers, but were corrected by www.siemens.com/sr/suppliers the set deadline. www.siemens.com/scm KNOW-HOW TRANSFER AND BUILDING COMPETENCE Our suppliers’ commitment to comply We provide free webwith our sustainability principles is most based training on the topic of sustainability effective when it is based on their own for all suppliers. convictions. We are therefore increasingly This can be found at: www.siemens.com/sr/ committed to building their competence web-based-training and intensifying knowledge transfers related to sustainability. To this end, we held additional working meetings on the topic of sustainability with selected suppliers in China, Malaysia, South Africa and Russia in fiscal 2011. 79 Additional information 75 Corporate citizenship Siemens does business in over 190 countries around the world. The Siemens values of being responsible, excellent and innoEver since our Company was founded, we have been conscious vative also apply to our social engagement. They lay the founof our responsibility in the various societies in which we operdation for our high quality standards when choosing the projate – as an employer, customer and taxpayer. As such, the ects we support, carrying them through and measuring their topic of corporate citizenship is an integral part of our overall effectiveness. A major factor that contributes to meeting these understanding of sustainability and therefore firmly anchored standards is the close cooperation of our Siemens Citizenship in the Siemens Group’s philosophy. employees around the world, who use platforms to exchange knowledge and experience and jointly develop methods and processes. One example is the method we use to select corpoOur corporate citizenship activities rate citizenship projects, which was tested and optimized in Our activities are geared towards the long term and aim to efIndia and Russia in fiscal 2011 and will be implemented on a fectively and sustainably improve living conditions by helping global scale with the introduction of our corporate citizenship people help themselves. To do so, we rely heavily on the experstrategy in fiscal 2012. tise we have accumulated through our You can find out business. With our product portfolio, we more about corporate Particularly motivated employees and teams are awarded with ­citizenship topics on provide answers to the major challenges the Internet at: a prize. In October 2011, at our annual conference of the top of our time: demographic change, urbanwww.siemens.com/sr/ 500 Siemens managers, the Managing Board honored the corporate-citizenship ization, globalization and climate change. ­Chinese I-Green Education Program with More examples can be Our corporate citizenship activities, which we carry out on the a special Corporate Citizenship Award, for found on the Internet at: basis of established operational rules, therefore focus on the example. The program’s aim is to playwww.siemens.com/sr/ corporate-citizenshiptopics of environmental protection, education and science, sofully teach the children of migrant workreferences cial and humanitarian assistance as well as the arts and culers about science and environmental isture. We are convinced that these are the areas in which our sues. It comprises a “green curriculum,” hourly lessons held by specific know-how, our resources and our local presence Siemens employees and product donations such as energyaround the world can bring the biggest benefit for society – efficient lamps. More than 10,000 children at ten different and therefore also for Siemens. schools have already benefited from this initiative. Mastering major challenges requires profound local knowledge An example from the field of environmenFurther information as and long-term commitment. The responsibility for choosing tal protection comes in the form of the well as a film about “Luz cerca de todos” can be and carrying out charitable activities therefore lies with the loMexican charity project “Luz cerca de found on the Internet at: cal management. This ensures that we give support where it is ­ todos” (lights close to everyone). The www.siemens.com/sr/ lights-close-to-everyone needed most. The help we provide can take a variety of forms, ­project’s aim is to provide towns that are ranging from product or in-kind donations, for example of ulnot connected to the public power grid with renewable energy. trasound systems or water filters, to cash donations and volunSiemens helped the project with the installation of 182 solar tary personal involvement of our employees (Volunteering). power systems for private houses and ten systems for public buildings in nine communities. The company ­ donated In addition, we provide immediate aid in the wake of natural €230,000 for material and supervised the installation. The disasters. During fiscal 2011, for example, Siemens and its em­solar panels generate enough electricity to operate lamps, a ployees donated around €5 million after the devastating earthradio or a television for several hours. quake and tsunami in Japan. Employee donations added up to €2 million, with Siemens matching this amount and additionAnother example of our commitment, this time to education, ally donating about €1 million in kind. The majority of cash is the cooperation between Siemens and the Central Piedmont donations went to members of the International Federation of Community College in Charlotte, U.S. (see page 24). Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 76 52 Reporting method 66 Product responsibility 54 Innovation 68 Occupational health and safety management 56 Customers and portfolio 70 Employees 58 Compliance 74 Suppliers 60 Environmental protection 76 Corporate citizenship Facts & Figures SIemens Stiftung Established in 2008 with a capital of about €400 million, Donations Siemens Stiftung complements Siemens’ corporate citizenship FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 activities and cooperates with the other five corporate foundaTotal (in millions of €) 33.3 36.0 30.6 tions in Argentina, Brazil, Columbia, the More information on the Share of net profit (in %) 0.5 0.9 1.2 United States and France. Its goal is to goals and projects of Siemens Stiftung and empower people to actively contribute other corporate foundatowards social development. In fiscal tions is available at: www.siemens-­ 2011, the foundation was involved with a stiftung.org Donations by category and fiscal year (in millions of €) project budget of about €12 million both FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 in national and international projects dedicated to enhancing Education and science 18.7 19.9 1 17.3 1 basic services and social entrepreneurship, promoting educaHumanitarian and social issues 9.5 11.3 6.0 tion and strengthening the arts and culture. It focuses on hoArts and culture 4.7 4.5 7.3 listic, non-business-related, transferable projects and models Environmental protection 2 0.4 0.3 – in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and Europe, with a parTotal 33.3 36.0 30.6 ticular emphasis on Germany. 1 Donations for education and science in fiscal 2009 and 2010 in Germany (Siemens AG) include a special effect from the contribution of €5 million (2009) and €7.5 million (2010) by Siemens AG to the ESMT-Stiftung, European School of Management and Technology GmbH. 2 The category of “environmental protection” was introduced at the beginning of fiscal 2010. Donations by region and fiscal year (in millions of €) FY 2011 FY 2010 FY 2009 Germany 15.2 22.6 1 16.8 1 Europe (except Germany), C.I.S.2, Africa, Middle East 4.4 4.5 5.4 Americas 10.0 6.0 5.8 Asia, Australia 3.7 2.9 2.6 Total 33.3 36.0 30.6 1 Donations for education and science in fiscal 2009 and 2010 in Germany (Siemens AG) include a special effect from the contribution of €5 million (2009) and €7.5 million (2010) by Siemens AG to the ESMT-Stiftung, European School of Management and Technology GmbH. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States Our achievements to date as well as the high expectations of our employees and other stakeholders are both an acknowledgement and an incentive to keep improving our programs and practices in the coming years. By this means, we aim to fulfill our responsibility as a company and make an effective contribution towards achieving the millennium development goals and implementing the ten Global Compact principles of the United Nations.  www.siemens.com/sr/corporate-citizenship 79 Additional information 77 Efficient sustainability management is a Companywide task that requires a clear organizational structure and a thorough anchoring of sustainability in our corporate culture. A detailed description of the management approaches, further facts and figures, goals and references can be found on our ­Sustainability website at: www.siemens.com/sr/sustainability-core-topics 78 Additional information 80 Independent Assurance Report 82 UN Global Compact 84 UN CEO Water Mandate 85 Global Reporting Initiative 86 Notes and forward-looking statements 88 Information resources Independent Assurance Report The audit performed by PwC relates exclusively to the German We also have been engaged to make recommendations for the print version of the Sustainability Report. The following text is further development of sustainability management and susa translation of the original German Independent Assurance tainability reporting based on the results of our assurance enReport. gagement. To Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This stanWe have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagedard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and ment on the Sustainability Report of Siemens AG, Berlin and plan and perform the assurance engagement under considerMunich, for the fiscal year 2011 (the “Sustainability Report”). ation of materiality to express our conclusion with limited ­assurance. Management’s Responsibility In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering The Managing Board of Siemens AG is responsible for the prepprocedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance aration of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the criengagement (for example, an audit of financial statements in teria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 accordance with § (Article) 317 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: (pp. 7-17) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): “German Commercial Code”)), and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. >> Materiality, >> Stakeholder Inclusiveness, The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judge>> Sustainability Context, ment. Within the scope of our work we performed amongst >> Completeness, others the following procedures: >> Balance, >> Clarity, >> Inquiries of personnel in the central function Corporate Sus>> Accuracy, tainability responsible for the preparation of the Sustainabil>> Timeliness, ity Report regarding the process to prepare the Sustainability >> Comparability and Report and the underlying internal control system; >> Reliability. >> Inquiries of personnel in the corporate functions that are responsible for the topics Corporate Sustainability, InnovaThis responsibility includes the selection and application of tion, Customers and portfolio, Compliance, Environmental ­appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainability Report and protection, Product responsibility, Occupational health and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainsafety, Employees, Suppliers and Corporate citizenship; ability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. >> Inspection and sample testing of the systems and process Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, impledocumentation for collection, analysis, plausibility checks menting and maintaining systems and processes relevant for and aggregation of sustainability data; the preparation of the Sustainability Report. >> Site visits as part of the inspection of processes for collecting, analyzing and aggregating the selected data: –– in the corporate headquarters, Practitioner’s Responsibility –– in all three Sectors by visiting the Divisions Drive TechOur responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work nologies, Power Transmission, Mobility and Logistics as performed as to whether any matters have come to our attenwell as Clinical Products, tion that cause us to believe that the Sustainability Report for –– at the Drive Technologies site in Congleton (U.K.), the financial year 2011 has not been prepared, in all material –– at the Power Transmission site in Bogotá (Columbia), respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of –– at the Clinical Products site in Shanghai (China), the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 of the GRI. –– at the Mobility and Logistics sites Krefeld (Germany) and Sacramento (U.S.), –– as well as in the Regional Companies Columbia (Bogotá) and India (Mumbai); 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 79 Additional information 80 80 Independent Assurance Report 82 UN Global Compact 84 UN CEO Water Mandate >> Inspection of internal documents, contracts and invoices / ​ reports of external service providers; >> Analytical procedures on selected sustainability data; >> Comparison of selected data with corresponding data in the Siemens Annual Report 2011; >> Inspection of documents regarding the description and approval of the sustainability strategy as well as understanding the sustainability management structure, the stakeholder dialogue and development process of Siemens AG’s sustainability program. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report of Siemens AG for the financial year 2011 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7 17) of the GRI. Munich, April 16, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Andreas Menke Michael Werner Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) 81 85 Global Reporting Initiative 86 Notes and forward-looking statements 88 Information resources UN Global Compact Siemens has been a participant in the UN Global Compact since 2003 and is expressly committed to upholding the Compact’s ten principles. This Sustainability Report, and in particular the following report index, describes the progress we have made during the year – broken down according to the systems and measures we have implemented and our achievements. Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 1 With the Siemens Business Conduct We operate a modular, risk-based sysIn fiscal 2011, we conducted 294 supplier Support of Guidelines, we have committed ourtem to check that all our suppliers are quality audits with a sustainability audithuman rights selves to observing human rights adhering to our Code of Conduct for ing module. In the course of 284 external and the core labor standards. With Siemens Suppliers. In the year under sustainability audits, a further 4,963 meaPrinciple 2 our Code of Conduct for Siemens review, we had external sustainability sures for improvement were identified, Exclusion of human ­Suppliers, we ensure that these audits carried out, optimized our pro­including 30% (1,466) in the area of basic rights abuses ­basic rights and principles are also cesses, and increased the number of employee rights and 2% (105) in the area Principle 3 ­observed in our supply chain. supplier self-assessments. of child labor. Assurance of free> Compliance, page 58ff. > Identifying risks and deviations > Identifying risks and deviations dom of association > Suppliers, page 74ff. and implementing measures for and implementing measures for > Fundamental rights of workers, improvement, page 74ff. ­improvement, page 74ff. Principle 4 page 70ff. Elimination of all forms of forced labor Principle 5 Abolition of child labor Principle 6 In accordance with our Business To reflect diversity across all levels In fiscal 2011, women accounted for 25% Elimination of ­Conduct Guidelines and labor in the Company, we are rolling out of our total workforce and 14.6% of our discrimination ­legis­lation in the countries in which various focused measures, including managers. Siemens is active, we tolerate no form the formation of a network of around > Employees in management of discrimination. We actively foster 160 Siemens Diversity Ambassadors ­positions, page 70 diversity within the Company through and our Global Leadership Organiza> Women employees, page 70 our Diversity Initiative. tion of Women. > Diversity in practice, page 70ff. > Diversity in practice, page 70ff. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 79 Additional information 82 80 Independent Assurance Report 82 UN Global Compact 84 UN CEO Water Mandate Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 7 Our responsibility for environmental In fiscal 2011, we introduced compreRelative to the baseline year 2006, Precautionary protection is embedded in our hensive measures for achieving our our ­efficiency improvement was 26% ­approach to Siemens EHS Principles. In addition, reduction goals in the areas of energy in ­primary energy and district heating ­environmental our in-house standard SN 36350 en(20%), water (20%) and waste (15%). and 12% in electricity. Our carbon effi­protection sures that we comply with the princiOur efforts here include stepping up ciency improved by 22%. Environmental ple of precautionary environmental our Energy Efficiency Program. performance in the area of waste improtection in all our product design > Environmental protection, proved by 14% in the same period, and processes. page 60ff. by 33% in the area of water. > Environmental protection, > Lifecycle assessments, > Environmental protection, page 60ff. page 66ff. page 60ff. > Product responsibility, page 66ff. Principle 8 Raising our employees’ awareness We are implementing numerous In fiscal 2011, we donated around Specific initiatives of environmental and climate pro­ i­nternal communications measures €18.7 million to education and science. to promote tection is an element of both our in order to heighten our employees’ > Donations by category, page 77 ­environmental ­environmental strategy and our awareness of the environment. As ­protection ­social commitment. With internal part of our Energy Efficiency Program, communications measures and our we include employees in efforts to corporate citizenship focus on envi­improve energy efficiency at indi­vi­ ronmental protection, we help create dual locations. In fiscal 2011, we also a greater sense of responsibility for honored employee commitment ecological issues inside and outside through the presentation of the the Company. ­special Cor­porate Citizenship Award > Environmental protection, by the ­Managing Board. page 60ff. > Environmental protection, > Corporate citizenship, page 76ff. page 60ff. > Corporate citizenship, page 76 Principle 9 As part of our Environmental In fiscal 2011, we added numerous The products and solutions of the Diffusion of ­Port­folio, we develop and market products to the Siemens Environ­ Siemens Environmental Portfolio ­environmentally products and solutions that enable mental Portfolio. that were installed for our customers friendly our customers to reduce their CO2 > The Environmental Portfolio from 2002 to 2011 have helped them technologies emissions, lower lifecycle costs and is a key driver of sustainable cut their CO2 emissions by around 317 protect the environment. growth, page 56 million tons a year. > The Environmental Portfolio > The Environmental Portfolio is a key driver of sustainable is a key driver of sustainable growth, page 56 growth, page 56 Principle 10 The Siemens Business Conduct As part of One Siemens, we set four As part of the first round of the Siemens Measures ­Guidelines are the heart of our medium-term compliance priorities Integrity Initiative, we are supporting 31 against corruption ­Compliance System. in fiscal 2011 aimed at advancing the projects throughout the world with total > Compliance, page 58ff. prevention of corruption and other funding of US$37.7 million. anti-competitive practices within the > Siemens Integrity Initiative, Company. Our efforts here include page 48ff. steps to maximize the effectiveness and efficiency of our compliance processes. > Priorities and targets for fiscal 2012, page 59 83 85 Global Reporting Initiative 86 Notes and forward-looking statements 88 Information resources UN CEO Water Mandate Siemens became a signatory to the United Nations CEO Water 4. Public policy Mandate in 2008. Our continuing support for the CEO Water Siemens Water Technologies celebrates the annual World Water Mandate not only means that we try not to waste water at our Day with a series of activities to raise awareness of the value own locations, but also offer our customers products and soluof water. This includes the support for the SkyJuice Foundation, tions for the economical handling of water and waste water. a charitable organization that joins with the Siemens Stiftung to supply the SkyHydrant™, a water filtration system for humanitarian projects and disaster relief. We’ve also developed 1. Business activities the Personal Water Footprint Calculator, a tool that we make For more information about the resource and water consumpavailable through social networks to raise awareness of the tion targets at Siemens locations, see the section “Facts and importance of using water sparingly. figures: Environmental protection” on page 64. 5. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 2. WATER AND SUPPLy chain MANAGEMENT We support a variety of water projects Internet article about The environmental requirements that our suppliers must fulfill through our corporate citizenship activiSiemens’ Safe Water Kiosk: are defined in our Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. For ties. For example, we’ve donated water www.siemens.com/sr/ more information about this and our supply chain managefiltration systems as emergency relief for safe-water-kiosk ment, see pages 74 75. natural disasters. Read more about our Website of the SkyJuice Corporate Citizenship references on the Foundation: www.skyjuice.com.au following internet pages: 3. Collective action www.siemens.com/sr/corporate-citizenship-references Our Siemens Water Technologies BusiFor further Informaness Unit is committed to driving the detion go to the website of Siemens Water velopment of innovative and sustainable ­Technologies: 6. Transparency water treatment technologies. As a memwww.siemens.com/sr/ You will find GRI confirmation for our Sustainability Report 2011 water ber of various international organizaon the next page and the corresponding index in full on our tions, we’re involved in a number of other programs and initiawebsite at: tives, including the World Business Council for Sustainable www.siemens.com/sr/gri Development (WBCSD) Water Project. You can find out more about our work with external stakeholder groups and organizations on pages 8 10 of this report. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 79 Additional information 84 80 Independent Assurance Report 82 UN Global Compact 84 UN CEO Water Mandate Global Reporting Initiative The detailed GRI Index is available at our Sustainability website at:  www.siemens.com/sr/gri 85 85 Global Reporting Initiative 86 Notes and forward-looking statements 88 Information resources Notes and forward-looking statements There is no standard system that applies across companies for qualifying products and solutions for environmental and climate protection, or for compiling and calculating the respective revenues and the quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions ­attributable to such products and solutions. Accordingly, revenues from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not be comparable with similar information reported by other companies. Revenues from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions are derived from various internal reporting systems that are generally different from those applicable to the financial information presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are, in particular, subject to less sophisticated internal documentation as well as preparation and review requirements, including the IT systems in use and the general internal control environment. We may change our policies for recognizing revenues from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions in the future without previous notice. This document includes supplemental financial measures that are or may be non-GAAP financial measures. New orders and order backlog; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and new orders; book-to-bill ratio; Total Sectors profit; return on equity (after tax), or ROE (after tax); return on capital employed (adjusted), or ROCE (adjusted); Free cash flow, or FCF; cash conversion rate, or CCR; adjusted EBITDA; adjusted EBIT; adjusted EBITDA margins, earnings effects from purchase price allocation, or PPA effects; net debt and adjusted industrial net debt are or may be such non-GAAP financial measures. These supplemental financial measures should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to measures of Siemens’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows as presented in accordance with IFRS in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Other companies that report or describe similarly titled financial measures may calculate them differently. Definitions of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion of the most directly comparable IFRS financial measures, information regarding the usefulness of Siemens’ supplemental financial measures, the limitations associated with these measures and reconciliations to the most comparable IFRS financial measures are available on Siemens’ Investor Relations website at www.siemens.com/nonGAAP. For additional information, see supplemental financial measures and the related discussion in Siemens’ most recent annual report on Form 20-F, which can be found on our Investor Relations website or via the EDGAR system on the website of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. This document contains statements related to our future business and financial performance and future events or developments involving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as “expects,” “looks forward to,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “will,” “project” or words of similar meaning. We may also make forward-looking statements in other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, our representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens’ management, and are, therefore, subject to certain risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond Siemens’ control, affect Siemens’ operations, performance, business strategy and results and could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Siemens to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements that may be expressed or implied by such forwardlooking statements or anticipated on the basis of historical trends. These factors include in particular, but are not limited to, the matters described in Item 3: Risk factors of our most recent annual report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, in the chapter “Risks” of our most recent annual report prepared in accordance with the German Commercial Code, and in the chapter “Report on risks and opportunities” of our most recent interim report. 43 Cross-functional topics 52 Facts and figures 79 Additional information 86 80 Independent Assurance Report 82 UN Global Compact 84 UN CEO Water Mandate Further information about risks and uncertainties affecting Siemens is included throughout our most recent annual, and interim reports as well as our most recent earnings release, which are available on the Siemens website, www.siemens.com, and throughout our most recent annual report on Form 20-F and in our other filings with the SEC, which are available on the Siemens website, www.siemens.com, and on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements of Siemens may vary materially from those described in the relevant forward-looking statement as being expected, anticipated, intended, planned, believed, sought, estimated or projected. Siemens neither intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or revise these forwardlooking statements in light of developments which differ from those anticipated. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. 87 85 Global Reporting Initiative 86 Notes and forward-looking statements 88 Information resources Information resources Address Ordering the Sustainability Report Siemens AG E-mail siemens@bek-gmbh.de Wittelsbacherplatz 2 Internet www.siemens.com/ 80333 Munich order-sustainabilityreport Germany Fax + 49 (0) 7237 1736 Content responsibility and contact for Ordering the Sustainability Report content-related questions Siemens employees Corporate Sustainability: Intranet https://c4bs.gss.siemens.com Stefan Reicherz, Ralf Pfitzner Fax + 49 (0) 911 654 4271 E-mail sustainability@siemens.com English Order no. A19100-F-V89-X-7600 German Order no. A19100-F-V89 Project coordination When placing your orders, please specify your full delivery Corporate Communications and Government Affairs: address and Org-ID. Dr. Johannes von Karczewski Legal note Further information Designations used in this report may be trademarks, the use This Sustainability Report is also available in German. of which by third parties for their own purposes could violate Both the English and German versions are available online at: the rights of their owners. www.siemens.com/sustainability-report www.siemens.com/nachhaltigkeitsbericht TEXT / Design / production Additional information on sustainability is available at the Complan Medien GmbH, Berlin – Bonn – Hamburg ­Internet links specified in this report as well as at: häfelinger + wagner design GmbH, München www.siemens.com/sustainability Publicis Munich – Branch of the PWW GmbH In addition to the Sustainability Report, Siemens publishes a comprehensive Annual Report at the end of each fiscal year © 2012 Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich and consolidated financial statements on a quarterly basis. All these financial reports are available from Investor Relations at: Ecofriendly production www.siemens.com/financialreports The Sustainability Report has been produced with particular attention to using chlorine-free bleached materials and climate-friendly production processes. In accordance with the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC), the paper used was made only from wood from controlled sources such as managed forests. The mill in which the paper was manufactured is ­certified in accordance with the ISO 9001, 14001 and 18001 standards. It uses only chlorine-free bleached (TCF) cellulose, which in some cases is even elemental chlorine-free (ECF). 88 Siemens at a glance www.siemens.com Order no. A19100-F-V89-X-7600 Siemens Aktiengesellschaft www.siemens.com/sustainability-report
