Sustainable Connectivity Around the Globe ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 www.ecitele.com This report is written in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at CORE level. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 2 Photo credit: Eitan Rabany, ECI Telecom ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 3 Contents About this report ………….……..…. 4 Greetings from our President and CEO ………………… 6 About ECI …………………………… 7 Priority Sustainability Issues ……………….. 12  Accessibility ……….…..14  Networks …………….… 26  Efficiency …………….... 34  Integrity…………….…… 41 GRI G4 Content Index ………..…….. 46 UN Global Compact Index………….. 54 Photo credit: Marshall Yam, ECI Telecom, Israel This report is illustrated with photographs taken by ECI Telecom employees worldwide in our ECI & I, Connecting Beyond Borders photo contest, 2013. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 4 About this Report This is ECI Telecom's third In developing this report, we have This report has been written in Sustainability Report covering the considered input from our accordance with the Global Reporting role we play in society as a global stakeholders, gathered throughout the year Initiative (GRI) G4 sustainability reporting business, our business activities, and in a wide range of interactions. guidelines, at core level, which we believe our impacts on people, communities represent the most advanced sustainability and the environment. The selection of content for this report was the reporting framework available today. result of a revised materiality process to The report describes our approach to determine the priority impacts of our business The Global Reporting Initiative is a not-for-profit sustainability and the actions we have and stakeholder interests and several multi-stakeholder organization which acts to taken during 2013 to advance interviews with managers around the world. increase the level of business transparency responsible and accountable The basis for data calculations is noted in the through sustainability reporting among companies practices. relevant sections of the report. throughout the world. Data in this report relates to the 2013 calendar year unless otherwise Feedback The main tool for assimilating sustainability reporting is the GRI reporting framework, which stated. Relevant information and case contains detailed guidelines for reporting on We hope this report will encourage studies from early 2014 are also sustainability impact and provides a consistent dialogue between ourselves and our included. The scope of this report is structure that thousands of companies around the stakeholders, especially our customers, all of our global business operations world can use to disclose their approach and suppliers and employees. We welcome owned by ECI Telecom. External performance related to sustainability. your feedback, queries and suggestions on operations at sub-contracted vendors any aspect of our sustainability are excluded. Over 7,000 sustainability reports were published performance impacts and performance. Please contact Eynat Rotfeld, CSR in 2013 by companies all over the world, many of We intend to report annually. them using the GRI framework. The most recent Manager by email at Eynat.Rotfeld@ecitele.com or by version of the GRI framework, G4, was launched telephone: +972-3-926-6507. in May 2013. For more information, please see: www.globalreporting.org. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 5 Photo credit: Avi Messinger, ECI Telecom, Israel ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 6 Greetings from our President and CEO I am pleased to share with you our third Sustainability Report covering the progress we have made in 2013, advancing sustainable connectivity around the globe while managing our business in a responsible manner. In 2013, we were able to focus, innovate, collaborate and expand our market presence, bringing connectivity to millions more users in many markets. Our customers in these markets are spearheading the application of our new technologies to offer enhanced possibilities of all forms of digital applications, mobile technology and multimedia solutions, based on wider and ever-more reliable optical and data transport. Through the collaborative partnerships we engage in, we remain at the forefront of such breakthroughs, including advanced one-terabit capability and new SDN (software-defined networks) platform readiness. Further, we have enhanced our security capabilities and now support cyberprotection solutions embedded at the network level to ensure early detection and elimination of cyber threats. At the same time, we have reduced our environmental impacts. Since 2008, we have halved our absolute energy consumption and achieved massive reductions in our greenhouse gas emissions, waste generation, and water consumption, and increased our recycling of waste. We have delivered new generation network products such as Apollo and NPT that are far more energy efficient in the use phase than their predecessors. We have also restructured our entire logistics operation to eliminate more than 100,000 international shipments of components per year. As part of our commitment to social development, we continue to support local communities where we operate and in 2013, for the first time, we made a global effort on Global Good Deeds Day, involving employees in four countries. I continue to be committed to improving our contribution to society by advancing sustainable connectivity, and demonstrating integrity and ethics in the way we do business. I hope you find this report interesting and useful. As always, we welcome your views. Darryl Edwards, President and CEO ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 7 About ECI Breakdown of sales by region and key customers served Founded in 1961, ECI Telecom Ltd, headquartered in Israel, is a privately-owned provider of Transport and Software Solutions for digital communications networks. We design, develop, manufacture, market and support Next Generation Packet Optical and Carrier Ethernet solutions for service providers and customers with a need for mission critical networks. We serve over 250 customers, including leading wireline/wireless service providers and utilities worldwide, through an international sales force, local agents and resellers in over 25 regional sales and service centers. ECI Telecom also maintains a network of resellers in over 70 countries. At the end of 2013, we employed over 1,700 people in 21 countries. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 8 Our Values ECI Telecom employees share five basic values: Respect for the Individual: We treat one another with respect and dignity, appreciating individual, cultural, and national differences. We seek to learn and therefore we listen to one another attentively and compassionately and communicate often and openly. We encourage individuals to express their views and use their talent to the fullest. Company policy prohibits discrimination against employees, stockholders, directors, officers, customers or suppliers on account of race, color, age, sex, religion or national origin. All persons are treated with dignity and respect. Team Spirit: Our team spirit binds us together, transcending organizational, functional, and geographic boundaries. We work hard towards a common goal and deliver beyond expectations. We cooperate, collaborate, and empower one another in recognition that a global effort translates into exceptional solutions and services. Innovation: We constantly strive to redefine the standard of excellence in everything we do. We are open to ideas that challenge the convention, seek diversity of views and drive innovation. We encourage both individuals and teams to constantly search for innovative technologies and creative business solutions and recognize their achievements. Integrity: We are committed to conduct ourselves in a manner consistent with the highest standards of integrity. We are honest, ethical, and fair in all our activities. We keep our word, deliver on our promises, and acknowledge our mistakes. Our personal and business conduct ensures that ECI is a company worthy of trust. Our Customers: We are dedicated to creating value for our worldwide customers by developing and providing technologically advanced solutions and services. We build lasting relationships with our customers by listening, understanding, and anticipating our customers’ needs. We are easy to do business with and always strive to be responsive and professional. ECI customers can trust our commitment to their success. The driving force behind these values is the ECI Telecom’s One Company One Team organizational pillar. In all activities, we conduct ourselves respectfully to promote these values and lead ECI Telecom to long-term, sustainable success and create opportunities for achievement and benefit to our stakeholders. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 9 Creating value We create value for our shareholders and our stakeholders throughout our value chain and global supply network, achieving profitable business growth and making a valuable economic contribution where we do business. We maintain a network of local subsidiaries in order to remain close to our customers and understand their needs, partnering with them to grow their offerings competitively in their global markets. We employ over 1,700 people directly, and hundreds more who are engaged in the manufacture and supply of our components through our turnkey outsourcing operations in Israel and China, and other suppliers in local markets. Ultimately, ECI Telecom's contribution is to enable sustainable connectivity for hundreds of millions of consumers around the world. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 10 Sustainability dashboard Performance 2011* 2012* 2013* Customer service satisfaction (global) 91.6% Supply chain audits of key suppliers 3 10 5 Female employees (global) 22% 23% 23% Female managers (global) 17% 20% 17% Lost time injury rate** 0.061 0.192 0.236 Lost time day rate** 0.052 0.032 0.067 Absenteeism rate 2.5% 2.5% N/A Volunteer hours (global) 8,577 9,500 6,432 E-tasc score 96% 97.20% 97.60% CO2 emissions (Scope 1 & 2) -16.6% -15.6% -39% CO2 emissions (Scope 3) -12% -43% -21% Energy consumption -13.3% -19.6% -31.3% Water consumption -2% -3.4% -2.1% Waste to landfill -39% -69% 130% Waste recycled (as % of total waste)** 31% 57% 12% Data refers to Israel operations unless otherwise stated. *Comparative data is referenced to prior year’s performance. ** Data for 2011 and 2012 has been updated to reflect changing reporting methodologies. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 11 Photo credit: mac leT ICJ ,r muK sadageJ, India ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 12 Priority sustainability issues Following a detailed analysis of our main sustainability impacts in 2012, we identified 12 priority issues in 4 areas: Accessibility, Efficiency, Networks and Integrity. These issues remain priorities also in 2013. Sustainable connectivity means making broadband internet solutions accessible to the widest population possible in the most resourceefficient manner possible. We innovate to develop new connectivity options for our customers so that they can be more competitive in their local, regional and global marketplaces. We expand accessibility and enhanced digital options to more people around the world for faster, more efficient, more aligned and more advanced communications solutions. Broadband demand around the world continues to grow. As technology advances, diverse use of services such as video streaming, connectivity across multiple devices, internet-based voice connections (VOIP), and unprecedented usage of social media and online options for communications, news, commerce, management of a range of interactions for diverse purposes, mean that infrastructure needs to become more extensive and work faster and more efficiently. Increasingly reliable and efficient broadband access is the key to sustainable connectivity. This is the heart of ECI Telecom. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 13 Photo credit: Oren Bokobza, ECI Telecom, Israel ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 14 Accessibility to the internet has the power to transform lives and conserve resources. The Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Sector is an enabler of a connectivity transformation that changes the way we work, interact, collaborate, make decisions and simply, live our lives. Every aspect of our lives are touched by technology, from the possibilities of advancing healthcare through communications technologies to the vast array of entertainment options we can now view ondemand from our smartphones, mobile notebooks, or television screens. ICT makes a contribution to education, research, healthcare, utilities infrastructure management, transportation and mobility, business development and sustainable lifestyles in general. Virtual offices and remote working are connecting teams across borders in a truly seamless digital society that demands more and faster broadband capabilities. Recently, the CEO of Google proclaimed that everyone will be online by 2020. With an internet penetration rate of less than 40% in 2014, there is some way to go to achieve this vision. We advance accessibility in three ways: Deloitte estimates that economic activity resulting Working with customers to provide optimal network solutions to help from increased connectivity them become more competitive in their own markets, with lower cost could generate $2.2 trillion in structure and enhanced offerings to end users. additional GDP, a 72% increase in the GDP growth Continuously investing in R&D to bring our customers innovative rate, and more than 140 solutions with improved broadband speeds, network integration, and million new jobs. possibilities for new user experiences. Expanding our market presence to reach new markets that enable our customers to connect wider populations to existing and new technologies. In this section, we provide examples of how we are making an impact through expansion in existing and new markets with innovation and implementation of integrated network solutions. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 15 Digital inclusion in Latin America In Mexico, ECI Telecom works with the government-owned Federal Electricity Commission MEXICO ECI Telecom has a long history in Brazil and (CFE) to enable use of the CFE 750,000 kilometer we have been present in the Brazilian market power lines network infrastructure to distribute fiber 120 million for more than 15 years. Today, more than 80 optic digital communications throughout Mexico. population (2014) percent of the telecoms equipment we supply This initiative makes the internet more accessible in Brazil is placed in street cabinets. to Mexicans in all regions and opens up the 42.6% telecoms market in Mexico that has been subject to internet users We offer a specific advantage with our monopoly control to date. A new national digital 58% electronic switchboards as they are designed inclusion strategy of November 2013 makes to retain functionality in the coldest and mobile phone penetration accessibility and connectivity a top governmental warmest temperatures, in a range of minus priority to boost economic advancement. 14.42 Mbps 20 to 70 degrees celsius. Most comparable internet speed (65th out of 191 equipment is stable up to a maximum of 50 The Mexican fiber optic network is a robust countries) degrees celsius. Given the tropical Brazilian platform of more than 22,000 kilometers that climate, this flexibility offers an advantage for supplies reliable, high capacity digital telecoms providers. communications to third parties through CFE BRAZIL Telecom, a wholly owned subsidiary of CFE. The We remain committed to supporting the fiber optic network reaches rural areas, now 203 million expansion of telecoms infrastructure and providing telecommunications access to millions of population (2014) digital access in Brazil. people for the very first time. 42.2% This project began in September 2013, includes internet users 3,000 sites, and will reach tens of millions of end 99.8% users when complete. It transforms accessibility in mobile phone penetration Mexico, creating broader, faster and more reliable access, while stimulating competition and an 10.79 Mbps expected improvement in affordability for all. internet speed (76th of 191 countries) ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 16 Connectivity capabilities in Poland ECI Telecom has a strong presence in Poland, working with several municipalities and leading operators to advance mobile and wireline technology and access. The key sectors we support are transportation and utilities infrastructures and connectivity. Today, we work in all regions of the country and establish both infrastructure and networks, and improve performance. As an EU country, Poland is motivated to align with the Digital Agenda for Europe and improve broadband capabilities throughout the country. Major efforts continue to connect mobile and internet access to the country's 11 million households, businesses and governmental organizations. The aspiration is to not only provide access but also exploit the possibilities of technology in education, healthcare, transportation and efficient utility management. POLAND One of the challenges for electrical power utilities in Poland has been to ensure adherence 38 million to regulated standards for availability of services and the frequency of short power outages population (2014) lasting less than five minutes. These performance standards are measured against two parameters: SAIDI (System Average Interruption Duration Index) and MAIFI (Momentary 64.9% Average Interruption Frequency Index). In both cases, operators in Poland must comply internet users. with regulated standards in order to receive funding and authorization to apply power consumption fees for customers. 140% mobile phone penetration In 2013, we succeeded in our collaboration with a major electric power generator in 20.17 Mbps southern Poland to support improvement in SAIDI from 95 percent to 98 percent, and internet speed (42nd of MAIFI from 300 days to 3 days in total, thereby enabling our customer to be compliant and 191 countries) serve the local population effectively. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 17 Connectivity in Myanmar In early 2014, we began a new multiThe Republic of the Union of Myanmar, million dollar project in Myanmar to (formerly Burma) is the world's 24th most provide communications networks populous country, with a population of throughout the country based on our most almost 60 million. advanced optical transport Apollo technology that offers up to 100G Civil war, military rule and international capabilities and our multiservice packet sanctions slowed development in the optical transport system XDM. country and Myanmar is currently one of the less developed countries in the world, Upgrading the communications ranking 149 out of 168 countries in the infrastructure gives Myanmar new Human Development Index. opportunities to compete in a world where land and mobile communications However, in 2008, Myanmar began a capabilities are essential for economic transition to civil rule, creating a new and social development. constitution. With this change came a steady advancement toward economic We have been working on a government project in Myanmar for several years, and social development. 10% of the Myanmar population implementing a communications With a rural population of around 70%, owns a mobile phone infrastructure that serves as the backbone and an area of 677,000 square for Myanmar's communications network. kilometers, expanding access to 1% communications and connectivity has access to the internet TechinAsia reports that the Myanmar mobile market will grow to 6 million represents a huge challenge. 7.29 Mbps internet speed in Mexico smartphones by 2017. Ensuring adequate (105th out of 191 countries) network capacity and capability is a (Ookla 2014) prerequisite to enable such growth. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 18 Connecting education in Switzerland At the end of 2013 Switch chose ECI to upgrade its network. Switch was the first Internet provider in Switzerland 25 years ago. Today Switch develops internet services for lecturers, researchers and students, connecting all universities in the country. The organization operates its own high-speed fiber-optic network connecting all Swiss universities and major national and international research institutions in Switzerland for the dependable exchange of data. Switch's new country wide DWDM network, based on the Apollo family of Optimized Multi-Layer Transport (OMLT) platforms will offer Switzerland both 10G and 100G connectivity to universities and educational institutes in 8 million the country. population (2014) 84.2% Research networks are an important tool in advancing research and internet users education. Connecting universities and academic institutions enables knowledge-sharing and simplifies collaboration between researchers at 130% different organizations. mobile phone penetration 48.94 Mbps ECI has also installed a network to provide services for the German internet speed (7th of 191 Research Network (DFN-Verein) connecting over 750 universities and countries) research institutes in Germany for with a network spanning more than 11,000km. This is one of the largest and most powerful research networks worldwide with 100G connectivity. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 19 Collaboration for 1 terabit ECI Telecom is at the forefront of groundbreaking research and innovation to lead markets to the fastest possible capabilities available: 1 terabit. In early 2014, we successfully demonstrated 1 terabit transceiver transmission in a trial performed with the German Research Network (DFN-Verein) optical network. The trial took place at Dresden Technical University. “ The DFN-Verein has been a customer of ECI Telecom for several years, and in 2012, adopted our optical multi-layer transport platform, Apollo, and a subsequent upgrade of the network in 2013 to enable 100G connectivity, connecting over 750 universities and research institutes in Germany, transforming research capabilities. By combining the expertise of both The 1 terabit trial was conducted as part of the Tera Santa Consortium program industry and academia, the Tera Santa where we are members. The Tera Santa Consortium initiative is funded by the Consortium brings the ideal blend of Israeli Chief Scientist Office, as part of its Magnet program. Established in 2011, skills and cross-functionality for a the consortium brings together industry and academic experts to develop the holistic approach to guarantee the world’s most advanced optical transceiver and develop technology that enables success of this project. ” 1 terabit transmission capabilities. As data traffic continues to increase and expand its application on many different aspects of our lives, 1 terabit demand will soon be a reality for many of our customers. New technologies required for 1 terabit transmission still need to be Shai Stein perfected and require high-end expertise across different sector players. With the Tera Santa Consortium trial in 2014, we have proven this can be done. Chairman of the Tera Santa Consortium CTO, ECI Telecom ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 20 Breakthrough collaborative innovation We believe that participation in cross industry consortia benefits both ECI Telecom and the industry as a whole. Over the years we have participated in many consortia, helping to develop many technologies and solutions that have been put to commercial use, to the ultimate benefit of telecommunications consumers. Net-HD consortium In the last year, we were involved in four Israeli Smart Grid Consortium Networking HDTV from the Open consortia: Internet  Tera Santa The ISG Consortium advances research In April 2014, the Net-HD consortium successfully and development of next-generation completed 5 years of research and development  Neptune unified Smart Grid monitor and control of technologies to allow delivery of Over The Top with communication networks for electrical high quality video on existing telecom  ISG companies. The ISG consortium focuses infrastructure. Technologies include video on the smart grid of the future, addressing adaptation, multi-layer caching and peer-to-peer.  Net-HD all issues related to communication As part of the research, the consortium dealt with networks and monitoring and control of Video On Demand and live Internet video. The energy transmission, distribution and current infrastructure is not suited to simultaneous All four consortia are supported by the generation. ISG has completed three transmission of VOD or live events to millions of Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli years of research and has been approved people, with multiple dedicated streams of data Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. for an additional two year period ending in causing internet congestion. The consortium 2016. aimed to change this and proved that it is possible to increase bandwidth 1000-fold with existing networks in a demonstration environment. Note: See page 19 in this report for more details about our involvement in Tera Santa, and page 21 for our work with the Neptune Consortium. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 21 SDN – the future of communication networks AT ECI Telecom, we have been aligning our technologies to provide full SDN ECI Telecom's SmartLight Framework our concept capabilities for our customers. SDN is now widely recognized as the future of for future networks; our SDN solutions utilize our communications networks and provides breakthrough capabilities for Apollo, NPT and core Lightsoft technology. utilization of a greater variety of network capabilities and applications in realtime. SDN refers to a network infrastructure where the network control is decoupled from the network elements. The technology provides operators with increased flexibility and performance along with simplified operations. The SDN concept gives network operators better control of their infrastructure, allowing optimization and customization, increasing service deployment velocity and thereby reducing the operational and capital costs. SDN is increasingly power-efficient. All in all, SDN benefits accessibility and connectivity in the most efficient ways possible to date. We have developed SDN applications to increase network flexibility through bandwidth on demand capabilities. Applications include network scheduling that guarantees network resources using a pre-booking system, network analytics, network programming, congestion control and power optimization that saves power use by turning off network components not in use. As part of our commitment to SDN we initiated the Neptune consortium which has been approved by the Chief Scientist of Israel and will commence work in mid-2014. The aim of the consortium, that brings together several Israeli companies and universities, is to explore generic technologies for network programing and network optimization based on evolving technologies. This will move telecom networking from the world of hardware boxes to the world of software solutions allowing for the fast introduction of new services, realtime network resource optimization and utilization, and cost reduction. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 22 Innovation Innovation is the heart of our business development and resource efficiency strategy. We maintain company-wide efforts to encourage an innovation culture. In 2013, we established an innovation committee, held an innovation event and promoted innovation learning, engaging employees and reinforcing innovation as a way of doing business. Innovation Event – iEvent Learning Organization iLearning This event was designed to encourage employee idea generation, We held a series of lectures on new trends in technology, by making innovation a central part of the workplace activity. Employees industry experts. This program was designed to encourage were encouraged to offer their ideas and the top ten ideas were selected innovation, provide inspiration and to help employees realize as the most promising out of more than a hundred and eighty ideas that the network communication world is constantly dynamic received. In a full day event for all employees, the ten finalists presented and requires new levels of thinking and development. their ideas. Three winners were chosen by the innovation committee, and two ideas are already in a patent registration process. A third idea has been incorporated into our roadmap. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 23 Customer Loyalty and Satisfaction At ECI Telecom, we are committed to providing the best-in-class solutions and services for our customers. We demonstrate our commitment to our customers by listening to their needs and investing our resources to develop the best solutions with the most advanced network technologies. In addition to our regular business meetings and reviews with our customers, and our work with them to install our networks and provide service support, we regularly ask our customers about their satisfaction with the quality of our services and solutions. Our most recent global customer survey was performed in 2012 and demonstrated an improvement in our Customer Loyalty Index (overall result in 2012: 91.6%) In 2013, we focused on improving our customer experience and developed a suite of improved solutions for optimal customer experience. Two way communication tool Tech Talk In 2013, we updated our customer communications tool to enhance the With service teams based around the world, knowledge management is customer experience. This tool, which updates our customers on critical to our ability to provide the best service to our customers. Tech progress of projects and repairs, is a two way communications tool. This Talk is our social network for our service teams worldwide with chat means our customers can input feedback, allowing us to address their capabilities allowing team members to consult international colleagues requests real-time. in real time. A high power search engine gives quick access to relevant files and reports, so that our team has a world of ECI knowledge at their fingertips and customers everywhere get the best and fastest service. Voice of the Customer New customer experience survey In 2013, we created a system to help us know how our customers In 2013, we updated our customer experience survey process and in genuinely view our service. This system is based on feedback from early 2014, we began our next survey in the new format. The survey will different sources including our periodic customer experience survey, be conducted by Ipsos, a world leader in market research, and will surveys carried out after any major service intervention, training session include online surveys of all customers and in-depth interviews with or incident at our customer network, our customer complaints system some customers. The new process should provide us with a more and other sources. By monitoring and aggregating results across complete view of total customer experience. This knowledge will help us systems, we obtain a complete picture of how we have served customers to improve our service and products for the benefit of our customers. and how we can improve. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 24 Service in the field FIFA in Costa Rica In early 2014, Costa Rica hosted the FIFA Under 17's Women's World Cup, and the event attracted record spectator levels with over 284,320 spectators attending the 32 matches. For Costa Rica, becoming the first Central American country to host a World Cup was a source of national pride. A key customer in Costa Rica is ICE Telecommunications, the largest national telecommunications company owned by the ICE Group. Naturally, ICE Telecommunications wanted to ensure the big FIFA match would be supported with top quality connectivity, in anticipation of the need to secure communications for the media and of big spectator crowds, creating unprecedented demand on the system during match times. Fast on our feet and committed to finding a solution for ICE, we developed a portable communications station that provided increased connectivity for spectators and the media. This innovative idea proved to be a great success and ICE was able to provide uninterrupted service in the stadium area at match time, proving themselves to be worthy of the honor of hosting a World Cup event. Flaminia Simonetti (L) of Italy and Silvia Merida (R) of Spain battle for the ball during the FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup 2014 semi final match between Italy and Spain at Edgardo Baltodano Briceno on March 31, 2014 in Liberia, Costa Rica. (Photo by Martin Rose FIFA/FIFA via Getty Images) via fifa.com. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 25 Photo credit: Yael Ashuach, ECI Telecom, Israel ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 26 We rely on a network of partnerships, affiliations and associations that support and complement our activities. The three core networks we rely on every day include: our employee network a company-wide partnership to achieve shared objectives; our supply network of trusted suppliers who engage with us to deliver the most advanced solutions to our customers; and The communities where we operate, who rely on us to be a good corporate citizen and contribute to the 1,730 empowerment of society while caring for our environment. ECI Telecom employees in 21 Everywhere we operate, we create a level of positive economic impact, countries in 2013 directly through the people we employ, the taxes we pay and the local business we generate. This section of our report describes our impact and performance in these areas during the last year. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 27 Our employee network Our role in society includes a responsibility to the people who make our performance possible – our employees. Supporting our employees assures our business continuity and enables us to provide outstanding customer service. We maintain a values-based, respectful, safe and empowering working environment, in which our employees enjoy equal opportunity to develop in line with our business expansion and growth. We honor the right of our employees to a responsible workplace and support them in several ways. Training and development: In 2013, we completed multiple training and professional development programs for managers at all levels. These included a program to develop the skills of first-line managers as they take on new roles and a mentoring program for middle managers with senior managers, including our CEO, who volunteered to participate in the program and received mentoring training. For senior managers, we ran a two-day workshop using the Seven Habits of Highly Effective People framework developed by Stephen Covey. Performance feedback: We encourage all employees to participate in a formal annual performance review that evaluates their contribution and identifies areas for further personal and professional development. In 2013, 87% of our employees worldwide participated in a performance review. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 28 Health and safety We uphold the right of employees to a safe working environment. We maintain policies, practices and processes that ensure compliance to applicable laws, regulations and accepted industry standards. We are certified to OHSAS 18001 and undergo regular external audits for Accident frequency rate (per 100,000 working re-certification. In 2013, 3 external audits and 8 internal audits were hours) performed. In all of these safety audits, 178 individual inspection points 0.400 were reviewed and 34 corrective actions were identified. To date, 32 corrective actions have been completed. We maintain a continued 0.300 emphasis on safety in the workplace with employee training in many different aspects of safe working and road safety. 0.200 0.378 We maintain a low injury frequency rate in general, demonstrating the 0.236 0.100 0.205 0.192 effectiveness of our approach. However, in 2013, we experienced an increase of 23 percent in injury frequency. These were mainly due to road 0.061 0.000 accidents, and we are addressing this with increased intensity in 2014. There were no fatalities in any of our operations worldwide. In 2013 we focused on employee health using a number of initiatives Lost days rate (number of lost days per aimed at raising awareness and encouraging employees to lead healthier employee) 0.160 lifestyles. These included an internet based Global Health Competition and Health Day 2013 at our main site in Israel. Attractions for Health Day 0.120 included the gym team leading sports sessions throughout the offices, our traditional stairs race, lectures and health checks. 0.080 0.134 Note to safety data: Safety data refers to ECI Telecom in Israel where 56% of 0.116 our employees are based. We do not maintain complete safety records in other 0.040 0.067 0.052 locations, but no serious safety incidents were reported from these locations in 0.032 2013. Accident frequency rate is calculated on the basis of 2,200 working hours 0.000 per annum. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 29 Our Supply Network We operate a global supply network based on long-term partnerships with key suppliers with whom we have developed trusting relationships over several years, and who work with us in some cases on a turnkey basis. Our performance relies on the commitment of our supplier partners to our service and sustainability objectives and to a shared approach based on openness, trust and collaboration. We engage our strategic suppliers in planning and decision-making as part of our total network systems approach. Responsible sourcing Supplier evaluation Conflict minerals All our supply contracts include reference to In 2013, we continued to monitor key We are committed to ensuring zero use of ECI's Code of Ethics and we encourage our suppliers for ethical conduct, labor, conflict minerals in our supply chain. We have suppliers to adopt this code in their own safety, and environmental practices. requested information from our current metal operations. suppliers concerning the origin of the metals In 2013 we monitored 17 suppliers used in the manufacture of products for ECI. We maintain a Supplier Social and conducted five supplier audits. Accountability Declaration, in line with the Two suppliers were assessed as high We follow procedures established by the Social Accountability Standard SA8000. risk due to excessive overtime hours, Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) working conditions and environmental and by the Organization for Economic Almost all suppliers have signed the targets. These issues will be resolved Cooperation and Development (OECD). Supplier Declaration and all new suppliers in 2014. now do so as a contractual condition. To date we have received feedback from around 25% of suppliers that confirm responsible sourcing of metals. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 30 Product Quality We are one of only ten Israeli companies to have received the highest available recognition, the Diamond Mark, from the Standards Institute of Israel (SII), Israel’s official standards organization, for accreditation to seven leading quality standards. We were awarded the Diamond Mark in 2012 for the first time, and again in 2013. This award is made to companies that demonstrate business excellence and quality leadership. We maintain a range of quality certifications in our own operations and require these of our suppliers in many cases. These are: ISO 9001 TL 9000 OHSAS SA 8000 Quality Management Systems Quality Management Systems Social Accountability General quality standard, for the Telecom Industry 18001 Management Systems focused on processes to meet An extension of the ISO 9001, Occupational Health and Guarantees the preservation of customer expectations and to specifically designed for the Safety Assessment Series basic human and employee rights create continuous improvement telecom sector. Provides tools for Ensures a safe and healthy throughout our operations. in services and solutions quality. managing and controlling quality working environment and and measurements for processes for manufacturing benchmarking by our customers. products which are safe for . use. ISO 14001 BS 25999 ISO 17025 ISO 27001 Environmental Management Business Continuity Laboratories Certification Information Security Systems Management Systems Sets general requirements for Management Systems Establishes requirements for Ensures continuous business the compliance of testing and Ensures quality information environmentally-friendly activities during emergency qualification laboratories. security within the company, and products and processes from incidents, protecting our customer between ECI Telecom and our manufacturing to use of the interests as well as our business customers and suppliers. products and provision of priorities, ensuring continuous services throughout our supply service availability in case of major network. disruption in day-to-day operation. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 31 Supporting communities in our network We maintain a Community Investment Policy to inspire our employees to get involved in supporting the communities where we operate. The aim of our policy is empowerment of the underprivileged population. Around the world, our employees at different locations are attentive to local needs and align their involvement accordingly. We encourage ECI Telecom employees and their families to volunteer in community activities which support our policy and are in line with their interests, availability, and capability. We enable employees to volunteer during paid working hours and recognize volunteers for the contribution they make. In 2013, employee volunteering totaled 6,432 hours in our main operating locations in Israel, with 1,042 employees taking part. In Israel, where we have the most employees, we partner with a range of not-for-profit organizations to deliver the most effective social investment programs, taking into account community needs, and executing programs using our facilities, resources, and employees. Our activities include community empowerment, education and support for youth advancement. Some examples are shown below: Mentoring students by employees Inspiring youth by providing in the Young Entrepreneurs Doing Business lessons in technological subjects at a local program which encourages young people to youth village in partnership with the Different get to know more about business entrepreneurship and develop skills in a Helping Lesson Association, which matches managers in companies with the educational practical way, including the setting up of a mini-company. schoolchildren make needs of youth, to provide inspiration and practical help. progress with our annual program of adopting a class of fourth grade children Helping to reduce food who visit our offices for weekly reading Breaking the glass sessions with ECI volunteers. We also waste and food insecurity provide assistance in mathematics, English ceiling: This program is designed to by volunteering with Israel's National and Hebrew studies to fifth and sixth grade assist young girls from disadvantaged Foodbank, Leket Israel, by harvesting tons of schoolchildren. backgrounds and support them up to high nutritious food in agricultural fields, to be school matriculation. The young girls visit ECI donated to the needy. throughout the year and meet with managers in different roles to gain practical help as well as inspiration. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 32 Global Good Deeds Day Good Deeds Day was marked for the first time by ECI, Israel in Our global sites in India, Germany and the Russia Federation 2012, with an event organized by ECI employees. On March 11, took part in Good Deeds Day with a range of activities including 2014, we took Good Deeds Day a step further and went global, volunteering as firemen for the day, cake sales, donating blood inviting all our global sites to participate. and more. Good Deeds Day is a global event involving hundreds of thousands In India, employees in the sales office collected $1,800 which of volunteers in over 50 countries. Good Deeds Day encourages us was donated to the Vandan Institute for Special Needs all to do something good which can improve the lives of others and positively change the world. Children and the MA Niketan orphanage. ECI employees visited the children at the Vandan Institute. At the MA Niketan In Israel, we raised around $7,000 in a fundraising event at our orphanage, ECI employees spent time with the children (aged 3 offices, involving all employees. This was donated to the Make-A– 15 years) and brought gifts. Wish Foundation in Israel that fulfills the wishes of children diagnosed with life threatening medical conditions. Peter Doleschal, ECI Germany, volunteering as ECI Telecom volunteers in Israel selling cakes for Staff members giving gifts to orphans at a firefighter charity on Good Deeds Day MA Niketan orphanage. ECI, India. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 33 Photo credit: Ramnath Kamat, ECI Telecom, India ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 34 Efficiency Resource efficiency is the key to sustainable connectivity. The environmental impacts of growing broadband accessibility and use can be mitigated through improved network infrastructures which carry increased traffic with greater speeds. In addition, the integration and compatibility of different network infrastructure which combine new technologies with existing networks enables avoidance of waste and resources in deploying new networks. These are aspects which we take into account in our innovation processes and product design, with the objective of creating products which are most resource efficient when they We have increased energy are in use by our customers. efficiency per employee by In addition, we also place great emphasis on the resource efficiency of our own operations that are required to manage our company, produce our network equipment and transport it 15% to our customers via our supply network. We make every effort since 2012 to minimize our own resource consumption, reduce waste and increase recycling. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 35 Increasing resource efficiency of our products We have focused on improving the energy efficiency of our products. Our Apollo and NPT products are much more efficient than the previous generation products they replaced. We estimate energy savings to range from 20 to 40%, depending upon the exact configuration of the product. We include energy efficiency considerations in the design stage of our products to maximize use-phase efficiency and minimize energy wastage. Increasingly, we have been integrating functionalities to deliver products that combine several capabilities. Some ways we have improved environmental aspects of our product design: We use an auto sleep mode facility to We reduced the number of send idle sections of the network into electronic chips included in the low or zero energy consumption while design of different products idle. Fast recovery mode enables through enhanced integration immediate availability for use when and improved utilization of chips. required. We use temperature sensors that control the speed of fans installed in We select electronic chips our products, modifying fan speed designed to offer best power according to actual energy optimization. requirements, avoiding unnecessary power use. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 36 Energy consumption Since 2008, we have more than halved our absolute energy Energy consumption (Gj) 2011-2013 consumption. This includes a significant reduction of 31% in 2013, 155,497 160,000 achieved through ongoing focus on efficient practices, equipment 124,982 replacement and closure of one office facility in Israel. We also began 120,000 a process of laboratory consolidation which will continue in 2014. 83,478 During the past three years, this translates to a 14 percent reduction 85,823 78,887 in energy consumption on a per employee basis. 80,000 50,796 In October 2013, we performed an overhaul of our cooling system, 40,000 72,019 improving insulation and replacing our air conditioning chiller unit with 46,095 35,027 an air conditioning unit that is 40% more efficient. Additionally, we 0 upgraded our compressor control system to enable separate Gasoline consumption (Scope 1) Purchased electricity (Scope 2) activation of our two cooling systems separately, allowing us to save Total energy consumption (Gj) energy at times when both systems are not required. Energy intensity (GJ/employee) 2011-2013 Notes to energy data: 120 Our energy consumption includes purchased electricity for heating, cooling and office activities and gasoline for our employee 90 transportation. We do not use non-renewable energy sources. Energy intensity data is based on Scope 1 and 2 energy consumption. 60 104 105 89 Data refers to operations in Israel only. 30 ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 37 Carbon emissions Since 2011, our Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions have reduced by 44 percent. CO2 emissions (tons of CO2e) 2011-2013 Also, we have reduced our Scope 3 emissions from business air travel by 23,777 25,000 56 percent. In 2013, we achieved a reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions of 1,951 21,330 39 percent, a direct result of becoming more energy efficient, especially in 20,000 1,081 electricity consumption. 15,000 13,127 16,997 Fuel emission reductions were achieved by reducing the number of 17,158 859 employee vehicles and by reducing distances traveled per vehicle through a 10,000 9,919 new system of fuel allocation giving employees greater accountability. We 5,000 have also introduced a carpooling system for employees that enables 4,830 3,091 2,349 employees who commute from the same area to organize carpooling using a simple search system via our corporate intranet. Scope 1 emissions Scope 2 emissions Scope 3 emissions To address Scope 3 emissions, we changed our business travel guidelines and all flights must now be pre-approved by senior management. Our main source of carbon emissions comes from the electricity we use to Emissions intensity (Scope 1 & 2): tons per power our office buildings. Fuel used in employee cars has a smaller impact employee 2011-2013 on our emissions. Since mid-2010, we have also been measuring our 18.00 16.00 business air travel emissions. 14.00 12.00 Notes to emissions data: 10.00  All charts relate to data for Israel only. 17.07 8.00  Emissions data has been revised since 2012 due to a change in reporting 14.55 6.00 12.74 methodologies.  Scope 1 emissions are now reported according to DEFRA 2013 emissions 4.00 factors. 2.00  Scope 2 emissions have been revised to reflect updated emissions factors from 0.00 the Israel Electricity Company.  Scope 3 emissions are calculated using International Civil Aviation Organization emissions factors. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 38 Waste management Waste generated at our facilities includes batteries and other organic waste that is sent to landfill and electronics, metals, cardboard, paper and plastics that is recycled. Waste (tons) 2011-2013 242 250 Since 2008 we have reduced waste levels by almost 75%. In 2013, we record an increase in waste to landfill due to construction waste resulting from the closure of one 200 76 of our facilities. All electronic equipment from this facility was transferred to our 135 150 122 remaining site, donated or recycled, but remaining waste was sent to landfill. In 2013, 16 we achieved the lowest level of recyclable waste by reducing paper use through 100 166 70 employee awareness campaigns and using lighter weight cardboard for product 50 119 packaging. We introduced longer replacement times for electronic equipment thereby 52 reducing electronic waste. Waste to landfill Waste to recycling Total waste Notes to waste data: We have included paper and cardboard recycling data retroactively since 2011, not previously reported. Small amounts of organic waste are also generated in our staff dining facilities. This is not measured. Data is for Israel only. Water consumption 18,000 Water withdrawal (m3) 2011-2013 We have reduced our water consumption by 19 percent since 2008. This includes a 16,000 reduction of 2 percent in 2013, achieved through water-saving behaviors by employees and installation of water efficient hygiene equipment in bathrooms, such as 14,000 half-flush toilets. We also recycle the water from our air conditioning units for 17,116 16,536 16,194 gardening purposes. 12,000 All of our water comes from municipal sources and is mainly used for domestic 10,000 purposes and some gardening. Data is for Israel only. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 39 Reducing transportation emissions Environmental standards In 2013, we improved our environmental impact through changes in The standards and regulations we adhere to reflect our the product repair services. precautionary approach and responsible environmental practice, and are designed to meet customer and regulatory needs, as well Our service to customers includes the collection, transportation, repair as minimize waste and inefficiency in our supply network. and return to customer for all products in need of repair or modifications. To date, repairs were performed only by our operations In addition to environmental quality standards, we comply with all in Israel. With almost 2,000 repairs each month, our total annual applicable regulations and directives. ECI Telecom suppliers are shipment weight was around 200 tons, transported entirely by air to required to adhere to these standards and directives as a ensure speed of service. minimum condition of supply. Key standards we observe are: In an effort to minimize our carbon footprint, in 2013, we trained local  REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals): REACH is a European Union regulation concerning the service providers in India, Brazil and the UK to repair our parts. These use and registration of chemicals. It applies to substances manufactured or vendors now deal with 80 percent of our repairs. imported into the EU. We are fully compliant with REACH legislation.  RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances): RoHS prohibits the This provides customers with a much faster turnaround of repaired use of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated parts and saves an estimated 1,700 tons of CO2e emissions annually. biphenyls (PBBs) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in electrical and electronic products. We comply with this directive for all our products, even those that target geographies where such regulation is not in force.  WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment): The European Union’s WEEE directive refers to the recycling properties of electrical and electronic products, and it requires manufacturers to assume the costs of collection, treatment, recycling and recovery of all waste from all their manufactured or marketed electrical and electronic equipment. We also comply with this directive for all our products, even those that target geographies where such regulation is not in force. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 40 Photo credit: ecac m cer muK sadageJr KT, ad ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 41 Our corporate Code of Ethics Our Code of Ethics defines how ECI Telecom employees comply with all laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business, with uncompromising standards of ethical behavior. All employees confirm to abide by ECI Telecom's Code of Ethics when joining the Company and receive detailed training about its content and requirements through a specially created online module which requires confirmation of understanding and agreement upon completion. Our Code of Ethics is available in seven languages for easy accessibility and comprehension of all employees: German, Chinese, Russian, French, Spanish, English, and Hebrew. It is available to all employees on the corporate internal website, and on our external website in English for all stakeholders. There are several options freely available for employees to advise the Company’s officers on any matter relating to breaches of the Corporate Code of Ethics. We make every effort to investigate all issues reported, including those reported anonymously, and encourage employees to speak out without fear of reprisal. An Ethics Council, established in 2010 to oversee our ethical performance, continues to meet regularly to ensure communications and training in ethical principles, and deal with ethical issues as they arise. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 42 Our Commitment to Human Rights In 2012, we reviewed all our different commitments to upholding human rights both in our workplace and in our wider network of business partners and suppliers, and all those with whom we interact. We formulated a new Human Rights Commitment which summarizes our approach in all matters relating to human rights and communicated this widely to our employees. Our human rights statement is available for download on our website at: http://www.ecitele.com/abouteci/CorpResp/Pages/CorporateGovernance.aspx ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 43 Governance and compliance Sustainability management As a privately-owned company, we maintain the highest standards of Our Head of Quality Management leads our overall sustainability corporate governance and our Board of Directors is actively engaged in strategy and action plans. We present comprehensive internal ensuring that strategy, risk management and operational controls are reports for our Executive Management Team twice a year. appropriately addressed in our business at all times. We observe all applicable laws and regulations wherever we operate. Our regular internal At these meetings, performance is assessed and future plans are and third party audits ensure that we maintain strictest attention to agreed. compliance with laws and regulations. In addition to our corporate team, additional teams advance Our Board of Directors is composed of two male members, all of whom are specific sustainability activities, and local teams in operating non-executive and non-independent. The Chairman of the Board is Mr. Ady locations around the world support employee education, Marom, a member of the Swarth Group. The Board of Directors maintains communication and implementation of responsible business and one Board Committee, the Remuneration Committee, composed of two sustainability strategy. members of the Board. The purpose of this committee is to govern the administration of executive compensation and associated benefits and options, and management of the option program within the company. Our Executive Management Team Our Sustainability Management Structure ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 44 Participation in the United Nations Global Compact ECI Telecom confirmed participation in the United Nations Global Compact in 2002, and from 2010, has published an annual Communication on Progress, detailing the ways in which we uphold the Global Compact Principles. Our previous Communications on Progress can be viewed on our website (www.ecitele.com/abouteci/CorpResp/Pages/Corporate-Governance.aspx) or on the UN Global Compact website (www.unglobalcompact.org ). This report is our fifth Communication on Progress, and for the third year in a row, we have gone beyond the minimum requirements of the UN Global Compact and produced a full GRI-based Sustainability Report. For more about our commitments to the UN Global Compact, see page 56. Our Platinum Award in the Maala Social Responsibility Ranking In support of our commitment to ethical practices and to ensure our conduct aligns with best practices among leading companies, we participate in the Maala Social Responsibility Ranking in Israel. Maala is a not-for-profit organization promoting corporate social responsibility in Israel. It compiles an annual ranking based on self-declared performance of companies in five areas: ethics, responsible workplace, community investment, governance and environmental protection. Large, public and private companies representing over 50% of business in Israel participate in this ranking. We have participated since 2004, and from 2008, have been rated at the highest level, Platinum. In 2013, we were awarded the highest possible new ranking, Platinum Plus. Operational Transparency E-TASC Scores 2009-2013 Since March 2008, we reported to E-TASC (Electronic Tool for Accountable 100 Supply Chains), This is a web-based electronic tracking system for 98 97.6 97.2 environment, labor, health, safety and ethics-related practices. Subscribing 96 96 customers are able to view our progress online, enabling our customers to 94 94.3 assess our performance on social and environmental issues. In 2013, for the sixth successive year, we improved our performance, achieving a score 92 of 97.6%. From 2014, at the request of our customers, we have ceased to 90.3 90 report to E-TASC, and started reporting to EcoVadis, an internationally recognized supplier evaluation and accreditation sustainable development 88 platform. We will report on EcoVadis scores in future reports. 86 ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 45 Photo credit: eccs Jdeadr muK sadageJr KT, ad ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 46 GRI G4 Content Index: General Standard Disclosures G4 General Standard Disclosure Response / Page / Link External Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO statement Page 6. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of reporting organization. ECI Telecom Ltd. G4-4 Products. Innovative network solutions and advanced professional services. See our website for Solutions, Products and Services: http://www.ecitele.com/OurOffering/Pages/Default.aspx G4-5 HQ location. Israel G4-6 Countries of operation. Headquarters in Israel, R&D centers in China, India and Israel. G4-7 Legal form. ECI Telecom Ltd is a private company, wholly-owned by ECI Holding whose shares are held by the Swarth Group, a private equity company, and Ashmore Investment Management Ltd, one of the world's leading investment managers. G4-8 Markets served. We maintain sales in over 25 countries. See all our global offices on our website: www.ecitele.com/abouteci/Profile/Pages/Offices.aspx G4-9 Scale of the organization. We serve over 250 customers, mainly wireline and wireless service providers worldwide, through an international sales force, local agents and resellers in over 25 regional sales and service centers and a network of resellers in over 70 countries. In 2013, we employed over 1,700 people in over 20 countries. As a private company, we do not disclose details of revenues or market capitalization. G4-10 Number of employees by employment contract and We report our full-time, permanent employees, worldwide, and report gender. temporary and supervised employees for our Israel office only. See tables on page 49 for total employees by gender and by region. Full-time permanent employees are by far the majority of our workforce. At any given time, we employ small numbers of individuals on temporary contracts or as supervised employees at our different locations. There are no significant variations in or employee numbers due to seasonality. G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by In 2013, 36 ECI Telecom employees in Israel were covered by collective collective bargaining agreements. bargaining agreements. This represents 4% of employees in Israel. This data is not available for employees in our global offices. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Page 9: Included in the description of our value chain. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 47 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period There were no significant changes during the reporting period, beyond regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, routine restructuring for improved efficiency. or its supply chain G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach We take a proactive approach to risk management with regard to climate or principle is addressed by the organization. change and environmental impacts and perform regular reviews of risks in our operations and supply chain. G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and We support the Carbon Disclosure Project and submit our data to the CDP social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which annually. We also adopt several ISO standards, including ISO14001, and the organization subscribes or which it endorses. other standards such as TL 9000 and OASHS 18001. G4-16 Memberships of associations. We participate in the United National Global Compact and, in Israel, we are members of the not-for-profit organization, Maala and have participated in an annual CSR ranking since 2008. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s ECI Telecom Ltd and all local subsidiary offices are included in the consolidated financial statements or equivalent organizations consolidated financial statements. These can be viewed on our documents. b. Report whether any entity included in website:http://www.ecitele.com/abouteci/Profile/Pages/Offices.aspx the organization’s consolidated financial statements or For the purpose of this report, we have focused our reporting of equivalent documents is not covered by the report. environmental data on our operations in Israel only, where almost 60% of our people are employed. Our offices in other countries are much smaller and use small amounts of electricity for office heating and cooling, and minimal amounts of vehicle fuel. Other indirect consumption (Scope 3) is not tracked in these countries at this point. For other data – Human Resources data – we include our global operations unless otherwise noted. G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Page 12: Priority Sustainability Issues. This report was informed by our Boundaries. material issues in a process which considered the principles for defining report content: materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining Page 12: Priority Sustainability Issues. report content. G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization. See table below – page 50. All Material Aspects apply across all the entities G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization. reported for our organization in all geographical locations. G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous Certain EHS data has been restated due to changing reporting reports. methodologies and updated employee data. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in There are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Scope and Aspect Boundaries. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Our stakeholders include: owners, customers, employees, suppliers, organization. governments and local communities in the locations where we operate. We maintain regular dialogue with stakeholders in order to understand their ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 48 needs and communicate with them transparently about our sustainability impacts and performance. G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders is based on our with whom to engage. primary business interactions with employees, customers and suppliers. These are the groups with whom we interact on a daily basis and have the greatest impact on our business. In addition, we interact and engage with other stakeholders, including industry organizations and governmental authorities. G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including See details in table below – page 51. We did not undertake any specific frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder external stakeholder engagement activities in the preparation of this report, group.. as our ongoing interactions provide us with regular stakeholder feedback. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised The issues that our stakeholders raised are reflected in our material Aspects. through stakeholder engagement. See our response above to G4-26 for specific issues raised (page 51). REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period. Page 4: About this report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2012 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Page 4: About this report G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 4: About this report G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has Page 4. About this report. This report has not been externally assured. chosen, the GRI Content Index and assurance. G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking This report has not been verified by an independent third party, as we did not external assurance for the report. feel this would add value at this time. However, in developing information for this report, external consultants were invited to check all information provided. They visited our offices, reviewed documentation and interviewed around 30 managers in one-on-one discussions. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including The Board of Directors of ECI Telecom is composed of two male members, committees of the highest governance body. Identify all are non-executive and non-independent. The Chairman of the Board is Mr. any committees responsible for decision-making on Ady Marom, a member of the Swarth Group. The Board of Directors economic, environmental and social impacts. maintains one Board Committee, the Remuneration Committee, composed of two members of the Board, whose purpose is to govern the administration of executive compensation and associated benefits and options. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms Page 8: Our Values of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of Page 41: Our corporate Code of Ethics ethics. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 49 Total number of employees 2011 2012 2013 G4-10 Male 2,083 1,597 1,325 Female 588 465 405 Total employees 2,671 2,062 1,730 Total number of employees by 2013 Total number of employees by type 2013 contract (Israel only) Male Female Total (Israel only) Male Female Total Permanent contract 720 238 958 Full time 703 206 909 Temporary contract 3 2 5 Part time 20 34 54 Total employees 723 240 963 Total employees 723 240 963 Total workforce by employees and supervised 2012 2013 workers and by gender Male Female Total Male Female Total Employees 1,597 465 2,062 1,325 405 1,730 Supervised workers (Israel only) 9 4 13 63 16 79 Total employees and supervised workers 1,606 469 2,075 1,388 421 1,809 2012 2013 Total number of employees % of total by region and gender Male Female Total Male Female Total employees China 189 86 275 154 72 226 13% India 292 44 336 260 38 298 17% Israel 911 275 1,186 723 240 963 56% Rest of world 205 60 265 188 55 243 14% Total employees 1,597 465 2,062 1,325 405 1,730 100% Percentage male female 77% 23% 77% 23% ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 50 G4-20 G4-21 Aspect Boundaries Material Aspect Aspect Internal External Supporting customer competitiveness Indirect Economic Impacts   Innovation for improved performance Product Responsibiilty   Expanding our market presence Market Presence   Supplier Environmental Assessment  Supplier Human Rights Assessment  Partnerships with suppliers Supplier Labor Practices Assessment  Procurement Practices  Engaging and supporting employees Occupational Health and Safety  Supporting our communities LocalCommuniities   Resource efficiency of our products Products and Services  Reduce our energy consumption Energy  Reducing waste and recycling Effluents and Waste  ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 51 G4-26 We make efforts to understand our stakeholders and be responsive to their needs. Our engagement practices are both formal and informal, and integrated into business planning on a regular basis. Through internal meetings and discussions, we analyze the feedback we receive from our stakeholders to distil the most significant issues that inform our sustainability programs. We engage with our primary stakeholders as detailed in the table below. Our Engagement with our Key Stakeholders ECI Telecom's owners are represented on our Board of Directors. Through our Executive Management Team, they are involved in Owners development of sustainable performance planning and updated on a regular basis at Board Meetings. The key issues raised by the Board of Directors are business expansion and sustainable profitable growth, expanding market presence and innovation. Our customers drive our business strategy. They are major communications service providers, and many are leaders in sustainable performance and demand similar standards from ECI Telecom. We engage daily, weekly and monthly with customers to discuss business developments, product specifications and sustainable performance. We host our customers for discussions and audits of our operations. We Customers reach out to new customers through participation in trade shows, conferences and industry meetings. We ensure that we are abreast of all regulatory requirements that our customers face and respond accordingly. The key issues raised by customers are innovation, product performance, reliability and service, and resource efficiency to positively impact on costs. Our employees are the source of our success and ability to continue to deliver sustainable solutions. We engage our employees in developing sustainable solutions through strong internal communications programs, annual performance reviews, business updates, community Employees volunteering, and informal conversations at all levels. Key issues raised by employees are job security, fair compensation and benefits, and opportunities to develop. We maintain long-term partnership relationships with key suppliers who are critical to our ability to deliver sustainable bandwidth for our customers. Our most strategic suppliers are involved in our product development and implementation teams, and share in the decision-making Suppliers process on many levels. Other suppliers are encouraged to offer suggestions for improvement and different ways of working in our monthly or quarterly discussions with them. Key issues raised by suppliers are requirements of ECI Telecom in relation to ethical performance, and assessments. We engage with government bodies in areas in which we work for the purposes of gaining the relevant authorizations for our business, and Government also in areas of research and development. Governments look to ECI Telecom to uphold the law and all local regulations and also collaborate in partnerships for sustainable development, where we possess the relevant expertise. We recognize that we have a responsibility to make a difference in the local communities in which we operate through supporting local social Local and environmental causes and enabling and encouraging our employees to volunteer. We engage with social and environmental community Communities partners as needed to advance joint programs of mutual interest. In general the expectations raised by community partners relate to the level of our investment and involvement in supporting local communities. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 52 GRI G4 Content Index: Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspects DMA Indicator detail Page / Link Omissions External as listed in G4-19 and Assurance Indicators CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Market Presence G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from Approximately70% of our most senior managers in None the local community at significant locations of our global operations are locally hired. This includes operation our operations in Israel, India, China, and the U.S. and other key locations in European and Americas. Indirect Economic G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts Several examples reported in the section entitled Impacts Accessibility, starting on page 14. Procurement G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at In India, China and Israel we make most of our Practices significant locations of operation purchases of local requirements locally. We estimate this to be more than 80% of our purchases. Our outsourced manufacturers operate under turnkey conditions and make their own purchasing decisions. Local office and administrative purchases are all locally based. CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption (Scope 1+2) Page 36 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the Page 36 organization G4-EN5 Energy intensity Page 36 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Page 36 Water G4-EN8 Water withdrawal by source Page 38 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Page 37 (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Page 37 emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Page 37 Effluents and G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Page 38 Waste method Products and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Page 35 Services impacts of products and services Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Page 29 Environmental screened using environmental criteria ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 53 Assessment CATEGORY: SOCIAL. SUB CATEGORY : LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Occupational G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Page 28. Data on Health and Safety occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism absenteeism, and total levels is not number of work-related fatalities, by region currently and by gender available. Training and G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Page 27 Education learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Page 27 performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Supplier Labor G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Page 29 Practices screened using labor practices criteria Assessment CATEGORY: SOCIAL. SUB CATEGORY : HUMAN RIGHTS Local Communities G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Page 29 screened using human rights criteria CATEGORY: SOCIAL. SUB CATEGORY : SOCIETY Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented 56%. This represents the percentage of employees local community engagement, impact in our operations in Israel where we have regular assessments, and development programs community involvement activities. Other ECI Telecom sites worldwide are small and have more sporadic community engagement activities. CATEGORY: SOCIAL. SUB CATEGORY : PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Product and G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Page 23. This year we did not perform a customer Service Labeling satisfaction satisfaction survey. Our next survey will be in 2014. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 54 UN Global Compact This Sustainability Report serves as our fifth Communication on Progress and reflects our policies, practices, and performance with regard to responsible business practices. On behalf of ECI Telecom's Directors, Executive Management Team and employees around the world, I once again am pleased to commit to continuing our support for the ten universally accepted principles of responsible business. Our ongoing participation in the United Nations Global Compact, in support of broader global sustainability objectives, is one of the ways we demonstrate our commitment to responsible business practices. We maintain our commitment to providing an annual report to update stakeholders on our progress. Darryl Edwards, President and CEO ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 55 UN Global Compact principles and GRI cross reference table Principle Global Compact Principles GRI G4 Aspects / Disclosures Our Commitment Businesses should support and respect Respecting human rights at ECI is a core value. Our business activities touch the lives  Human Rights Aspects 1 the protection of internationally of people around the globe in many ways, and we take care to conduct our business proclaimed human rights. responsibly according to the highest ethical standards, which encompass respect for all human beings, and acknowledgement of their rights. We do everything within our power to uphold such rights. Read our Commitment to Human Rights : Businesses should make sure that they  Human Rights Aspects 2 http://www.ecitele.com/abouteci/CorpResp/Pages/Corporate-Governance.aspx are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Local Communities Aspects We work with suppliers in our supply chain to ensure they are aware of our standards relating to human rights and encourage them to adopt similar standards.  G4-11 We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective Businesses should uphold the freedom of  Freedom of Association and bargaining. We aim to maintain collaborative, open and positive relationship with 3 association and the effective recognition Collective Bargaining Aspect employees and address issues relating to their rights in a positive manner. of the right to collective bargaining.  Labor/Management Relations Aspect Businesses should support the We do not engage in any practice which could be construed as forced labor. All ECI  Forced and Compulsory Labor 4 elimination of all forms of forced and employees are employed within the provisions of the law and employment contracts Aspect compulsory labor. which are entered into of employees' own free will. We respect and support the rights of all children, and we are committed to preventing Businesses should support the effective 5  Child Labor Aspect harm and actively safeguarding their interests. We do not employ children in any part abolition of child labor. of our business. We maintain a policy of equal opportunity and enjoy a high level of diversity among Businesses should support the  G4-10 our workforce around the world. Recruitment and human resources policies are 6 elimination of discrimination in respect of  Labor Practices and Decent Work designed to nurture non-discriminatory practices for new and current employees in all employment and occupation. Aspects matters relating to their employment with ECI Telecom. Businesses should support a ECI Telecom is driven to provide customers worldwide with network telecom 7 precautionary approach to environmental  Environmental Aspects infrastructure that will enable them to address current and future business challenges, challenges. and in doing so, consider environmental impacts through the use of environmentallyBusinesses should undertake initiatives friendly technology and technology-driven infrastructure. We are committed to 8 to promote greater environmental  Environmental Aspects achieving high standards of environmental quality and have established, responsibility. implemented, and maintained environmental and health & safety systems in line with Businesses should encourage the the highest global standards available. 9 development and diffusion of  Environmental Aspects environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should work against We are committed to behaving with integrity and act against all forms of corruption.  Anti-Corruption Aspect 10 corruption in all its forms, including  Public Policy Aspect extortion and bribery. ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 56 Photo credit: ms I eJ cr muK sadageJr KT, ad ECI Telecom Sustainability Report 2013 | 57 Sustainable Connectivity around the Globe Thank you for reading our Sustainability Report 2013 ECI Telecom www.ecitele.com
