Sustainability report 2013 Contents 1 Company profile 2 Letter from the CEO 3 Highlights 4 History 6 Sustainability organization and governance 7 Risk management 8 Our view on sustainability 9 Objectives and achievements 10 Stakeholder dialogs 11 Continuous improvements on environmental a ­ spects 16 Committed employees 18 Influencing several local communities 20 Sustainability performance Global leader in outdoor power products We have been going beyond the expected and creating groundbreaking engineering since our start in 1689. Who we are Vision and mission 14,000+ Over the years, our passion has led to In 2012, an internal cross-functional team innovative solutions in very different areas – revised the Husqvarna Group’s mission and from weapons and sewing machines to vision. After involving people from many motorcycles and much more. As we see it, parts of the organization, as well as Group it’s about finding new solutions and conManagement and the Board of Directors, employees in stantly setting new standards in technology a new vision and mission were launched at and usability. the beginning of 2013. 40+ Today, 325 years later, this approach is stronger than ever. Vision Husqvarna Group is now the world’s largest producer of outdoor power products We envision a world where people can including robotic lawn mowers, ride-on enjoy well maintained gardens, parks and countries. mowers, trimmers and chainsaws. The forests and experience refined buildings Group is also the European leader in waterand roads. ing products and one of the world leaders in cutting equipment and diamond tools Mission for the construction and stone industries. We provide innovative quality products Our customers are both professionals and and solutions to make garden, park and consumers in more than 100 countries. forest care as well as construction easier for We have more than 14,000 employees in professionals and consumers around the over 40 countries and are headquartered in world. Stockholm, Sweden. The Husqvarna share is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Exchange. In 2013, net sales totaled SEK 30 billion. l Major production facilities l Subsidiaries or distributors Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 1 Letter from the CEO The year started slowly and the During 2013, Husqvarna Group took sevInvestments in innovation eral steps towards becoming a sustainable We strive to develop the very best prodspring, which normally marks the company, balancing economic aspects with ucts for our customers. One example from start of the main selling period in environmental and social. 2013 is our award-winning third-generation our industry, came unusually late in We signed UN Global Compact, which robotic lawn mower, which is now even our key markets. We did, however, is an initiative for businesses to commit more efficient and reliable. Growth was to ten universally accepted principles in strong during the year and is expected make up for this during the second the areas of human rights, labor relations, to remain high. In traditional walk-behind half of the year when favorable environment and anti-corruption. We lawn mowers, we launched the world’s weather resulted in a prolonged strengthened the way we work with our first all-wheel-drive mower, which was main suppliers, by giving supporting docusuccessful in the US. We kept improving selling season. ments, arranging global supplier meetings the Gardena branded irrigation systems, and conducting audits. reducing waste of water. We worked through our own business In Construction, we introduced a range and put focus on handling health and of high-frequency products including powsafety in a structured way on a global basis. er-cutters and drills that offer higher speed This paid off and I am pleased to say that and improved torque to provide the user our lost working day accidents decreased with substantially improved productivity. during the year. During the year, Husqvarna Group received six prestigious “red dot” design awards. Three out of the six awards were in the “best of the best” distinction. We appreciate that the jury awarded our efforts to protect the environment, with our recently launched battery-powered Husqvarna range that combines no direct emissions with excellent ergonomics through a lightweight and silent design. 325 years of sustainable operations In 2014, we will celebrate our 325th anniversary. We have a long and proud history where the common denominator has always been our sustained ability to adapt to changes in demand by introducing new, innovative products. Last but not least, I am also proud to note that Husqvarna Group has been selected as one of Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations. This designation will certainly encourage us further in our efforts. Stockholm, March 2014 Kai Wärn President and CEO 2 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 Steps towards sustainable development Sustainability is high on Husqvarna Group´s agenda. It ­demonstrates ­caring and concern for the ­welfare of our ­employees and other stakeholders. It also reduces costs, ­mitigates risks, drives innovation and creates business ­opportunities for long-term strategic growth. Highlights 2013 Product innovation Focus on safety n Sales of robotic lawn mowers reached n Improvements made to internal health – Xiamen, China; 1.5 years without a lost a ­ nother all-time high. Husqvarna and safety program. workday accident ­launched the third-generation robotic – Kawagoe, Japan; 6 million hours (5 years) n Safety milestone achievements continue lawn mowers that are almost silent, without a lost workday accident to be reached in selected production ­produce no direct emissions during use facilities. Committed employees and have low energy consumption. – Nashville, U.S.; 11 years without a lost n More employees made their voices n The range of handheld semi-professional workday accident heard in the annual employee survey: battery products was e ­ xtended. – Swainsboro, U.S.; 2 years without a lost 89 percent (86). workday accident n Global trainee program launched. Improved processes n The Code of Conduct was updated and approved by the Board of Directors. n Internal processes for key areas such as Husqvarna Group is participating in United Nation’s Global Compact the EU directives REACH and RoHS were initiative and supports its ten universal principles for business conduct, further developed and improved. including a commitment to respect and support human rights. These principles are closely aligned with the Group’s way of conducting business. n Focus on the entire supply chain: – Sustainability requirements were defined and communicated to suppliers of direct Husqvarna Group qualified for the FTSE4Good Index, which brings materials. together world-leading companies in terms of environmental, social – Internal teams were trained in and governance practices. ­conducting sustainability audits. n The Group held its first internal Global Husqvarna Group is ranked on the 2014 Global 100 list of the world's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) most sustainable companies. conference. Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 3 With a passion for precision At Husqvarna Group, we have been going beyond the expected, creating ­ground-breaking engineering since our start, back in 1689. Over the years, our p ­ assion has led to innovative s­ olutions in very different areas – from weapons and sewing machines to motorcycles and much more. As we see it, it’s all about c­ onstantly setting new standards in technology and u ­ sability. Today, 325 years later, this approach is stronger than ever, and it has made us a leader in outdoor power products for c­ ustomers around the world. 1874 Kitchen ­equipment The first grey iron foundry 1689 is established and, besides sewing machines, Rifle factory kitchen equipment in cast When Swedish weapons production took off in the late iron is produced; such 1903 17th century, hydropower was needed to handle certain as meat mincers, and mechanical operations. The drillingwork at the waterfalls later on stoves and ovens. Motorcycles in Huskvarna, southern Sweden, is our first plant. At the ­Husqvarna’s meat ­mincers The production of motorcycles gives Husqvarna a world-wide beginning of the 18th century this state-owned rifle factory were a great export reputation, when lightweight yet powerful engines helped had some 1,000 employees. The last shotgun is produced success – over 12 million make some of the most successful track racing and motocross in 1989. exported worldwide. bikes in history. The operation is divested in 1987. 1896 1919 1959 Bicycles Lawn mowers Chainsaws The era of bicycles is When acquiring As demand for bicycles, started in the factory ­Norrahammars bruk, the ­mopeds and motorcycles and Husqvarna-branded product range expands declines, forestry becomes bicycles become popular. to include heating boilers increasingly important in A large number of patents and lawn mowers. This Sweden. Husqvarna’s expertise are registered. The last acquisition turns out to be in engines from the production ­bicycle is produced in the first step in the Group’s of motorcycles is now utilized in 1962. current focus on outdoor new product areas. The first test power products. with a lawn mower powered by an engine is done in 1956, while 1959 marks the start of the first production of chainsaws. 1872 Sewing ­machines The new machinery for production of rifles turns out to be Husqvarna’s first logo. well-suited for producing sewing machines. The operation is divested in 1997. 4 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 1969 Ergonomic In 1969, Husqvarna is the first company globally to launch a chainsaw with integrated anti-vibration system. Ergonomics has been important ever since. 1970 2007 2009 Sweden’s first Expansion in Demolition female board ­watering and robot member in Japan The first remotecontrolled demolition When Lil Wettergren is Acquisitions of Gardena, robot is launched. elected to the Husqvarna Board of directors, she 2002 Zenoah and Klippo bring strong brands, complebecomes the first female 1980’s Power cutters mentary products and board member of a Swedish listed company. Strengthened and diamond geographic expansion. positions in tools 2013 the U.S. When Partner AB launches Chainsaw the first power cutter as a Organic growth and acquisisaw accessory in 1958, it is chains tions expand Husqvarna’s the starting point of what A wish to optimize the operations in lawn and gartoday is the business area full performance of the den. Two major ­acquisitions, Construction. When Dia­chainsaw by utilizing Poulan/Weed Eater and mant Boart ­International the Husqvarna Group’s Roper Corp, are comwas acquired in 2002, ­technical expertise plementing Husqvarna’s the construction ­business in chainsaws leads to product range making the doubled its’ size, turning ­investments in a new U.S. market Husqvarna’s into a world leader within production facility for largest. its segment. producing saw chains. 1978-1979 1995 2006 2008 2014 Chainsaws Robotic ­lawn On its own feet Expanded Husqvarna in focus mower Husqvarna becomes ­presence in 325 years Electrolux acquires Husqvarna Group pioneered independent again and is listed on NASDAQ OMX China One of the oldest ­Husqvarna and the the market by launching the Husqvarna expands ­companies in the world, Stockholm. outdoor operation world’s first solar powered production in China yet young enough to continues to expand both robotic lawn mower. It took through the acquisition eagerly look forward to through ­organic growth almost 15 years until sales of Jenn Feng and the future challenges. and through acquisitions, started to take-off for ­robotic construction of a new such as AB Partner and mowers making it a big plant for chainsaws ­Jonsereds AB. Power ­success story. and other handheld products now include products. chainsaws, motorcycles, lawn mowers and power cutting machines. Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 5 Sustainability organization and governance The Group’s work to promote a sustainable and responsible business is driven by the Sustainability Council. The Council is headed by the Group’s Sustainability Group Management General Counsel and Head of Legal Affairs. Communications Sustainability Council The Sustainability Council has four meetings per year in conjunction with Group Legal Affairs Management Meetings. In 2013, some decisions were made concerning new sustainability requirements for suppliers, climate change strategy, strategy Environmental Affairs Risk Management Health and Safety regarding conflict minerals and tracking of less-serious injuries in addition to lost-time accidents. The mission of the sustainability orgaManufacturing Manufacturing Global PM&D and nization is to continuously advance a Purchasing Global R&D & Logistics & Logistics EU/AP, NA/LA Construction sustainability-minded culture within the EU/AP NA/LA Husqvarna Group. Key tasks include identifying and driving sustainability issues within the Group and to: Control and monitoring risk management and internal control. 1) Ensure fulfillment of the Group’s sustainThe Group’s own control systems include In addition to the company’s auditors, the ability objectives, segregation of duties in critical processes company’s operations are subject to exter2) Offer the Group’s customers sustainable and defined management responsibilities nal reviews and monitoring by the Swedish products, and with regard to internal control. The Group Financial Supervisory Authority and the 3) Ensure that the Group’s supply chain ophas a separate Internal Audit Unit that NASDAQ OMX Stockholm among others. erates safely, using resources efficiently continuously evaluates and improves the without polluting the e­nvironment. effectiveness of the governance processes, Improvements in robotic mowers Robotic mowers are a key product in the Husqvarna Group’s product portfolio. They are almost silent, procuce no direct emissions during use and have low energy consumption. The major environmental impact however is during its use-phase, even though information from life cycle assessments indicates that a robotic mower has a significant lower environmental impact compared to a petrol-driven mower. When developing a new generation robotic mowers, improvements are also made on its environmental performance. The electricity consumption for maintaining a 1,000 m2 lawn has been reduced with approximately 70 percent between the 2nd and the 3rd generation of robotic mowers. Some design improvements include: n Blade motor design with increased efficiency of 50 percent n Power train design with 30 percent increased efficiency n Stand-by power consumption reduced to < 1 W n Reduced noise level: 3-5 dB(A) depending on model n Reduced electromagnetic pollution, with selection of the ECO-mode (Loop wire signal turned off when the mower is not in operation) 6 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 Risk management Sustainability initiatives are asThe business is exposed to a number of ronmental liabilities in connection with the risks with the potential of greater or lesser acquisition of land or production facilities. sumed to help increase the value material impact on the Group. The responIn the case of acquisitions or cessation of of the company by leveraging sibility for long-term material risks follows operations, environmental risk assessments opportunities and managing the Group’s delegation procedure, and is are always conducted by qualified experts. imparted from the Board to the President, Being a global corporation with producfinancial, social and environand from the President to the business tion in many countries increases the risk of mental risks. The Group applies units. non-compliance. The Code of Conduct, inthe precautionary principle, and Risks related to health, safety and the enternal policies and guidelines, as well as the takes precautions to prevent or vironment may arise at production facilities People Process provide a foundation for and in the supply chain. Environmental risks a sound business environment. In regions mitigate injury or harm to human related to the Group’s operations include with estimated higher risks, the Husqvarna health or the environment. changes in customer or legal requirements Group strengthens its efforts by conducting for products, generating and handling additional internal audits and by increasing emissions and waste, and potential envicompliance training. Megatrends impacting H ­ usqvarna Group Several megatrends involving social Group’s customers reside in cities, their èEnergy and fuel and environmental changes are lawns and gardens will likely be smaller, Fossil fuel markets may become more considered to affect the Husqvarna which in turn will affect product developvolatile and unpredictable, due to a Group in the future. By capturing ment and sales. The Group is enhanchigher global energy demand, and/or megatrend upsides and limit downing its product range by adding more lower supply, and/or costs. This can be sides companies can sustain. Some products for smaller spaces, one recent a driver to reduce energy consumption of these megatrends and their poexample being the launch of robotic further. tential impact on Husqvarna Group mowers for smaller gardens. Husqvarna’s professional chainsaws are described below. uses a computer chip to regulate the èBiodiversity flow of fuel to the engine, called èClimate change Critical habitat such as forests, wetlands, AutoTune, which optimizes performance Modern science argues that we are on and dry lands continue to decline. A and minimizes exhaust emissions. The an unsustainable path due to high emisdecline in ecosystems make natural X-TORQ® engine technology developed sions of carbon dioxide, which will create resources scarcer, more expensive and by Husqvarna for two-stroke engines a more unpredictable climate. Demand less diverse. It poses a great risk, but it reduces fuel consumption by up to 20 for the Group’s products is dependent can also be a driver for developing more percent, and exhaust emissions by up to on weather and unexpected or unusual innovative products that show more en60-75 percent, depending on the model/ weather conditions affect sales either vironmental consideration and are better product. adversely or positively. for biodiversity. Higher prices on fuel might affect sales Storms affect sales of chainsaws of battery-driven products positively. positively. Too much rain and draughts èScarcity of resources Husqvarna Group is investing in develaffects sales of lawn mowers and waterA growing population will put pressure oping battery products. The environmening negatively, while shorter periods of on ecosystems and the supply of natural tal impact from battery-driven products water shortage increases demand for resources will affect businesses by compared to petrol-driven products is intelligent watering solutions. introducing supply challenges and price significant less, taken the entire life-cycle. When looking at the Group’s own volatility. premises a sudden water shortage would As developing countries industrialèSpeed of technology affect the Group’s production facilities ize rapidly, global demand for material Staying at the technological forefront negatively. Flooding is estimated to have resources is increasing dramatically. has been important to Husqvarna Group low impact on the production facilities as Business is likely to face increasing trade ever since its foundation in 1689. Today, they are generally not situated in areas restrictions and intense global compethe speed of technology is growing prone to flooding. However, flooding tition for a wide range of raw materapidly and the exponential growth in could affect logistics and demand. rial resources that become less easily the volume and speed of access to comavailable. It is predicted that by 2030, munication is also likely to generate new èChanging demographics the global demand for freshwater will solutions and market segments. While By 2030, population is predicted to be exceed supply by 40 percent. Scarcity of developed countries may have greater 8.4 billion with the majority living in resources opens up for creating innovaaccess to many of these technologies at urban areas. This means that virtually all tive solutions, finding new materials and present, many technological innovations population growth over the next 30 years increase recycling of raw materials. provide ‘leapfrog’ opportunities for less will take place in cities. If the Husqvarna developed countries to capitalize on new and changing markets. Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 7 Our view on Sustainability Corporate responsibility is the management of a company’s impact on society and the environment. It is closely related to the vision of sustainable development – balancing economic aspects with environmental and social. Husqvarna Group creates value for its customers and other key stakeholders, while striving to keep negative impacts to a minimum. We still have a long way to go, but the goal is clear: to become a more sustainable company. We offer our customers We offer our employees a safe more and more sustainable workplace and is an employer alternatives. contributing to the employee’s professional development. ing Go fer od of e le Sus er tai oy na pl m b Sustainability drives innovation, reduces costs, mitigates risk and creates business opportunities for long-term strategic growth. en le ab ga ain ge Sust men su t pp ity ly cha mun in Com Copyright UNICEF We strive for ethical, social We are a responsible and environmentally company that contributes ­sustainable production of to the development of goods and services in the communities. entire supply chain. 8 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 Objectives and achievements Group Management has put longand short-term objectives to measure progress towards becoming a more sustainable company. Long-term non-financial goals Objectives 2013-2015 Achievements 2013 Develop environmentally Develop and implement a roadmap for phasing out n Started substitution programs for some hazardous sound products hazardous chemicals and substances in products and ­substances, e.g. DEHP. processes. n Investment in hard-chrome plating in Huskvarna with closed waste water treatment. n Investment in surface treatment in Huskvarna replacing hexavalent chromium based method. n Decision to invest in two nickel plating lines in Nashville which will replace hard-chrome plating carried out by subsuppliers. Implement and apply the concept of environmental n New environmental procedures for REACH and RoHS design in the product ­creation process. were added in the product creation process. More efficient use of Reduce energy consumption by 10 percent per pron Developed an energy strategy for production facilities energy and input materials duced equivalent unit and/or added value at production and warehouses in Europe. facilities. Reduce carbon dioxide emissions per ton kilometer n Developed a new method to monitor carbon dioxide from transportation of goods. emissions from ­transportation. Implement and maintain ISO 14001 on production n 91 percent of the production facilities with more than facilities with more than 100 employees. The goal is 100 employees were certified. 100 percent, baseline 2012: 88 percent Select suppliers that Implement a unified program for risk mapping, supplier n The Supplier Sustainability Requirements Manual based operate in a r­ esponsible evaluation and supplier selection based on Husqvarna on Husqvarna Group’s Code of Conduct was developed manner Group’s Code of Conduct. and distributed to the 150 largest suppliers. n Sustainability training of Supplier Quality Assurance (SQA) auditors in China, Europe and the U.S.. n Sustainability audits conducted on selected suppliers in China. Reduce workplace accidents Reduce the number of accidents (measured in lost days) n The lost workday accident rate improved to 4.5. to zero per m­ illion hours worked. Baseline 2012: 5.1. Implement a unified health and safety management n Unified health and safety standards developed and system within the Group. ­rolled-out. n Developed an enhanced safety metric for all business units. Contribute to the ­ 80 percent of employees should undergo a performance n Group average declined to 64 percent. professional ­development review. Baseline 2012: 67 percent. n Performance review form is reviewed and updated. of each employee Employee Satisfaction Index target 85, as measured n Employee Satisfaction Index decreased to 79. in the yearly employee survey. Baseline 2012: 82. Ensure employee adherence 100 percent of managers in tier 1-3 to attend web-based n Roll-out of the web-based training started. to the Code of Conduct training in Husqvarna Group’s Code of Conduct. 100 percent of purchase and sales personnel (i.e. tier 4 n Relevant employees identified. or corresponding to the level of key account managers and above) to attend web-based training in Husqvarna Group’s Code of Conduct. Include Code of Conduct in the induction program for n All new employees receive information about Code all new employees. of Conduct as part of their induction. Contribute to the developTwo community engagement projects per year at pron Several community engagement projects were started. ment of ­communities duction facilities with more than 100 employees. Information on community engagement projects and n Model for tracking has been developed. contributions to be gathered at Group level. Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 9 Together with our stakeholders Listening to stakeholders’ views The Husqvarna Group’s main stakeholdmaterial to the Group and our stakeholders ers are shareholders, potential investors, by assessing their impact on the financial and opinions is a privilege that employees, potential employees, suppliers, situation of the corporation, the environenables us to do better and trade partners, end-users and members of ment, the workplace and on society. improve long-term conditions society. These issues are weighed in terms of their for successful business. Regular dialogues are held on many levels importance and relevance to our stakeholdwith trade partners, suppliers and end-users. ers. In determining materiality, we also rely Each Group company is responsible for on the GRI’s sustainability reporting guidemaintaining dialogs with representatives lines for guidance. The indicators analyzed from the local community. Local operations and reported are considered relevant and also cooperate with various non-governmaterial to the Group and its stakeholders, mental organizations, while shareholder and reporting on these indicators facilitate dialogs take place on the Group level. benchmarking with other companies. The Group prioritizes issues that are most Stakeholder Dialog in 2013 Key issues How Husqvarna Group addressed the issue in 2013 Shareholders, n Capital Markets Day n Profitability n Announced cost improvement measures, including ­investors and n One-on-one meetings with n Corporate governance redundancies analysts investors and analysts n Anti-corruption n Up-dated Code of Conduct and other compliance policies n Seminars with the investment n Sustainable operations n Code of Conduct further implemented in operations and community towards suppliers n Surveys and questionnaires n Participated in seminars on human rights and corruption Employees n Management meetings n Strategy 2013-2015 n Top Management Meeting, focusing on the strategic roadmap n Annual employee team survey n Safe and healthy workplace and on strategic initiatives n Performance reviews n Fair compensation n Strengthened the health and safety organization further n Meetings with managers n Career opportunities n Environmental management systems, ISO14001 n Unions and work councils n Gender diversity n Structured incident reporting and corrective action processes n Talent attraction and n Strengthened focus on the process for annual performance review retention n Internal audits n Good environmental n Continued trainings and educations practices n Held union negotiations Potential n Career fairs and other events n Career opportunities n Launched global trainee program ­employees at selected universities n Fair compensation n Employer branding strategy updated n Summer jobs n Safe workplace n Offered internships n Internships n Offered internship to members of AIESEC n Trainee program n Offered summer jobs Suppliers n Global conferences n Fair compensation n Written supplier agreements n Local supplier meetings n Quality n New manual for supplier sustainability requirements n Audits at selected suppliers n Environment, health and n Updated Restricted Material List safety (EHS) performance n Trained suppliers in the Code of Conduct n Trained internal quality auditors in Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) n Monitored and evaluated supplier EHS performance Trade partners n Regular meetings and n High-quality products n Revised policy for product safety ­conferences n Innovative products n Innovation of product performance n Online trainings n Environmental n New concept to guide c ­ onsumers better when choosing n Training program for dealers ­performance handheld products (Husqvarna Academy) n Delivery on time n Best dealer practices collected n Increased sales n Roadshows focusing on robotics End-users n Focus groups n Quality products n Continued focus on innovations with new organizational set-up n Field tests n Environmental ­performance n Launched more battery products n Social media n Safe products n Continued to strengthen the Product Development Process n A common customer relationship management system covering several countries as well as Construction Society (non-­ n UN initiatives n Community relations n Became members of UN Global Compact governmental n Trade and industry organizations n Human rights n Reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and n Local communities n Transparency n Participation in trade and industry organization forums such as governmental n Community engagement n Risk and crisis m ­ anagement UN Global Compact, Svenskt Näringsliv, Teknikföretagen, SNS, ­organizations), n Environmental p ­ erformance EGMF (European Garden Machinery Federation) and OPEI media n Resource use (Outdoor Power Equipment Institute) n Carbon footprint n Meetings held with local communities around n Legal compliance production facilities n Profitability n Involved in several local community engagement projects 10 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 Continuous improvements on environmental ­aspects Husqvarna Group strives to continously improve the enviromental a ­ spects of its products and processes in every phase of the product life cycle, from raw material s­ ourcing, manufacturing and distribution to recycling of materials and disposal. Recycling Product development There was further developAbout 70 percent of the ment of the agreements environmental impact of the Group has with external a product is determined parties regarding the at the design stage. ­The recycling of products and Husqvarna brand has producer responsibility. conducted additional life The Green Dot symbol cycle screening to assess the can be found on product environmental impact of its ­packaging. products, and has developed processes further to cater for restricted materials requirements. Use Purchasing More products have been Sustainability requirements introduced with technolohave been imposed on the gies that result in lower fuel suppliers of direct matericonsumption and lower als. These requirements carbon emissions. have been communicated to our 150 largest suppliers covering about 70 percent of the Group's purchasing spend. Sustainability audits have been conducted at 15 selected suppliers in China. Sales Manufacturing The range of semi-profesManufacturing is located sional battery-powered close to end-users, mainly products was extended in North America and in in 2013. According to life Europe but also in Asia. cycle assessments, these Energy efficiency has been products have a considera priority throughout 2013. able lower environmental Energy efficiency programs impact compared to petrol Logistics have been initiated and an powered products. Carbon emissions from energy strategy has been transportation have been developed for production monitored for the past few facilities in central Europe. years. A new method that Projects including closed facilitates efficient data loop systems have been collection was introduced initiated to reduce emissions in 2013. from production facilities. Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 11 Sustainability starts at the idea stage Our focus on product sustainability begins with the very first idea for a design and continues through procurement, manufacturing, transportation and disposal. It governs the materials we choose, emissions and user-friendliness, the ease and efficiency of service and the products’ degree of recyclability. Product creation products is typically greatest during their use. The following factors are primary drivers As a result, there has been an increased focus of innovation; end-users’ demands and on creating more energy-efficient products. requests, user trends, design trends, lower The Husqvarna Group was a pioneer when production costs, competition, safety, launching robotic mowers in 1995. Robotic improved ergonomics, improved environmowers are energy-efficient and produce mental impacts (such as energy consumpalmost no emissions during use. They are tion and exhaust emissions), recycling and changing the way people care for their lawns Six prestigious ”Red Dot” design awards were received for the high design quality efficient maintenance as well as laws and and robotic mowers have become a new of Husqvarna and Gardena branded prodregulations. market segment. During their life cycles, the ucts. Three of the six awards were in the By including environmental, safety and Group’s battery-driven lawn mowers, trimmers ”Best of the Best” distinction. Each prodergonomic considerations when designing and chainsaws show better environmental uct is rated on criteria such as innovation, products, the Group continuously improves performance compared to petrol-powered functionality, self-explanatory property, its products and processes. products. Our professional handheld quality and environmental compatibility. The environmental impact of the Group’s products also show improved environmental Efficient watering There are several ways to irrigate the garden, without wasting water using the Gardena Micro-Drip-System. Solar panel Water computer Generates the power it Watering at the right time can needs by itself. prevent up to 40 percent loss of water due to evaporation. Rain water usage Fertilizer Dispenser Soil Moisture Drip irrigation A submersible pump Limit the amount of Sensor Only when The right amount for using collected fertilizer by bringing the soil is dry and of water where rain water instead of it most efficiently needs water, irrithe plant needs precious drinking water directly to the roots gation is started. it most – directly from the tap. of the plants in small at ist roots. In doses. flower beds or potted plants. 12 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 performance. More products are now using technology that is reducing fuel consumption substances are not yet legally excluded but should be replaced taking into account ”By including environand carbon dioxide emissions. technical and financial aspects. The Husqmental, safety and varna Group maintains a dialog with suppli­ergonomic considerations Prohibited or restricted substances ers of materials and products, and monitors The Group’s products are subject to chemical content in products. when designing products, international, national, and regional restricIn 2013, a global team for compliance the Group continuously tions and regulations, primarily in terms of was created, the work of which will be improves its products and materials (e.g. REACH, RoHS and WEEE), further developed in 2014. emissions (e.g. EPA and EU regulations) processes.” and noise (e.g. EU regulations). The Group Conflict minerals is working to ensure legal compliance, to In 2012, the Securities and Exchange follow the development of new regulations Commission (SEC) adopted the final rule and to make adjustments to meet future implementing Section 1502 of the Doddrequirements. Frank Act, the Conflict Minerals Rule. Under Raw material exposure, % The Group maintains lists of substances the rule SEC-reporting companies that that are either prohibited or restricted due manufacture products containing conflict n Steel, 37% to their potential negative impact on health minerals must conduct due diligence on n Plastics, 23% or the environment. The Group’s Restricted the supply chain of the applicable conflict n Aluminum, 20% Materials List (RML) details hazardous minerals. The rule applies to all U.S. n Oil, 4% chemical substances that are required to publicly-traded companies – or foreignn Copper/lead, 2% be either not contained in, or be restricted owned companies – that are required to n Linerboard, 8% in, purchased articles and materials based report to the SEC. n Other, 6% on different legal requirements, such as the The Husqvarna Group is currently imEU directives REACH and RoHS. Restricted pacted indirectly since conflict minerals are a concern for the Group’s trade partners. The Group has started to address the expected requirements regarding conflict minerals. In 2013, a policy and strategy were adopted. An analysis has been made Spend by country of origin, of materials and items that may potentially in descending order contain conflict minerals and dialogs with n U.S. suppliers will be held at the beginning of n China 2014. n Sweden Purchasing n Eastern Europe Purchasing of materials accounts for n Germany 53 (55) percent of sales, of which 12 (12) percent is raw material. The number of suppliers has decreased from 3,100 in 2008 to approximately 2,300. The Group emphasizes high standards of environmental and labor practices throughout the supply chain. Suppliers of direct materials undergo an evaluation before they are approved. Selected suppliers and business partners are also evaluated for efficiency, quality, delivery, price and reliImprovements in ability as well as their ability to meet with ­construction and stone the requirements of the Code of Conduct ­industries Rain Sensor Drip irrigation on environmental and health and safety No irrigation is Also for shrubs Husqvarna helps reduce the environperformance as well as the Environmental started when it has and bushes. mental impact of the construction Policy. The requirements also include comrained sufficiently. industry. Thanks to the X-TORQ® pliance with the Restricted Material List. technology and new large diesel flat All contracts to be entered into with supsaws, our power cutter K760 meets pliers refer to the Environmental Policy and the stringent Tier 4 diesel emission the Husqvarna Group Code of Conduct. requirements. With the use of multiDuring the year, Husqvarna Group has put wires, Husqvarna demonstrates a more more emphasis on managing the supply energy efficient way of sawing large chain. Sustainability requirements were granite blocks into slabs. developed and imposed on suppliers of direct materials. These requirements were Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 13 Water consumption communicated to 150 major suppliers, Manufacturing covering approximately 70 percent of the The most significant environmental aspects 1,500 Group’s purchasing spend. of the Husqvarna Group’s operations The Husqvarna Group has focused on include the use of raw materials, water and 1,200 improving its internal Supplier Quality chemicals, energy consumption, emissions 900 Assurance system. A dedicated function to air and water, and waste recycling and within Purchasing takes responsibility disposal. 600 for quality assurance activities. The staff In 2013, the Group’s 33 (34) production 300 conducting qualification audits of our facilities were based in 14 (14) countries, suppliers receive internal training including with a majority in Europe and the U.S. 0 2011 2012 2013 health, safety and environmental responsiMost production facilities are situated in n m3 thousand bility when becoming a Husqvarna Group industrial areas. Some are located close to supplier auditor. During 2013, sustainability areas with special environmental protection audits were conducted at 15 selected supand at these facilities special precautions pliers in China. are implemented. In 2013, fines for exceedEnergy use1 ing permitted volumes of COD treatment Human rights in the supply chain (Chemical Oxygen Demand) to a value of 500 During the year, the Husqvarna Group USD 23,000 (approximately SEK 150,000) 400 became signatory of the UN Global Comwere paid to the city of Orangeburg. pact, supporting its principles in the areas As a general internal requirement, all 300 of human rights, labor, environment and production facilities with more than 100 200 anti-corruption. employees shall implement an environThe Husqvarna Group’s Code of Conmental management system according to 100 duct states that the same standards for ISO 14001. 91 percent (88) of the produc0 the environment, labor and human rights tion facilities with more than 100 employ2011 2012 2013 should be met at suppliers, sub-contractors ees are ISO 14001 certified. n GWh and other business partners. The Group also encourages smaller pro1) Stationary fuel for heating, district heating and The Group neither tolerates underage duction facilities to be ISO 14001 certified. purchased electricity. labor nor allows illegal or forced labor in In 2013, 85 (85) percent of all production its own operations or in the operations of facilities were certified. any supplier or other party with whom the Each production site works to improve Electricity purchased Group cooperates. The minimum employenvironmental performance, for example ment age is 15 years, or the legal working by reducing water and energy consumption 250 age in the country in question. Asia is often through modernizing heating, ventilation, identified as a region with higher risks for and air conditioning systems and changing 200 the exploitation of underage and forced to high-efficiency compressed air systems, 150 or compulsory labor, as well as breeches of as well as installing lighting systems with freedom of association and the right to colmotion-sensors. 100 lective bargaining. The Group has appointThe Group’s Lean manufacturing system, 50 ed a compliance officer, translated the Code called HOS, is a key driver for continuous of Conduct into applicable local languages improvements, including reducing energy 0 and provided regular training for the local consumption and waste. 2011 2012 2013 management, employees and suppliers. n GWh No incidents involving underage, illegal or forced labor were brought to the attention of Group Management in 2013. Emissions of green house gases (tonnes, CO2 equivalents)1 200 150 Less Waste, More E ­ fficient 100 After launching an initiative to reduce the amount of waste at its manufacturing plants 50 around the world, a phosphate pre-treatment system was replaced in the McRae plant in the U.S. The plant manufactures lawn mowers, garden tillers, snow t­ hrowers 0 and trimmers and the production process includes pre-treating parts for powder 2011 2012 2013 coating mowers and tillers. Changing from iron phosphate to a silane pre-treatment n Tonnes CO2 equivalents system introduced not only greener chemistry, but also delivered equivalent or 1) Including direct and indirect GHG emissions from ­superior performance, as well as significant energy savings, since there is no longer a manufacturing sites and larger warehouses. need to heat the phosphate tanks. 14 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 Logistics Committee on Product Safety handled 5 (8) Carbon dioxide emissions from transportation The Group aims to reduce carbon dioxide matters during 2013, where products were Percent CO2 emissions per mode, 2013 emissions from transportation, and enreworked prior to delivery to customers or n Air, 46% (40) vironmental requirements as well as the as a last resort recalled from the market if n Road, 31% (27) Code are parts of the agreement with a the risk was deemed significant. n Boat, 23% (33) forwarder. The environmental impact from Ensuring safety and quality involves transportation of material and goods is preparing control plans with suppliers and monitored on international transport routes performing quality reviews and revalidaon a regular basis. tion audits of existing products. By using easy, adaptable labeling and providing user Sales manuals, the Group provides customers The Group’s products are sold to consumwith information. The monitoring includes the majority of transportation that Husqvarna Group is responsible for and ers and professional end-users via dealers covers transportation by air, sea and land. Also and retailers in more than 100 countries. Recycling and disposal internal transportation (company cars, forklift etc.) is The Husqvarna Group’s products are The Group participates in the take-back monitored by the factories as well as business travels by air. Inbound transportation in North America is marketed responsibly on the basis of their schemes for recycling packaging, electrical currently not included. Due to difficulties in receiving quality and price and other legitimate atproducts (WEEE) and batteries. Continudata from some forwarders, a complete knowledge tributes. ous monitoring of the Group’s producer about our carbon dioxide emissions is currently not possible. During 2013, a fine of approximately responsibility enables us to optimize our SEKm 6.7 was paid for violations of airinternal systems to collect and report the quality laws related a failure to obtain certidata necessary. The Green Dot will be fication for trimmers, leaf blowers and chain printed on all packaging as a means to saws prior to their sale in California, the U.S. demonstrate the Group’s commitment to Management oversight of the process has recycling. been addressed and improved and new adSimplified product analyses conducted ministration procedures related to emissions on chainsaws show that most components certification have been introduced. can be recycled and used as raw material if there is a well-functioning system for Use recycling of products. The Group applies a tool for identifying possible risks of failures, evaluating their consequences and ranking proposed measures to avoid failures. The Husqvarna Group’s Recycling and disposal of waste (tonnes) 2013 2012 2011 2010 Non-hazardous recycled waste 20,895 23,190 19,602 27,275 Reports to the Carbon Disclosure Project Hazardous waste, non-recycled 761 748 672 464 Hazardous waste, recycled 406 579 1,735 388 The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an independent non-profit orNon-hazardous non-recycled waste 4,844 5,525 7,248 7,162 ganization that gathers carbon data from companies and organizations. Key environmental ratios 2013 2012 20111 2010 Its purpose is to drive transparency and promote prevention of climate Carbon dioxide emissions, tonnes 167,278 169,661 180,459 168,995 change. The Group has been reportEmployees’ air travel CO2 emissions, tonnes 5.95 5.80 1.62 5.85 ing to the CDP since 2008. Reporting CO2 emissions (kg) per added value (kSEK) 41.2 38.0 37.9 31.5 of emissions of green house gases Energy consumption (kWh) per added value (kSEK) 2 96.0 87.0 92.0 74.3 complies with CDP recommendations and conversion factors taken from the Energy consumption (kWh) per equivalent unit 96 87 92 21.1 Greenhouse Gas Protocol are applied. Number of serious environmental incidents 3 2 1 1 Husqvarna Group went from 67 E in Plants with Environmental Management System, % 88 88 89 81 2012 to 79 C in 2013. 1) Environmental data is restated due to improved data quality and only plants that have reported on both added value and/or equivalent units and energy are included. 2) Construction is not included. Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 15 Committed employees Customers first, Professionalism, Personal leadership & Team spirit are Husqvarna Group’s core values which are guiding us in our daily work. Attract, develop and retain A new structured global approach to the Husqvarna Group’s Employer Brand increased the Group’s attractiveness to young high-potential employees. In 2013, the Husqvarna Group launched a global trainee program, where new graduates had the opportunity to grow with the Group. The program runs for two years and includes six rotations and a number of courses designed to give the participants a broad picture of the Group. Overall principles for employee relations are described in the People Process, which is designed to support managers in selection and recruitment, performance evaluation, career development and remuneration. The Group works proactively to increase internal recruitment and job mobility. Vacant year and is generally higher during the first gain collectively or individually. The Group management positions and specialized apquarter and at the beginning of the second estimates that four out of ten employees pointments are advertised internally on the quarter when the manufacturing of garden are covered by collective bargaining agreeintranet as well as in external channels. products is highest, before it is reduced ments. The coverage differs from country The Group has a well-developed process mid-year. In a typical year, the average to country. In Sweden, all employees for evaluating, developing and ensuring acproportion of temporary to permanent except Group management are covered by cess to future managers. Together with local employees is slightly more than 20 percent. collective agreements. training programs, the Group offers GroupIn accordance with Swedish law, two wide leadership development programs. Health and safety employee representatives and two depuEmployees in production facilities During the year, the Group continued ties are members of the Board, providing are covered by extensive trainings and strengthening its health and safety manemployee input to the Board’s decisionworkshop sessions. The large number of agement by appointing a Global Health & making. seasonal employees generates a relatively Safety Manager. Key Group objectives are In countries where no independent labor high employee turnover, which means that to reduce accident rates and to continuousunions exist, several forums for employer/ a significant number of new employees ly enhance the existing health and safety employee relations are established, such as are trained at the beginning of each new processes to create a working climate that consultations and environment and safety season. Workshops covering various lean makes safety part of daily work. committees. manufacturing topics are held regularly at The Group has the ambition to reduce production facilities and warehouses. workplace accidents towards zero in all faciliDiversity and equality ties. In 2013, there were 0 (0) fatalities and Employees and managers are mainly Our workforce the lost workday accident rate (per million recruited from within the local communities. The Group has employees in 43 counhours worked) was reduced from 5.1 to 4.5. 99.9 percent (99.9) of the total workforce tries. During 2013, the average number of Current figures reflect all employees and 93 percent (93) of managers are locally employees was 14,156 (15,429) and 15,076 working in the production facilities and employed, reflecting several nationali(15,403) at year-end. To increase flexibility employees in most supporting operations. ties and religions. A diverse workforce is and strengthen the Group’s financial perThree facilities are OHSAS 18001 certified. strong, competitive, innovative and resilient formance due to lower production, a global Starting in 2014, also lesser injuries will and the Group focuses on diversity from redundancy program affected 5 percent of be tracked on a corporate level to ensure many different perspectives. A particular the workforce globally. The voluntary stafffocus is provided in the proper areas. effort has been made over the past few turnover for the Group was 6.5 percent. years to increase female representation in Providing outdoor power products, Employer/employee relations the leadership role. When recruiting, the mainly for caring for parks, gardens and Husqvarna Group’s Code of Conduct covGroup aims to present both female and forests, implies seasonal variations in sales ers employee rights and it emphasizes that male candidates for positions. The number and affects the number of employees all employees are free to exercise the right of female employees reached 36 percent in our production facilities. The Group’s to form, join or refrain from joining unions and the proportion of female managers has workforce starts growing at the end of the or similar organizations as well as to barincreased slightly to 15 percent. 16 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 As stated in the Code, the Group does not 89 percent (86). On an aggregated Group discriminate on the basis of individual charlevel, the survey shows: ”The Code covers acteristics such as gender, age, disability, n The Group’s Employee Satisfaction Index ­ mployee rights, and e sexual orientation or ethnic origin. Physical, for 2013 dropped to 79 (82). The goal is it emphasizes that all psychological, sexual or verbal harassment 85. One explanation for this might be is not accepted. cost-improvement measures, since peoemployees are free to In 2013, 12 (9) incidents involving disple were made redundant during the year. exercise the right to crimination or harassment were reported n Communicative Leadership remained to the Husqvarna Group Management via stable. form, join or refrain from the Husqvarna Group’s AlertLine. Follown Employees are more familiar with the joining unions or similar ing investigations, two cases resulted in Group strategy and feel more connected ­organizations as well as disciplinary measures. to the Husqvarna Group. n Slight decrease in Regular Feedback and to bargain collectively or Wages and benefits Performance Reviews. individually. ” As a principle, employment terms and wages shall be fair and reasonable in line Results from the survey are monitored with industry standards, to attract and centrally, and followed up and acted upon retain highly competent empoyees. The at a local level, where managers and team Group complies with applicable laws and leaders use the results as a team developindustry standards on working hours. ment tool throughout the year. More than Each operational unit is responsible for 3,600 actions were recorded making the providing its employees with all mandatory employee satisfaction survey an important benefits (i.e. pensions, medical and social driver for change. insurance). In some countries or at some sites, the benefits offered are in excess of Internal implementation of the Code the mandatory provisions. For temporary The Group’s Code, originally adopted employees, benefits provided are in line by the Board of Directors in 2008, was with local laws and regulations. updated in 2013. In 2013, wages totaled SEK 3,758m All employees are obliged to observe (4,016) while social security costs and penand comply with the Code. The Code is sion plans amounted to SEK 917m (968). available to stakeholders on the corporate website in English and is also made availPerformance review able to all employees in 13 languages on The Group’s employee performance review the intranet. Available internally, there are covers the previous year’s performance, sub-guidelines explaining some parts of defines new objectives for the coming year, the Code in detail. creates an action plan for the employee’s Approximately 90 percent of the Group’s development and serves as a forum for employees have participated in Code traindiscussing career interests. A follow-up ing sessions of at least 30 minutes. meeting six months later checks progress A web-based course on the Code has of the plan. The goal is for 80 percent of been used in the U.S. During 2013, this all employees to undergo a performance training was translated into other lanreview each year. guages and a global implementation was In 2013, 64 percent (67) of all employees started. It is to be included as part of the underwent a performance review, of which induction program for all new employees, 85 percent (84) of white-collar employees and all tier 1-3 managers is to undergo the and 47 percent (53) of blue-collar employtraining. Purchasing and sales personnel ees participated. The decline in perfor(tier 4 and corresponding to the level of key mance reviews led to a renewed focus on account managers and above) are priorthe performance review process from the itized due to a deemed higher potential of top management. facing corruption. To make it easier to report violations Employee surveys and promote compliance, the Group has a The Husqvarna Group conducts annual global whistle-blowing function called the employee satisfaction surveys to improve AlertLine. Potential violations of law and working conditions and Group efficiency. internal policies, such as the Code, can be In 2013, approximately 11,332 (10,045) reported anonymously by employees and employees were invited to take part in other people via e-mail or telephone in the survey, which was translated into 14 local languages internally and/or externally languages. The response rate was and to a third party. Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 17 Influencing several local communities With more than 14,000 employDistribution of economic value government and other governments are The economic value that the Group creates present via shareholder representation ees in 43 countries, and prodby selling products and services benefits a of state-owned pension funds. ucts sold via dealers and retailnumber of stakeholders; employees in the Costs for the provision of capital ers in more than 100 countries, form of wages and other benefits, suppliincluding dividend, decreased to the Group has an influence on ers in the form of payments for delivered SEK 1,287m (1,359). goods and services, trade partners and the economic and social develend-users in the form of high-quality prodFair dealings opment in numerous local comucts and services, society (state and municiThe Husqvarna Group has a long and munities in the countries where palities) in the form of tax payments, and prestigious history, characterized by honshareholders in the form of dividends and esty and fairness in dealings with business it operates. share appreciation. The Husqvarna Group’s partners and stakeholders at all times. The total added value in 2013 amounted to Group is determined to keep it that way SEK 7,391m (8,004). and is accordingly committed to supportWhen setting up a facility, the Group ing fair competition by prohibiting discuscreates benefits such as new jobs, technolsions or agreements with competitors ogy and knowledge transfer, as well as concerning pricing or market sharing. improved social and environmental standThe majority of the Group’s producards in local communities. When relocating tion and sales operations are located in or closing operations, the Group strives countries with a lower risk for corruption, to handle such organizational changes as defined by Transparency International. responsibly. However, when diversifying manufacturing In 2013, the Group paid SEK 394m (431) and entering into low-cost countries the to governments in taxes globally. risk of corruption may increase. In order The Group’s providers of capital, that is to strengthen the Group’s anti-corruption share­holders and credit institutions, promeasures, the Group has strengthened vide funds to finance the asset base used training in the Code, translated the Code to create economic value. In turn, these into applicable local languages, appointed stakeholders receive annual dividends and a compliance officer and is providing interest. The Husqvarna Group does not regular training for local management, emreceive governmental financial assistance ployees and suppliers in countries where at the Group level. However, the Swedish the risk is deemed to be higher. 18 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 Strengthened training in the Code will be made for parts of the organization being Caring for the local neighborhood n In Germany, young apprentices renovat”In Germany, young deemed to be more exposed to corruption. ed a public children’s playground in the apprentices renovated There have been no legal actions for community of Niederstotzingen, where a public children’s playanti-competitive behavior in 2013. Husqvarna Group has a production facilThe Group observes strict neutrality with ity. ground in the commuregard to political parties and candidates n Trees were also planted in the Bavarian nity of Niederstotzingen, and, consequently, does not provide monAlps. Funds for the tree-planting project where Husqvarna Group etary or other contributions or resources to was raised by a Gardena branded marpolitical parties or institutions. keting campaign. has a production facility.” n The U.S. donated mowers and trimmers Community engagement to a grassroots community organization Husqvarna Group has a long tradition of that maintains 14 parks and playgrounds community engagement. Support can be in Detroit. This small grassroots commuin the form of products, time or money. The nity is getting together weekly to mow, objective is that each major production trim and weed parks around Detroit as facility should be engaged in at least two the city has left them abandoned due to community engagement projects per year. city budget costs. There are several mediumto long-term n The U.S also renovated and improved an community engagement initiatives in the outdoor reading area for a middle school Group, like supporting universities and to encourage the students to continue forestry schools to raise the educational achieving academically and take pride in level. Other initiatives include transferring their school. knowledge to NGOs. n Japan opened its on-site athletic facilin Lectures were held on various subjects ties to the people of the neighborhood. at Universities in Sweden and at forestry schools in for example Czech Republic Disaster relief and Slovakia. n Sweden made a donation to UNICEF for n Russia held chain saw training courses immediate disaster relief after a typhoon for Greenpeace volunteers to help fight hit the Philippines. The donation helped forest fires and support cleanup efforts in UNICEF reach children and families as forests all over Russia. Husqvarna team quickly as possible with critical water and members showed volunteers how to use sanitation supplies to help protect their the chainsaws properly and safely, using health and safety. the proper apparel. n Germany donated Gardena products to assist people in removing water and Given Husqvarna Group’s product offering mud from flooded homes in Germany. and operations, we have decided that it is Donations were handed over to the local relevant to help others preserve the local authorities. environment, and to support people in n Japan donated products to the Red connection with natural disasters. This supCross to help with the after effects of an port is more short-term and is often in the earth quake. form of providing money or products. Some examples from 2013: Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 19 Sustainability performance Summary GRI indicator1 Economic, SEKm 2013 20122 2011 2010 EC1 Group net sales 30,307 30,834 30,357 32,240 EC1 Operating costs (materials and services) 22,916 22,830 22,498 23,427 EC1 Employee salaries 3,758 4,016 4,933 4,080 EC1 Social security costs and pension plans 917 968 1,029 1,108 EC1 Payments to state and municipality (taxes) 394 431 413 302 EC1 Credit institutions (interest) 428 500 404 394 EC1 Shareholders (dividends) 859 859 859 574 EC1 Total economic value 7,391 7,954 7,859 8,813 EC1 Economic value retained 1,035 1,226 1,250 2,355 GRI indicator1 Environmental 2013 201210 2011 2010 Production facilities with installed environmental management systems, % 3, 4 91 88 89 81 Serious environmental incidents, absolute number 3 2 1 1 EN1 Raw material, steel, tonnes5 101,081 108,100 103,139 104,561 EN1 Raw material, plastic, tonnes5 14,598 14,093 15,833 15,506 EN1 Raw material, aluminum, tonnes5 569 608 692 651 EN1 Raw material, magnesium, tonnes 5 842 1,220 1,160 832 EN3 Direct energy use, MWh6 119,963 124,586 145,992 128,645 EN4 Indirect energy use, MWh 257,985 253,805 271,889 260,808 EN3+EN4 Energy use, MWh 377,948 378,391 417,882 389,453 EN8 Water consumed, m3 1,263,807 1,346,433 1,384,789 1,498,576 EN16 CO2 emissions, tonnes (total energy) 167,278 169,661 180,459 168,995 – direct energy, tonnes 37,584 44,141 43,033 40,411 – indirect energy, tonnes 129,695 125,520 137,426 128,584 EN17 CO2 emissions (personal air transport), tonnes 5.95 5.80 1.627 5.85 EN22 Waste, tonnes 26,906 30,042 29,258 35,289 GRI indicator1 Social 2013 2012 2011 2010 LA1 Workforce (average number of employees) 14,156 15,429 15,698 14,954 LA7 Accidents per million hours worked 4.5 5.1 11.28 – LA7 Fatalities at production facilities, absolute number 0 0 0 0 LA12 Performance reviews, % 64 67 66 – – white collar, % 85 84 82 – – blue collar, % 47 53 52 – LA13 Proportion of women, % of employees 36 37 35 35 LA13 Proportion of women in management positions, tier 1–3, % managers 15 13 11 12 LA13 Proportion of women in the Board of Directors9, % 3811 33 33 33 1) According to GRI guidelines, www.globalreporting.org. 2) 2012 has been restated due to the amended IAS 19. The years 2010-2011 are not affected by the amendment. 3) According to ISO 14001. 4) Production facilities with more than 100 employees. 5) Raw material used in own production. 6) Consists almost entirely of natural gas. 7) In 2011 personal air transport was not completely covered due to a change of travel agency. 8) Enhanced reporting procedures in 2012 revealed that this figure for 2011 is overstated. 9) Employee representatives excluded. 10) Environmental data is updated due to improved data quality and that only plants that have reported both on added value and/or equivalent units as well as on energy are included in the calculation. 11) As of July 2013. 20 | Husqvarna Group | Sustainability Report 2013 About this report This is Husqvarna Group’s fourth Sustainability Report. The report summarizes the Group’s 2013 sustainability initiatives and performance. The Sustainability Report has been prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability ­Reporting Guidelines, version G3.0. This is a level C report. It has been approved by Group Management; however, it has not been subject to assurance by an external party. The Husqvarna Group’s previous Sustainability R ­ eport covered the calendar year 2012 and was p ­ ublished in March 2013 in conjunction with the Annual Report. The Husqvarna Group’s next Sustainability Report will be published on www.husqvarnagroup.com in Spring 2015. Sustainability Report 2013 | Husqvarna Group | 21 NARVA Head office Husqvarna AB (publ) | Mailing address: Box 7454, SE-103 92 Stockholm Visiting address: Regeringsgatan 28 | Telephone: +46 8 738 90 00 | www.husqvarnagroup.com Registered office Husqvarna AB (publ) Jönköping | Mailing address: SE-561 82 Huskvarna Visiting address: Drottninggatan 2 | Telephone: +46 36 14 65 00
