About this report This report is the third social responsibility report issued by China Nonferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co., Ltd.(CNMC). Contents From this year, the report is renamed sustainability report, so as to better reflect CNMC’s sustainable development concept of “Releasing Resources’ Value, Working Together to Build Social Harmony” as well as relevant practices. Basis for compiling this report: General Manager’s Address 01 Green Development and 35 <Guiding Opinions for State-owned Enterprises Directly under the Central Government on Fulfilling Corporate Environmental Protection Social Responsibilities> released by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission Continuous Improvement of Environmental 36 (SASAC) of the State Council Sustainable Development 02 Performance <Guidelines on the Implementation of the Strategy for Harmonious Development of State-owned Enterprises Directly Performance Deep Utilization of Mineral Resources 37 under the Central Government in the Period of the Twelfth Five-Year Plan> by the SASAC of the State Council Practice Green Low-Carbon Economy 39 <The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4.0> and <GRI Mining & Metals Sector Supplement of the Global About Us 03 Spreading the Concept of Environmental 42 Reporting Initiative (GRI)> Protection Company Profile 04 <ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility> of the International Standard Organization Corporate Governance 04 <Guidelines for Social Responsibility of Chinese Industrial Enterprises and Industrial Associations (GSRI-CHINA Organization Chart 06 People-Oriented, Protect 43 2.0)> of the CFIE Corporate Culture 07 Safety and Health <Guidelines for Corporation Social Responsibility Reporting of Chinese Enterprises> by the Corporate Social Development Strategy 08 Strengthening the Basis for Safety 44 Responsibility Research Center of the Department of Economics of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Management (CASS-CSR2.0). Implementing Measures of Production Safety 45 Special Topic: Make Every Effort 09 Reporting scope: Enhancing Production Safety Awareness 48 to Be a Great Enterprise Shoulder This report covers management practices and performances of sustainable development of the CNMC Paying Close Attention to Occupational 50 Responsibility to Win Glory Safety and Health Headquarters and its affiliated enterprises. The time covered is mainly the year of 2013, also including flashbacks of some other important years Sources of data: Sustainable Development Concept 14 Employees’ Personal Growth 51 The data quoted in this report are all from the official documents, statistical reports and company websites of CNMC. The currency mentioned in the report, except otherwise stated, means RMB / yuan. Promotion of Sustainable Development 16 and Colorful Life Stakeholders’ Participation 17 Safeguarding Employees' Legitimate 52 Description of names: Social Recognition 18 Rights and Interests For the convenience of expression and reading, in the report, China Nonferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co., Ltd. is Promoting Employees' Career 53 also expressed as CNMC, Group Company, Company and we. Development Course of compilation: Sustainable Development 19 Taking Good Care of Employees’ Life 55 We have made full use of the opportunity for compiling the CNMC 2013 Sustainability Report to optimize the work Practices process of report compilation, so as to promote the overall upgrading of the sustainability of CNMC. Release and Global Operations Create 19 Community Participation as 58 Preparation of report Start of report Collection of report Improvement of compilation compilation materials Establishment of responsibility issues report writing promotion of Sustainable Value a Corporate Citizen report Steadily Upgrading Operation Performance 20 Constructing Harmonious Community 59 Collection of Establishment of a Explore a Sustainable Operation Model 22 Relationship Kick-off meeting materials of all Review of social responsibility issues; The working team Issue the report compilation of report functional department Analysis of appeals of stakeholders; report; Creating a Quality Brand Image 25 Improving Community Development 60 working group; and funded writes the report; Environment compilation; Work with Partners to Create Value 26 Analysis of domestic enterprises; Analysis of social and environmental Relevant departments Promote the Training on impact; report by Active Participation in Public Welfare Cause 61 and overseas Interviews with review the report; the special Analysis of strategic goals for the development using internal benchmarking; and research Company leaders topic of report Research of standards compilation. of all functional of the Group; finalize the report. and external platforms. Innovative management promotes 27 for sustainability departments and Solicitation of opinions from internal and restructuring and upgrading Sustainable Development 65 reporting. some funded external experts. Continuous Deepening of Management Upgrading 28 Commitment Changes in the report: enterprises. Further Promoting Technological Innovation 30 Stress on the idea of sustainable development. Social Responsibility Report has been renamed Sustainability Appendixes 66 Report. In the sustainability report, emphasis is laid on disclosing the CNMC concepts, policies, practices and Comparison Table of Principles of the 66 performances in sustainable development. United Nations Global Compact Innovation in the design and forms of presentation. In line with the idea of nonferrous metal resources serving GRI Index 67 mankind’s good life, forms such as hand painting and data visualization are adopted to demonstrate the operation Feedback Form 73 ecology of CNMC. Upgrading of readers’ reading experience. Demonstration forms such as extended readings and third party testimonials are added to enhance the readability and practicability of the report. 2013 Sustainability Report General Manager’s Address General Manager’s Address The year of 2013 marked the 30th anniversary of the Group Company; in this year, we were successfully ranked among “Fortune Global 500”; in this year, in face of the grim situation of continuous downturn of produce prices and performances of the nonferrous metal industry, all our employees were united as one to seek progress while maintaining stability, and our assets amount, operating revenues, and output of nonferrous metal products increased by 16 times, 39 times and 30 times respectively as compared with that of the early period of the “Eleventh Five-Year Period”; in this year, we acceded to the United Nations Global Compact and connected with the highest platform in the global social responsibility field; in this year, party and state leaders such as President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang spoke highly of the development of the Company, encouraged all employees of the Company to keep up the good work and scale new heights. In the course of developing nonferrous metal mineral resources and global allocation of resources, we follow the sustainable development concept of “Releasing Resources’ Value, Working Together to Build Social Harmony”. While seeking self-development, we take initiative to shoulder our responsibility for supporting social development and explore a new mode of corporate development in industrial chain sustainable development and regional sustainable development, so that the sustainable development of the enterprise is based on the efficient use of mineral resources, stable safety situation of mines, safety and environmental protection of construction engineering, excellent quality of trade and relevant service products, strict protection of ecological environment and harmonious and stable community development, for the pursuit of comprehensive balance of economic value, social value and environmental value. In 2013, the Group Company’s operating revenues hit RMB 190.009 billion, and its output of nonferrous metal products amounted to 1.5522 million tons. By the end of 2013, the total assets of the Company amounted to RMB 112.641 billion. We have comprehensively upgraded our management and established a sound scientific and technological innovation system, New technologies and new processes are widely applied to improve the comprehensive utilization and cyclic utilization capabilities of mineral resources. We resort to scientific and technological innovation to upgrade the Company’s sustainable development capabilities and drive and promote work in various aspects. In 2013, the R&D spending of the Company amounted to RMB 2.752 billion. We keep improving our production safety management system, promoting standardization and IT application of production safety and improving emergency management level, while expanding employees’ growth platform by striving to realize the joint growth of employees. We actively fulfill our responsibilities as global citizens and strive to “make every project a milestone”. We strive to drive the the development of local economy and society through responsible operation to help the local communities upgrade their capabilities of sustainable development. We will more strictly follow the requirements of the international standards and guidelines for social responsibility and sustainable development, cooperate with stakeholders, develop and use resources in a sustainable manner and promote the healthy development of economy and society, so as to contribute to the construction of a beautiful world and the creation of a better tomorrow for the mankind. General Manager of CNMC 01 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Performance Value increment rate of Total assets Unit: RMB 1 billion state-owned assets Unit: % Business revenues Unit: RMB 1 billion 190.01 120 104.74 112.64 120 104.95 105.92 200 100 100 92.40 152.35 150 80 71.57 80 60 60 100 40 40 64.08 20 50 20 Economy 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Accumulated output About Us Total profit Unit: RMB 1 billion of nonferrous metals Unit: RMB 1 million 2.0 1.87 1.86 2.0 1.55 1.5 1.5 1.33 1.09 1.0 1.0 0.72 0.5 0.5 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Comprehensive energy consumption of RMB 10,000 output value Unit: ton standard coal/RMB 10,000 COD emission Unit: ton SO2 emission Unit: ton 0.35 495.00 491.52 0.35 500 25,000 21,84 21,57 0.30 0.30 0.27 400 20,000 0.25 0.20 300 273.39 15,000 0.15 200 10,000 Environment 0.10 100 5,000 0.05 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 NOx Emission Unit: ton Ammonia nitrogen emission Unit: ton 1,500 1,350.00 80 75.00 73.74 1,188.38 70 1,200 60 900 50 40 600 30 300 20 10 0 0 2012 2013 2012 2013 Total number of employees Unit: person Women employee ratio Unitt: % Training person-times Unit: person-time 60,000 56,128 56,799 30 25.20 50,000 43,940 40,861 50,000 25 23.40 40,000 20.90 40,000 37,516 20 30,000 25,004 30,000 15 20,000 20,000 10 10,000 5 10,000 Society 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Accident death rate per RMB 10 billion output value Unitt: % Total donations Unit: million 0.50 0.46 40 36.30 35.48 0.39 35 0.40 30 0.32 0.30 25 22.36 20 0.20 15 10 0.10 5 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 ● CNMC Building Note: Some environmental protection indexes and the data of Daye Nonferrous are accounted 02 2013 Sustainability Report About Us Company Profile Anti-corruption Efforts CNMC has established and improved a sound system for punishing and preventing corruption, Founded in 1983 and headquartered in Beijing, China Nonferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co., Ltd. laying equal stress on education, system and supervision, to enhance our ability to prevent (CNMC) is a central state-owned enterprise under the management of the State-owned Assets and control corruption risks, actively implement the spirit of the eight regulations of the Central Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of China. Its major businesses Government and the requirements for rectifying “four corruptive working styles”, deepen efficiency include the development of nonferrous metal mineral resources, construction engineering, and the supervision, implement the supervision and inspection of decision-making system for “the relevant trade and technological services. Our business covers over 80 countries and regions. We decision-making of major issues, appointment or dismissal of major cadres and decision making have 261 enterprises of various levels, including 79 overseas enterprises of various levels, and 7 for major project investment, and use of large amounts of fund”, actively conduct anti-corruption listed companies in Shenzhen, Hong Kong, Sidney and London; we have established and been education and create a clean work environment, in efforts to guarantee the sustainable and healthy operating a series of banner mine development projects in countries and regions such as Zambia, development of the enterprise. Myanmar, Thailand and Congo (Kinshasa). In 2013, the Company conducted 1,350 times of relevant anti-corruption education and training In 2013, the Company was ranked for the first time among the “Fortune Global 500”, placed in the activities, and 100% of the staff members above the level of headquarter department principals and 482nd place; the Company ranked No. 86 among “Top 500 Chinese Companies”, No. 28 among deputy posts of secondary enterprises signed the letter of responsibility for honest governance. By “Top 500 Chinese Manufacturing Enterprises”, and No. 35 among “Top 100 Chinese Transnational the end of 2013, the Company had established 138 anti-corruption systems. Corporations”. Corporate Governance Group Governance The management and the party committee of CNMC exercise some authority of the shareholders’ meeting and the board of directors according to the relevant regulations of the State and the Central Government. The Party and Political Leaders’ Joint Meeting is the highest decision-making form of the Group Company, while the General Manager’s Office Meeting is the main decisionmaking form of the Company relevant to operation and management work. CNMC is a mixed holding company, which exercises the parent-subsidiary company management system. The Group Company is related to various funded enterprises by capital linkage. The Group Company exercises shareholder’s rights and interests and shoulders relevant responsibilities as a sponsor, and dispatches directors to participate in the major operation decision makings of its funded enterprises. In 2013, the Company held 33 party and political joint meetings; the Group Company dispatched 31 directors to 27 funded enterprises. Employees’ Representative Meeting CNMC has established an Employees’ Representative Meeting system which, by conducting leader and cadre appraisals through democratic discussions, soliciting proposals from employee representatives and reviewing annual work reports, guarantees employees’ rights to participate in the democratic decision making, democratic management and democratic supervision of the Company. In January 2013, the Company held the fourth session of the First Employees’ Representative Meeting, which adopted the CNMC Measures for Implementing Democratic Management and Further engage in the Party’s mass line education practices and activities formulated the CNMC Employees’ Representative Inspection and Check System. By the end of 2013, the Company’s Employees’ Representative Meeting had solicited 124 proposals from the representatives, of which 117 had been settled, while the others were under discussion and implementation. 04 05 2013 Sustainability Report About Us Organization Chart Corporate Culture CNMC has established a Corporate Culture China Nonferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co., Ltd. General Office(Foreign Affairs Office) Daye Nonferrous metal Group Holding Co., Ltd. Construction Leaders’ Group and Working Committee, Legal Affairs Department revised its Group Company Corporate Culture CNMC Headquarters China Nonferrous Mining Corporation Limited Construction Planning, prepared a Corporate Culture Investment Department China Nonferrous Metal Industry’s Foreign Engineering Manual, and mobilized employees to conduct intensive and Construction Co., Ltd. discussion on corporate culture, thus developing a Business Development Department systematic corporate culture system. CNMC (Ningxia) Orient Group Limit Company Human Resource Department Zambia-China Economic & Trade Cooperation Zone In 2013, the Company successfully issued the Finance Department Develoment co.,ltd. Chronicle of China Nonferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co., Ltd. (1983-2012) and completed the compilation China No. 15 Metallurgical Construction Group Co., Ltd. Science & Technology Department of CNMC Corporate Culture Manual, striving to create CNMC Nickel Co., Ltd. excellent corporate culture so as to help the Company Mineral Exploration Department become a world class mining industry group. Strategy Research Department CNMC Fushun Hongtoushan Mining Co., Ltd. Auditing Department CNMC International Trade Ltd. Quality & Environment Control CNMC Albetter Albronze Co.,Ltd. World Class China Nonferrous Metal Mining (Group) Co., Ltd. Department (Safety Supervision& CNMC Developing Investment Limited Mining Group Administration Department) with International Detailed and Refined Information Center CNMC Liuzhou Zinc Products Corporation, Ltd. Competitiveness Norms, Collaborative Party and Mass Affairs Department CNMC (Tianjin) Nonferrous Metals Co ., Ltd. Vision CNMC (Tianjin) Special Materials Co., Ltd. Association and Efficient China Nonferrous Metals International Mining Co., Ltd. & ith ic e Holding Companies fa at iv Thai-China Nonferrous Metals International Mining Co., Ltd. m at ag ov d oo CNMC (Shenyang) Mining Investment Co., Ltd. G Pr inn CNMC (Guangxi) Pinggui PGMA Co., Ltd. China Nonferrous Metal (Guilin) Geology And Mining Co., Ltd. Operation and Spirit management concept e Values in on Shenyang Research Institute of Nonferrous Metals th th ti w g i Hardworking and in y w es in era Shenyang Nonferrous Metallurgy Engineering Research Institute rv tr rc W p Se un sou o XinCheng construction supervision & consulting CO., Ltd. co re co pioneering Golden Bright Insurance Broker Co., Ltd. CNMC Economic & Trade Co., Ltd. Joint Stock Companies China Enfi Engineering Corporation CNMC Jinhao (Beijing) Information Technology Co., Ltd. Mission Thailand Xinyue Industry Co., Ltd. CNMC International Development Ltd. Developing Resources Thailand Taikuangyuan Co., Ltd. CNMC Guojie Technology Co., Ltd. to Benefit Society 06 07 2013 Sustainability Report About Us Development Strategy During its development, CNMC has formed three core businesses, of which the development of nonferrous metal mineral resources is its key and special sector, construction engineering business serves its basis, and trade and relevant service businesses are its new growth points. During the period of the “Twelfth Five-Year Plan” and a future period of time, the Group Company will continue to conscientiously implement the guidelines, policies and requirements of the Central Government and the State Council on the reform and development of central state-owned enterprises, step up restructuring and upgrading, develop the three major businesses in a coordinated manner, fulfill the corporate mission of “developing resources to benefit the society”, and actively perform our corporate social responsibility, in efforts to develop into a “world class mining industry group with outstanding core businesses, advanced managerial expertise, independent innovation, harmonious development, and global competitiveness and impact”. “12345” Development Strategy Two One Markets Direction Vigorously develop Accelerate domestic and development international markets, Become strong and making full use of excellent international and domestic resources Special Topic Three Strides Four Five Doublings Upgradings Stride to be an innovative enterprise Realize the doubling Realize the upgrading of with endogenous growth, of total assets, controlled resource amount, Special Topic stride to be a Fortune business revenues, management level, technological Global 500, and stride to total profit and be a world class mining output of nonferrous innovation, energy conservation and emission reduction, and Make Every Effort to Be a Great Enterprise, group with international metals products competitiveness employees’ income Shoulder Responsibility to Win Glory You have scored significant achievements over many years, especially in the recent years, and have made outstanding contribution to the resource strategy and Corporate Vision economic development of our country. Your development is pioneering and your prospect of development is very promising. By 2030, the Company will make major breakthroughs in the development and utilization of domestic and overseas nonferrous metal mineral resources, and will have a total of 80 ——General secretary of the CPC Central Committee, president of the People's million tons of heavy nonferrous metal resources, and 1 billion tons of light nonferrous metal Republic of China (PRC), Chairman of the CPC Central Military Commission, resources. It will achieve major progress in corporate reform, independent innovation and Xi Jinping scientific management so as to become world class mining industry group with outstanding core businesses, advanced managerial expertise, independent innovation, harmonious development, and global competitiveness and impact. ● In September 2012, President Xi Jinping visited the CNMC exhibition booth during the 9th China-ASEAN Expo 08 09 2013 Sustainability Report Make Every Effort to Be a Great Enterprise Shoulder Responsibility to Win Glory In 1983, CNMC started from scratch. Along with the great tide of reform and opening-up, the Company kept developing and flourishing. During its three decades of growth, the Company On August 28, 2005, GM Luo Tao accompanied has experienced business startup development, promoted restructuring and realized leaping Enkhbayar, then President of Mongolia, to attend the development. Compared with the early period of the “Eleventh Five-Year Plan”, by the end of 2013, Commencement Ceremony of Tumurtin Ovoo Zinc Mine. the total assets, business revenues and output of nonferrous metal products of CNMC increased by 16 times, 39 times and 30 times respectively. Thus, the Company realized development against the economic downturn, was successfully ranked among the “Fortune Global 500” and took a solid step towards the goal of becoming a world class mining industry group with international competitiveness. The three decades of CNMC witness its development together with the State, the Nation and the whole society, during which several generations work in tandem to create a brilliant company. These three decades see the growth of the Company from a small and weak one to a large and On December 21, 2010, the Group Company was strong group, thanks to the persevering and daring efforts rated among “Top Ten Chinese Enterprises in of all its members. Africa”, ranking No. 1 in voting results. ——CNMC General Manager Luo Tao The total assets of the Group Company surpassed RMB 10 billion for the first time, and maintained a On September 28, 1998, representatives of NFCA and ZCCM signed a takeover growth rate exceeding RMB 10 billion each year for memorandum and held the flag-raising ceremony in the Chambishi Copper Mine six consecutive years from 2007; raising the “one Meeting Room, which marked the official takeover of Chambishi Copper Mine by two three four five” development ideas. NFCA. 2006 2010 2013 Extending industrial chain Sustainable development The Group Company and No. 3 Mining Company of the Myanmar We stick to the concept of “Releasing Resources’ Value, Ministry of Mining officially signed Working Together to Build Social Harmony”, grasp opportunities On August 16, 1987, Jordan King Hussein inspected the Jordan Maan The Myammor Tagaung Mountain Nickle Ore to establish a complete nonferrous industrial chain, complete the strategic restructuring to become an international mining Site of China Nonferrous Metal Industry Overseas Engineering Company Exploration and Feasibility Study Agreement. company and form three core businesses. We conduct and wrote an inscription. responsible international operation, seek the maximization of economic, social and environmental comprehensive values and We greatly appreciate our Chinese friends’ loyal 2004 are dedicated to the realization of coordinated and sustainable development of enterprises, economy and society. efforts to the most important project in Maan, Jordan. We value the friendship and cooperation between the two parties and are willing to maintain the development in this Developing resource At its inception, the Company field. Best wishes. 1998 Common development 2005 had no fixed office address. Several rooms of a hotel were ——Hussein, Jordan King once rented temporarily as 1983 office. 1987 Expanded from engineering construction to mineral resource development, the 1997 Group Company has developed two Start an enterprise in a difficult condition core businesses. Overseas resource Survival and development From 1997, the Group development plays a larger role in drive Company started the the economic and social development development of overseas The first Chinese enterprise in the nonferrous metal industry to “go global”, which of the places where our projects are mineral resources and mainly provides project contracting services for overseas investors. It has stablished located. actively implemented a responsible brand image with high-quality products and services, “one project, one the “go global” strategy. On April 11, 2013, Zambia President Michael Sata visited the CNMC milestone; one project, extensive impact”, and won the wide recognition from clients, thus initially shaping the international image of the Chinese nonferrous metal industry. headquarters and attended the Zambia-China Economic and Trade Forum. 10 11 2013 Sustainability Report Make Every Effort to Be a Great Enterprise Shoulder Responsibility to Win Glory At its inception, CNMC insisted on the direction of international development and invested in major projects such as Zambia Chambishi Copper Mine, Zambia China Economic and Trade Cooperation Zone (ZCCZ), Myanmar Tagaung Nickel Mine, Mongolia Tumurtin Ovoo Zinc Mine, Congo (Kinshasa) Mabende Leach Copper Smelting and Kyrghizstan Chaarat Gold Mine. The Group Reform and Innovation to Enhance Development Capabilities Company has become a pacesetter for “going global” in the Chinese nonferrous metal industry. Over three decades, CNMC has been attaching great importance to the upgrading of internal corporate management, reform and innovation. In management innovation, the Company insists on improving 1 st 1st 1st its corporate governance, optimizing business processes, promoting management diagnosis and management upgrading and striving to improve operating efficiency, economic performance and Having established the first The first Chinese electrolytic aluminum, copper development quality to develop management and cost advantages. As a result, a “refined, standardized, The first Chinese enterprise to establish mining and ore-processing enterprise “going an economic and and nickel mining and orecoordinated and efficient” developmental path has been created. In terms of scientific and technological global” in the trade cooperation processing united enterprise innovation, the Company actively establishes national, provincial and enterprise multi-level scientific nonferrous metal zone in Africa in Iran, Kazakhstan, Myanmar industry and technological innovation platforms, establishes scientific and technological innovation guiding and and Vietnam etc. incentive mechanism, steps up efforts to train scientific and technological talent teams, keeps enhancing No. 1 our own independent innovation capabilities to drive industrial progress with technological progress. 1st 1st “No. 1” pioneered at home and abroad by CNMC The first Chinese enterprise aving successfully operated the first to invest and construct mine cooperation project enterprise between the Chinese government nonferrous metal mines and metallurgical plants overseas and the Myanmar government Put People First for Group Cohesive Force CNMC takes employees as its most precious wealth. From the deepening of personnel system reform in the early pioneering period to consolidating human resource management basis, realizing standardized management to the comprehensive implementation of the strategy of “strengthening the enterprise by Looking back at the course of CNMC in fulfilling its social respirability in talents” by strengthening the construction of talent teams including operation and management talents, the past three decades, we can find the following five main characteristics. professional technical talents, highly skilled talents and overseas front lien talents, and the promotion of the reform of three systems, personnel, labor and distribution, an employee team of high qualification, a strong sense of responsibility and full of vitality has been developed. Pragmatism and innovation, creating responsibility culture In the international operation, the Company keeps strengthening the international compound talent During its three decades of development, CNMC deeply feels the heavy responsibility on its shoulders, team, actively promotes the localization of employees, and provides equal development opportunities, keeps exploring and deepening the responsibility concept and awareness in practices, and has gradually constructs diversified growth channels for employees of different races, nationalities and genders. developed the core responsibility culture centering on the corporate mission of “developing resources to The Company sincerely cares for its employees, strives to solve difficulties and problems for those benefit society” and guided by the sustainable development concept of “Releasing Resources’ Value, employees in trouble, and is dedicated to share the development results of the enterprise with all its Working Together to Build Social Harmony”. employees. International Operation to Upgrade Supply Capabilities Enthusiastic Social Participation to Promote Social Harmony CNMC is the first enterprise “going global” and the most successful one in conducting international cooperation in the Chinese nonferrous metal industry. In its international operations, the Company Wherever the CNMC goes, it enthusiastically helps the local community to upgrade its capabilities of timely adjust its developmental strategy. A clear strategic development route has been formed from development. Such efforts include stepping up investment in the construction of infrastructure, improving sole foreign project contracting to mineral resource development and the “123” strategic restructuring development environment; promoting localized purchase to help local SMEs to grow; providing career objective to the establishment of the “12345” strategic development guidelines. At the same time, the training to improve the residents’ employment capabilities; making donation to local hospitals and Company actively promotes investment, M&A, restructuring and being listed to realize the upgrading schools to support the development of local medicine and education; participating in disaster relief, from product operation to capital operation and develop three core businesses of strategic collaboration among others. By the end of 2013, in Zambia, Mongolia, Myanmar and Thailand alone, the Company and effective allocation. Meanwhile, the efficiency of resource development and utilization has been had invested nearly USD 3.5 billion, among which investment in infrastructure exceeded USD 150 effectively upgraded by its extension of the nonferrous metal industrial chain. The Company has million, in addition to nearly 20 thousand job opportunities provided to local residents. Over many years, gradually explored and developed an industrial chain sustainable development mode and regional the Group Company keeps helping community development, and such efforts have helped it win the sustainable development mode in its practices. trust of local governments and people. 12 13 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Concept ● Interpretation of the sustainable development model The circular structure symbolizes the global corporate operation of lth Em CNMC; the multi-level rings symbolize ea plo latitudes, and the centripetal six lines an dh yee y gro fet wth symbolize the shape of the earth. Sa Centering on the concept of “Exploring Ec Resource Value, Building A Harmonious on Cooperation l va omi cia Sustainable Development Society Together”, CNMC employs So lue lue c Green operation Communication sustainable methods to improve va Community Exploring Resource management, and focusing on six Concept Value, Building A participation key areas of resource development, innovative development, safety and Harmonious Society Innovation Together health, green operation, employee growth and community participation, promotes Learning sustainable development practices, to continuously realize the sustainable Environmental development objective of maximizing devReso value nd comprehensive economic, social and elo urce tion aent pm ova pm environmental values. ent Inn evelo d ● Core concept of sustainable development Exploring Resource Value, Building A Harmonious Society Together Meaning of the concept: The core idea of development development is to engage in resource development and utilization while ensuring the sustainability of resources and the environment, maximally utilize resources through various links of the industrial chains of the three core businesses, create economic value, social value and environmental value, and strive to realize the coordinated development of economy, society and the environment. ● Methods of sustainable development Learning, Innovation, Communalization, Cooperation Determining ● Key areas of sustainable development the objective S of sustainable im umm development Resource development, Innovative development, pro a ve r y a rs’ ing lde s Safety and health, Green operation, Employee me nd arn ho tion nt Le take ecta growth and community participation s xp e CNMC draws on international standards, follows Stakeholders’ Determination mechanism of core Determining feedback the benchmark of social responsibility practices and selecting issues of sustainable of world class enterprises, and takes into development in principles and standards comprehensive consideration the enterprise’s CNMC development objective, operation strategies and g nd rin n a o pa pla t int A t na stakeholders’ expectations before it finalizes the Pre rk g i aff he fa lysis wo uttin tice s e c de usta cting tors enterprise’ core issues concerning sustainable p rac ve ina p Conducting lop bl me e development. major issue nt selection ● NFCA Office and Technical Building 15 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Concept Promotion of Sustainable Development Stakeholders’ Participation Construction of the Sustainable Development System Stakeholders Description of Expectations for the Group Communication methods Sound Social Responsibility System stakeholders and channels Participate in the preparation Implement the State’s macro regulations, ● Sound Social Responsibility System and promote industry integration, of laws and regulations, policy Chinese government documents, and participate in In February 2013, the Company established the Social Responsibility Work Committee, determined Governments and the governments of strengthen production safety supervision meetings, submit special reports, the staff composition and work responsibilities of the committee, and developed a social responsibility and protect the environment according to the places of operation report statistical statements and the State plans for the reinvigoration of work mechanism connecting the upper and lower levels, so as to provide organizational guarantee for financial statements, and pay nonferrous metal industry visits, etc. the Group to perform social responsibility. On the Group level, members of the Group leader team take charge of social responsibility work respectively, with the Strategy Research Department acting as the Realize the value maintenance and Implement the relevant leading one and other departments working in cooperation; on the level of various funded enterprises, increase of state-owned assets, improve requirements of the SASAC, corporate governance structure, focus the departments, people and contacts responsible for social responsibility have been determined. Exercising the authority on the owner, improve the enterprise’s prepare the Company’s relevant SASAC of investor on behalf of regulations and systems, work international competitiveness, actively the State reports, and submit statistical implement the State’s policies on energy ● Improving the social responsibility planning conservation and emission reduction, and statements and financial statements etc. realize green operation Initially prepare the overall planning for the social responsibility work of the Group in the next three years, and explore the establishment of a corporate social responsibility objective management system. Protect employees’ rights and interests, Establish labor unions of various provide stable employment opportunities levels, regularly hold employees’ All employees of the and equitable and reasonable payment ● Establishing social responsibility system Employees Company guarantee, improve employees’ career representative meeting, and establish smooth internal Develop regulations such as the CNMC Regulations on the Compilation and Use of Social development channels, and provide safe communication channels, etc. and healthy work environment Responsibility Reports and the CNMC Measures on the Management of External Donations. Abide by commitments, provide highClosely communicate with clients, Users purchasing the quality and low-price products and strictly perform contracts, and Clients Group’s products or Communications on Sustainable Development services services, and realize equal cooperation for provide rich production service information, etc. mutual benefits ● Deepening the coverage of internal employee communications Suppliers, contractors, Strategic cooperation Conduct social responsibility training to integrate the concept and management of sustainable financial institutions, Abide by business ethics, laws and negotiations, high-level development into various links of enterprise operation and improve employees’ responsibility awareness. research institutions regulations, establish long-term Partners meetings, fair and open biddings, and consulting partnership and realize mutual benefit and regular business exchanges, and institutions, among win-win regular visits, etc. ● Expanding external stakeholders’ communication channels others Prepare and release the Group social responsibility report and social responsibility reports for countries in Zambia and Myanmar etc.; conduct social responsibility communication activities and strengthen Holders of the shares Accurately and timely disclose Continue to improve the Company’s value, and bonds of the information, pay regular visits, communication with key regions. Investors and creditors prevent and control risks, operate stably, Company and its release annual reports and hold repay debts on schedule, and pay bonus subordinate enteritises shareholders’ meeting, etc. ● Enhancing the impact of international social responsibility Sign a co-construction In July 2013, the Company successfully acceded to the United Nations Global Compact, so as to Promote the capability of sustainable Places where the agreement, participate in development of community economy, participate in more international social responsibility affairs, build a responsible image globally and business and operation community project construction, Community and Public support social welfare cause, and protect of the Company are have regular communications enhance the Company’s international impact. community environment, to realize joint located and conduct co-construction development activities, etc. Further Reading International and Strengthen information domestic nondisclosure, actively participate The United Nations Global Compact was proposed by Former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the governmental Protect the environment and support in relevant meetings or activities Social organizations organizations, industry public welfare activities, etc. of environmental protection, and Davos World Economic Forum on January 31, 1999, who called on enterprises to cooperate with public associations and local continuously improve production institutions such as governments to jointly cope with various challenges in the course of globalization and organizations, etc. processes and technologies, etc. participate in solving major world problems. In July 2000, the Office of the United Nations Global Compact was officially established in the UN headquarters, which advocates that enterprises should abide by ten principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Currently, the United Nations Various newspapers, Strengthening information Global Compact has become the largest and most influential international organization and communication Media magazines, TV and Information disclosure and transparency disclosure and enhancing platform in the field of international social responsibility. network media, etc. operation transparency, etc. 16 17 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Social Recognition Global Operations Create Awards Awarding Units Sustainable Value Advanced Collective and Labor Model of Central Enterprises MOHRSS and SASAC of the State Council Advanced Unit of Poverty Relief and Development of Central SASAC and Poverty Relief Office of the State Council Enterprises CNMC deepens international operations to create a world class Award of Scientific and Technological Innovation Enterprise SASAC of the State Council enterprise with international competitiveness with sustainable operation, extends the industrial chain of nonferrous metals resource development so as to provide high-quality products and 2013 Excellent Social Responsibility Practice of Central SASAC of the State Council services for social development and cooperate with stakeholders Enterprise to build a nice future. 2012 Advanced Unit of Central Enterprises in Financial SASAC of the State Council Statements Management Department in charge of trade and economy of China and ASEAN ten Sion-ASEAN Expo Tenth Anniversary Partnership Excellent nations, ASEAN Secretariat, and People’s Government of Guangxi Zhuang Contribution Award Autonomous Region China Nonferrous Metal Industry Scientific and Technological China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association Award China Nonferrous Metals Society First Prize of Excellent Results of Corporate Management of China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association the Chinese Nonferrous Metal Industry Development and Research Center of the State Council Chinese Enterprise R&D Creativity Award China Enterprise Evaluation Association Ten Top Figures of Independent Innovation in Chinese Development and Research Center of the State Council Enterprises-Luo Tao China Enterprise Evaluation Association National Advanced Unit of Industrial Transparent and National Industrial Democracy Coordination Group Democratic Management China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation Excellent Case of International Social Responsibility China NGO Network for International Exchanges Best Practice of Chinese Network Social Responsibility of the United Nations Global Compact China Network United Nations Global Compact WTO Economic Herald, China-German Trade Sustainable Development Golden Bee 2013 Excellent Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Behavior Code Project Peking University International Report-Innovative Report Award Research Center for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development ● Wharf of Tagaung Taung Nickel Mine, Myanmar 18 19 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Steadily Upgrading Operation Performance We like to congratulate you on your satisfactory achievements. We wish that you keep reforming and innovating, vigorously develop the enterprise through solid In face of the grim situation of sluggish demand and reduced prices of the global nonferrous work, and actively fulfill the responsibilities of a central enterprise, so as to make new metals industry, CNMC has taken initiative to grasp development opportunities, adjusted operation contributions to the quality improvement, efficiency enhancement and performance strategies, sought progress while maintaining stability, overcame many difficulties to realize scale upgrading of our economy. upgrading with high quality and performance upgrading with endogenous driving force and score new achievements in reform and development. ——Li Keqiang, Premier of the State Council and Member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee Operation Performance Hit a New Record High In 2013, we made concerted efforts to overcome the adverse impact of the economic situation and Continuous Optimization of Resource Layout industrial downturn and realize stable upgrading of operation performance. By the end of 2013, Through resource project M&A, co-development and project in exchange for resources and the total assets of the Group Company had amounted to RMB 112.641 billion, and its business long-term trade agreement, we have acquired and controlled high-quality mineral resources; revenues RMB 190.009 billion. In the sector of construction engineering, the contract amount of by deepening production and searching for mines in the depth and peripherals of mines under newly signed projects in the whole year hit RMB 24.415 billion, increasing by 100.22% y/y; our trade construction, we have expanded the reserves of utilizable resources, and by sustainable resource business saw continuous development and expansion, which provided important guarantee to the development, we have guaranteed the resource supply meeting social development. As a result, marketing, purchase, customs clearance and logistics of overseas projects of the Group Company. ongoing optimization of resource layout has been realized. In 2013, the output of nonferrous products of the Company amounted to 1.5522 million tons, among which the output of domestic products in China was 1.1865 million tons, and that of overseas products 365.7 thousand tons. Construction engineering Relevant trade and services Development of nonferrous metals resources Legends 2013 resource reserves Cu 11,572,400 ton Co 248,400 ton Zn 5,453,600 ton Pb 1,721,000 ton Ni 680,000 ton Au 4,692,500 ton Business revenues Unit: RMB 1 billion Total assets Unit: RMB 1 billion The output of nonferrous metals product Unit: ton Ag 77,513,300 ton 200 190.01 120 112.64 2,000,000 104.74 150 152.35 100 1,500,000 1,552,200 W 366,300 ton 80 1,326,000 71.57 1,094,000 60 52.79 1,000,000 100 64.08 41.75 623,000 Sn 48,200 ton 40 510,000 45.48 500,000 50 27.49 20 0 0 0 Mo 119,900 ton 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 20 21 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Explore a Sustainable Operation Model Industrial Chain Sustainable Development Models By relying on the advantages of three core businesses, we implement the concept of industrial On the basis of a sound industrial chain integrating nonferrous metals prospecting, design, chain sustainable development in the whole business process. By technological renovation and construction, mining, beneficiation, smelting, processing, equipment manufacturing, trade and searching for mines in depth, we improve the resource utilization efficiency of each link, and through relevant services, CNMC has developed sustainable development models such as industrial chain planning and management of the Group, we bring into play the role of industrial chain synergism, sustainable development, regional sustainable development, to service economic and social optimize resource allocation among links, realize efficient utilization of nonferrous metals resources, development with more friendly and sustainable methods of resource utilization. promote the development of the industrial value chain towards high technologies and high added value, and thus consolidate the Company’s leadership in the industry. Equipment manufacturing Mining Smelting Break through the Design Develop key Comprehensive key technology technologies utilization of bottleneck Stress low-carbon for efficiently mineral resources constraining Exploration green design, intensify utilizing lowProcessing to improve the Deep processing the R&D of Logistics energy conservation quality mines, metallurgical and Upgrade the and emission smelting recycling Improve production mining products, and trade improve mineral By applying new rate; technological level reduction, safety resource efficiency by optimize the By optimizing technologies, of prospecting, and environmental utilization technological metallurgical and resource Construction we obviously Implement and improve the protection; efficiency by innovation such a mining series of allocation improve the energy-saving comprehensive recycling lowonline continuous equipments, to information, Stick to green quality of technical utilization efficiency of Keep improving quality ores, annealing improve resource promote the construction, finished ores improvement mineral resources by the transformation and extend the technology, to utilization efficiency; seamless and reduce the and beneficiation to reduce searching for mines rate of scientific and servicing years reduce resource integration environmental recycling rate; comprehensive in the depth and technological results of mines; consumption and Improve of various peripherals of existing impact of energy through the production, save energy; environmental enterprises in mines. construction; Recycle consumption; learning and research Underground beneficiation protection the industrial platform and by backfill using wastewater to Promote the performance chain. Improve Recycle most supporting design with of junk ores, so improve the construction of through construction of the waste research and promoting that junk ores utilization rate ERP system to advanced efficiency with residues, waste research by design. will not appear of nonferrous realize intensive technology. new construction gas and waste on the ground. metals and management of methods; water, and the emit reduce water production cost. the remainder in waste and accordance with Control quality environmental through supervision. standard pressure. ● Operational Ecology Chart of Industry Chain Sustainable Development Mode 22 23 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Regional Sustainable Development Model Mineral resources are non-renewable. By the development of nonferrous metals resources, we drive local economic growth and social development, improve local infrastructure, enhance the professional qualifications of local residents, provide job opportunities for local residents, and bring along the formation and clustered development of relevant industries, logistics and trade in the region so that the reliance of local economic development on mineral resources is gradually reduced, By active exploration of mineral projects in Zambia, Congo (Kinshasa), Myanmar and Mongolia, regional modes sustainable development of special characteristics have been developed. CASE Zambia-China Economic and Trade Cooperation Zone (ZCCZ) Drives Regional Development The Zambia-China Economic and Trade Cooperation Zone (ZCCZ) is the first multi-functional economic zone in Zambia, reputed as a “paragon of China-Africa cooperation”. The Zambia-China Economic and Trade Cooperation Zone, which includes the Chambishi Park and the Lusaka Park, is planned to cover an area of 17.28 square kilometers. Chambishi Park relying on the rich nonferrous metals mineral resource advantages of Zambia, and constructing a comprehensive park focusing on the nonferrous metals industry with radiation and demonstration effects, the ZCCZ has comprehensively improved the technological level and production, operation and management levels of mining, beneficiation, smelting and processing in Zambia, upgraded the development of industries such as food processing, bio-pharmaceuticals, and machinery processing in Zambia, created a multi-cultural investment and development environment, provided new job opportunities and improved local capabilities of sustainable development and the life quality of local people. On September 3, 2013, Premier Li Keqiang listened to the CNMC report in the Tenth China-ASEAN Expo By the end of 2013, 28 enterprises had settled in the ZCCZ, involving industries such as mining, prospecting, smelting, nonferrous metals processing, chemical manufacturing, architecture and trade; the total investments in infrastructure amounted to about USD 150 million, the sales revenues realized were USD 7.9 billion, output value Creating a Quality Brand Image created reached USD 8.4 billion, and 8,618 job opportunities were provided to local residents. CNMC sticks to the quality development strategy of “quality first and success through quality”, keeps improving professional quality management measures, actively serves funded enterprises and helps enterprises improve their quality management level. The Company integrates the wholeZCCZ is the best interpreter of the all-weather friendship of China and Zambia! course quality ideas into each link of production and operation, strives to realize the “zero defect” ——Kaunda, former Zambia President quality objective, constructs first-class corporate quality culture and industrial brand, improve the quality management system and quality integrity system, and meets client demand with excellent nonferrous metals products and project construction services. The Myanmar Tagaung Nickel Mine Project is “an outstanding project in China-Myanmar cooperation” and “witness of the traditional friendship between China and Myanmar”. We Continuous Improvement of Quality System will go all out to support the development of CNMC in Myanmar. Myanmar will, with a more open manner and stable development, attract and welcome Chinese companies to continue We have incorporated quality development into the overall planning of the Group Company for to participate in the economic construction of Myanmar and jointly promote the lasting, coordinated arrangements. Centering around the overall work objective of the Company, we have healthy and stable development of comprehensive strategic partnership between China and established a quality supervision system and guarantee system, fulfilled quality management Myanmar. responsibilities, promoted quality benchmarking management, improved quality information report ——Myanmar President Thein Sein mechanism, and keep improving our product quality and project construction quality. By the end of 2013, nearly 90% of the funded enterprises had passed the ISO9000 management system. Zambia-China Economic and Trade Cooperation Zone--the first overseas economic and trade cooperation zone established by China in Africa Continuous Improvement of Brand Value We keep strengthening quality management, gradually break down quality supervision responsibilities and identify weaknesses in quality management work. By strengthening team quality management, we have realized “indexing of product quality, standardization of product quality, sequencing of equipment operation, and digitalization of production assessment”. Various forms of quality management activities such as “quality month” theme exhibition activities are organized to enhance employees’ quality awareness, and allocate responsibilities each each link and position. 24 25 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices We keep improving our product quality and project construction quality and upgrading our quality management performance. As a result, we have created a number of famous enterprises such as Daye Nonferrous, NFC, CNMC Orient, China No. 15 Metallurgical Construction, CNMC Alberter, Guilin Research Institute, Shenyang Metallurgical Machinery, CNMC Pump Industry, and Tieling Reagent, and a large number of famous product brands such as “Dajiang”, “Baoshan”, “Hongye”, “Bajiao”, “Feidie”, “Kuangyou”, “Ao” and “Zhujiang”. Brand value-added effect has been created Innovative management promotes restructuring through high-quality products. Dedicated to Creating Quality Assured Projects and upgrading We attach great importance to the quality management, perfect the construction of quality management systems for project contracting, identify and break down the major processes CNMC drives technological innovation through management of breakdown projects and their sub-processes, promote all-people and all-course quality innovation, provides system support for technological management, improve the qualifications of affiliated construction enterprises, and create quality innovation by improving management systems, drive enterprise assured projects for our clients. development through technological innovation, and improve production and operation level by improving technological level. By the end of 2013, China No. 15 Metallurgical Construction Co., Ltd. (CN15MCC) had won several awards for its high-quality projects, including Luban Award for Chinese Construction Projects, National High-quality Project Award, and Construction Structure High-quality Project; and NFC has been rated among “Top 225 International Contractors” and “Top 200 Design Companies” by Engineering News-Record for several consecutive years. Work with Partners to Create Value Centering around business development layout, CNMC brings into full play its own resources, management and technological advantages, deepens its cooperation with stakeholders such as various levels of governments, suppliers and clients, to create new global partnership, keep raising cooperation levels, expand cooperation fields, and guide suppliers and other business partners to actively fulfill social responsibilities, in efforts to jointly promote the healthy development of the global nonferrous industry. Establish strategic cooperation framework, Support local Improve corporate cooperation with development governments fund operation efficiency, prevent cooperation cooperation between with Co-development and financial risks banks and counterparts utilization of technological enterprises resources to promote industrial development cooperation customer with service suppliers Conduct responsible Establish a client purchase, service system, guide suppliers’ enhance clients’ sustainable satisfaction development ● Copper belt production line of CNMC Albetter 26 27 2013 Sustainability SustainabilityReport Report Sustainable Development Practices In 2013, the Company started the construction of 15 new projects such as ERP, BI, comprehensive budget management, collaborative office, network security system, video conference reconstruction and production safety IT application, and solved over 1000 application problems in systems such as ERP; over 110 thousand main data were maintained; terminals were maintained for nearly 600 times; video meetings were guaranteed for over 30 times; and over 4000 pieces of information were updated and released. Through various methods, a total of about RMB 8.82 million was saved. Promote Team Management Mode Centering on team construction ,we promote management upgrading in grassroots units, and conduct activities such as on-site experience exchanges on team construction, so as to comprehensively enhance the team management capabilities of funded enterprises. In 2013, the Company had 131 team leaders who participated in the long-distance training of team Cathode copper production workshop of Daye Nonferrous management capability qualification certification of central enterprises. By the end of 2013, 690 team leaders of 17 funded enterprises had participated in the training. CASE CNMC Albetter Team Construction Continuous Deepening of Management Upgrading CNMC Albetter Albronze Co., Ltd. (CNMC Albetter), makes major efforts to implement semi-military team management of “operation standardization, post standardization and process clarification”. The overall CNMC has promoted corporate development with management innovation. The problems and risks objective of work content indexing, work requirement standardization, work process sequencing, work assessment digitalization and work management systemization has been realized. in corporate management have been sorted out and rectified; in efforts to “upgrade management specifically”. The Company actively implements the overall deployment of the SASAC of the Special efforts on “standardization”: Vigorously promote team standardization, popularize kanban management and visual management, implement “fixed index”, and comprehensively promote “benchmark” State Council about management upgrading, to accelerate the transformation of the management team construction. methods of the Group Company from extensive management to intensive and refined management. Comprehensively promoting “process clarification”: Simplify contents and compile Collection of Team Construction Process “Clarification”; further promotion and practice of “semi-military” management before and during meetings, so as to attain the objective of “clearly expressing processes and skillful operation without the least error”. Rolling Adjustment of Strategic Planning Actively creating a pragmatic team culture atmosphere: Make efforts to upgrade the skills of the employees in a team, change the traditional lecturing methods in accordance with the characteristics of team leaders, We have organized various departments of the headquarters and 24 main funded enterprises to adjust encourage team members with “Sword Action”, establish an employee tracking service mechanism, creating their three-year development strategy and planning on a rolling basis, further standardized the compilation family culture, and further enhance employees’ sense of ownership. of strategic planning of funded enterprises, regularly surveyed the implementation of strategies by funded Strengthening supervision mechanism: According to the requirements of the Measures of CNMC Albetter enterprises, promote “two improvements and one reduction”, which have vigorously promoted the Albronze Co., Ltd. On Evaluating Team Construction”, conduct supervision and check to effectively improvement of efficiency. promote the solid and effective proceeding of team construction work. In 2013, the CNMC Development Strategy and Planning 2013-2015 was submitted to the SASAC of the State Council, which was also issued to various departments and funded enterprises. Effectively Strengthening Financial Management Promote IT Application Management We keep strengthening financial management and improving the Group Company’s comprehensive budget management system. We have started the comprehensive budget management IT application We spare no efforts to promote IT application, and strengthen the integration of IT application pilot work and completed and launched the budget compilation system testing work. We continuously development and Group development. With “Five Unification” management of IT application as the optimize the function and applications of the financial ERP system, conduct financial performance starting point, we focus efforts to build an operation system integrating “management, construction, evaluation to promote the “two improvements and one reduction” of funded enterprises, strengthen fund maintenance and application”, combine the ERP corporate information management system with management, improve accounting information management, and promote the reduction of cost and Internet information, By data integration sharing and process optimization, we have improved decisionincrease of efficiency, so as to realize the healthy development of the Company. making efficiency, upgraded information service quality and the ability to guarantee IT application operation and maintenance services, and effectively supported the Group to realize the strategic In 2013, the Company won the “Best Comprehensive Budget Management Award” in the awarding objective of “creating a world class mining group” by strengthening IT application. ceremony of the “Oracle Hyperion Ten-Year Lean Financial Classic Cases”. 28 29 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Strengthening Management of Operation Risks We strengthen the guidance on the construction of internal control systems of funded enterprises, to upgrade their capabilities to prevent risks and vigorously prevent uncontrollable risks caused by trade business and new derivatives. CASE Funded Enterprises Established a “Legal Saloon” in Zambia On October 18, 2013, the “Legal Saloon” of CNMC Enterprises in Zambia was officially established, for the purpose of effectively integrating CNMC’s overseas legal resources through this platform, establishing a benign interactive mechanism among funded enterprises in Zambia and between domestic and overseas enterprises, strengthening concentrated research on the regularity of general, multiple and major legal risks, and jointly exploring unified solutions. Zambia-China Economic and Trade Cooperation Zone Development Co., Ltd. (ZCCZ Development Company) acts as the secretarygeneral unit of the “legal saloon”, responsible for organizing the monthly communication activities of Multi-functional set exported to Iceland from Shenyang Metallurgical Machinery the funded enterprises of the Group Company in Zambia. Further Promoting Technological Innovation CNMC closely combines technological innovation with corporate development, organizes the implementation of technological plans and projects, makes great efforts to strengthen the transformation of technological results, promotes corporate performance with science and technology. Improving the Technological Innovation System 1200 KV electrical shaft furnace of CNMC Orient ● Establishing a technological Innovation Platform Building a Technical Talent Team We step up efforts in constructing the technological innovation system and establish technological innovation platforms. Starting from project sources, we bring into plan the supporting and guiding We strengthen the development of professional technical talent teams centering on leading technical role of technological plans and projects of the Group for the sustainable development of funded professionals. By further improving technological innovation assessment and incentive mechanism, enterprises, gradually establish and upgrade multi-level technological R&D platforms at national, we provide excellent research conditions for technical talents, and keep improving the total number, provincial and enterprise levels. quality and structure of technical talents. By the end of 2013, the Company had 2 academicians of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, 11 influential figures in the Chinese nonferrous metals By the end of 2013, the Company had 7 research and design institutes, 3 national engineering industry, 124 experts entitled to special government subsidy, 9 national candidates for the New technology research centers, 3 national corporate technological centers, 2 national accredited Century Talents Project, and 6,741 technical talents with senior professional titles. laboratories, 11 provincial and nonferrous metals industry engineering technology research centers,6 provincial corporate technological centers, 6 provincial and nonferrous metals industry key laboratories,1 CASE provincial R&D center, 3 academician work stations, and 5 postdoctoral research work stations. GIMR Established an Academician Work Station ● Increasing Input in Technological Innovation On September 26, 2013, the CNMC Guilin Institute for Mineral Resources (GIMR) officially established a academician work station, and CAE academicians Wu Yicheng and Chen Yuchuan We keep increasing input in technological innovation, conduct special on-site research, determine joined the work station. Vice Director Li Guozhong of the Department of Science and Technology of key support areas through technological plans and projects, and guide funded enterprises to Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region congratulated the establishment of GIMR, one of the first batch actively conduct technological innovation. In 2013, the Company invested a total of RMB 2.752 of 60 accredited academician’s work stations in Guangxi. billion in R&D. 30 31 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices The academician’s work station is an important measure for the party committee of the government of the autonomous region for establishing a highlevel technological innovation platform, strengthening cooperation of production, learning and research, and upgrading independent innovation capability. We wish the GIMR further strengthen the construction of the academician work station, organize resources, provide guarantee for talents, finance and materials, fulfill responsibilities, and adopt effective measures to serve research cooperation. ——Vice Director Li Guozhong of the Department of Science and Technology of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Advanced production line in the CNMC Students of Cambrian College, Canada visited the Shenyang Research Institute for internship and academic exchanges Promoting Integration of Production, Learning and Research We attach great importance to the integration of production, learning and research and actively expand channels for the cooperation of production, learning and research for funded enterprises. We have signed strategic cooperation agreements with institutes of higher education such as Central South University and University of Science and Technology Beijing to create active and health atmosphere of cooperation of production, learning and research, promote product upgrading and technical innovation of funded enterprises, and realize the combination of endogenous capability of technological innovation and application of external resources. In recent years, the number of production, learning and research projects conducted by the funded enterprises of the Company and the amount invested therein have been gradually increasing. Membrane pumps produced by CNMC Pump The National special Mineral Material Engineering Technology CNMC cooperation projects of Fund invested by CNMC in production, Research Center of the Guilin Institute for Mineral Resources production, learning and research Unit: item learning and research Unit: RMB 1 million 100 100 90 86 79.69 84.18 Significant Results of Technological Innovation 80 80 We keep strengthening management of technological projects. In fields such as nonferrous metals 60 60 mining, beneficiation, smelting, processing and equipment manufacturing, we have developed a 39 number of core technologies with independent intellectual property rights, to provide new impetus for the 40 34 40 29.11 25.51 sustainable development of the enterprise. 20 20 In 2013, the Company organized all the funded enterprises for result appraisal. Among the 11 0 0 results, 2 results reached international leading level, and 9 reached international advanced level; 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 altogether 360 patents were applied, including 161 invention patents; 274 patents were awarded, Investments of CNMC in production, learning and research including 56 invention patents. By the end of 2013, the number of patents awarded for every thousand people in the Company was 20, including 4 invention patents, and the rate of patent CASE implementation reached 78.7%. CNICO “Key Technology Development Project of Efficient Utilization of Low-Quality Nickel Laterites” Passed Quality Acceptance CASE On March 26, 2013, the national major industrial technology development project sponsored by CNMC, undertaken by CNMC Nickel Co., Ltd. (CNICO), and jointly partaken by Central South University A result of CNMC Luanshya won the First Prize of Scientific and Shenyang Nonferrous Metals Research Institute (Shenyang Research Institute)--“Key Technology Progress of the Chinese Nonferrous Metals Industry of 2013 Development Project of Efficient Utilization of Low-Quality nickel laterites” successfully passed the On November 22, 2013, as the No. 1 unit in the 2013 Chinese Nonferrous Metals Industry Scientific and acceptance check by the expert group. This project has solved the technical difficulty of low quality nickel Technological Award appraisal, CNMC won 16 awards of scientific and technological results, among and iron ores, which are susceptible to reaction with impurities, making it difficult for nickel to concentrate which the result of “Research and Industrialization of Leach Smelting Process of Complex Copper Oxide and separate. A nickel iron pilot plant test line with an annual output of 3,000 tons has been established. The Mine in Mulyashi of Zambia” led and completed by CNMC Luanshya won the first prize of the scientific recycling rate of nickel in the whole course of magnetic selection and smelting has reached 85.42%, and and technological award of the Chinese nonferrous metals industry. This was the fourth time on a row that the smelting waste gas up-to-standard emission and comprehensive utilization of waste residues have been funded enterprises in Zambia won first prizes in this award. realized, providing key technical reserves for the development of low-quality nickel laterites in Tagaung. 32 33 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices ● Appraisal of results of technological innovation by CNMC funded enterprises in 2013 2 results： International Research and Industrialization of Leach Smelting Process of Complex Copper Oxide Mine in leading level Mulyashi of Zambia; New process of recycling silver, gold and zine from wet zinc smelting high zinc leaching residue . 9 results: R&D of smart crown block for aluminum electrolysis With super current intensity (600KA); Innovation and application of integration of Ausmelt smelting system in Daye Nonferrous Smelting Plant; New process of O/A/O biochemical process of comprehensive wastewater from the beneficiation reagent production; Ore process mineralogy research and beneficiation application of the west ore body of International the Chambishi Copper Mine in Zambia; advanced level Beneficiation process technology optimization research and application of the Baruba Copper Mine in Zambia; Research, development and industrialization of high precision red copper thin and soft belt; R&D and industrialization of 300mm silicon slice process sputtering target materials; Clean and efficient packaged technologies and equipments for copper oxygen-enriched side-blown smelting; R&D of key technologies for high-precision large heavy beryllium bronze plate, sheet and strip. ● Results of technological innovation of CNMC in 2013 Won the first “Technological Innovation Enterprise Award” of the SASAC; Won 19 technological progress awards of the China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association, of 16 awards were won with CNMC playing the leading role; Technological awards Won the 2013 “Independent Innovation • R&D Creativity Award”; Won 3 national technological progress awards as participating unit; Won 5 provincial technological awards, of which 4 were won with CNMC playing the leading role. Green Development and Undertaking technological Undertake 4 national 863 and technological support plan projects; Undertake 54 provincial and ministerial technological plan projects; Environmental Protection projects Undertake 2 national defense and military project research tasks; CNMC adopts advanced technologies to improve mineral resource utilization rate, strengthens energy conservation and emission reduction management, strives to reduce the environmental impact Participating Direct 1 national standard, and participate in the compilation of 5 national standards; in standard of operation, realizes green development. compilation Direct 4 industrial standard, and participate in the compilation of 11 industrial standards. ● The tailing pond of the Mulyashi project of CNMC Luanshya becomes a paradise of migratory birds 34 35 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Continuous Improvement of Deep Utilization of Mineral Resources Environmental Performance CNMC stress on the sustainable development and utilization of mineral resources. In 2013, the “CNMC Special Plan for Resource Comprehensive Utilization (2013-2015)” was launched. CNMC has established the objective of green development, improved the “three systems” Relevant funded enterprises actively improved their processes, to realize full exploitation, efficient for energy conservation and emission reduction, i.e., statistics, monitoring and assessment, beneficiation and deep use of low-quality ores; developed diversified mineral products by recycling comprehensively fulfilled the energy conservation objective for the Period of the “Twelfth Fiveassociated metals, using waste residues and liquid to make cement and plaster; improved tailings Year Plan”, promoted resource comprehensive utilization, actively conducted energy auditing and recycling technology and improved the metal recycling rate in tailings. environmental protection risk assessment, strengthened energy conservation and environmental protection monitoring, and improved emergency management of emergency environmental In 2013, the Hongtoushan Copper Mine of CNMC Fushun Hongtoushan Mining Co., Ltd. (Hongtou incidents. In 2013, the environmental protection performance of the Company was further improved, Mining) and the Coral Mine of CNMC (Guangxi) Pgma Co., Ltd. (Pgma) won the title of “model and 100% of the energy conservation objective for enterprises in the Period of the “Twelfth Fivemines for the promotion and application of advanced applicable technologies of mineral resource Year Plan” was fulfilled; no environmental pollution incident occurred. saving and comprehensive utilization”. CASE Pgma develops circular economy industrial chain network CNMC (Guangxi) Pgma Co., Ltd. (Pgma) vigorously develops circular economy. In 2013, the company Total energy consumption 10,000 used 2,837 ton of waste residues and beneficiation tailings in the production of cement; used 4,032 ton of standard coal titanium gypsum produced from the treatment of titanium dioxide waste water; completed the technical 181.54 million ton 10,000 output value (comparable price) reconstruction of coral mine ultra-thin ore vein beneficiation method, and successfully recycled resources Comprehensive energy Comprehensive energy such as copper, zinc, sulfide ore and associated tungsten and tin. It established circular economy industrial consumption (standard coal) consumption amount chain network such as “nonferrous metals smelting--smelting residues, boiler residues--cement”, and the 0.27 ton (standard coal) solid waste recycling rate and harmless treatment rate both reached 100%. Reduced by 9.03% 157.97 million ton CASE Daye Nonferrous realizes comprehensive recycling of various valuable metals Daye Nonferrous Metals Group Co., Ltd. (Daye Nonferrous) extracts precious metals such as gold, silver as chemical oxygen well as platinum, palladium and tellurium from waste residues and liquids in the course of copper smelting. Ammonia nitrogen demand It recycles platinum and palladium from anode sludge of copper electrolysis, with a direct recycling rate of emission (COD) emission about 50-60%; recycles rhenium from flue gas washing waste acid of the acid-making with gas with copper 73.74 ton 2013 Environmental 491.52 ton fire, with a comprehensive direct recycling rate of about 50%; the rhenium output is about 600 kg/year. In 2013, the company developed the construction tellurium refining system, with a direct tellurium recycling Reduced by 1.72% performance Reduced by rate of about 30%; with the adoption of the Ausmelt furnace oxygen-enriched top-blown bath smelting 0.82% process, the copper, gold and silver technical indexes rose by 0.03%, 7.3% and 1.03% respectively from 2012, and the comprehensive recycling of various valuable metals was realized. CO2 Ausmelt furnace of Daye Nonferrous Nitric oxide emission SO2 CO2 emission 1,188.38 ton 2.3096 million ton Reduced by 12.01% SO2 emission 21,571 ton Reduced by1.24% 36 37 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Practice Green Low-Carbon Economy CNMC actively implements the State’s policies on energy conservation and emission reduction, conducts technical reconstruction for energy conservation and emission reduction and has realized recycling of “three wastes” and up-to-standard emission; conducts green construction to reduce the impact of project construction on surroundings; promotes comprehensive utilization of water resources, strengthens the environmental protection management of tailings ponds, keeps reclaiming mines and strives to protect eco-systems and bio-diversity. Promoting Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction in the Group We actively promote energy conservation and emission reduction. We have released the Interim Regulations of the Group Company on Reporting of Information on Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction and revised the Measures on Performance Assessment of Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction to incorporate environmental protection responsibilities into performance assessment. We vigorously engage in R&D of environmental protection technologies, extensively apply new technologies of energy conservation and emission reduction, promote the recycling of “three wastes” in the course of production and operation, and realize up-to-standard emissions. In 2013, the Company realized all the objectives of energy conservation and emission reduction; CNMC Albetter was awarded the title of “2013 Low-carbon Contributing Unit in Shandong; Daye Nonferrous won the title of “National Leading Enterprise among Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Pioneers”. Isa Furnace of CCS CASE CASE CNMC Luanshya Strengthens Management of Energy Use Copper Smelting Company successfully invests in the gas CNMC Luanshya has strengthened the objective management in the course of energy use. The recycling environmental protection project Company’s energy average utilization rate rose from 72.58% in 2012 to 85.81% in 2013. By adopting The sulfuric acid II system of the supporting system of the Phase II expansion project of Chambishi effective measures, the wind supply reduced by 14.02% from the first half year, the three sand pump Copper Smelting Co., Ltd. (CCS) of China Nonferrous Mining Corporation Limited has been electric motors of the primary pump station of the tailings transportation system saved over 1/3 of successfully put into production. The sulfuric acid II system can recycle gas for large comprehensive energy. The Mulyshi Leach Smelting Plant recycled residue steam emitted from the upper part of the smelting projects. Also, the sulfuric acid II system has further optimized the configuration of processes cold water, which can improve heat efficiency by about 10.2%. The above measures alone can save and equipments and improved the safe operation capability and recycling rate of the complete 4,880 KWh electricity each year. equipment, so that the sulfuric acid recycling and production capacity of the CCS has risen from 280 thousand ton/year in the first phase to 600 thousand ton/year, and the damage of hazardous gas emission to the environment has been effectively reduced. CASE Daye Nonferrous Ausmelt Furnace Saves Energy and Reduces Emission CASE Daye Nonferrous strengthens the application and research of Ausmelt smelting technologies so that the process technical indexes of Ausmelt Furnace keep improving. Over the three years since the Ausmelt NFCA efficiently exploits mineral resources Furnace put into operation, the annual crude bronze output reaches over 200 thousand ton, and the Over the 15 years since the takeover of the Chambishi Copper Mine by CNMC Africa Mining Co., Ltd. recycling rate of copper smelting reaches 98.8%; the comprehensive energy consumption of crude (NFCA), the company has been continuously improving the technical index of beneficiation process and copper reduces from 578 kg standard coal to 319 kg standard coal, saving 49 thousand ton of standard improving the beneficiation recycling rate and ore concentrate quality. The level and coverage of automatic coals each year; the overall rate of sulfur reaches 99.1%, the water circular utilization rate reaches beneficiation operation have been substantially upgraded. In 2013, with the joint efforts of all Chinese and 96.5%, and upon the confirmation of the environmental protection department, the emission of SO2 is Zambian employees, NFCA realized a beneficiation recycling rate of 93.5% at the end of the year. reduced by 36.1 thousand ton each year. 38 39 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Comprehensive Green Construction We stick to integrating the concept of environmental protection in the course of project construction, stive to reduce environmental impact in each link of project planning, site selection and construction, and ensure that the emission of dust, noise and construction wastes reach the local requirements of environmental protection standard. In 2013, for all the newly constructed, reconstructed and expanded projects of the Company, the environmental assessment rate reached 100%, and the environmental assessment acceptance rate reached 100%. In selecting project site, we do our best to steer clear Keep the site clean and of natural reserves, minimize tidy, and materials are Pay close attention to the the occupation of arable piled orderly; Adopt treatment of pollutants land; actively communicate treatment measures for and wastes with the local community dust and noise Chambishi Leach Smelting Plant Before construction During construction After construction Comprehensive Utilization of Water Resources We attach great importance to saving limited water resources. By measures such as tailings waste CASE water sinking and backflow and treatment of waste liquid from smelting processing, we improve the recycling rate of industrial waste water and reduce the consumption of water resources. At the CNMC Nickel Constructed a Model Project of Power same time, we keep taking samples from rivers and underground water outside the and testing Transmission Route them, so as to ensure that water sources are free from pollution. In 2013, the industrial wastewater In the design of the power transmission route for the CNMC Tagaung Taung Nickel Mine, Myanmar Project, in recycling rate of the Company reached 63.71%. order to prevent the primitive forests along the route from being damaged, the tall tower was adopted in the design of pylon types, and the pylon passing the forest was heightened from 40 m to 60-80 m. This design alone resulted in an over USD 3 million increase of investment, but such a measure helps preserve several million square meters CASE of primitive forest for Myanmar. Besides, full consideration is given to the forest in the location design of power transmission route, and the best effort is made to select more reasonable areas. CNMC Albetter Waste Water Treatment Project This project has been confirmed by the Myanmar government as a model construction project of power CNMC Albetter conscientiously implements all the national laws and regulations on environmental transmission route. Thereafter, the Myanmar Ministry of Electric Power will require all similar power protection and manages to make the treatment of all pollutants up to standard. The enterprise transmission route projects under construction to adopt the construction method of CNMC Nickel. strengthens the treatment of production wastewater. By adjusting wastewater treatment process, the suspensions and COD of wastewater are reduced, with COD reaching about 50 mg/liter, ammonia nitrogen reaching about 4.5mg/liter, and PH about 7. All the water after treatment is recycled, saving water by 180 thousand m3 each year. Strengthening Environmental Protection of Tailings Pond We strengthen the treatment of tailings pond, and strive to minimize the environmental impact of tailings by adopting measures such as multi-level leak-proof design. In 2013, no leakage accident occurred. 0 Leakage accident CASE Leach Company attaches great importance to the environmental protection management of the tailings pond. In 2013, 4 environmental protection dewatering pools were built in the tailings pond, to further optimize the dehydration process. The dehydration efficiency reaches 70%, and 1,300-1,500 m3 production water is saved every day. In this way, the water swelling pressure of the tailings pond, the consumption of acid and lime is reduced, and copper metal loss is decreased. Also, the construction of the 15-A environmentally friendly tailings pond has been completed. 70,000 m2 of HDPE board has been laid, a pond capacity of 400 thousand m3 has been developed, to prevent the leakage of pollutants. Power Transmission Route of Tagaung Taung Nickel Mine, Myanmar 40 41 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Keep Reclaiming Mine Land We have prepared a mine reclaiming and comprehensive rehabilitation scheme. According to the geological conditions of the place where a mine is located, we adopt multiple methods to pertinently increase vegetation coverage. After the completion of mining, we reclaim land by “backfilling of exfoliated waste soil--refitting it into terraced slope according to the topography-building slope protection with stones--covering it with surface soil with humus--planting trees”. In the future, mining and reclaiming will be conducted at the same time each year. Meanwhile, personnel will be specially assigned to maintain and manage such land, regularly check the reclamation, strive to restore and maintain the original ecological environment and minimize the environmental impact of mining. By the end of 2013, the Company’s mine reclamation plan preparation rate was 100%, and the execution rate of reclaiming plan of mines after being exploited was 100%. In 2013, in the comprehensive resource utilization rating of the Ministry of Land and Resources, Hongtoushan Mining, and Chifeng Dajingzi Mining Co., Ltd. (Dajingzi Mining) affiliated to CNMC Shenyang Mining Investment Co., Ltd. (Shenyang Mining) were rated as “Green Mines”; Daye Nonferrous Fengshan Copper Mine was rated among the “Third Batch of National Green Mine Pilot Unit”. Protecting Bio-diversity In the course of operation, we attach great importance to the protection of bio-diversity, strictly observe the relevant laws of the countries where our operation is located, and make special efforts to implement special protection measures in various links of project construction to protect the natural habitats of animals and plants. Before exploitation, we make good plans and arrangements, to avoid exploitation during mating seasons of wildlife; during exploitation, we identify rare animals and plants within the project areas; after exploitation, we regularly implement mining vegetation, and strive to maintain ecological balance. Spreading the Concept of Environmental Protection People-Oriented, Protect CNMC actively practices green office, strengthens publicity on energy conservation and environmental protection, and practices the concept of environmental protection with actions, to Safety and Health boost sustainable development of the environment. CNMC keeps improving the safety management system, promotes the development of safety culture, vigorously We have established a collaboration OA office system to improve the level of office automation, removes and controls hidden problems concerning safety, and promote paperless office, which saves a large quantity of paper; we conduct activities such strengthens the ability of emergency response, pays attention as recycling of waste batteries and ink boxes to reduce office wastes; we save electricity by to employees’ occupational health, and goes all out to create implementing energy management in our office building, and adopting measures such as equipment an essentially safe enterprise. power off after work and airconditioning not lower than 26℃ . In 2013, we saved 162,600° electricity by using LED energy conserving lights in elevator vestibules, staircases and underground parkings, removing 261 lights and reducing lighting equipments for work. We attach great importance to the spread of the concept of environmental protection, actively conduct energy conservation and environmental protection publicity activities in our community, issue manuals for environmental protection to residents in the community, and participate in the 2013 national energy conservation publicity week and national low-carbon day activities, in efforts to create an atmosphere of environmental protection with the participation of all people. ● An employee's daughter were wearing helmet for her father 42 43 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Create a safer and stabler work environment for all employees, and lay a more Implementing Measures of Production Safety solid safety foundation for the family happiness of all employees. CNMC strictly implements the entity responsibilities for production safety, regular conducts checks ——Luo Tao, CNMC General Manager on production safety, establishes “six major systems” for preventing safety risks, keeps improving capabilities for emergency management and upgrading the technological level for safety, and conscientiously implements measures for production safety in the course of production. Strengthening the Basis for Safety Management Conduct Checks on Hidden Safety Problems CNMC has established and improved a production safety management system. In 2013, the Company invested a total of RMB 358.66 million in production safety. There was 0 major production We conduct production safety checks to identify hidden safety problems, draw on experiences and safety accident, 6 ordinary fatal accidents of production safety, in which 6 people died; accident lessons of accidents in other companies, conduct a series of special remediation activities in various mortality rate for RMB 10 billion output value was 0.32, decreasing by 18% y.y, continuing the funded enterprises such as explosion prevention, fire prevention and tailings pond rectification, to downturn trend. The Company successfully passed the production safety performance assessment reduce hidden problems of production safety. of the SASAC of the State Council. In 2013, the Company, in light of the national deployment of major safety check activities, Systemization of Safety Management conducted 2,135 times of safety checks at various levels, which identified 7,528 hidden problems, of which 7,385 problems were rectified, resulting in a rectification rate of 98.1%. We have established a production safety management system of “upper and lower linkage, and horizontal collaboration”, prepared the Company’s plan for production safety and relevant regulations and systems, and strictly implemented the production safety responsibility mechanism. Upgrade Emergency Management Level In 2013, the Company promulgated policies on production safety such as Measures for We attach great importance to the management of emergencies in production safety, prepare and Management of Production Safety Information Reporting, provided opinions on the revision of the improve our emergency management plans, keep improving our emergency management system, national Law on Mine Safety to the SASAC. regularly conduct emergency exercises, to keep upgrading emergency response capabilities and emergency management level. Standardization of Production Safety In 2013, the Company conducted 339 emergency exercises. By the end of 2013, the Company has We take the standardization of production safety as a key measure for upgrading our capability to safeguard compiled 414 emergency plans. production safety. By the end of 2013, the Company’s production safety achieved rate reached 95%, with 22 secondary up-to-standard enterprises and 12 tertiary up-to-standard enterprises. Among the main production businesses that have reached standard, Daye Nonferrous, CNMC (Ningxia) Orient Group Co., Ltd. (CNMC Orient), and CNMC Albetter realized secondary standardization of its main production businesses. IT Application of Production Safety We take the production safety IT application system as an important platform for implementing production safety management. By the end of 2013, the Company established basic business criteria and technical standards for the construction of production safety IT application adapted to the Company reality, and preliminarily completed the development and pilot joint exam work of three major application systems for production safety information management (production safety basic management system, online supervising and monitoring system, and production safety emergency management system). The basic framework for the production safety IT application system has been preliminarily developed. CASE CNMC Established a Production Safety Emergency Command Center In 2013, CNMC established an emergency command center. We conduct production safety work such as on-site precautionary measures to strictly guarantee the operation safety on the production sites by monitoring the operation process of production sites in real time and adopting IT application measures such as safety basic positioning management. CNMC Orient and Dawukou District Government jointly conducted emergency exercises on earthquake, other disasters, and CNMC Production Safety Emergency Command Center leakage of hazardous chemical products 44 45 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Establish a Safety Management System We keep promoting the basic construction work of “six systems” for mine safety and risk prevention, conduct research on production safety technologies, employ technologies such as modern monitoring, risk prevention and ventilation to guarantee employees’ production safety, and keep upgrading the supporting role of technological innovation for production safety. By the end of 2013, the “six systems” for mine safety and risk prevention of five domestic mine enterprises of the Company had all been completed. System self-check was conducted, and applications for government acceptance check had been filed with the local government. Among them, Chifeng CNBC Baiyinnuoer Mining Co., Ltd. And the Dajingzi Mining affiliated to Shenyang Mining had both passed the on-site acceptance of the local safety supervision department. SPECIAL Hongtoushan Mining Established a Mine Rescue Team Further Reading The Hongtoushan Mining Mine Rescue Team has three rescue squads and a fire control squad, with 52 people. It has a tertiary qualification “Mine Rescue Team Qualification Certificate” issued by the Liaoning Supervision & Underground Provincial Administration of Production Safety Supervision. The team is mainly responsible for the Monitoring System Personnel Positioning System emergency rescue in non-coal mines east to Liaoning Province and west to Jilin Province. While coping Super vision: Super vise various In case of an accident, rescue personnel with mine emergencies, the rescue team also follows the government dispatching to engage in emergency environmental safety parameters, may rapidly learn the positions of rescue work such as fire control of the surrounding community to help improve urban safety. parameters of equipment work conditions, relevant personnel according to the data By the end of 2012, the mine rescue team obtained a special fund (RMB 52.65 million) allocated by the and process control parameters, etc. and graph provided by the under hole State to strengthen the construction of the rescue team. In 2013, the rescue team responded to emergency Monitoring: Control the production personnel and equipment positioning for 57 times, mobilizing 285 person-times, including 5 squad-times and 38 person-times for rescue work; equipment and execution organizations of system, timely adopt relevant rescue warning devices of safety apparatuses etc. measures and improve the efficiency of 52 squad-times and 247 person-times for fire fighting. In the “8.16” flood rescue of Fushun area, the rescue team dispatched 369 truck-times for rescue, used 1,869 ton water, mobilized 1,107 person-times, performed emergency rescue. its professional rescue capabilities, and played a key role in preventing water from bursting under hole and Underground Emergency risk maintaining the stability of the tailings pond. communication prevention system contact system Coal mine underground emergency Actively promote the use of underground rescue facilities include self-rescue device, Mine Rescue Team of Hongtoushan Mining Company wireless communication systems and “Six Systems” for rescue capsule, shelter, and water-proof underground broadcasting systems, Safety and Risk fixed shelter. and in time of emergency, timely notify underground personnel to withdraw. Prevention Water supply Compressed air emergency rescue system self-rescue system Set up water supply valves on all The compressed air self rescue equipment excavating work surfaces and places system comprises of air compressor, where other people are concentrated, underground compressed air pipes and various work sites and emergency fixed permanent self-rescue equipment. shelter chambers (sites), to ensure that In case coal and gas outburst or outburst emergency water supply is available for signs, work personnel enter the selfall excavation operating venues during rescue device and open the compressed emergencies. air valve to avoid disaster. CASE Shenyang Design Institute Conducts Production Safety Project Research In 2013, CNMC SY Nonferrous Metallurgy E&R Institute Ltd. (Shenyang Design Institute) conducted the “Research on the Three-Dimensional Simulation Analysis of Complex Network Ventilation and Optimization Method of Ventilation Network of Hongtoushan Copper and Zinc Mine”. The results of the project can improve the quality of the working environment of workers on the site, improve their working conditions and meet the demands of production safety. 46 47 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Actively Publicize Safety Culture By conducting various forms of “production safety month” activities such as warning education, culture publicity and safety consulting, we create a strong cultural atmosphere of production safety and promotes the harmonization of the concept of production safety and employees’ daily work. In 2013, the Group Company organized the solicitation of publicity slogans and proposals from funded enterprises in the “production safety month” activities. Altogether over 380 safety publicity slogans were collected, which laid a foundation for unifying slogans of safety standards. CASE NFCA Rescue Team Won the First Prize in the Zambia National Mine Emergency Rescue Contest In the 8th National Mine Emergency Rescue Contest organized by the Zambia Mining Association, the NFCA rescue team, with its consummate emergency rescue skills and excellent spirits, stood out from 18 representative teams to win the first place for the second time, vividly reflecting the safety concept Holding Production Safety Exercise of “care for life and prevention foremost” constantly followed by NFCA. Attach Importance to Mine Safety Construction We attach great importance to mine safety management and strictly prevent mine safety accidents. Zambia National Mine Emergency Rescue Contest We strictly safeguard mine safety by conducting standardized construction of mines, exercising strict management of underground safety and tailings pond safety, and establishing and improving measures such as emergency response system and supervision and monitoring system. In March 2013, the Company raised hidden problem rectification requirements on the tailings pond of Hongtoushan Mining, such as cleaning spillways and improving displacement monitoring facilities of the tailings pond. The tailings pond after rectification stood the test in the “8.16” serious flooding in 2013, and guaranteed the safety of the mine and its surroundings. Strengthen Contractor’s Safety Supervision In accordance with policies such as the CNMC Measures on the Management of Production Safety and the CNMC Regulations on the Supervision and Management of Construction Engineering Safety, we sign agreements on the management of production safety with subcontracting units, to clarify each party’s safety responsibilities, strengthen the safety control of construction teams, incorporate subcontracting units and labors into enterprise management, strengthen operation process control and strictly control the access and examination of subcontracting teams. Enhancing Production Safety Awareness CNMC brings into full play the guiding role of safety culture, conducts safety culture publicity activities of various forms, steps up efforts in the training of production safety, keeps enhancing the teams’ safety awareness, and accelerates the transformation of the Company’s safety culture management from passive control to independent management. 48 49 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Keep Conducting Safety Training We keep standardizing the safety education training system, strive to realize the normalization and systemization of safety training, and effectively improve the safety awareness, safety qualifications and safety operation capabilities of all employees, especially those working on the front line.In 2013, the Company held 98,070 person-times of production safety training of various types. CASE SMLZ Strictly Conducts Production Safety Training In 2013, SMLZ specially invited teachers recommended by the Zambia Mine Safety Bureau to conduct 6 batches full-time education and training without leaving any gap or dead area within the whole company. The contents of training are divided into six topics, “first aid, fire control, awareness of safety, health and environmental protection, safety management of smelting workshops, risk management and safety operation regulations”. The trainings mainly take the form of lecturing on safety, supplemented by safety talks, safety knowledge competition and drills. Of 35 Zambian senior managers, 77 grassroots managers, and 345 workers on the front line, 100% passed the training assessment. Paying Close Attention to Occupational Safety and Health We have prepared and issued the Measures for Implementing the Occupational Health Infrastructure Activities. We actively conduct the occupational health infrastructure activities, regularly organize employees’ physical examinations, improve the occupational disease prevention system, identify potential risk factors of mine lot environment, and provide employees with protection equipments to effectively guarantee employees’ life safety, physical and mental health. In 2013, 10% of the employees participated in the physical examinations organized by the Company. The employee protective equipment intact rate and supply rate were both 100%. The standard achieved rate of the Company’s work place was 100%. CASE Employees’ Personal Liuzhou CNMC pays close attention to employees’ Growth and Colorful Life occupational health CNMC safeguards employees’ legitimate rights and Liuzhou CNMC Zinc Product Co., Ltd. (Liuzhou CNMC) has formulated relevant occupational health interests, keeps expanding employees’ growth platform, take management systems of such as the Standard for Issuing Employees’ Labor Protection Appliances good care of employees’ life, and promotes multi-cultural and the System for Publicity and Education on Occupational Disease Prevention and Control. The communications, to truly realize the joint development of company arranges occupational health examinations for employees such as orientation health check, employees and the Company. on-post occupational health check and women employees’ health check, timely purchases and equips employees with labor protection appliances according to different work types and work environment, and regularly conducts occupational health training centering on laws and regulations on occupational health, prevention and control of occupational diseases, protective equipments against the harm of occupational disease and methods of using such equipments. ● Organizing the football games for Chinese and Zambian employees 50 51 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices 3.50% 21.00% Above 55 46-55 36.80% 36-45 38.70% Below 35 The number of employees at various age groups and their ratio Safeguarding Employees’ Legitimate Rights and Interests CNMC sticks to treating employees equally, and is against all sorts of discriminations. It strictly Team development training abides by the employees’ representative meeting and the system of publicizing plant affairs, actively pays social insurance for employees, and effectively respects and maintains employees’ various legitimate rights and interests. Promoting Employees’ Career Development Strictly Standardize Employment System CNMC regards talents as the important resources for the development of the Company, prepares We strictly abides by the relevant laws, regulations and policies of the State and the place where HR development strategic planning, keeps improving the incentive and constraint mechanism, our operation is located, follow relevant conventions on human rights and labor, equally treat upgrades employees’ abilities and qualifications, opens up employees’ career development employees of different nationalities, races, genders, religious beliefs and cultural backgrounds, channels, attaches great importance to training international compound talents, keeps improvement firmly oppose any form of forced labor, and absolutely refuse to employee child labor. employees’ work environment, and strives to create a broader development platform for employees. In 2013, the headquarters of the Group Company revised and formulated 7 personnel policies; the employees’ contract signing rate was 100%; the coverage of endowment insurance and housing I worked with a laboratory of Xindu Mining Co., Ltd. after graduation. The provident fund was 100%; employee satisfaction rate was 90%; employee turnover rate was 11.2%. Company provides me with a development platform, makes me learn new knowledge and methods and upgrade my work skills. In work, I found my lifelong companion, Actively Practice Democratic Management and purchased an employee’s residence at a preferential price. I sincerely thank the Company. We actively establish labor union organizations, improve the employees’ representative meeting system, prepare and issue documents such as the Measures on Implementation of Democratic —— Xi Xiurenqiqige, Laboratory Technician of the Xindu Mining Quality Management, strictly implement publicity of plant affairs, improve the information sharing platform. Inspection Center By the end of 2013, 100% of the labor unions were funded by the Company. Conduct Employees’ Skill Training CASE Aiming at “comprehensive improvement and joint development”, and following the principle of “learning CNIT CNMC African Logistic and Trade Company Set up an Opinion Box for practice and striving for practical results”, we keep strengthening systematic and pertinent training, establish a comprehensive talent training and tempering system, train innovative and pragmatic talents CNMC African Logistic and Trade Company affiliated to CNMC International Trade Ltd. (CNIT) have committed to learning, and promote the construction of a learning-oriented enterprise. set up an employees’ opinion box. After the setup of the opinion box, Zambian employees enthusiastically put forward their requirements and suggestions concerning work and life, to which the company respond In 2013, the Company’s vocational education center was accredited by the Chinese Ministry of one by one. Zambian employees satisfactorily say to their family members and friends, “Chinese colleagues Human Resources and Social Security as a “National Professional Technical Talent Continuing are our trustworthy labor union.” Education Base”. 52 53 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Expand Employees’ Development Channels ZCCZ and CNMC funded enterprises in Zambia provide a large amount of job We keep expanding employees’ growth channels. We have established employee career growth opportunities to Zambia. They have achieved significant economic benefits and social sequences, and have prepared relevant training and incentive measures, so that each employee benefits, making outstanding contribution to the economic and social development can locate the career development path adapted to themselves. in Zambia. The Zambian government will go all out to support the construction and development of the ZCCZ and promote the sustainable growth of economy in Zambia. By the end of 2013, the Company had 9,767 operation management talents, 13,094 professional ——Dr. Guy Scott, Vice President of Zambia technical talents, and 38,089 professional skilled talents. CASE Improve Compensation and Appraisal Incentive CNIT Supports Employees’ Growth By rigorously enforcing total wage bill management, strengthening corporate leaders’ compensation Amon, an employee of CNIT Africa Logistics, under the patient guidance of the logistic supervisor, studied management, and strengthening performance appraisal management, we have improved the hard to grasp logistic operation knowledge. His business expertise and HR management capabilities Company’s compensation and performance management system. At the same time, we abide constantly improved, he has rapidly risen to be a vide director of the logistical department of the company. by the laws and regulations of the places where our operation is located, prepared work hour and At the same time, his wife, under the sponsorship of the company, carefully studied computer skills and also compensation systems meeting local realities. successfully won the opportunity to work in another foreign-funded enterprise in Zambia. The Company communicated with Faustina, who just graduated from a school, to ask her to attend In 2013, the Company added an appraisal result feedback link to commend and reward employees regular trainings on customs clearance knowledge, while encouraging and sponsoring her to participate with excellent results in performance appraisal. Besides, we have conducted ERP compensation in various customs clearance training classes and lectures held by the taxation bureau and the customs. module construction pilot project, to further optimize personnel and compensation management. Through three months’ training, she is able to independently undertake export customs clearance business as a registered customs clearance officer, and becomes an expert in relevant businesses. Promote Employee Localization While provide jobs, we fully respect the culture, customs and religious beliefs of various places, and provide worship venues for employees of different beliefs. Also, we organize overseas excellent 85.2% In overseas projects, we actively promote employee localization, employees to visit China and other activities to promote mutual understanding of employees of keep improving the ratio of local employees among middle and senior different cultural backgrounds and promote multi-cultural communications. managers, prepare systematic encouragement and support policies to promote the growth and development of local employees. Taking Good Care of Employees’ Life In 2013, the number of overseas jobs provided was 7,880, and localized Ratio of local employees employees accounted for 85.2% of the total number of employees in the in the Company’s overseas places where our operation is located. operation CNMC keeps improving employees’ work and living conditions, and enthusiastically helps employees. By various forms of activities, we strive to create a healthy, comfortable and harmonious CASE working environment and keep enhancing employees’ sense of belonging and happiness. CNICO Myanmar Tagaung Nickel Mine Trains Local Industrial Workers Angtai lives in a village 26 miles from Mandalay. He worked in a nearby sugar plant before he came to work in the Tagaung Nickel Mine of CNMC Nickel Myanmar. Now he is a vice-monitor of the driver’s team of the Tagaung Nickel Mine. CNMC uses Chinese fund, technologies, equipments and management to vigorously promote the technical progress and industrial upgrading of the industry in Myanmar and train local employees and has trailed a great number of industrial workers. In the Tagaung Nickel Mine, there are over 1,000 Myanmar employees like Angtai, accounting for over 60% of the total number of employees. Such modernized workshops almost do not exist elsewhere in Myanmar. As young men, we feel it an honor to work in such modernized workshops. We have good pay here and feel proud to work here. Many people of my age admire me for being able to work here. ——Angtai, vice-monitor of the driver’s team of the Tagaung Nickel Mine Purchase commuting vehicles for employees 54 55 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices CASE CN15MOC Held Young Employees’ Group Wedding On September 29, 2013, CN15MOC held the fourth young employees’ group meeting. Witnessed by over 200 guests, 12 couples from various units of CN15MOC were happily married in the Wuhan Headquarters of the Company. Holding young employees’ group wedding is a tradition in CN15MOC. To help the newly-weds and their parents learn more about Wuhan, the Company specially arranged for the newly-weds and their family to take part in the Wuhan One-day Trip on September 30, so that they can fully feel the beautiful scenery of Wuhan by the Yangtze River and the care of CN15MOC. Enrich Employees’ Cultural Life We attach importance to our employees’ balance of work and life. By holding speech contest, knowledge contest, singing contest and sports met etc, we help enrich employees’ cultural life, meet Women employees of CNMC Luanshya jointly celebrated the International Women’s Festival their spiritual and cultural needs and promote the mental and physical health of the employees. Further Measures for Caring Employees CASE Through activities such as “employees’ home”, “medical assistance”, “golden autumn student subsidies” and “sunshine employment help”, we help employees with difficulties, care women Xindu Mining Establishes a “Smart Xindu” Youth Club employees, so that employees feel the loving care of the Company. Xindu Mining Co., Ltd. (Xindu Mining) affiliated to CNMCL has established a “Smart Xindu” Youth Club in order to enhance young employees’ moral cultivation and upgrade their creative thinking In 2013, the medical assistance system of the Group Company in Beijing helped 3 employees skills. At the same time, a club group has been set up at facebook to regularly publicize and organize suffering from critical illness, and donated a support fund of RMB 470 thousand; 619 employees young employees’ activities. dispatched overseas joined the enterprise medical support fund of the Group Company in Beijing. The employee support system expanded to overseas funded enterprises for the first time, realizing 100% full coverage. I feel very delighted to see the really happy mood and joyful smile of our Myanmar employees while working. ——Dr. Myint Aung, Myanmar’s Minister of Mines CASE CNIT Conducts “Beauty” Series of Special Women Employees’ Talent Show Activities Xindu Mining sponsors the Mongolian traditional NFCA employees held “NFCA” Cup Pingpong Friendship From 2011, on the 3.8 International Women’s Day each year, CNIT organizes women employees to engage “goat grabbing” contest Match with the Zambian National Pingpong Team in a series of activities such as “beautiful chefs”, “beautiful flower arranger” and “beautiful needlewoman”, and establishes platforms for women employees to demonstrate their talent and enrich their spare time. CASE CNMC Tianjin Establishes a Long-Acting Mechanism for Helping Needy Employees CNMC (Tianjin) Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. (CNMC Tianjin) has established a “needy employee support work site” online platform has been established to put the information of 287 needy employees including their family conditions and skills into microcomputers for IT application management, so that dynamic tracking needy employees is realized. At the same time, using this online platform, the Company has realized the networked support with the Tianjin General Labor Union and relevant grassroots enterprises. By the end of 2013, the Company had helped nearly 600 needy employees, and issued over RMB 300 thousand student subsidies for the children of needy employees. CCS Held Tug-of-War Match Daye Nonferrous Organized the Employees’ Sports Meet 56 57 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Constructing Harmonious Community Relationship CNMC attaches importance to community participation, respects local culture and religious beliefs, takes initiative to strengthens communication with local government departments, supervisory departments and communities, actively participates in the local folk activities, promotes multi-cultural communications, and strives to establish lasting partnership with local communities. Strengthen Local Communications We take initiative to have communications with local communities, strengthen communications with local governments, social organizations and media, actively undertake or participate in the relevant meetings and special activities, and are committed to realizing the joint development with our stakeholders. In 2013, the Company maintained fine relationships with local communities by on-site visits, press conferences, meetings with local suppliers, and regular reporting. Respect Local Folk Culture In the course of international operations, we attach great importance to protecting local cultural heritage, respect local customs and religious belief, and organize and participate in local folk cultural activities. In 2013, the Company helped the places where its operations are located to repair temples and sponsor local football or sepaktakraw matches, and visit local old people during the Water-Splashing Day. In this way, the Company establishes profound friendship with local residents. Community Participation as a CNMC actively integrates with local community Corporate CNMC takes an active part in the community where its operations are located, respects local cultures, invests in infrastructure construction, help the local communities upgrade their capabilities of sustainable development, pays close attention to social welfare, supports the development of local medical and education services, enthusiastically participates in domestic and overseas disaster relief efforts, and strives to be an excellent global citizen. SMLZ employees wear traditional Zambian costumes ● pauk-phaw friendship on the Tagaung Taung Nickel Mine, Myanmar 58 59 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Improving Community Improve Employability Skills of Local Communities Development Environment By implementing community development projects, building training schools and providing free training to local residents, we help the residents in the local communities improve the employability skills and upgrades the development capabilities of local communities. In 2013, the Company CNMC actively participates in community construction, and improves the residential environment conducts free forklift training in the Zambia ZCCZ to help train local technical personnel. of the local communities by investing in infrastructure such as building roads and bridges and reconstructing shanty towns. The Company provides free employment training and skill tutorship to local residents, helps the local communities to upgrade their capabilities of development, and promotes the development of local economy and the improvement of residents’ living standard. Active Participation in Public Welfare Cause Help with Infrastructure Construction CNMC enthusiastically participates in public welfare cause, keeps relieving poverty in fixed places and making donations to communities, to contribute to the eradication of poverty; makes donations We fully understand the demands of local communities for development, actively participate in the local to build hospitals and schools in local communities, and supports the development of local medical infrastructure construction such as water conservancy, roads and bridges, and contribute efforts to the and education services; enthusiastically helps needy people such as stay-at-home children and development of local communities. In 2013, the Company donated a road grader to Karu Rusi, a bronze lonely old people, and has developed normalized volunteer services; actively participates in belt province of Zambia, and built a long-distance bus station near the Tagaung Nickel Mining Area of domestic and overseas disaster relief efforts, effectively fulfills its corporate citizen’s responsibilities, Myanmar, to provide employees and villagers with a place for resting, drinking water and shelter. and actively repays the society. CASE NFCA Donated a Road Grader to Karu Rusi, a Bronze Belt Province of Zambia Actively Help with Eradication of Poverty NFCA is located in Karu Rusi, a bronze belt province of Zambia, where roads are mostly made of We make unremitting efforts to relieve poverty in fixed locations. With “poverty relief starting mud, and the rain season lasting four months each year makes the roads bumpy and muddy. Therefore, with supporting education, and supporting education starting with cultivating talents” as the NFC Africa Mining Plc invested ZMK 730.8 thousand (equivalent to USD 138 thousand) to donate a breakthrough, we support Lianghe County, Yunnan Province. By improving teaching and learning road grader to the Karu Rusi government, to be specially used to maintain roads for local residents to conditions and students’ living conditions, sponsoring poverty-stricken college students and make their travel more convenient. education and training, we help the county to overcome poverty as soon as possible. In 2013, on the basis of on-site investigation and full communication with local government, we donated a total of RMB 1.38 million as poverty relief project fund. By the end of 2013, the Company Support Reconstruction of Shanty Towns had altogether donated over RMB 5.87 million to Lianghe County as poverty relief fund, of which RMb 4.19 million was used in education, RMB 1 million was used in drought and disaster relief, We keep increasing input in the local projects to improve people’s livelihood.We constantly support local and over RMB 680 thousand was used in the drinking water facilities. We continue to sponsor governments to reconstruct shanty towns, and have invested in constructing houses in shanty towns in foundations and charity organizations of domestic and overseas communities, cooperate with the Hongtoushan Mining Area, provide property management to effectively benefit local residents. relevant organizations and jointly contribute to the eradication of poverty in the local communities. By the end of 2013, Hongtoushan Mining has invested RMB 100 million, and there were 3,415 households in the Hongtoushan shanty town, with 105 shop front rooms and 68 garages. Make donation to the “Zambia First Lady Happy Home Fund” New buildings after the reconstruction of the Hongtoushan Mining Shanty Town 60 61 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Vigorously Support Education Cause We actively support the development of the community education cause, and strive to improve local education conditions through various forms such as donating to education in poverty-stricken areas. In 2013, the Company made donations to schools in many poverty-stricken areas to build students’ canteens and set up scholarships, so that more children have opportunities to learn happily and grow up healthily. Surgical operation on patients in the China-Zambia Friendship Hospital Make Collaborative Efforts to Improve Medical Environment CNMC Luanshya employees support education in the local Zhaijiao Village Primary School Canteen established By making donations to build hospitals and providing medical equipments and medical teams, we with the donation from CNMC Pgma Confucius school strive to improve the medical environment of overseas communities, and conduct publicity activities on disease prevention so that more local patients can enjoy better medical services. By the end of 2013, the Company had made donations to build several hospitals and clinics in Volunteer Service Activities Zambia, Myanmar and Mongolia. We take an active part in public welfare activities. We have established the Guo Mingyi Caring Team to regularly conduct volunteer service activities and actively repay the society. In 2013, by activities such as CASE learning from Lei Feng, supporting children of rural migrant workers, and visiting lonely old people, we actively contribute to charity work and spread care. CNMC Establishes China-Zambia Friendship Hospital The China-Zambia Friendship Hospital strives to provide timely medical assistance to local people and over overseas enterprises as well as enterprises of other countries. The ZCCZ keeps increasing CASE investment in the hospital, and has introduced equipments such as nuclear magnetic resonance and laparoscope, which substantially improve the hardware level of the hospital. CNMC Orient Employees Donated Hematopoietic Stem Cells By the end of 2013, the China-Zambia Friendship Hospital had 12 departments such as the outpatient Ningxia Oriental Tantalum Co., Ltd. (Oriental Tantalum) affiliated to CNMC Orient always pays close department, inpatient department, emergency department and internal medicine. There are over 100 attention to public welfare cause. In May 2013, Gui Yuping, an employee of the company, successfully beds and 111 medical service professionals. The total number of registered patients amounts to 37,000, donated hematopoietic stem cells to a leukemia patient. After 24-year-old Gui Yuping knew that his stell and the average daily amount reaches 180 person-times; the amount of people hospitalized reached cells matched a patient’s, he felt it obliged for him donate hematopoietic stem cells to the patient. With the 10,000 person-times, over 650 surgical operations had been realized, and 480 babies were born in the humming of the blood cell separator, the “life seeds” within Gui Yuping were separated from blood one by hospital. At the same time, 4 clinics have been opened in the mine and miner residential areas, able to one, and then transported to Beijing by air, into the body of the patient to kindle his hope of revitalization. timely serve miners and their family. CASE Gui Yuping’s donation of his hematopoietic cells in Beijing fully reflects his generosity of selfless dedication to save another person’s life, and fully reflects the CCS Donated to Build Clinics and Doctors’ Residence in Karu Rusi, Zambia Red Cross spirit of “humanity, love and devotion”. He has also contributed his young On March 2, 2013, CCS handed over the clinics and supporting doctors’ residence built with its strength to building a national model city and constructing a harmonious, beautiful donations to the Karu Rusi government of Zambia. Fred Mublue, Vice Minister of Labor of Zambia and rich new industrial city. and city counselor of Karu Rusi enthusiastically pointed out, “CCS has not only provided good job opportunities to local residents, but also brought about substantial welfare to local communities and Zambian people by their donations. Other investors in this field should follow the example of CCS to ——Zhang Jianrui, Vice Mayor of Shizuishan, Ningxia Hui Autonomous jointly contribute to local development.” Region and President of Municipal Red Cross Society 62 63 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Practices Enthusiastically Participate in Disaster Relief and Rescue Sustainable Development Commitment We enthusiastically participate in disaster relief and rescue, actively make donations to relieve domestic and overseas disasters, and make concerted efforts with the whole society to overcome In 2014, CNMC will center on the mission of “Developing Resources to Benefit the Society” and difficulties. In 2013, we successfully coped with the natural disasters such as Hongtoushan “8.16” the sustainable development concept of “Releasing Resources’ Value, Working Together to Build serious flood and Aobao zinc mine prairie fire, to safeguard the life and property safety of the Social Harmony”, be dedicated to managing and improving economic, environmental and social resident of the places of operations and surrounding areas. performances, and cooperate with stakeholders to create the best value, so as to realize the sustainable development of economy, society and the environment. In 2013, the Company donated a total of RMB 10.92 million to relieve disasters; donated RMB 5 million to relieve Ya’an Earthquake in the name of the Group, and RMB 489.7 thousand was raised Steadily upgrading development capabilities. Optimize global resource distribution, explore from employees as donations. and summarize the modes of sustainable operation of the industrial chain and regions, and stick to coordinated development of three core businesses. Provide high-quality products and services, CASE comprehensively control operation risks, and strengthen win-win cooperation with partners. Strengthen technical innovation and management innovation, establish a technological support Xindu Mining Fought Prairie Fire system and R&D platform, build professional skilled talent teams, and promote IT application On April 2, 2013, a prairie fire occurred around the Aobao Zinc Mine Area. Upon the request of the construction. Sühbaatar Emergency Bureau, Xindu Mining immediately organized fire control equipments and personnel to speed to the site and timely put down the prairie fire, thus preventing local pasture and Constantly safeguarding safety and environmental protection. Improve the production safety herdsmen from suffering from huge loss. systems, promote standardization and IT application of production safety, strengthen emergency management, build safety culture, and safeguard employees occupational safety and health. CASE Efficiently and reasonably utilize mineral resources and water resources, strengthen energy conservation, emission reduction and tailings pond management, stick to green construction and Hongtoushan Mining Successfully Coped with the “8.16” Serious Flood mine reclamation, protect eco-systems and bio-diversity, and spread green and environmental On August 16, 2013, Fushun of Liaoning suffered from the worst rainstorm in the meteorologic record. protection concept. While actively conducting disaster relief, Hongtoushan Mining, under the guidance of the municipal and county quarantine department, regularly disinfected the public places where people were concentrated and Boosting harmonious development of the society. Strengthen communication and cooperation the sites of disaster; according to the requirements of the municipal, county and town governments, supplied with the community, promote cultural integration, invest in infrastructure construction, provide production electricity for civil use when the civil electricity supply was not restored; assisted the China skill training and technical support, actively help poverty and disaster-stricken areas and Railway No. 19 Bureau in repairing the Shenji Railway; helped Hongtoushan Dongfeng Primary School to regularly conduct volunteer services. Safeguard employees’ legitimate rights and interest, clean waterways and removed 90 trucks of sludge amounting to about 2,850 m3, restored two public toilets, upgrade employees’ skills and qualifications, provide fine platforms for employee development paved a playground of 335 m3, to create conditions for school opening. and be committed to employee localization in overseas operations, and care about employees’ health and life. Hongtoushan Mining built temporary waterways to divert flood On the occasion of the 30th anniversary of CNMC, we will take the opportunity of releasing a sustainability report to command a new starting point and march along a new journey. We will always bear in mind President Xi Jinping’s entrustment that “overseas enterprises should fulfill social responsibility”, comprehensively analyze the macro situation, firmly grasp the main thread of development, following the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, seek joint growth, joint development and joint prosperity with stakeholders, promote the sustainable development of the enterprise, the society and the environment, and make unremitting efforts to realize the vision of building a world class mining group with international competitiveness. ● A Model of Sino-Mongolian Cooperation -CNMC Tumurtin Ovoo Zinc Deposit in Mongolia 64 65 2013 Sustainability Report Appendices Comparison Table of Principles of the United GRI Index Nations Global Compact Indicators Ranking Content Page classification G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. P1 Ten principles of global compact 2013 action performance Strategy and analysis P20-21 G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Human rights /P30 G4-3 Report the name of the organization. P4 ● Follow the international conventions and international P22-23 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. Principle 1: customary practices signed or recognized by the Chinese /P25 Businesses should support and respect the protection of government, respect conventions and declarations such as G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. P4 the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United internationally proclaimed human rights; and Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the P4/ G4-6 organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. P20-21 Principle 2: ● Follow the laws and regulation of the countries where Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights our operations are located G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. P4 abuses ● Never participate in any action disrespecting human Report the markets served (including geographic break down, sectors served, and types of customers and P4/ rights and safeguard employees’ respect G4-8 beneficiaries). P20-21 Report the scale of the organization, including: Labor standard Total number of employees P2/ G4-9 Total number of operations P20-21 Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Principle 3: ● Strengthen the dialogue and communication between Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) /P52 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Company and employees, establish the employees’ Quantity of products or services provided. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; representative meeting system, and solve and reply the Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. P2/P52 proposals of the employees’ representative meeting; Organizational Principle 4: profile Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. ● Strengthen democratic management and supervision of The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; employees, establish labor unions at various levels, and Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. Principle 5: stick to equal negotiation; Report the total workforce by region and gender. P54 G4-10 The effective abolition of child labour; and ● Absolutely abolish forced labor and employment of child Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally Principle 6: labor; Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment ● Establish an open, equal, competitive and optimal talent not recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including and occupation selection and use mechanism applicable employees and supervised employees of contractors. G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. P4 Environment G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. P48 ● Conduct environmental assessment in the early period of a G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, project, to protect the balance of ecosystems, and pay close ownership, or its supply chain. Principle 7: attention to the protection of bio-diversity; G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. P30/P45 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to ● Stick to sustainable exploitation, and improve the utilization List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which G4-15 P66 environmental challenges; rate of mineral resources and water resources by technical the organization subscribes or which it endorses. innovation; Principle 8: G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy P1 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ● Reclaim mines after exploitation, treat waste residues and pollutants, and standardize tailings pond management; List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. responsibility; and G4-17 Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent ● Implement the energy saving and emission reduction policy, documents is not covered by the report. Principle 9: and reduce the emission of “three wastes”; Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Titlepage Control project noise and dust; Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. friendly technologies. ● G4-18 2/P15 ● Publicize the concept of environmental protection, and Identified Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Titlepage 2 advocate green and low-carbon work and life styles. material aspects G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. contents and boundaries G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization P19-64 Anti-corruption G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. Titlepage 2 ● Stick to transparent operation, and strengthen information Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such G4-22 Titlepage 2 disclosure; restatements. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, ● Strengthen internal control management, construct G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Titlepage 2 a punishment and preventive system, conduct efficacy including extortion and bribery supervision and clean governance education, and oppose all forms of corruption. 66 67 2013 Sustainability Report Appendices Indicators Ranking Content Page Indicators Ranking Content Page classification classification G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. P17 G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. P15 G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. P15 Stakeholder Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type G4-26 and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as P17 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance engagement part of the report preparation process. G4-50 P19-64 body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives P54 G4-27 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the P17 stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-51 Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. P39 G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Titlepage 2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Titlepage 2 Governance Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in G4-52 determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Titlepage 2 which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. P73 G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the P4/P52/P54 results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Titlepage 2 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option . Titlepage 2 G4-54 of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highestG4-32 paid individual) in the same country. Report profile Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highestG4-55 paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and P7/P15 any external assurance provided. codes of ethics. G4-33 Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. Ethics and G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters P73 related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the integrity organization’s sustainability report. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, G4-58 and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. mechanisms or hotlines. G4-34 Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. P6/P16 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. P2 G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest P16 governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. P36-42 G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for P16 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. P46 G4-37 economic,environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback Economic Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of processes to the highest governance body. G4-EC5 operation. Performance G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees. P4/P16 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported. P60-64 G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the P4 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. P4 Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. P36 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating Governance G4-42 of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, P4 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. P35-38 environmental and social impacts. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. P36 G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of P4-5 economic, environmental and social topics. G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance G4-EN5 Energy intensity. P36/P39 of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. P36-38 G4-44 Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. P36-38 governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership Environmental and organizational practice. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role inthe implementation G4-45 of due diligence processes. G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. P41 Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and P17 management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity P42 value outside protected areas. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk P16 management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and P42 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. P42 68 69 2013 Sustainability Report Appendices Indicators Ranking Content Page Indicators Ranking Content Page classification classification G4-EN14 Total number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. P48 operations, by level of extinction risk. Employment G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1). P36 G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2). P36-39 clauses or that underwent human rights screening. G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3). P36-39 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights G4-HR2 that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity. P36-39 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. P36-39 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods). G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. G4-EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions. P36 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. P36-41 Human rights G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are Environmental G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the basel relevant to operations. convention2 annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken. G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff. G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. P36-42 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. G4-EN28 percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. environmental laws and regulations. G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and P60-61 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s development programs. operations, and transporting members of the workforce. G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities. G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. P37-P42 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified. G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. P5 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Society G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary. G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group,gender and region. P2/P52 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime,employees, by P53-57 significant locations of operation. G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective P52 agreements. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. G4-LA5 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism,and total number of workimprovement. G4-LA6 related fatalities, by region and by gender. G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation. safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Employment G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. P50 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees Product service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. G4-LA10 and assist them in managing career endings. P53-54 responsibility G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. P25-26 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. operation. G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. use of products and services. 70 71 2013 Sustainability Report Appendices Series Products of Brand Dajiang d uc ts Feedback Form P r o a nd C Br CNM Dear reader: Thank you very much for your reading of CNMC 2013 Sustainability Report. CNMC is very concerned about your opinions on the report. Please put forward your valuable opinions and suggestions on this report and return the form to us, so that we will continuous improve the report. Rare Earth Products Diaphragm pump of Brand Zhujiang Products of Brand Choice questions (Please fill in the relevant number in the relevant , 1 for “yes”, 2 for “no”, and 3 for “can not tell”) NSPI Botary Kiln Products of Brand SMMC Series Products of Tantalum Powder, 1 Do you think this report can highlight CNMC’s active performance of social responsibility in various aspects? □ Tantalum Wire of Brand Baoshan 2 Do you think the information disclosed in the report clear and accurate? □ Motor Casing Products of Brand Juhai 3 Do you think that the presentation of the contents of the report is convenient for reading? □ Please offer your suggestions on this report: Zine Oxide Series Products of Products of Brand Brand Sihuan Bajiao 1 Which part of this report is the most satisfactory for you? Series Products of Cooper Tube and Cooper plate of Brand Albetter 2 Which part of the report do you think affects your life the most? 3 Which information do you wish to learn more about? Series Products of Aluminum Extrusion of Brand Yinmao 4 Your suggestions on the future report we are to release? Series Products of Tin Ingot and Titanium Pigment Thank you very much for your support. Please write your opinions on the above form Zinc Ingot Products of of Brand Feidie and mail it to the CNMC Strategy Research Office Brand Hongye Address: CNMC Building, 10 Anding Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing Series Products of Nickel and Or email it to: csr@cnmc.com.cn Nickel Alloy of Brand Jinguang Beneficiation Pharmacy Products of Brand Kuangyou 72 73 2013 Sustainability Report 74
