COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Scope of the report Contents This report includes the actions carried out by Tradecorp in 2013. PART I ABOUT TRADECORP The report is divided into three parts: Letter of commitment from the CEO............................................................................................................................................ 4 Part I includes the letter of renewal of Tradecorp’s commitment preDescription of the company......................................................................................................................................................... 5 sented by the CEO to the Global Compact together with a descriptive Tradecorp...................................................................................................................................................................... 5 profile of the company. Tradecorp: a Sapec group company............................................................................................................................ 5 Tradecorp’s work model............................................................................................................................................... 6 Part II includes a description of Tradecorp’s philosophy regarding CorOur catalogue of products............................................................................................................................................ 7 porate Social Responsibility and an in-depth analysis is made of the actions carried out in 2013 in relation with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Part III measures the results obtained during 2013 using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators, their relation with Global Compact Our perception of Corporate Social Responsibility...................................................................................................................... 10 principles and Tradecorp internal indicators. Our groups of interest.................................................................................................................................................................. 10 Scope of the report...................................................................................................................................................................... 10 CSR actions developed in 2013................................................................................................................................................... 11 Revision of the Code of Conduct.................................................................................................................................. 11 Implementation of the second phase of the Protocol for Responsible Purchases....................................................... 12 Commitment of the team with the Global Compact..................................................................................................... 13 Knowledge of groups of interest: clients...................................................................................................................... 14 Enacting the areas of action of the Global Compact.................................................................................................... 16 Donations to NGO and institutions............................................................................................................................... 20 Study of wages and comparative with the sector........................................................................................................ 21 Analysis of the diversity indicators of the company..................................................................................................... 22 Human Resources Program......................................................................................................................................... 23 Analysis of occupational hazards................................................................................................................................. 24 Development and sales of Organic Agriculture products............................................................................................ 25 Use of recycled and sustainable materials................................................................................................................... 26 Reusing and recycling water in our factories................................................................................................................ 27 Actions for optimising energy and decreasing emissions............................................................................................ 28 Waste management...................................................................................................................................................... 30 Protection and restoration of habitats.......................................................................................................................... 32 Anti-corruption policy................................................................................................................................................... 33 PART III MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES, PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS Global Compact principals related to Global Reporting Initiative indicators,............................................................................. 34 Tradecorp indicators and measurements of outcomes Letter of commitment from the CEO Description of the company Tradecorp Dear stakeholders, Tradecorp is a Spanish company, which, since it was founded in 1985, has been developing its activities in the agricultural sector. Thanks to One year more we comply with the commitment that we acquired when joining the Global Compact and we present our Communication on Proour long history, we have gained broad experience in the field of crop gress 2013, which explains the main actions carried out in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility during this year. And one more year I am nutrition, particularly in the segment of micronutrients and special ferpleased, once again, to express our interest and our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the 10 principles that comprise it. tilisers. In the field of Corporate Social Responsibility, 2013 has been a year of development and continuation of the projects initiated in 2012. So, we continued with the implementation of the Human Resources Program, which allows us to better understand the expectations and the profesMISSION: sional development of the team; we have implemented the second phase of the Protocol for Responsible Purchsases, with the purpose of knowing if our suppliers respect human and labor rights and carry out practices for the protection of the environment; and we have continued To be a leading example to both distributors and growto invest in our factories, so that we can optimize the energy, reduce emissions and minimize the waste generated in the manufacture of our ers as a producer of innovative speciality products. products. This is achieved through the commercialisation of high quality, speciality products and services, which maxiHowever, it has also been a year of beginnings. In 2013, for the first time, we included sustainability and corporate social responsibility as fields mize value for its customers, employees and shareto analyse in our Customers Satisfaction Survey. In this way, we can learn truthful and accurately those aspects related to the Social Responsiholders. bility that our customers consider to be a priority. It is also notable the signing of the Code of Conduct of EBIC (European Biostimulants Industry Council) by Tradecorp, with what we are committed to comply with the legislation in the field of agriculture and with a series of principles related to the transparency established by the Council. VISION: Finally, I would like to highlight and thank the team for its participation in the Operación Kilo and collecting money for the donation to the ChilTo be a quality and professional reference in the microdren’s Rehabilitation Center Teletón. Thanks to the collaboration of the team, we have donated $36,000 MXN to this foundation that works to nutrient and speciality fertiliser global market, achievimprove the quality of life for children and young people with disabilities, and almost a tonne of foodstuff that was donated to Cáritas in Spain. ing excellence in service and increasing added value for our customers. In 2014, we will continue working and improving the implementation of the Global Compact principles in accordance with our corporate strategy and enacting the Global Compact principles within our scope of influence. Through the publication of this report, we want to involve our stakeholders in our commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, as well as insist on our interest in contributing to sustainable development. Yours faithfully, Nicolas Lindemann Executive Director Tradecorp: a Sapec group company In the year 2000, Tradecorp integrated into the Sapec group, a company established in 1926 in the chemical and mining sector. Since its foundation, the group has been expanding its activities into various industrial and services sectors within the Iberian Peninsula. The incorporation into the Belgian group broadened Tradecorp’s perspective even more by combining the enterprising spirit of the group with our know how within the agricultural sector. Today Sapec is an industrial holding company with a large portfolio of activities: Agro-business: crop nutrition and crop protection Industrial chemicals and environment Agro-commodities distribution Logistics Others 4 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 5 Tradecorp’s work model To comply with our mission and our vision we have developed a work model which is based on 5 different cornerstones to help us become a point of reference regarding quality and professionalism within our sector and to ensure we offer an excellent service. Cutting edge technology and versatility Our team of our production plants One of the main values and one of the most differentiating elements in In our line of continuous technological improvement we implement ever Tradecorp is its team. Consisting of more than 200 professionals from more efficient technologies which respect the environment and which different countries and cultures, the technical and local teams in each have allowed us to increase our production capacity. area offer farmers and distributors a close, professional and customised service. Our R&D policy Our focus on sustainability The development of sustainable and effective products permitting an We are concerned with complying with human and labour rights, with increase in yield and quality of harvests is one of Tradecorp’s priority the conservation of the environment and the sustainable use of natural objectives. Therefore, research and development of new products has resources. Therefore, among our maximum priorities is compliance with always been one of Tradecorp’s characteristic features. REACH, we respect and promote the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we are ISO 14001:2004 certified, many of our main products have been approved for Organic Agriculture and we are members of Globalgap. Our continuous search for quality and efficacy We undertake to offer the highest quality in our products and services. To do this, we implemented a Quality & Environmental Management System, certified according to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 by DNV. 6 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 7 Our catalogue of products Our catalogue consists of products of the highest quality with formulas for all kinds of crop and adapted to local agricultural conditions. As a result of our commitment to sustainability, many of these have been approved for Organic Agriculture. Our solutions are grouped in the following ranges: CHELATES FOLIAR FERTILIZERS Tradecorp chelates guarantee a correct absorption Range of differentiated formulas, highly concenand assimilation of trace elements by crops, avoidtrated in micro and macronutrients. ing precipitation and the formation of non-soluble products that could decrease their efficacy. This range is developed to meet specific needs of crops which influence quality and yield, such as the Tradecorp chelates are presented as microgranules protein content, sugar level, fruit size, photosyn(WG) with total and instant solubility without formthetic activity, etc. ing lumps or sediments. Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: Ultraferro, Tradecorp range, Tradecorp AZ range Final K-Fainal K, Folur, Tradebor, Calitech, Magnitech, Twintech Zn+Mn, Phostrade range, Trafos range, Maxflow range HUMICS NPK & STARTERS This range provides an complete improvement of Range of state-of-the-art NPK fertilisers, soluble soil fertility and has a positive effect on its physical in water and with a balanced concentration of macharacteristics (structure); chemical characteristics cronutrients, enriched with essential micronutrients (greater availability of nutrients) and biological charchelated by EDTA. acteristics (increase in microbial life). This range consists of products adapted to the nuThis triple action favours root development, intritional requirements of crops in different stages of creases the absorption of nutrients and encourages development. the vegetative development of crops. Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: Humistar-Humifirst, Humistar WG-Humifirst WG, Humical, Turbo Root Nutricomplex range, Turbo Seed Zn, Seed Sprint, Pumma range BIOSTIMULANTS SPECIAL CORRECTORS The products in this range stimulate the plant’s Innovative and differentiated solutions for specific natural processes to improve the absorption of nuneeds such as problems related with salinity and trients and their effectiveness, favouring the plant’s sodicity in soils or pH regulation for the correct contolerance to abiotic stress. Its specific mode of ditioning of spray solutions and irrigation water. action encourages the physiological processes in plants in critical periods of crop development, such as budding, rooting, flowering or maturing. This range includes biostimulants based on GLT (Gentle & Low Temperature) extract of seaweed and/or L-α free amino acids enriched with essential nutrients. Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: Boramin Ca, Delfan range, Aton range, Ruter AA, Phylgreen range Saltrad, Lower 7, Spray Plus, pHorce 5 8 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 9 Our perception of Corporate Social Responsibility Revision of the Code of Conduct Corporate Social Responsibility in Tradecorp can be seen in all we do and in the day to day running of the company and it is an essential part of the company’s strategy. We comply with the laws of the countries where we operate, together with international norms such as the Universal Applicable principles: All Declaration of Human Rights and the Human and Labour Rights established by the International Labour Organisation. Furthermore, we analyse and carry out actions that allow us to improve the safety and quality of life within the company, and we comply with our commitments to the communities where we operate and with society as a whole. The establishment of a Code of Conduct has likewise allowed us to organise and regulate our ethical principles, converting them into obligatory standards within the company. Diagnosis The Code of Conduct of Tradecorp organizes and regulates the ethical principles which govern the company globally. Since Our groups of interest it is a growing company, present increasingly in more and more countries and markets, it is important to do a follow-up of the Code of Conduct and update it if appropriate, so that it does not become obsolete and to ensure that it meets the charIn order to select Tradecorp’s groups of interest, we have chosen those groups where the company’s activity has the greatest repercussions. acteristics of the company. The following groups of interest have been defined: Suppliers and partners Employees Policy Clients Society in general For the revision of the Code of Conduct, are taken into account mainly the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, included in the United Nations Global Compact, as well as some guidelines rooted with the mission and vision of the company. Scope of the report Actions This report includes the main actions carried out during the year 2012 in all places where Tradecorp operates, although special emphasis is In 2013, following the signing of the Code of Conduct of EBIC (European Biostimulants Industry Council) by Tradecorp, it is placed on Mexico, Brazil and Spain. These regions have a special place in this report for the following reasons: detected the need for an update of the Code of Conduct of the company. This update includes the Tradecorp’s commitment Of all the countries where we operate, Mexico, Brazil and Spain account for the greatest number of employees. to comply with legislations in the field of agriculture and with a series of principles relating to transparency. Spain also holds a special place because it is here that we have our production plants. We have paid special attention to the environmental questions related to our factories. For the management of the doubts and the irregularities that may arise we maintain an e-mail address (bestpractices@tradecorp.sapec.pt) and the body that ensures compliance with the standards contained in the code of conduct and attends The actions in the following part are identified with the principle and area of the Global Compact they represent. The following symbols are used the irregularities that may arise. to identify the area in the principles of the Global Compact: Monitoring Human Rights With the launch of the Code of Conduct in 2012, we created an e-mail address (bestpractices@tradecorp.sapec.pt) for the management of doubts and irregularities that may arise in the enforcement of the Code of Conduct. During 2013, no irregularities or breaches of the Code of Conduct were reported. Labour Rights The Environment Anti-corruption This sustainability report is published in our website and has been sent by e-mail to the Area Managers and to department managers in the central office and the factories. MORE BEST PRACTICES... Tradecorp Mexico Our office of Tradecorp México is certified as an Inclusive Company. We integrate people in vulnerable situations to the staff. The 7% of the staff is in a vulnerable situation. 10 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 Implementation of the second phase of the Protocol for Responsible Purchases Commitment of the team to the Global Compact Applicable principles: Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment Applicable principles: All Diagnosis Diagnosis During 2012, Tradecorp develops a Protocol for Responsible Purchases, in order to ensure that their suppliers and partners To give effect to its commitment to the Global Compact and to include it in its strategy, Tradecorp understands that the comrespect the human rights and labor rights set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor mitment and the support of the team is essential to respect and enact the 10 principles contained within the Global Compact, Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Due to the characteristics of the company, it is set each one from its scope and influence. that the Protocol for Responsible Purchases is applied by all offices of Tradecorp to all significant suppliers and partners. The Protocol for Responsible Purchases defines the implementation of the protocol in three stages, depending on the signifiPolicy cance of suppliers and partners: To express the commitment, we have mainly used the principles in the United Nations Global Compact initiative. 2012: The form is sent to those existing suppliers that provide more than €250,000 per year. Actions 2013: The form is sent to those existing suppliers that provide more than €50,000 per year. To engage the team with the principles of the Global Compact Network, Tradecorp developed a commitment letter, Tradecorp workers, but especially the Area Managers and Department Managers, signed. In this letter, the signatories agreed to 2014: respect, implement and enforce the following points: The form is sent to those existing suppliers that provide more than €10,000 per year. Human rights in its relationship with partners, customers and suppliers. Integrating human rights into all internal procedures. Do everything possible to not be complicit in human rights abuses by employees, customers and suppliers. Policy Ensure in its structure the freedom of association and that no forced labour, child labour or discrimination occurs. Take the appropriate measures to minimize the ecological footprint in purchasing, production, packaging, transport, distriThe Protocol for Responsible Purchases is based on the Code of Conduct of Tradecorp, the Universal Declaration of Human bution, sale and disposal of products. Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Define the strategy in such a way that respects the environmentally friendly technologies. Include respect for the environment in the internal procedures existing in its structure. Encourage partners, customers and suppliers to have the same respect and concern for the environment. Actions Fight and exclude from your business and structure any form of corruption, active or passive. Act in such a way that the previous principles are respected by the employees, customers and suppliers. After the implementation of the first phase in 2012, in 2013 we carried out the second phase of the implementation of the Protocol for Responsible Purchases. At this stage, the form is sent to those existing suppliers that provide more than €50,000 per year. Monitoring The form includes questions related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the Corporate Social Responsibility The letter of commitment is signed by: policies. CEO CFO Executive Director Monitoring 100% of the department managers in the central offices, factories and laboratories. 100% of the Area Managers: Latin America, South-east Europe, Middle East and North Africa; Europe and Sub-Saharan In the second phase, the form is sent to those existing suppliers that provide to Tradecorp more than €50,000 per year. ReAfrica, Brazil and Mexico. sponse has been received from 62% of providers consulted. Of these, 100% have been considered apt. In addition, the commitment letter is signed by a large number of workers in the central offices, factories and laboratories. 12 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 Knowledge of groups of interest: clients Applicable principles: All Diagnosis Tradecorp detected the need to know better the satisfaction of the customers. Therefore, it was launched a study of satisfaction to know better and in a standardized way the importance that our clients grant to certain aspects, as well as their satisfaction with Tradecorp and other companies in the sector. The study was started in 2006 and was carried out in 2008, 2010 and 2013. Policy The Customers’ Satisfaction Study covers a very broad field, related to the company’s products and services. To a large extent, the questions included in the study were based on the priorities and commitments contained in our Code of Conduct. Actions In line with our commitment to the Global Compact, in 2013 it was decided to include a new block in the survey, as well as new questions related to Corporate Social Responsibility. In this way, we are looking for better understanding the importance that our customers attach to the Corporate Social Responsibility, as well as their satisfaction with the policy and the actions undertaken by Tradecorp. In addition, the survey gives the possibility that customers propose alternative Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives or certifications that may be of interest in their markets. They were also invited to propose actions to improve the respect and support of Tradecorp in the areas of the Global Compact. Monitoring The satisfaction study conclusions are very interesting to improve the area of Corporate Social Responsibility: Maximum importance or maximum satisfaction Minimum importance Importance Satisfaction Satisfaction Satisfaction or minimum satisfaction of CSR with the catalogue with the CSR policy of with the actions of products Tradecorp carried out for Organic Agriculture in the framework of the Global Compact The results are very similar between regions, although with some slight variations in some cases. So, LATAM is the region that attaches more importance to the Corporate Social Responsibility, while the regions more satisfied with the policies and actions of Corporate Social Responsibility are Mexico and Brazil. The study also identifies customer proposals on other initiatives or certifications that are considered interesting in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility, as well as areas of Corporate Social Responsibility which they consider to be of special interest in their markets and/or countries. 14 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 Enacting the areas of action of the Global Compact Applicable principles: All Diagnosis Acciones In 2012, a communication action was begun to enact the Global Compact and its Newsletter 2: Human Rights areas of action: human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Work continued along these lines in 2013 in order to emphasise the importance of Divulging of the Business Dilemmas respect for human rights and labour rights, the protection of the environment and Forum created by the Global Compact. the establishing of anti-corruption policies. Thus, teams might be aware of the main risks of violations of human rights they might find in their markets. Policy Emphasis was placed on what individuThe communication action carried out in 2013 was essentially based on the 4 als may do to help respect and promote blocks of action of the United Nations Global Compact, which are included and human rights: enlarged upon in the company’s Code of Conduct. The Oxfam campaign “Behind the brands” was divulged. This campaign Actions evaluates different aspects related to the fields of action of the Global Compact Following the line established in 2012, the action consisted in the sending of 4 for the 10 largest food and beverages newsletters related to the four areas of action of the Global Compact. In order to companies. make it closer to our internal personnel, the information included was lighter than the action carried out in 2012 and the content focussed especially on explaining “Everyday rights”: It was included a the blocks and on possible actions that each person in the team might carry out brief reminder of human rights, which in or outside the company to promote the four areas of action. are grouped into 10 principles, so as to make them easier to remember and apFurthermore, the newsletters invited the team to suggest ideas and actions that ply. could be carried out both individually and within the company to improve compliance with and awareness of the different areas within the Global Compact. Human rights for children: We divulged a simple version of the Declaration of Human rights developed by the United The newsletters had the following content: Nations. Newsletter 1: The Environment “Reduce, reuse and recycle”: Explanation of one of the most well-known mottos regarding the environment. Recommendations and tips to “Reduce”, “Reuse” and “Recycle” to reduce the consumption of energy and resources. Details concerning the actions of the company in the field of respecting and protecting the environment. MORE BEST PRACTICES... Recycling symbols: for a correct recycling, the different recycling symbols were Tradecorp Mexico explained because they are sometimes recognised but their exact meaning is not known. Tradecorp Mexico tries to create awareness on the importance of the areas of action of the Global Compact internally and externally. Thus, they enact the areas of HuInteresting data regarding the saving of energy or resources which might change man Rights, Labour Rights and the Environment with the team, but also with clients, certain of our habits. suppliers, students, etc. Information on Human Rights, Labour Rights and the Environment have been included in the external newsletters. These are sent to 3083 people, among which we can find clients, suppliers, university students and contacts made in exhibitions and universities. For a wider circulation of these subjects, in addition, they have include information on these areas on Tradecorp Mexico Facebook page, which has more than 17,000 fans. Besides, 100% of the team in Tradecorp Mexico received face-to-face training on no-discrimination issues in 2013. 16 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 Enacting the areas of action of the Global Compact Applicable principles: All Actions Actions Newsletter 3: Anti-corruption Newsletter 4: Labour Rights What is corruption? How can we define Explanation about freedom of associait? tion and the right to collective bargaining. List and explanation of the most Forms of corruption: typical abuses. Bribery Fraud Explanation on forced an compulsory Extortion labour. Ideas to tackle forced labour, Favouritism such as paying attention to partners and Other forms of corruption suppliers in order to avoid being complicit in labour rights violations. Effects of corruption Consequences of corruption: Information on child labour and actions this section illustrated the effects of cothat could be carried out so as to avoid rruption on different aspects such as sochild labour. cial and economic development, education systems, health and democracy. Explanation on discrimination and information on the most common ways How to act against corruption? discrimination usually appears. Tradecorp’s commitment How can you act against coActions developed by Tradecorp to rruption? respect and enact Labour principles. Monitoring The newsletters were sent to 70% of the team by e-mail (to all workers having a corporate e-mail account). To get to all the team, newsletters were sent in English, Spanish and Portuguese. MORE BEST PRACTICES... MORE BEST PRACTICES... Central Office, factories and laboratories Tradecorp Brazil An event is held annually in Spain in which the teams from Madrid, the laboratories and part of Coinciding with the Day of the Tree, the team from Tradecorp Brazil carried out an event in the the factory team take part in. In this event a Corporate Social Responsibility activity is organiCorsini Institute, a centre which works on the diagnosis, treatment and support for persons sed, the purpose of which is to inform and promote awareness of different aspects regarding suffering from VIH. This centre has currently 7,000 registered users and treats around 11,000 the fields of action of the Global Compact. people a year. Furthermore, it is a shelter for children awaiting adoption or who are waiting to return to their families. In 2013, the team developed a one-day volunteer work in the Carmen Pardo-Valcarce Foundation, which works to promote the participation of mentally disabled people in society. The Tradecorp team gave a presentation on the environment and ecology to the children living in the institute and they planted 20 fruit trees in the gardens of the institution. The team had the opportunity of getting to know the daily life of the mentally disabled people who work in the foundation and to share their work with them for a morning. 46 members of the 40 people took part in the event, including children and personnel from Tradecorp and the team and 14 children of Tradecorp personnel took part in the activity, together with 46 volunCorsini Institute. Finally, instructions were given for looking after the trees. teer people, who showed us their daily work. 18 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 Donations to NGO’s and institutions Study of wages and comparative with the sector Applicable principles: 1, 4 and 5 Applicable principles: 4 and 6 Diagnosis Diagnosis In Tradecorp, social corporate responsibility is tied to all the activities of the company. We comply with the laws of the In addition to the laws in force in the countries where Tradecorp is present, Tradecorp complies with human and labour countries where we operate and we comply with international standards like the Universal Declaration of Human Rights rights. Besides, in 2012, Tradecorp launched the Human Resources Program, which analyses the situation of the team and the Labour Rights established by the International Labour Organisation. in depth. By means of this program, the management of the company seeks to better understand whether the functions of the employees meet their expectations and their career development plan. In the framework of the Human Resource However, we also endeavour to extend this responsibility within our scope of influence and to this end we have developed Program, it has been developed an analysis of salaries of the team and a comparison with the average salary for similar actions with suppliers and with the community. profiles within the sector. Policy Policy Actions related to donations to NGO’s and institutions are based on the values laid down in our Code of Conduct. This study is based on the labour principles established in the Global Compact and in our Code of Conduct. Actions Actions Besides our internal actions respecting the principles of the Global Compact, we have developed actions which have alIn 2013, we continued the implementation of the Human Resources Program that was initiated by Towers Watson. In the lowed us to divulge these principles amongst our suppliers, together with actions aimed at the community we form a part framework of this project we studied the employee profiles of Tradecorp, including variables such as level of education, of. In this sense, Tradecorp has decided to support institutions that work in favour of human rights, and labour rights. years of experience, salary, etc. A double action has been carried out in Spain: In this second phase of the project, the analysis has been completed and 100% of the wages of the team have been Donation to the Carmen-Pardo Valcarce Foundation: Following a one-day volunteer work at the Carmen Pardo-Valcarce analyzed. Foundation, which works to promote the participation of mentally disabled people in society, a donation of 3000€ was made in 2013 to the Foundation. Donation to Cáritas: In order to involve the team, “Operation Kilo” was also carried out in our Central Office, laboratories Monitoring and factories. In this campaign, the team is invited to donate foodstuff to be donated Cáritas within the framework of the “Operation Kilo”. For each kg donated by the team, Tradecorp undertook to donate an additional kg, thus doubling the In the framework of this program, the profiles and salaries of 100% of the team were studied. In regard to salaries, it was original aid. Through this action, Tradecorp donated 970 kg of foodstuff to Cáritas to be distributed among families with observed that 100% of the employees have a salary similar to what is standard for similar profiles in the agrochemical few resources of their own. sector. In Brazil, a donation was made to the Boldrini Institute, a hospital which is a point of reference for the treatment of cancer in children, particularly famous for its high success rate where recovery is greater than 70%. In Mexico, a donation was made to the Centro de Rehabilitación Infantil Teleton, a foundation which works to improve the quality of life of disabled children and youths. The donation was made for the purchase of breathing equipment for children suffering from muscular dystrophy, an illness characterised by weak muscles and in abnormalities in muscle proteins which kill the cells of these tissues. Monitoring The donations were made in the following way: Spain: 3,000€ donated to the Carmen Pardo-Valcarce Foundation. 970 kg of foodstuff donated to Cáritas: 450 kg of foodstuff donated to Cáritas Nuestra Señora de las Angustias Parish in Albacete. 320 kg of foodstuff donated to Cáritas El Salvador Parish in Arévalo. 200 kg of foodstuff donated to Cáritas Santa María Parish in Majadahonda, Madrid. Brazil: 6,000R$ (BRL) donated to the Boldrini Institute Mexico: In 2013, Tradecorp’s team donated $36,000 (MXN) to the Centro de Rehabilitación Infantil Teleton to purchase breathing equipment for children suffering from muscular dystrophy. 20 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 Analysis of the diversity indicators of the company Human Resources Program Applicable principles: 6 Applicable principles: 3, 4 and 6 Diagnosis Diagnosis Although in Tradecorp the personnel selection process is carried out following objective criteria such as education and Tradecorp is a company committed to respect human and labor rights. Although these are respected in all our activities, experience, in 2013 the diversity indicators of the Company were re-examined in order to ensure that we comply with there is also a great interest to know about the working environment of the workspaces and to know how the members of principle 6 of the Global Compact. the team feel, so that we can address any improvements that may be considered appropriate or necessary. Policy Policy The analysis of the diversity indicators of the company was carried out following the policy established in our Code of These actions are based on the labor policy of Tradecorp, established in the Code of Conduct. Conduct and the principles of the Global Compact. Actions Actions The Human Resources Program seeks to better understand how the roles and responsibilities of employees meet their To analyse the diversity indicators of the company, three factors were studied at an international level: expectations and their career development plan. This program began in 2012 with a series of personal interviews. The Sex goal of these interviews is to better understand the situation of the interviewee: their strengths and weaknesses, and their Age employment prospects. In this way, Tradecorp is trying to help the team to develop their careers according with their plans Nationality for the future. In 2013, we continued with the planning of interviews started in 2012 and, in addition, two new projects were launched Monitoring within the Human Resources Program: For this analysis, we have considered all the people that are part of Tradecorp team: Central Office, regional and subPerformance Management Program: This program seeks to analyze the performance of each person in their position in regional offices, factories and laboratories. The result of this analysis showed that Tradecorp, in 2013, was composed of: a qualitative and in a quantitative manner, in order to promote development in the different jobs. In 2013, we defined the framework of this program, which is scheduled to be launched and applied from 2014 onwards. Specific program for the factory teams: The objective of this program is to better understand the structure of the workers By sex: 30.7% in the plants, making especial emphasis on the skills and competencies of the workers, so that at peak times temporary 69.3% men promotions may arise. This brings advantages to the company and the workers, who can expand their knowledge and 30.7% women experience within the framework of their jobs. 69.3% Monitoring In the framework of the Human Resources Program have been interviewed: 30-50 years 75% of the equipment of the Madrid office By age: <30 years 71.7% 61.4% of the people in the local teams. The interviews of Mexico and Brazil have been carried out within their specific 20.7% of employees under 30 20.7% HR programs. 71.7% of employees between 30 and 50 >50 years 7.6% of employees over 50 7.6% MORE BEST PRACTICES... Tradecorp Mexico By nationality: 51.4% Spanish In 2013, in Mexico we have carried out again the Great Place to Work survey, a pro17.9% Mexican gram that analyzes the working environment through 58 indicators related to aspects 11.7% Brazilian such as employee’s relationship with their bosses, respect for the employees, non4.8% French discrimination, etc. 2.8% Belgian 2.4% Egyptian The survey was sent and answered by 100% of the team of Tradecorp Mexico. The 2.1% Italian score obtained in the survey located Tradecorp as the 8th best place to work in Mexi6.9% Other nationalities (German, Colombian, Polish, Australian, Ecuadorian...) co and indicators such as the following are remarkable: 94% believe that they are well treated regardless of their position. 92% like to work in Tradecorp. 100% believe that they are treated fairly regardless of their age, race, sex or sexual preference. 22 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 Analysis of occupational hazards Development and sales of Organic Agriculture products Applicable principles: 4 Applicable principles: 7 and 9 Diagnosis Diagnosis Safety at work is a priority for Tradecorp. Given that work in our factories can involve risks, careful studies have been made Tradecorp is a company committed to the conservation of of the number of accidents occurring in our production plants and actions for improvement have been established to mithe environment and the sustainable use of natural resournimise occupational hazards and consequently the possibility of accidents and injury. ces. We work on products that allow us to achieve maximum potential regarding the quality and yield of crops but sustainability is always our priority and we endeavour to develop Policy products which respect the environment. These actions are based on Tradecorp’s safety policy established in the Code of Conduct. Policy Actions This action is based on Tradecorp’s Code of Conduct and the principles of the Global Compact. In the study that was made, the number of minor and major accidents was analysed, together with the reasons behind the accident and a series of data to endeavour to ensure a reduction in the number of labour accidents as far as possible. A study is carried out annually in our factories to analyse the different work posts and their risks and appropriate steps are Actions taken to reduce the number of labour accidents. Since 2006, we have been working on the approval of our organic products by recognised entities to give farmers the Monitoring guarantee that the product being used complies with the requirements for organic agriculture. Ecocert Ibérica, a SpaAll the workers in our production plants in Sanchidrián and Albacete, Spain, were considered in the study. Only factory nish entity pertaining to Ecocert, annually carries out a teworkers were considered in this action because they carry out the work that involves the greatest risk of accident. chnical verification of our products, a complete audit of our production plants and makes an exhaustive analysis in situ In 2013, there were: of our production processes. 8.94 minor accidents per 100 workers a year and 2.44 major accidents per 100 workers a year. Many of our main products are approved for organic agriculture, many of them complying with European Standards and the NOP (National Organic Programme). 2011 2012 2013 Minor accidents (%) 16.3 5.8 8.94 Monitoring Major accidents (%) 2.9 0 2.44 In 2013, Ecocert authorised: 66 of our trademarks for their use in organic agriculture, Despite the actions for improvement that were implemented, which helped us to decrease the number of labour accidents complying with European standards in 2012, in 2013 the number of labour accidents went up again. Therefore, emphasis has been placed on analysing the 17 of our trademarks for their use in organic agriculture, causes of the accidents, the risks of the different workstations has been evaluated and new improvement actions have complying with NOP standards been implemented so as to reduce occupational hazards in our factories as much as possible. 42 of our trademarks for their use in organic agriculture, complying with European and NOP standards Furthermore, the brands authorised for organic agriculture have a special place in our sales. In fact, 51.57% of our sales are from brands authorised for organic agriculture. 24 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 Use of recycled and sustainable materials Reusing and recycling water in our factories Applicable principles: 7 Applicable principles: 7 and 9 Diagnosis Diagnosis In line with our commitment to the environment, we encourage the use of digital media. In those cases when this is not Due to our activities, the analysis of the consumption, reuspossible, we use recycled and/or sustainable materials whenever possible. ing and recycling of water is of special importance when analysing our environmental footprint. Given that the greatest consumption of water is in our production plants, we carried Policy out an analysis of water consumption, reuse and recycling in our factories. This action is carried out in accordance with our commitment to the protection of the environment laid down in our code of Conduct. Policy Actions In accordance with our environmental management system ISO 14001:2004 and with our Code of Conduct, to minimise In 2013, use of recycled materials was encouraged, especially with regard to paper and cardboard. Taking advantage of water consumption is a priority for Tradecorp. Therefore, wathe change in our visual identity, the recommended paper was replaced by 100% recycled fibre paper. 100% recycled ter reuse and recycling policies were established to optimise fibre paper is used for: water usage in our production plants, which is where most of Brochures and catalogues our water consumption takes place. Stationery: letterhead, envelopes, business cards… Materials with recycled fibres are also used for: Actions Boxes of all sizes Pre-printed boxes One of the actions carried out in 2012 to optimise water Application pages included in some boxes and containers consumption in the Albacete factory was the installation of a decalcifier which allowed us to reduce the use of osmotised Likewise: water by 90%. In 2013, to complete this action, osmosis waRecycled paper or paper using fibres from forests with responsible management are used for stationery (paper, post it…). ter is being reused for the manufacture of products. In this Recycled and/or sustainable materials are used for our promotional gifts (notebooks, cloth reusable bags…) and for other way, what was once considered waste is used 100% for the office materials. manufacture of some of our products. Monitoring Monitoring Most of our printed brochures and catalogues use recycled paper as this is recommended paper in our corporate visual Besides the reduction of 90% in the use of osmotised water, identity manual. nowadays we reuse 100% of osmosis water, using what was 100% of stationery articles used in the headquarters use recycled paper or paper certified to have come from forests once considered waste in the manufacture of products. with responsible management. In our packaging, More than 70% of the fibres used for manufacturing the 15 kg, 20 kg, 12 L, 10 kg and 20 L boxes used recycled fibres. In the 1 and 5 kg containers, 100% of the fibres used for manufacturing the cardboard were recycled fibres. The paper covering the boxes was FSC. MORE BEST PRACTICES... Tradecorp Mexico In order to encourage the use of sustainable materials and fair trade, in 2013 Tradecorp Mexico gave its clients gifts made by indigenous communities and suppliers of sustainable articles. In total, in 2013, more than 500 of these objects were acquired, meaning an investment of more than 3,000€. 26 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 Actions for optimising energy and decreasing emissions Applicable principles: 7 Diagnosis In order to prevent pollution and the deterioration of the environment, periodical internal studies and external audits have been made. As a result, we have a broad knowledge of the situation which means we can implement opportune improvements. Policy The actions described in this section are in line with our ISO 14001:2004 certification and the environmental principles laid down in our Code of Conduct. Actions To optimise the use of energy, we conducted audits in our production plants. As a result of the conclusions obtained in these studies, we carried out actions that have allowed us to increase productivity whilst decreasing our use of energy and our emissions. Installation of a new humic reactor in the plant in Albacete: With the installation of the new humic reactor we endeavoured to increase productivity and decrease energy consumption. Thanks to this investment, energy consumption has decreased by about 30% per litre of product produced. Installation of warehouses in the Albacete factory: The company’s growth over the last decade made it necessary to hire external warehouses to stock products. By installing warehouses in the factory itself, transport was decreased for the internal managing of the products (prior to dispatch to our clients). Installation of a loading bay in the Albacete factory: Thanks to the installation of the loading bay, security has been improved, reducing the risk of labour accidents, and loading of lorries has been maximised, thus optimising logistics and decreasing the energy consumption required for transporting the products as the containers can be filled more. Replacing the packaging from 20 kg to 15 kg: By means of some studies, we learnt that by using 20 kg boxes, we were infra-using containers. Problems were also detected in the shape of the boxes making necessary an increase in the resistance of material. Following a study of the different aspects involved, we decided to replace the 20 kg boxes with 15 kg ones, which not only optimised the containers, but also provided a greater resistance thanks to the new shape of the box. Thus we optimised the energy that is invested in transport and optimised the material without the need for adding grams to the boxes. Monitoring With the installation of the new humic reactor, energy consumption has been reduced by around 30% per litre of product produced. Installation of warehouses in the Albacete factory: Lorry transport prior to dispatch has been reduced by around 160 km a year. Installation of loading bay: In the case of 1,000 L containers, Logistics is improved to a great extent since it is possible to increase the loaded quantity in 60%. With the replacement of the 20 kg boxes by the 15 kg ones, palleting has improved and transport energy consumption has been reduced by 12.5%. 28 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 Waste management Principios a los que aplica: 7 Diagnosis Monitoring Annually we carry out internal studies and audits to allow us to control and manage the waste generated in our production In our production plants we work with external companies for the correct management of the waste generated in our proplants. As a result of these studies, areas of improvement were detected and actions were implemented which have alduction plants. The figures for waste management in 2013 were: lowed us to reduce the waste produced in both factories: 370,000 kg of non-hazardous waste Room for improvement was detected in the packing system in relation to the cleaning system and water spills. 88,000 kg of hazardous waste In the attempt to decrease the amount of waste generated, an agronomic study is conducted to analyse the waste generated in the manufacture of one of our ranges of products. As a result, we found a new use for something that used to be Approximately 120,000€ were invested in the correct management of these wastes. a waste. The development of actions for decreasing waste has allowed us to reduce the amount of waste generated as follows: Policy Thanks to the installation of the new packaging system and the new cleaning procedures of the packer, use of water used for cleaning has decreased 50%, which considerably reduces water spillages. Waste control and management is developed in line with our ISO 14001:2004 certificate and following our Code of Conduct. The use of waste generated in the manufacture of humic acids has meant we have been able to give a new use to something that had previously been considered to be a waste product. 100% of this waste is now made use of, providing some Actions 500 tons of fertiliser. We worked with external companies which were responsible for the correct management of the waste generated in our The installation of an automatic system for adding soda has decreased hazardous waste by 2,400 kg in 2013. production plants. Improvements in the two new types of packaging have allowed us to reduce the amount of cardboard used by: Besides correct waste management, in 2013, a series of actions were carried out that have allowed us to decrease the More than 8,000 kg of cardboard in the case of 12.5 kg printed bags, in 2013. amount of waste generated in our factories: More than 10,000 kg of cardboard in the case of 1 kg printed bags, in 2013. In the factory in Albacete it was found that there was room for improvement in the packing system with regard to the cleaning system and spills. Consequently, a packager was installed which checks the correct filling of the packages. Besides leading to a decrease in the risk of labour accidents and an improvement in productivity, this also reduced the spilling of water and product generated in each cleaning operation. In order to improve waste management, a study was carried out to determine that the waste generated from the manufacture of one of our product ranges had the possibility of being used as a fertiliser. We made a research and studied agronomic and regulatory possibilities. This waste is now registered as a fertilizer in the Spanish legislation. Although the final objectives of this action were to improve security and ergonomy, the investment in an automatic soda system for the Sanchidrián factory reduced hazardous waste as we no longer use plastics in this activity. In 2013, the use of two new types of packaging was encouraged: the 12.5 kg bag for chelates and the use of 1 kg printed bags for certain solid products. These two bags mean a reduction in the amount of cardboard in our packaging per kg sold. MORE BEST PRACTICES... Tradecorp Mexico Besides encouraging the use of sustainable and recycled materials, Tradecorp Mexico recycles different materials which make possible the obtaining of an amount of income that is donated to the Centro de Rehabilitación Infantil Teletón for children with muscular dystrophy. In 2013, the following was recycled: 1,040 kg of plastic 366 kg of paper 900 kg of cardboard 30 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 Protection and restoration of habitats Anti-corruption policy Principios a los que aplica: 8 Applicable principles: 10 Diagnosis Diagnosis Although Tradecorp endeavours to keep a precautionary approach to the environment, it also encourages actions which Although Tradecorp has independent periodic audits and contribute to the protection and restoration of habitats that have been deteriorated in the past and it promotes environcomplies with anti-corruption laws and standards, we wantmental awareness. ed our staff to become involved with the company’s anticorruption policy. Policy Policy This action is within the lines of our Code of Conduct. This action was carried out in line with our commitment to the Global Compact Network and our own Code of Conduct. Actions Besides carrying out actions to optimise the use of energy and decrease the use of natural resources, in 2013, Tradecorp Action also carried out actions for the protection and restoration of habitats. To get the commitment of our internal group of interest reIn Spain, the following actions were carried out: garding anti-corruption, a model was designed to be signed by the Area Managers, Department Directors and the ExFollowing the Christmas campaign launched in 2012, “Tradecorp plants a tree for you”, where we invited users to plant a ecutive Manager, including three questions concerning antitree with Tradecorp, in the autumn of 2013, 200 trees were planted in the Sierra de Guadarrama National Park, in Madrid corruption: (Spain), in collaboration with NGO Reforesta. Autochthonous trees were planted, like holm oak, cork oak, juniper and gall oak. To help the survival of these trees, 6 watering sessions were contracted, 4 in the summer of 2014 and 2 for the sumHave you made any financial contribution in your region mer of 2015. Besides, tree shelters will be replaced and watering basins restored. and/or contribution in kind to political parties, politicians or related institutions? To help with the survival of the 240 trees planted in 2012 in the same national park, in the summer of 2013, the NGO In which country or countries? Reforesta watered the trees 5 times and 7 days were dedicated to replace tree shelters and restore watering basins. DurTotal value of the financial contribution and/or coning the month of November, the NGO provided data on the survival of the trees. Of the 240 trees planted in 2012 by the tribution in kind Tradecorp team and their families, 59.6% had survived. Has there been any legal action for behaviour against competition laws and/or monopolistic practices in your region? In order to protect and restore habitats, the following actions were carried out in Mexico: In which country or countries? Total amount In August, the Mexico team carried out reforestation in Bosque Colomos, Guadalajara (Mexico), with the participation of approximately 120 people among members of the team, their families and friends. On this occasion, 80 4-year-old trees Has your region been fined or received a non-monetary were planted. This year, bigger trees were planted so as to help on their survival. sanction for non-compliance with laws and regulations? In which country or countries? Donations of Tradecorp products were also made to the Bosque Colomos and to the Fundación Ecológica Selva Negra, Monetary value of significant fines an association which promotes the conservation of the environment and social development. Number of non-monetary sanctions Monitoring Monitoring In the reforestation in Spain, resulting from the Christmas campaign “Tradecorp plants a tree for you”, 200 trees were planted in the Sierra de Guadarrama National Park in Madrid (Spain). Watering for 2014 and 2015 was arranged to improve The form was returned filled in by all the Area Managers, Dethe survival rate of the trees planted. partment Directors and by the Executive Manager. The trees planted by Tradecorp team in Spain in 2012 were watered 5 times during 2013 in order to help on their survival. In 2013, In the summer of 2013, 5 watering sessions were carried out for the survival of the trees planted by the Tradecorp team There have been no financial contributions and/or contribufrom the Madrid office, factories and laboratories in 2012. Of the 240 trees planted, 59.6% have survived. tions in kind to political parties, politicians or related institutions. In the reforestation carried out in Mexico, more than 120 people planted 80 4-year-old trees in the Bosque Colomos in There have been no legal actions for behaviour against Guadalajara (Mexico). competition laws and/or monopolistic practices. No fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Tradecorp Mexico has also donated 8,260 kg Tradecorp products, distributed in the following way: with laws and regulations have been received. 668 L of Humistar and Ruter AA donated to the Bosque Colomos, Guadalajara, in July, 2013. 7592 kg Tradecorp products donated in June 2013 to the Fundación Ecológica Selva Negra, an association that promotes the conservation of the environment and social development. 32 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES RELATED TO GLOBAL REPORTING Principle 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. INITIATIVE INDICATORS, TRADECORP INDICATORS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDICATOR TRADECORP INTERNAL INDICATOR TRADECORP MEASUREMENT HUMAN RIGHTS HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% Principle 1. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Percentage of significant suppliers that signed 62% GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP the responsible purchases protocol INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT HR3 % of employees that received formation 70% Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and information concerning human rights, HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to labour rights, the environment and anticorruption Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol operations, including the percentage of employees (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) business partners that have undergone human rights screentrained. ing, and actions taken. Percentage of significant suppliers that signed 62% the responsible purchases protocol LABOUR RIGHTS HR3 % of employees that received formation 70% Principle 3. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and information concerning human rights, Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to labour rights, the environment and anticorruption operations, including the percentage of employees (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) trained. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT EC5 % of people with higher wages 0% Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender than others in other companies with a similar profile compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% operation. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol % of people with similar wages business partners that have undergone human rights screen100% to others in other companies with a similar profile ing, and actions taken. Percentage of significant suppliers that signed 62% the responsible purchases protocol % of people with lower wages 0% than others in other companies with a similar profile HR3 % of employees that received formation 70% Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and information concerning human rights, LA7 Rate of minor accidents in the factories 8.9% concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to labour rights, the environment and anticorruption Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absen(no. of accidents/100 employees/year) operations, including the percentage of employees (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) teeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region trained. and by gender. Rate of major accidents in the factories 2.4% (no. of accidents/100 employees/year) Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. LA13 % of men in the company 69.3% GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of (total of employees in the company) INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. % of women in the company 30.7% (total of employees in the company) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol business partners that have undergone human rights screen% of employees under 30 20.7% ing, and actions taken. (total of employees in the company) Percentage of significant suppliers that signed 62% the responsible purchases protocol % of employees between 30 and 50 71.7% (total of employees in the company) HR3 % of employees that received formation 70% Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and information concerning human rights, concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to labour rights, the environment and anticorruption % of employees over 50 7.6% operations, including the percentage of employees (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) (total of employees in the company) trained. 34 PART III MEASUREMENTS. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS PART II MEASUREMENTS, PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS 35 THE ENVIRONMENT Principle 5. Principle 7. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that received 100% EN26 Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 17 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other the responsible purchases protocol Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Agriculture under NOP standards business partners that have undergone human rights screenof products and services, and extent of ing, and actions taken. impact mitigation. Percentage of significant suppliers that signed 62% Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 66 the responsible purchases protocol Agriculture under European standards HR3 % of employees that received formation 70% Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 42 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures and information concerning human rights, Agriculture under European and NOP standards concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to labour rights, the environment and anticorruption operations, including the percentage of employees (by e-mail on the total of Tradecorp’s team) trained. % of total sales that are sales of brands approved for Organic 51.57% Agriculture EN30 € invested in habitats protection 4,650€ Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. € invested in the correct management of hazardous waste 50,000€ Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. € invested in the correct management of non hazardous waste 70,000€ GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT € invested in the optimization of natural resources 20,000€ LA13 % of men in the company 69.3% € invested in control of spills 50,000€ Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of (total of employees in the company) employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of € invested in control and decrease of emissions 150,000€ diversity. % of women in the company 30.7% (total of employees in the company) € invested in controlling noise pollution 1,500€ % of employees under 30 20.7% (total of employees in the company) % of employees between 30 and 50 71.7% (total of employees in the company) % of employees over 50 7.6% (total of employees in the company) 36 PART III MEASUREMENTS. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS PART II MEASUREMENTS, PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS 37 Principle 8. Principle 9. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT EN6 S*: 0.478 kwh/kg EN6 S*: 0.478 kwh/kg Electric energy kWh/l or kg produced A*: 0.061 kwh/L Electric energy kWh/l or kg produced A*: 0.061 kwh/L Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. S*: 3.423 kwh/kg requirements as a result of these initiatives. S*: 3.423 kwh/kg Natural gas kW/l or kg produced A*: 6.006 kwh/L Natural gas kW/l or kg produced A*: 6.006 kwh/L EN10 Sanchidrián: 100% EN10 Sanchidrián: 100% % of water that is reused Albacete: 20% % of water that is reused Albacete: 20% Percentage and total volume of water recycled Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. and reused. % of water that is recycled Albacete: 100% % of water that is recycled Albacete: 100% EN13 No. of reforested trees 280 EN18 No. of iniciatives to reduce greenhouse gas 2 Habitats protected or restored. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions emissions and reductions achieved. No. of people involved in the restoration or 320 protection of habitats EN26 Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 17 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Agriculture under NOP standards EN16 of products and services, and extent of CO2 emissions in kg S*: 12,458,594 kg Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions impact mitigation. A*: 598,546.29 by weight. Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 66 Agriculture under European standards EN18 No. of iniciatives to reduce greenhouse gas 2 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions emissions Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 42 and reductions achieved. Agriculture under European and NOP standards EN23 Total number of significant spills 0 Total number and volume % of total sales that are sales of brands approved for Organic 51.57% of significant spills. Agriculture EN26 Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 17 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Agriculture under NOP standards of products and services, and extent of ANTI-CORRUPTION impact mitigation. Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 66 Principle 10. Agriculture under European standards Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for Organic 42 INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT Agriculture under European and NOP standards % of total sales that are sales of brands approved for Organic 51.57% SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political 0 Agriculture Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance 0 Monetary value of significant fines and total SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, 0 with environmental laws and regulations Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, number of non-monetary sanctions for non compliance anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes with environmental laws and anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. regulations. Non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 0 with environmental laws and regulations SO8 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance 0 Monetary value of significant fines and total with laws and regulations number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. S*: Factory in Sanchidrián, Ávila (España) Total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 0 A*: Factory in Albacete (España) with laws and regulations 38 PART III MEASUREMENTS. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS PART II MEASUREMENTS, PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND GRI INDICATORS 39 Trade Corporation International S.A.U. C/ Alcalá, 498. 2ª Planta 28027 Madrid (España) www.tradecorp.com.es I-02-01-14-V1
