Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 We are proud to be a company with demonstrable and externally accredited strengths in corporate responsibility and sustainability. That said, we are not complacent and recognize that becoming a more sustainable business is a long journey – one to which we are committed. James Robey Group Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Director Executive Summary Welcome to our 2013 Review in which we provide an overview of our approach to Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability together with our key 2012/13 highlights. This last year has been another year of continued progress • Recognition for our community engagement approach, with which has also seen us refocus our approach under four our Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) Centers in Poland strategic dimensions: winning the European Outsourcing Awards in the CSR category, and receiving the prestigious Community Mark • Values & Ethics – providing the framework which underpins all award from Business in the Community at a reception we do; attended by the Prime Minister David Cameron; • Environmental Sustainability – managing and reducing • A new holistic approach to managing diversity being environmental impacts; deployed as part of our people culture approach in North • Community Engagement – maximizing the positive impacts America including the roll-out of a new Leadership we have on the communities in which we live and operate; Development Program aimed at all levels across the business up to and including our Vice President community; • People Culture – ensuring that we are both a responsible and inclusive company. • A strengthened approach to the governance of Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability (CR&S), with the expansion of Running across all these dimensions remains our dedication to our network of CR&S leaders to cover all our major territories our clients, and as such we continue to look for innovative ways and over 90 per cent of the Group by headcount; to further embed our sustainability values into the client services we provide. • And finally the inaugural award by Capgemini Netherlands of a new award which recognizes the client project which had While much has been achieved in the past year, some of our the most impact on the sustainability of our clients; key achievements have been: • Recognition by the Ethisphere Institute of Capgemini being • Further strengthening of our approach to environmental one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2013. sustainability with Spain becoming the latest of our countries to achieve ISO14001 certification for its Environmental I hope you find our Annual Corporate Responsibility & Management System covering both Capgemini and Spain. Sustainability Review useful. Further information about our Operations in seven of our countries are now covered by this focus and progress can be found on our website at www. international standard with further countries being currently capgemini.com/sustainability rolled out; • The development of an innovative Smart Energy Management James Robey Solution (SEMS) that enabled a 10% reduction in energy use in Group Corporate Responsibility two Mumbai offices within two months and which is now being & Sustainability Director rolled out internally as well as being offered to our clients; 3 Capgemini Headquarters, Paris, France. 4 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 Table of Contents Introduction 6 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 10 1. Values & Ethics 12 1.1 Leadership & Values 12 1.2 Group Ethics & Compliance Program 13 1.3 Sustainable Procurement: Our Suppliers and Business Partners 15 2. Environmental Sustainability 16 2.1 Group Environmental Policy 17 2.2 Management approach 17 2.3 Environmental Performance 18 2.4 Key Performance Indicators 19 3. Community Engagement 21 3.1 Our Global Initiatives 22 3.2 Some of our National Initiatives 23 3.3 Community Investment and Donations 25 4 People demographics 26 4.1 Professional Development 27 4.2 Diversity & equal opportunity 27 4.3 Work organization, health & well-being 28 4.4 Social Dialog/Employee engagement 29 4.5 Leadership 30 5. Client Services 32 3.1 Enabling Client Transformation 32 3.2 Innovating for our Clients 33 3.3 Client Satisfaction Approach 34 Awards and Recognition 35 Appendix A – Organizational Structure 36 Appendix B – Additional People Data 37 Appendix C – Additional Environmental Data 46 5 Introduction Being a responsible company has been at the heart of Capgemini’s values since we were founded in 1967 by Serge Kampf. Our commitment to Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability has endured for more than 45 years as we have grown to become Europe’s largest IT services company, with over 130,000 employees operating in over 44 countries. In 2013 we have strengthened our program by refocusing our approach under four strategic dimensions: Environmental Sustainability; Community Engagement; People Culture together with the Values & Ethics which underpin everything we do. Furthermore we continue to look for innovative ways to embed sustainability into the services we provide our clients. We remain committed to going beyond our legislative obligations and talking with our key stakeholders to ensure that we align our approach to their key expectations. Our shareholders, for example, are increasingly asking us about our commitment across various aspects of corporate responsibility and the wider sustainability agenda. Interest covers aspects such as our policies regarding human rights and anticorruption to our focus and commitments on carbon reduction. This report is dedicated to transparently sharing our progress to date, while setting out our ambitions and plans for the future. Overall, we openly acknowledge that while we have come a long way over the last 46 years, there is still much further to travel. Paul Hermelin Chairman and Group CEO At Capgemini, we recognize that issues such as resource scarcity, energy security, climate change, and demographic evolution are also impacting our clients. Consequently, we remain committed to developing and delivering innovative business and IT solutions to support our clients, enabling them to adapt to the new realities of our changing world. 6 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 Ownership and organizational structure Non-French French Board members Individual Treasury institutional institutional & Group shareholders stock shareholders shareholders employees 54.2% 27.4% 7.0% 9.8% 1.6% Cap Gemini S.A Capgemini Capgemini Sogeti Consulting • Consulting • Technology • Local Services Services Professional • Outsourcing Services Services Headquartered in Paris, France and Our ownership and operational operating in over 44 countries with structure are shown in the diagram over 130,000 employees, we have above. There were no significant established ourselves as one of the changes in structure which affected our top five IT services and consulting approach to corporate responsibility and companies worldwide and the largest sustainability during 2012 / 13 however, IT services company based in Europe. the increase in share ownership of Capgemini’s mission is to enable directors and employees from 7.0 per our clients to transform and perform cent to 9.8 per cent between 2011 through technology. Our vision is to lead and 2012 highlights the success of our by providing clients with insights and Employee Share Ownership Program capabilities that boost their freedom to (ESOP) and reflects the strength of our achieve superior results. shared values. Capgemini offers cutting-edge In 2012, the Group achieved revenues technological skills and consulting just over 10 billion euro, an increase expertise across all sectors and of 5.9% compared with 2011, and an geographies. With strong expertise operating profit for the year of €601 in its four businesses and in-depth million, bringing the operating margin knowledge of six key business sectors, to 5.9% compared with 6.1% in 2011. A the Group is increasingly regarded as breakdown of revenue by business area, a leading provider by its many global market sector and country is presented clients. They appreciate its innovative in Appendix A. approach, ability to partner with the market’s top technology players, and 76% of our people and the majority a global delivery model, Rightshore®, of our data centers are located in which combines local (onshore) France, the Netherlands, North resources with more distant (offshore) America, India, Brazil and the UK. These specialist production centers. countries represent our most material sustainability impact. 7 Benelu 8,81 United Kingdom and Ireland 9,205 France 20,970 North America 9,702 Morocco 743 Latin America 9,261 Group Total 130,088 Number of team Working Offshore members by region 50,968 as at September 2013 Our approach to Corporate the environment through our use of We have been supporting the principles Responsibility & Sustainability flows energy and as a result of business of the UN Global Compact Program from our corporate values, and we travel. Some of our operations, such since 2004, signed up to the UN are committed to responsible and as our data center facilities and the Global Compact Caring for Climate sustainable business practices, services run from them, remain at initiative in 2007 and the UN Women’s delivering value to our stakeholders risk from extreme weather events for Empowerment Principles in 2011. Our who include: customers, shareholders, example. Our clients require, in many management approach also supports investors, business partners, suppliers, circumstances, continuous service from all international laws and regulations, in employees, the community, and our data centers no matter the weather particular the fundamental conventions the environment. conditions. We also recognize the on labor standards of the International opportunity and potential opportunities Labor Organization, the principles In particular, the impacts, risks and whereby ICT can be used to assist of the 1948 Universal Declaration of opportunities presented as a result our clients with their own climate Human Rights (where we refuse the of climate change touch every part change challenges. use of forced and child labor) and of our business. Our services impact the OECD guidelines for Multinational 8 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 x 2 Rest of Europe 21,664 Asia Pacific Middle East, Africa 3,977 and UAE India 25 45,729 Enterprises. We continue to increase the This report is our second one produced We intend that this report assists with an proportion of our operations covered to the principles of the GRI standard increased stakeholder dialog at a Group by ISO14001 certification and are rolling and covers data from the 2012 calendar level to proactively refine future reports out globally a robust environmental and year combined with narrative relating to ensure the focus and materiality of social data measurement tool so we to progress throughout 2012 and 2013. content is pertinent and applicable. can ensure that we can manage our Due to our growing and ever changing sustainability performance. data baseline and to avoid confusion, we have elected not to restate data Our 2013 report, consequently provides from previous reports. The policies an overview of our approach and and principles described in this report performance within our refocused are applicable to our entire global approach covering: our Values and operations. While there continues to be Ethics, Environmental Sustainability, some limitations to data availability, all Community Engagement, and our available data has been included in the People Culture. following sections. 9 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability vision is ‘to be leaders in sustainable excellence through a bold and influential approach, positively impacting Capgemini’s future, our clients, society and the planet.’ During 2013 we have refocused our approach under four strategic dimensions covering Environmental Sustainability, Community Engagement, People Culture and Client Services underpinned by Values and Ethics. Additionally we are working to look for innovative approaches to building sustainability into our client service offers. Our Sustainability Framework Values & Ethics It’s about who we are and the way we do business Environmental Community People Client Sustainability Engagement Culture Services Our deep and measured We strive to have a We aim to be the Our clients benefit from understanding of positive impact on the employer of choice for our comprehensive environmental impact communities in which we people who wish to understanding of enables us to manage live and operate. flourish in a creative and sustainability and our risk and reduce our diverse environment. world class business carbon footprint across transformation the Group. capabilities. 10 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 Values & Ethics It’s about who we are and the way we do business. Built on a foundation of our seven core values, our code of ethics underpins our corporate culture and permeates all of our business practices, procurement behaviors and employee welfare policies. Environmental Sustainability We have a deep and measured understanding of our impact on the environment. We recognize that while we do not manufacture products, the business services we provide can still impact the environment. We are working to reduce our environmental impacts from energy, business travel and waste, while raising employee awareness on the critical issues of sustainable development. Community Engagement We strive to have a positive impact on the communities in which we live and operate. As a major global employer, we work both locally, nationally and internationally with charities, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and local authorities around inclusivity and skills for the future. Around the Group, we encourage the active involvement of our team members in community development. People Culture We aim to be the employer of choice for people who wish to flourish in a creative and diverse environment. Our focus is on the professional development and well-being of all our employees by ensuring that both our business practices and our facilities empower our delivery excellence. We have a culture whereby we respect and value the diversity and creativity of all our people. Client Services Our clients benefit from our deep understanding of sustainability and our world class business transformation capabilities. We deliver long-lasting value with tangible results. We take customer dialog and feedback very seriously, and look to embed Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability considerations into our consulting, technology and outsourcing offers. 11 1. Values & Ethics 1.1 Leadership & Values Since the creation of the Group in 1967, our culture and business practices have been inspired and guided by our seven core values. These principles drive us as a Group and also as individuals. They are at the heart of our approach as an ethical and responsible company. These values are more than just rules of behavior: they provide the basis for our ethical approach and our principles. From them, we have carved out our approach to responsibility and our ethical and sustainability culture: they are the Group’s DNA. They demonstrate our belief in integrity and ethical behavior. Our values are critical in respecting, defending and upholding the Group as an ethical and responsible business and in protecting our reputation. team spirit trust boldness modesty fun honesty freedom HIGHLIGHT: MARCH 2013 Highlight: March 2013, Capgemini is recognized as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2013 by the Ethisphere Capgemini Institute.has been recognized as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2013 by the Ethisphere Institute. At Capgemini we often state that we go beyond compliance and philanthropy within our At Capgemini we often state that we go beyond compliance Corporate Responsibility and & Sustainability programs and in 2013 our efforts were externally philanthropy within our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability recognised programs by the research-­‐based Ethisphere Institute. Ethisphere is dedicated to the creatio advancement and sharing of best practices in business ethics, corporate social responsibility and in 2013 our efforts were externally recognized by theand research-based anti-­‐corruption sustainability. Ethisphere Institute. Ethisphere is dedicated to the creation advancement and sharing of best practices in business ethics, corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and sustainability. 12 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 1.2 Group Ethics & Compliance Program The Group Ethics & Compliance Program was On publication in 2010, a hard copy of the Code of Business launched in 2009 and established a network of Ethics was sent, together with a letter from the CEO, to Ethics & Compliance Officers across the Group. all Vice-Presidents (approximately 1,400 managers) for The objectives of the program are to: their review and for signature of compliance. The Code is available in 13 languages and we have rolled out a specific • Develop a sustainable ethical culture, which e-learning module on the code which can be completed in reinforces integrity and leads to ethical behavior; four languages. By the end of September 2013, more than 90,000 team members have completed this e-learning. • Strengthen knowledge and awareness of international and national laws, and internal policies The Anti-Corruption Policy is also available in eight applicable in the Group’s companies; and languages with an accompanying e-learning module available in four languages (with a fifth to be available • Implement initiatives reinforcing prevention and soon). At the end of September 2013, more than 42,000 aiming at avoiding misconduct and breaches team members had completed the e-learning. in the field of ethics and compliance. The Competition Laws Policy is also available in eight Managers across the Group are accountable in languages with an accompanying e-learning module their respective units for ethics, and for compliance currently available in two languages (soon to be with the applicable laws and regulations. available in five). At the end of September 2013, more than 30,000 team members have completed this. The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CECO) is responsible for the Ethics & Compliance Program across Furthermore, Capgemini has in place a dedicated procedure the Group. The Program and its achievements are for requesting advice and guidance and for raising concern. reviewed annually by the Group Ethics and Governance The Raising Concern Procedure (RCP) is currently in operation Committee of the Board of Directors.General Counsels on a case-by-case basis in over 35 countries where the Group across the Group have been appointed as local Ethics & operates, in accordance with the applicable legislation Compliance Officers. They are responsible for the Ethics & Compliance Program within the geography under To the best of our knowledge, we have not been the subject of their responsibility and work closely with the CECO. significant fines for non compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision of our services during the last year. As part of our Ethics & Compliance Program, we published our Code of Business Ethics in 2010, our Anti-Corruption Policy in 2011 and our Competition Laws Policy in 2012. The Code of Business Ethics and its resulting policies have received the collective and individual support of all the members of the Capgemini’s Board, our Group Executive Committee and the Group’s Vice-President community. Ethics Week Corresponding with the Group’s anniversary, a ‘Values & Ethics’ week was run across Capgemini to promote and renew awareness of our ethical policies and the seven values of the Group. In particular, the Group’s Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer took the opportunity to highlight via a video image the importance of our compliance policies and procedures by sharing information in social gatherings and on social media platforms. 13 Our Sustainable Procurement Principles 1. Human Rights 2. Respect for national, international, regional and local applicable laws 3. No forced or compulsory labor 4. No child labor 5. Equality and diversity 6. Employee well-being and development 7. Disciplinary practices 8. Freedom of association 9. Health and Safety 10. Confidentiality and intellectual property 11. Refusal of bribery and corruption in business practices 12. Environmental impacts 14 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 1.3 Sustainable Procurement: Our Suppliers and Business Partners With supply chains coming under ever greater scrutiny, The project encompasses: Capgemini has developed Sustainable and Ethical Procurement guidelines. We expect our suppliers and • a review of our supplier base in terms of risk and extent of business partners to fully comply with all applicable legislation expenditure; for the products and / or services they provide, and to respect appropriate ethical policies and human rights. Our contracts • a more detailed survey of prioritized suppliers to assess with our suppliers reflect this approach. Should a supplier fail to supplier performance compared with sustainability respect these sustainable procurement and ethical guidelines, principles Capgemini is entitled to terminate the contract. • if required, agreeing appropriate improvement activities with In all of our purchasing activities, we pay attention to social prioritized suppliers; and impacts and human rights, environmental impacts, antibribery and corruption. The ten key principles of the United • assessing all new suppliers who are required to complete a Nations Global Compact underpin our activities throughout our sustainability questionnaire. business. Capgemini also aims as far as possible to undertake all Sustainable Procurement in Practice procurement (real estate, equipment, business travel) in Capgemini continues to implement its Sustainable Procurement accordance with its environmental policies and guidelines. in Partnership project. This reviews every category of goods This has been embedded into standard contracts since and services procured from suppliers, in order to identify 2007, with the option of terminating a contract in the case of key areas of sustainability risk and related opportunities for non-compliance. improvement. Risk in this context refers to whether the product or service being procured has the potential to make a material In 2009, the Group’s Procurement Officers set up a program impact on our sustainability performance and commitments to complete risk and expense assessments on all of our key (specifically in the areas of Health and Safety; Anti bribery and suppliers. The program has been implemented in our largest Ethical Trading); or whether it is subject to specific legislation, countries between 2009 and 2012 supplier assessments particularly environmental legislation. covered 88% of worldwide purchasing expenses. Some 4,293 suppliers were or are currently being analyzed. Following this analysis, 215 suppliers have been delisted or reclassified with an additional 222 suppliers participating in a resolution program to bring them to the required standard. Capgemini was awarded the Prime Supplier of the Year “We are honored to be recognized by The Coca-Cola Award by global client The Coca-Cola Company at the Company with whom we share a core business value 2013 Partners in Promise Awards Celebration in Atlanta, of empowering a diverse workforce and supplier base USA. The award recognizes suppliers who have made to deliver impactful business outcomes. Our growing outstanding contributions with internal teams to move supplier diversity program has set a new standard for business initiatives forward while championing supplier responsible supply chain management and Capgemini diversity. Capgemini has helped Coca-Cola increase is committed to expanding its work with more diverse its diversity procurement in the areas of IT, BPO, and suppliers to solve complex problems for our clients business consulting for more than 20 years. around the globe.”said Paul Dickens, director, Supplier Diversity and Engagement, Capgemini. 15 2. Environmental Sustainability Although Capgemini does not manufacture products, we recognize that our services and business activities still impact the environment. We are, therefore, working to reduce our environmental impacts as part of our overall Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability program, particularly focusing on energy use, business travel and waste. We are also committed to complying with legal and other relevant requirements in force within our operational geographies. Capgemini believe that environmental sustainability is a driver of shareholder value. Taking steps to go beyond simple environmental compliance, provides us with opportunities to support clients with new service offerings as well as to improve our efficiency and ultimately lower operational costs. Installation of bee hives at our Kleber office in Paris, France, in conjunction with Ekodev for the protection and preservation of bees in France. 16 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 2.1 Group Environmental Policy Chairman and CEO Paul Hermelin signed our Group Environment Policy in 2011 which sets out the expectations for all countries. This policy statement (see Appendix C) reinforces our commitment to environmental compliance and the continual improvement of environmental performance specifically in the areas of Energy, Business Travel and Waste. 2.2 Management approach ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management Systems are in place in the UK, the Netherlands, France, Belgium, Portugal, Brazil and Spain. The implementation of the Group Environment Policy will facilitate activities within the remaining countries to address ISO14001 requirements. Across the Group, our key material environmental impacts are set out in the table below: Key environmental Aspects and impacts applicable to the Capgemini business aspects Energy Our main environmental impact comes from the consumption of electricity, gas and oil to light, heat and power to our offices and data centers. Data processing centers are particularly energy intensive due to the high level of IT equipment to be housed, powered and cooled. As an example, adound 78% of the electricity we use in our UK operations is consumed by the data processing centers alone. Travel The business journeys we undertake, including journeys by road, rail, air and stays in hotels all consume fossil fuels, contributing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and impacting climate change. This is a major challenge for our industry, whose business relies on the mobility of their employees in order to utilize their skills and experience in serving our customers worldwide. We continue to take advantage of the opportunities created by technology such as videoconferencing, supported by virtual hosting services. We also introduced or improved some collaborative tools to facilitate remote working and allow a greater flexibility. In many countries we monitor the emissions from our car fleets, especially by setting emission limits or by promoting the use of hybrid vehicles. Waste management Much of the waste that the Group produces is generated from office consumables and packaging. Capgemini aims to minimize the amount of waste that is sent to landfill by providing recycling facilities in key offices. We also try to engage our people and work with key suppliers to reduce the overall amount of waste in the business, generated by daily operations. We ensure that all electronic equipment is recylced in accordance with local laws. 17 2.3 Environmental Performance In order to drive improvements at Group level we are acutely Whilst we have not yet set global carbon reduction targets, this aware of the need for a robust baseline against which to improved carbon accounting is already helping identify areas assess and set suitable targets and monitor progress. Whilst for potential savings (both in terms of emissions and cost) not fully there yet, we continue to roll out a global carbon relating to energy consumption. In India, we are deploying accounting system to standardize data collection, monitoring a Capgemini developed Smart Metering solution which is and management. Starting with the top five countries by enabling significant reductions in electricity consumption – headcount, the system has been gradually expanding since the initial pilot enabled double-digit savings with two months. 2012 and will contain raw data for 12 of our Group countries by Once fully deployed, it is expected that the system will yield the end of 2013. multi-million euro cost savings. Whilst global targets are still in development, a number of operations have set local country level targets. UK Case Study – UK Targets and Performance We continue to monitor the targets set for Capgemini UK against a 2008 baseline: To reduce our non-data center CO2 footprint by 20% by Achieved in 2012 – Progress has continued in the 2014 (35% by 2020) first half of 2013 with headline carbon emissions (excluding the data centers) now down 27% compared against the 2008 baseline To improve energy efficiency in our data centers by more Achieved in 2011 – We continue to improve and are than 20% by 2014 currently showing a 27% improvement in the average PUE1 of our data centers when compared to 2008 To reduce our CO2 related to business travel by more By the end of H1 2013, emissions from business than 30% by 2014 travel in the UK are down nearly 20% compared to 2008 To send zero office waste to landfill by 2014 92% of office waste was diverted from landfill in the first half of 2013 as compared to 53% in the baseline year 2008 To implement an ISO 14001 certified Environmental Achieved in June 2009 and recertified in 2013 Management System (EMS) – achieved in June 2009 1.Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) compares the energy used for non-IT equipment in a data center (for example: lighting, cooling) with the amount of energy used to power the IT equipment. Put simply, the lower the PUE, the more efficient a data center is. The theoretical minimum (i.e. most efficient) ratio possible is 1.0. The industry average in the UK is around 2.0. 18 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 2.4 Key Performance Indicators Given that our global carbon accounting system is currently The carbon footprint tables shown include emissions being rolled out, the maturity of environmental reporting varies associated with use of gas, diesel, electricity (in data centers across the Group. At the time of data collation for the 2012 and offices), urban heating, steam, cooling and business travel. Annual Report, Capgemini UK data was the only country data As water usage is not considered a significant environmental available directly from the Carbon Accounting system. All other aspect for Capgemini, it has been excluded. However, water countries performed specific data gathering exercises to collate is included as part of the carbon accounting system roll out, the data presented in this report. which will allow us to identify consumption areas where there may be a more significant impact from our use of water (for In presenting the following tables of environmental data it has example: in some cooling systems). been necessary to make a number of assumptions. Where only partial data is available, extrapolation has been employed Following an external audit of our 2012 data presented in to estimate the total annual impacts. This extrapolation has in our Annual Report, it was decided not to detail Capgemini’s many cases included the figures for November and December consumption of paper, the generation of waste and the amount 2012 as full data-sets were unavailable at the time of data recycled within this report as the current data gathering preparation. In rare cases, up to 6 months data had to be practices differ significantly between countries. A smaller extrapolated (for example: air travel by Capgemini Netherlands). number of countries (for example: the UK and the Netherlands) have more robust data sets enabling the success of waste The extrapolations employed were: reduction and recycling initiatives to be measured. For example, the UK generated a total of 257 tons of general waste • estimating 2012 data based upon available 2011 data (excluding hazardous waste) across its facilities in 2012 with a (according to documented methodologies related to recycling rate of 69 per cent. differing circumstances and covering all aspects of energy, travel and waste data) Although waste produced is reported locally in certain countries, as the waste volume available for most countries is • estimating emissions data based on available cost data based on estimated values, it was decided that the resulting (employing assumptions such as the cost per kwh for emissions calculations were unlikely to be representative and electricity and gas; and cost per liter for petrol/diesel or per have therefore been excluded from this report. km of travel) Where no data was available, as was often the case for water consumption and some modes of transport, the data has been deliberately excluded. Full details of the assumptions employed can be made available upon request. Capgemini’s largest operating units in France, India, the UK, the Netherlands and North America (including Canada and the United States of America) account for 70 per cent of Capgemini’s global headcount. The combined carbon emissions of these operations amounts to 280,337 tons of CO2e emitted, calculated in most cases using the conversion factors and methodology recommended by the UK Government’s Department of Environment, Farming and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). Where country specific conversion factors have been identified as more accurate, these have been used (for example: ADEME factors for certain French data including emissions from urban heating). 19 The table opposite shows the energy consumption and carbon Currently, the data for the United Kingdom represents the emissions associated with Capgemini and Sogeti operations most complete data set: robust carbon accounting has been in France, India, The Netherlands, UK and North America in place since 2009 with annual external verification being (United States of America and Canada). Where available conducted since 2010. The 2012 data set, has been audited as the data for Capgemini and Sogeti is shown separately. part of Capgemini UK’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme For India and France the data for Capgemini and Sogeti is (EMAS) report using the principles of ISO 14064. Capgemini showed combined. Netherlands also report on an annual basis via the Capgemini Netherlands Annual Management Report, where data is also Environment data has also been collected from Capgemini’s verified externally. operations in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, China (including Hong Kong), Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Capgemini France and North America prepare carbon Germany, Guatemala, Hungary, Italy, Mexico, Norway, emissions estimates on an annual basis. Currently a good Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, degree of extrapolation has been required, mainly for North Sweden, and Vietnam as well as Sogeti operations in Belgium, America where much of the data had to be extrapolated Finland, Luxemburg, Spain, and Sweden. based upon 2010 and 2011 carbon footprint calculations. For Capgemini India, the above data represents the first full The combined emissions of these operations, equating to 27 calculation of its carbon footprint. per cent of the Group by headcount, amounted to an estimated 57,993 tons of CO2e in 2012. In the last ten years, no sanctions or fines regarding non compliance with environmental legislation has been Combined with the largest operations, this produces an overall brought to our attention. estimated emissions figure for Capgemini Group of 338,330 tons of CO2e including hotel nights (and 317,090 tons of CO2e excluding hotel nights). This figure provides an indicative coverage of 97 per cent of the Group by headcount (see Appendix C). 20 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 Energy Travel MwH Emissions in Tons CO2e Waste in tons Countries Energy Gas Diesel Data Office Electricity Business Business Totoal Waste (Non(All sources) Centre Electricity Urban Travel Travel (Hotel Emissions inc. Hazardous) Electricity Heating nights only) Hotels (Tons CO2e) India Capgemini & Sogeti 88,845 NA 7,174 NA 74,010 NA 30,677 6,782 111,860 507 France Capgemini & 67,438 31 48 3,102 2,539 1878 21,454 4,697 27,361 0 Sogetit UK Capgemini 66,752 448 63 26,616 6,731 NA 14,722 3,376 48,580 271 UK Sogeti 115 0 0 NA 60 NA 298 46 358 0 Netherlands Capgemini 27,592 563 16 6,518 3,436 0 21,157 581 31,690 245 Netherlands Sogeti 1,167 0 0 44 444 NA 115 0 604 0 North America Capgemini 85,224 387 44 28,477 3,309 0 27,665 5,758 59,882 452 & Sogeti Total Largest Operations 337,132 1,429 7,345 64,757 90,529 187 116, 089 21,240 280,337 1,474 Excluding hotel nights 259,097 NOTES 1. North America: The majority of data for North America (including USA and Canada) have been extrapolated based upon available 2011 data 2. Energy: Given the nature of our business, many of Capgemini’s offices have large server rooms. These are not considered to be data centers but their presence should be taken into consideration when comparing the energy usage of our offices against those in other sectors 3. Travel: Emission factors as produced by the Carbon Neutral Company have been used to calculate the emissions associated with hotel nights in all countries. It was identified during the external Grenelle II audit, that these factors, when applied outside the UK, may be too high with the result that the figures presented above are likely to be higher than reality. As more appropriate emission factors could not be obtained, the figures have been reported as calculated but with total emissions from hotel stays also shown separately. It is acknowledged that the figures represent a likely worse case and the methodology employed will be reviewed for future reports 4. Travel: In some countries, for example France and North America, the number of nights is estimated 5. Travel: In Capgemini Netherlands emissions data associated with travel includes personal car use as well as business mileage as it could not be separated 6. Travel: In Capgemini India and UK, emissions associated with taxi journeys have been included 7. Sogeti: The data for India and France contain the Sogeti operations within those countries. For UK and the Netherlands the values were available separately and reported as such. No Sogeti data were available in North America 8. Table key: NA (not applicable) denotes areas where data is not available because the source is not used. For example: there is no urban heating in the UK 9. Table key: 0 denotes areas where data was not available. The emissions reported for Capgemini India have risen significantly compared to those reported in the 2011 Annual Report. This is due primarily to greater data coverage for the Indian operations. In 2011, the Indian energy data were limited to Capgemini’s operations in Mumbai, Bangalore and Kolkata. The 2012 figures include information from 33 separate facilities in nine Indian cities. The 2012 figures for India also include travel data where limited travel data was previously available. Overall emissions reported for Capgemini France have also risen since those reported in 2011. This is due to the a more comprehensive data gathering exercise having been undertaken in 2012 leading to more complete view of overall emissions. 21 3. Community Engagement Capgemini remains as firmly committed to the social aspects of sustainability as we are to the environmental. As such, we recognize our responsibility to the communities in which we operate. Our focus on community projects is very much aligned to our corporate purpose and values and we recognize our responsibility to contribute to the talent and skills of the wider population. Our fundamental community regular internal campaigns. We also philosophy is to support skills for the measure progress through our annual future, education and inclusion. We Group Employee Survey. Work on our acknowledge that diversity is a source global community policy continued in of richness and competitive advantage 2013 with a view to rolling out in 2014. so our aim is to support diversity and nurture future talent in all its forms. As a major global player, Capgemini We operate in communities across the works with national and international world both from our network of offices organizations on community projects and from our client and Rightshore® ensuring that charitable organizations sites. Our longevity depends in part on are legitimate and their goals are our support of these communities and compatible with the Group’s values, the interest of our employees at local, our Code of Business Ethics and our national and international levels. Community policy. Our intention is to provide as many Capgemini actively encourages its opportunities as we can for our employees at all levels to get involved employees and to engage in activities in the communities where they live and for which they have passion and work. We channel our time, energy and commitment. Additionally, we align creativity into having a positive impact and embed our community program through partnerships with various with our business activities and foundations, volunteering, pro bono client work to ensure sustainability. work, fundraising and also by awarding We share this with our people, our funding, where appropriate. Joining community partners and our clients forces to help others strengthens team through communication vehicles such spirit, improves communication skills as our externally published Corporate and procures a better understanding of Responsibility & Sustainability Review, the communities around us. our internet site and our intranet and 22 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 3.1 Our Global Initiatives Naandi We maintain a strong partnership with the Naandi Foundation Capgemini UK’s ASPIRE business unit, continued the adoption and its Nanhi Kali Initiative, focusing on supporting young girls of a school in Mumbai thanks to fund-raising efforts which through their school education. By the end of 2013 we will have to date have generated a little over 23,500 from the sale of supported over 63,000 school years of education. We remain samosas at the ASPIRE offices. This funding enables Naandi Nanndi’s largest corporate sponsor of Nanhi Kali internationally to provide basic academic knowledge to children from the and the second largest for the foundation overall. Nanhi Kali severely underprivileged area in which the school is located has been officially adopted in the Community Engagement and to encourage them to continue their education. approach in 13 countries across Capgemini with Italy being the latest to launch a Naandi initiative.  apgemini Norway supported a client in opening a further C 10 Hamari school libraries in Mumbai and continues to back In addition to directly supporting students, Capgemini UK has project Nanhi Kali as its global Community Engagement opened 10 Hamari school libraries in schools attended by initiative. Capgemini India opened up the Nanhi Kali Nanhi Kali girls, providing them with access to a wide choice of sponsorship scheme to all 44,000 plus employees across India books, newspapers and educational documents. The libraries and is also supporting Capgemini UK in delivering the Last Lap are managed by a full-time librarian. Summer 2012 also saw program. the launch of a new initiative by Capgemini UK; the Last Lap program supports smaller groups of girls in their final two years of school and with aspirations that the students will go onto France 35 further education. Support is given to see them through their Italy 24 final school leaving exams by providing extra exam coaching, Denmark 208 skills building sessions, and an opportunity to get some work Netherlands 901 experience with our Capgemini India business. Germany 411 Norway 1,799 North America 102 Holding 141 Australia 280 India 1,499 Finland 300 UK 1,983 MicroWorld Sweden 1,684 Sogeti has worked with PlaNet Finance since 1999 providing support to the organization, helping it grow and focus on its core mission by providing technological expertise and IT support. MicroWorld is a subsidiary of PlaNet Finance and is BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY SECTOR the first European online platform where employees can learn Energy, Utilities about, browse and select micro entrepreneurs to support & Chemicals 11.3% Financial Services 19.8% by making a small loan. By choosing a micro entrepreneur Consumer Products, an employee can invite other colleagues to support the Retail, Distribution entrepreneur, as well. Throughout the year, the lender receives & Transportation 14.1% Other 4.7% information on how the micro entrepreneur is doing, allowing lenders to become truly involved. Manufacturing 17.8% Public Sector 23.2% In 2012 we launched the MicroWorld platform in France Telecom, Media and Ireland, Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and & Entertainment 9.1% Germany. Since the beginning of our involvement, a total of 1,165 projects of micro entrepreneurs have been co-funded with 70,000 euro leant by 1,106 members. BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY BUSINESS Local Professional Services 14.9% 23 Consulting 3.2 Some of our National Initiatives Capgemini Poland’s grant program ‘We invest in good ideas’ was designed in response to numerous grassroots initiatives of employees being aware of the acute social problems in their local surroundings. Employees engaged in volunteering activities aimed at solving these problems. Capgemini Poland supported with funding, know-how and organizational support to the employees who came forward with the best ideas. Ten projects were realized in 2012, another 15 were started in 2013, involving 180 volunteers of which 58 were Capgemini employees. Beneficiaries of the program Capgemini North America conducted their first regional day of included a nursery school, an orphanage, an elderly citizen’s service, branded “Capgemini Cares”, on September 21, 2012. club and an animal shelter. With this program the BPO Center A thousand employee volunteers united and served side by in Poland received the European Outsourcing Award in the side with other colleagues in their local communities at 21 sites Corporate Social Responsibility category. across the US and Canada. Each community service project was identified by a local team and included everything from supporting the local food bank, or cleaning up a local park, to assisting at a local homeless shelter. In one day we completed over 3,000 volunteer hours in communities where we work and live. Through the EduKare initiative, Capgemini India financially assists its housekeeping and physical security staff in meeting educational expenses of their children. Started in 2010 at the Chennai location, the initiative was also taken up in other locations of Hyderabad and Pune in 2012. The students in this program are from primary level up to students pursuing their graduation. They are meritorious but have a financially weak background. The funds provided help with fees and the purchase of stationery and school uniforms and in some cases lodging and boarding expenses. In 2012 with a total of 212,870 students benefitted from them. Capgemini France is the main partner of TADEO, a communication platform which allows deaf and hearing impaired people to receive and make phone calls, participate in meetings and be trained in all autonomy. Tadeo provides a wide range of real-time remote services such as: Instant Speech-to-Text Transcription (ISTT), Visio-interpretation in French Sign Language, Cued Speech Transcription (CST), Lip reading associated with Transcription (RepeaWriting – RW). Capgemini Belgium is one of the companies sponsoring the Belgian Punch Powertrain Solar Team. Seventeen students form the basis of this team. They have 15 months to design and construct a solar car, in order to participate in the 2013 World Solar Challenge, the world championship for solar cars. The team members come from the electro-mechanics and electronics streams of Group T – at the International University of Leuven. 24 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 Capgemini Netherlands and Sport & Business rolled out Capgemini Italy has teamed with two of our IT partners, to a Company Sports Program in 2013. Challenges were create the digital school ‘School 2.0’ at the Ettore Majorana organized around running, cycling, tennis and squash with technical institute in Bari. Capgemini Italy provided the platform the enthusiasm and participation of employees exceeding all for this innovative model in the educational sector where expectations. In June 2013 Capgemini Young Professionals students can access, through a notebook or PC, school – with a realistic plan that meets the current needs within material on a shared network and attend online, subject the company and provides interconnection – won the Young specific, discussions and forums with teachers and fellow Professional Vitality Battle 2013, a battle between companies, students. The project is being expanded to thirteen other organized by Sport & Business. schools and institutions throughout Italy creating a virtual and national academic network where teachers have the ability Initiated in 2008, Project Theater has become a major to upload their lessons real time via touch screen electronic Capgemini Poland event involving many employees each ‘blackboards’. Students then have the opportunity to download year. In 2012, after 3 months of non-stop rehearsals, 32 these same lessons and notes, which is allowing greater Outsourcing professionals transformed into actors, producers inclusivity for students who may not be able to attend regular and stage designers, put on a one hour show of singing, school lessons; increasing collaboration and knowledge dancing and laughing for a 1,000 strong audience. With sharing; reducing the need for physical books and raw this first ever musical in the history of Project Theatres, Little materials; allowing the inclusion of parents; connecting them Red Riding Cap, Capgemini Poland collected 3,200 euro for directly with teaching staff; and leveraging the expertise of our partner organization Siemacha. Siemacha runs institutions own employees. for children’s sociotherapy, emergency care, education and psychotherapy. 3.3 Community Investment and Donations The table below summarizes charitable donations made by Capgemini around the world in 2012. Country Donations Programs India 42,472€ We are society France 292,480€ 125k RSE (50 k€ Cercle Passport, 20k€ IMS Entreprendre pour la cité Etude stereotypes, 15k€ Ims Entreprendre/Défis Mecenova, 15k€ Partenariat Fondation Yann Arthus Bertrandi) 167k€ mission handicap NL 194,300€ 64k€ CERVO/promotional Articles, 12k€ EMC forum, 12k€ Several Sports, 10k€ Kessler foundation, 10k€ Leerstoel, 10k€ NvZD UK 127,217€ North America 76,866€ United Way, Naandi Foundation, Ninos de lagos Charles Tilman Foundation, Feed my starving Children, Regina, Dominican High School, Foundation for the Carolinas, CWFW, American India Foundation, N Power Charlotte Largest Operations Sub Total 733,335€ Other Europe Sub Total 548,035€ Landsindsamlingen 2012, Naandi, Red Barnet Capgemini Italy 95k€ Planet Finance, 15k€ SANT ANDREA TERRE VICINE E LONTANE Naandi Capgemini Spain Fundacíon Adecco (145k€) FCSD (Fundacion Catalana Sindrome de Down) (50k€), Fundacion Roig Alfonso-Mercadona (20k€) FUNDAL (Fundacion Para el Deporte de Alboonbendas) (20k€) CADIN (Centro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Infantil) Asia and Australia Sub Total 9,999€ Latin America Sub Total 5,010€ Sogeti 85,234€ 25k€ Foundation Make A Wish, 30k€ Foundation St. Opkikker, 11k€ Foundation Kinderen Kankervri. GRAND TOTAL 1,381,613€ Notes • France includes the donations for Sogeti France • Other Europe includes Denmark, Italy, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Portugal, Germany, Finland, Poland, Czech Republic • Asia and Australia includes Asia Pacific and Australia • Latin America includes Chile and Guatemala • Sogeti include Sogeti Netherlands and Sogeti Germany 25 4. People Culture People Culture is about being a responsible and inclusive employer, whom people choose to work for and which allows them to deliver their best. Our focus is on the professional development and well-being of all our employees by ensuring that both our business practices and our facilities empower our delivery excellence. We have a culture whereby we respect and value the diversity of all our people. It is the quality of our people, and their capacity to deliver fitting solutions, with you and for you that drive real business results. 26 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 4.1 People demographics The Group’s on-line learning management system, MyLearning, open to all employees, is used for informal and just-in-time In 2013 Capgemini had more than 130,000 employees. learning but also to register for more formal, structured learning Headcount growth was largely generated in India. The size events. The catalog of courses includes a range of training of this growth has been a significant influence on the Group’s options to suit different learning styles, including e-learning, transformation. The workforce has more than doubled in the books, on-line mentoring, test-preps, on-line examinations, last decade with the majority of the growth in our Rightshore® language courses, live virtual training sessions and meetings, operations. and classroom teaching. These locations have included the growth in Central Europe, Established in 1987, Capgemini University offers innovative notably due to the development of the Business Process learning solutions to our employees worldwide through our Outsourcing business in Poland, and the emergence of Latin international Center of Excellence near Paris (Les Fontaines) as America following the acquisition of CPM Braxis in Brazil. well as through virtual and local classroom learning programs Benelux was the main region to see its headcount fall for the and a wealth of other e-learning programs. Capgemini third year in a row, due in particular to the difficult economic University plays a key role in developing team skills and situation in the Netherlands. capabilities in line with the company’s strategy, priorities and client expectations. It creates and delivers learning journeys for sustainable results at the individual, community and group level. In recognition of this, in 2013, Capgemini University was 4.2 Professional awarded a series of prestigious Brandon Hall ‘Excellence in Development Learning’ awards: •  “Best Use of Virtual Worlds for Learning”; The value of a consulting and IT services company lies in the quality of its intellectual capital. In an industry characterized by •  “Best in Compliance Training”; and rapid technological change and changing patterns of work, it is essential for employees to keep their knowledge and skills •  “Best Use of Blended Learning”. up-to-date and in line with client and market needs. Likewise, new employees joining the Group are keen to leverage and Capgemini University was accredited by the European build on their knowledge and to gain rewarding professional Foundation for Management Development (EFMD) in 2008 experience. As part of our commitment to the continuing and in 2012 the University delivered more than 2 million development of all employees an annual performance review learning hours to over 100,000 employees across the Group. process is in place. In August 2013, Capgemini University introduced the My Essentials curriculum which offers new hires information on Employees’ professional development is supported by a Capgemini’s history, values, ways of working, functional areas Career and Competency Framework which forms the basis for and organizational structure.. performance appraisals and personal career advancement. This has been designed to help employees to develop in Overall, around 110,000 employees were trained in 2012, up a wide variety of different roles, with the clarity required to 8% compared to 2011 with the total number of training hours support clear career progression, and the flexibility to let them being 4.25 million. take charge of their own career. 27 4.3 Diversity & equal opportunity With more than 130,000 employees in over 44 countries In recent years many of the Capgemini countries have initiated representing 120 nationalities, Capgemini is proud of its women’s networks. FeN, Capgemini Netherlands’ Female wide cultural diversity. Diversity has many facets including Network, started in 2012 for a specific group of female gender, disability, ethnicity, age and lifestyle. At Capgemini, professionals, and opened up in 2013 to a wider audience of our definition of diversity also includes dimensions such as women. Based on a three year ambition, they organize their experience, personality, communication and working styles events and initiatives around the topics of networking, diversity all part of diversity of thought. Our differences are a source of and career development. innovation and inspiration. Inclusion means having a working culture where our diversity is valued enabling us to generate new ideas, anticipate market trends, and be thought leaders in our chosen markets. We view diversity and inclusion as both a strategic advantage and an ongoing opportunity. In 2011 we produced our Global charter for Diversity and Inclusion to formalize our active Oda Network, the largest network for women in the IT promotion of the principles of diversity in our employment industry in Norway, gave away awards to highlight visible role practices. Our aim is to encourage individuals from diverse models and businesses in the IT industry in June 2013. The backgrounds who are innovative, enthusiastic, culturally aware award called “Organization 2013” was given to the bestand committed to delivering a truly collaborative experience to in-test company Sogeti Norway for promoting women in our clients. business through its activities and attitudes. Sogeti Norway has 44% women on the Board and half the members of the Women@Capgemini was launched in 2012 as a global management team are women. business program to set the overarching guidelines around gender diversity across the Group. It is based on the principle In North America and the UK we also have employee resource of “equal opportunities, equal chances” and articulated around groups / business networks for other diversity dimensions Attracting / Recruiting, Promotion / Development, Retention, such as OUTfront for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Corporate Awareness. Various activities were launched and Allies; and the Millennial Innovation Council for in 2013 including engagement with both internal and external cross-generational collaboration. recruiters and the initiation of a global mentoring program to allow high potential employees of both genders to be mentored by experienced Vice Presidents of the opposite gender. For Capgemini India breaking barriers for hearing impaired people has been firmly on the agenda in the past year, leading to the hiring and successful integration of 10 employees with a hearing impairment. A number of factors were instrumental in achieving successful integration such as the raising of awareness, sensitization and team integration workshops, defining suitable roles, organizing a ‘walk-in’ for people with disabilities, the review of online and classroom training and a review of transport arrangements. Capgemini France launched Capgemini India have been recognized the project “Nos Talents au Féminin” in 2013 to celebrate by the 15th Shell Helen Keller Awards, women throughout the month of March promoting job diversity run by the National Centre for Promotion and career women engineers. Employees enjoyed and joined of Employment for Disabled People, as a the many initiatives: women candidates increased during role model company where, through our this period; 7,000 people visited the web site for more than 5 policies and practices we have demonstrated our belief minutes; 5,000 people were evaluated on their stereotypes in equal rights and the gainful employment of persons through a questionnaire; the stereotypes study has been with disabilities. downloaded 900 times, the profiles of 20 women were communicated. This project will be continued in 2014. 28 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 4.4 Work organization, health & well-being Even though the Group’s businesses do not involve highwellbeing at work. Therefore Capgemini takes over the costs risk activities, health and well-being of our employees are for a full health check-up in high standard exclusively selected nevertheless taken very seriously. More important is the fact doctors’ offices. The health check up initiative is spreading over that playing and winning in the Champions League of our Capgemini’s business units with Sogeti joining in 2013. Within industry requires a vital workforce. the last 5 years, over 600 employees have attended the healthcheck up initiative. At a minimum across the Group, we abide by all local Health and Safety legal requirements. Our Health and Safety policies are focused on information, instruction and training covering topics of all work related health issues, emergency procedures and guidelines on Capgemini employees working on client sites. Our social guidelines and local vitality programs contribute to the well-being of our employees: work-life balance, stress management, improvement of employeemanager relations, and better working conditions. Additionally, Group initiatives such as Smarter Travel Week raise awareness of health, safety, security and environmental considerations for business, commuting and domestic travel. Based on several events in the social context regarding Within Capgemini France, Health and Safety Committees women safety, Capgemini India felt the need to educate female (HSC) are set by locations or business units. Their main employees some basic skills of self defense. A 60 minute objective is to analyze situations that might have an impact workshop on self defense was organized during the celebration on the work force: moving projects, working at clients’ of International Women's Week. This was followed up by the sites, safety regarding offices or working conditions stress. roll out of a 90 minute workshop on self defense for all female Actions and decisions are reviewed and taken in quarterly employees PAN India. This workshop is still running and meetings and whenever needed, extraordinary meetings feedback from employees has been very positive. might be called. HSC may decide to drive surveys or studies if deemed necessary, to help the management improve working Early in 2013 Capgemini Netherlands, together with their conditions and security matters. partner Sport & Business, performed a sport and activity scan under all employees. The result was rather gloomy. 85% of the employees did not meet the national norm of being moderately active for 30 minutes five days a week. A company sports program was designed and rolled out, with challenges around running, cycling, tennis and squash. The participation grade for all sports exceeded expectations. In June a Young Professional team won the National Vitality Battle. According to the judges Capgemini won the Vitality Battle, because their realistic plan connects with the current needs within the company and it aims to interconnect. To increase sport participation the Capgemini team came up with the plan to launch a social sport platform, where each employee will be able to track his or her own performance and colleagues can find each other to sport together and motivate one another to stay focused. In Capgemini North America the workforce is actively involved in the development of a positive health and safety culture through ongoing training as part of the Employee Assistance Program including training on wellness, stress management, Capgemini Germany offers a complete health-check for and managing conflict. employees aged 35 years or older. Capgemini wants to improve awareness, about health care themes and peoples 29 4.5 Social Dialogue/Employee engagement Capgemini believes effective communication is a precondition The emphasis on transparent dialog with employee for an open and honest culture, and for the involvement and representatives is particularly important in difficult economical engagement of employees. It is also essential for effective times. In 2012, Capgemini conducted two restructuring knowledge dissemination, sharing success and creating plans, one in Spain and one in the Netherlands. Both plans a sense of belonging within teams, at both the Group and were discussed in-depth and negotiated with our employee’s local level. representatives. At the heart of Capgemini’s communications philosophy is At Capgemini, we are committed to deliver first-class results for a commitment to two-way dialog. While informal dialog is our clients. We can only achieve this through the mobilization of always encouraged, understanding the engagement and our cross-unit capabilities, and the strengths and expertise of satisfaction levels of employees is also formally sought through our people. Following the success of our La Niaque campaign the annual Group Employee Survey process. The company in 2012-13, we launched the People & Results campaign in furthermore upholds the laws of representation and recognizes September 2013 to support our Champions League ambition, the importance of constructive dialog between employees and to play with only the best of our industry. This new internal management in shaping key decisions affecting the running multimedia campaign focuses on four key drivers Growth, of the Group. The International Works Council (IWC) enables Innovation, Talent and Competitiveness. It recognizes the team employee representatives to bring employee interests directly members behind our results and the value our employees bring to the attention of Group management and, in return, to be to our clients. directly informed by management of plans for the Company and the impact of such plans on employees. In countries where the social dialog is not governed by local regulations, the management of labor relations is done in a proactive manner by engaging with employees to understand and alleviate their issues (the Group Employee Survey being a key tool in this matter). 30 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 4.6 Leadership While the Group CEO sets the strategic vision of our company, it is our leaders around the Group who deliver the vision and, at the same time, create the culture for attracting and retaining talent. Our leaders are of vital importance to the success of our Group at all levels: winning opportunities, delivering our commitments to clients, inspiring colleagues and living the Collaborative Business Experience. In 2012 Capgemini was recognized for the Expert Connect program at the Marketing Excellence Awards organized by the Chartered Institute for Marketing. Our approach with Expert Connect has been to build up a social community where the content and conversations are led by the experts themselves. Today, the platform features a more than 350 experts from around the world, discussing topics that impact multiple sectors and most of our clients’ key challenges. Our experts have gained over 68,000 followers, with over 250,000 conversations, 1,300 publications and 270 videos so far. Capgemini is dedicated to developing the insights, capabilities, and practical skills to elevate the level of leading and increase the overall impact of our senior leaders’ to the business. With an eye to that, and following the success of this program in North America last year, Capgemini’s University designed a unique and global Leadership Advantage Facilitated Virtual Learning Journey Program. These programs are made attractive with high flexibility and self-paced options to fit our busy leaders’ schedules; they have a high level of interactivity to ensure maximum engagement; they offer a load of group activities for sustaining interest; and also gives the opportunity for self-paced certifications. It is a blended learning journey of online sessions and face-to-face interactions. 31 5. Client Services We are dedicated to developing profitable and sustainable business by working together with our clients to deliver value through our skills and expertise. 5.1 Enabling Client Transformation Clients are increasingly expecting their As an outsourcing provider, we ensure suppliers to help them address their that when clients outsource their own sustainability challenges such operations to us, we can proactively as decreasing their environmental mitigate the risk of increasing emissions impacts. As a provider of business through our sustainable data centers transformation services, we believe that and improving the energy efficiency of we are well positioned to help clients our clients’ IT estate. with these challenges, challenges which we expect to be amplified by We are very proud of having “the most increasing sustainability constraints and sustainable data center in the world,” regulatory pressures around the world. as part of our portfolio of data centers. Based on state-of-the-art technology, As a service provider, we have an Merlin was opened in Swindon, UK, opportunity to help clients with their in October 2010 to ensure client’s own carbon challenges in terms of systems are run as efficiently as the advice that we offer and solutions technologically possible with reduced that we design and deliver. We also emissions (based on their own in-house recognize that operational efficiency is systems). It has won the Data Centre a key factor in ensuring longevity for our Dynamics Leaders’ Green Data Centre clients and that this often goes hand in Award, and the Uptime Institute’s Green hand with reduced carbon emissions. IT Award for data center design. It was Therefore, considering sustainability also a runner up in The Guardian’s 2011 principles through our service offerings Sustainable Business Awards, and a ensures clients can meet the rising Finalist in the 2011 Business Green demands of regulation, competition, Leader’s awards. rising operational costs and mounting scrutiny upon the consumption Throughout 2012 and 2013 we have of resources. continued to increase our portfolio of service offerings based on our evaluation of the current market drivers. 32 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 5.2 Sustainability Reporting and Carbon Accounting To help companies effectively manage their sustainability Intelligent Energy Management comes from our Smart agenda, Capgemini has developed a sustainability data Energy Services unit which provides the full spectrum of management capability that is both unique and compelling. smart metering, smart grid, smart home solutions and smart The solution is highly cost effective, as well as delivering the analytics to utilities across the globe. Capgemini's commitment highest quality data management and reporting. Capgemini is strong with more than 7,000 professionals dedicated to the provides sustainability and business process expertise, utility sector and benefit from an ecosystem of expertise from underpinned by a comprehensive technology platform, in long standing global technology partners. We also offer a a single integrated service. Thanks to efficient and reliable usage-based pricing model called Managed Business Services outsourced data management combined with a CDP (Carbon to make costs more controllable for the utility. The offering Disclosure Project) accredited technology platform, our clients leverages a range of proven services and best practices are able to move beyond cost reduction, and use sustainability successfully developed by Capgemini since 2004 working with to deliver business value and competitive advantage in more than 20 utilities spanning the globe; including in North the market. America: Duke Energy, Hydro One, National Grid, Oncor, San Diego Gas & Electric, SunPower, Toronto Hydro and in Europe: Smart Energy Management Solutions Capgemini's Commission de Regulation de l'Energie, EDF, ERDF, GrDF, Intelligent Energy Management is a multi-component energy Enel, Enercity, Energiedienst, Rhein Ruhr Partner as well as management offering that reduces carbon emissions while Yunnan Grid in China. giving our customers greater choice, control and convenience. SUSTAINABLE DATA CENTER SERVICES Sustainability has been at the heart of our Merlin Data Center project from the selection of its location, through its design and construction, to the day-to-day operations of the site. Among Merlin’s key sustainability achievements are:A PUE (Power Usage A fresh air cooling The elimination All of this has been Effectiveness) ratio system that delivers of batteries in the achieved while fulfilling of 1.10 which means 80% savings in run Uninterruptible Power some of the industry’s power savings of costs and produces Supply (UPS) thanks most rigorous security and 91% compared to an up to 50% less carbon to the application resiliency demands, leading ‘industry average’ data emissions than of innovative to Merlin winning the EU center; traditional data center flywheel technology. Code of Conduct for Data cooling solutions; and Center efficiency award at the 2013 awards. 33 5.3 Client Satisfaction Approach Our client relationship management process, known as Our Group operations serve many clients, distributed in OTACE (On Time and At or Above Client Expectations) is a several business sectors and countries. The Group’s largest key factor underpinning our strong client relationships. Clients client, a major British public body, contributes around 9% are requested to specify their expectations from our services of Group revenues (9% in 2011 and 10% in 2010), while the based on a set of indicators relating to the following: second-largest client accounts for just 2%. The top 10 clients collectively account for 22% of Group revenues. The solvency • type of service required; of these major clients and the sheer diversity of the other smaller clients help limit credit risk. The economic environment • nature of the working relationship; and could impact the business activities of the Group’s clients, as well as the amounts receivable from these clients. However, • knowledge sharing. the Group does not consider that any of its clients, business sectors or geographic areas present a significant risk of nonWe document and set these indicators with clients to produce collection that could materially impact the financial position of ratings that are reviewed regularly according to an agreed the Group as a whole. schedule. By allowing us to better assess the client satisfaction level with respect to their deliverables of their project(s), OTACE allows us to identify not only our strengths but also areas for improvement. Our client focus and the Collaborative Business Experience of Capgemini is the essence of the way we work with our clients. Client satisfaction and their appreciation of the value we bring in contributing to making their businesses successful and sustainable is essential to our business. HIGHLIGHT 2012 OTACE SCORES In 2012, nearly 4,000 client engagements were monitored using OTACE. The results showed that 95% of projects were delivered on time (4% up on 2011 results) and 92% met or exceeded customer expectations, with an average client satisfaction of 4.3 out of 5. 34 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 Awards and Recognition Capgemini UK awarded Business in Merlin wins the 2013 EU Code of Capgemini Poland’s grant program the Community ‘Community Mark’ and Condcut for Data Center Award ‘We invest in good ideas’ received Platinum status in the CR Index 2013 the European Outsourcing Award in the Corporate Social Responsibility category. UK Sustainability report EMAS Capgemini rated ‘Prime’ Capgemini Belgium is one of 54 Registered for 3rd year by Oekom research companies certificated as the Top Employers BelgiëBelgique 2013. Once again Capgemini was Capgemini University was awarded Sogeti Norway awarded ‘Organization recognized by the Times a series of prestigious Brandon Hall of the Year’ 2013 by ODA Network for newspaper as one of the Top 50 ‘Excellence in Learning’ awards in 2013 the promotion of women in business places for women to work in 2013 through our activities and attitudes 35 Netherlands 901 Germany 411 Norway 1,799 Appendix A – North America 102 Holding 141 Australia 280 India 1,499 Finland 300 Organizational Structure Sweden 1,684 UK 1,983 BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY SECTOR Energy, Utilities & Chemicals 11.3% Financial Services 19.8% Consumer Products, Retail, Distribution & Transportation 14.1% Other 4.7% Manufacturing 17.8% Public Sector 23.2% Telecom, Media & Entertainment 9.1% BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY BUSINESS Local Professional Services 14.9% Technology Consulting Services 39.8% Services 14.9% Outstanding Services 40.4% BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY COUNTRY OR REGION Benelux 10.9% France 21.3% United Kingdom 20.5% North Rest of Europe, Asia America 20.5% and Latin America 26.8% Appendix B – Additional People Data BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE CSS DSP DSS BY CATEGORY: 2011-2012 6.4% 6. 2% 6.1% The Company’s workforce breaks down into to three broad 2.4% 2.2% 2.4% categories: 91.3% 91.6% 91.8% • Client Serving Staff (CSS) who ensure our services with clients are managed correctly and make up the majority of the Group’s workforce. • Dedicated Sales People (DSP) who make up the sales team and are responsible for sales and customer relations management across the full product portfolio. • Dedicated Support Staff (DSS) who carry out administrative 2010 2011 2012 support functions. BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY PART TIME HOURS 18% The coverage interval for the above data is 97% of year-end headcount. The number of part-time employees in the Group decreased by 0.6 points compared with 2011, to 3.6% of the headcount in 2012. The figures show significant variation 6.2% 5.2% between regions: part-time working is most widespread in the 4.7% Benelux countries with 18.9%, an increase of 3.4 pts due to a 4.9% 2.8% 3.6% 1.5% 0.4% 0% change in the scope (without Sogeti Belux in 2012), followed by the United Kingdom & Ireland with 6.2% which decreased by ite es S an out ica G c & dK er tri un lux Ce erm Fr a d he cifi nt an M nce La rn a Ire ing Am ne Pa di al lan d Co ra y lE a or a oc n tin E iaIn To t Am uro rth Be d om 2.9% due to economic pressure Conversely, in India and Latin rd ur nd co d As er pe No Un No op e ica December 2010 December 2011 December 2012 America part-time working is not widespread which, given the importance of these regions in terms of recruitment, explains the overall drop in this indicator as most of the headcount growth comes from these regions. In France (and Morocco), 5.3% or approximately 1,100 people work on a part-time basis. This figure has remained relatively stable over the last three years. BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY FIXED WORKING HOURS A study of fixed working hours in the Group showed a 71% wide variation between the regions. This study covered 97% of the workforce at year end. France was singled out, with a 35-hour working week, and represented 17% of the total workforce. More than two thirds of our employees have a 40-hour working week. This is mainly the case in Europe (excluding the United Kingdom, Finland and Denmark, where it is generally around 37 hours), North America and India, where the Group offers 17% a more attractive 40-hour week, although the legal 8% maximum working week is 48 hours. South American 2% 1% countries vary from a base of 44 hours per week in Guatemala, Brazil and Chile to 48 hours in Argentina. 35h 35h>39h 40h 41h>47h 48h 37 33.4% BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY 26.9% 27% LENGTH OF SERVICE: 2010-2012 24.1% 23.4% 22.3% *the data shows 98% of year-end headcount 19.3% 19.09% Average length of service in the Company stands at 4.4 17.6% 16.2% 15.7% 14.6% 15.6% years in 2012, a decrease of 0.1 years versus 2011, due to 13.4% 11.9% the high number of recruitments in the last three years. This varies according to the geographical area, ranging from just <1 year 1-2 years 3-4 years 5-9 years 10 years and + over 1.9 years for India to 9.7 years in the Benelux countries. December 2010 December 2011 December 2012 108,698 119,707 125,110 Learning and Development 90,156 PERCENTAGE OF INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYEES TRAINED 2012 Overall, close to 110,000 employees were trained in 2012, 71% 78% 85% 88% up 8% compared with the previous year taking the total volume of training hours to 4.26 million. Employees use MyLearning for informal and just-in-time learning but also register for more formal, structured learning events. 2009 2019 2011 2012 % of Unique Employee Trained Headcount Total 4.25 mh 3.87 mh 3.52 mh % OF VIRTUAL TRAINING (IN MILLION) IN 2012 The Group continued to develop its on-line training 2.88 mh courses increasing by more than 93% over the year, or 1.41 million training hours. This channel now represents 33% of total training hours. 11% 15% 19% 33% 2009 2019 2011 2012 Virtual Learning Classroom Learning 38 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 Performance reviews 2011 and Workforce Profile 2012 100% 100% 98% 98% 96% 95% PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES HAVING HAD A 91% 91% 84% 74% PERFORMANCE AND CAREER REVIEW IN 2012 *the data covers 97% of year-end headcount. By establishing a clear framework based on a set of clearly defined and explained criteria to guide the appraisal process, ica & dK trie s G Ce erm Fr S an out ific we can ensure the professional development and promotion of all employees and respect for equal opportunities. The Am Ire ing un x a d he -P elu nt an M nce La rn dia er ac al lan d ra y Co Be or a tin E In To t lE a d om rth n oc n Am uro As ite rd ur nd co d ia er pe No Un No op e ica Performance and Development process is driven by regular meetings between the employee and the evaluator, conducted in relation to assignments. In both 2011 and 2012, 91% of the workforce concerned had undergone an annual performance review. RATE OF ABSENTEEISM 2011-2012 *The data for this study covers 62.2% of year-end headcount. 4.3% 2011 3.4% 2012 This percentage is relatively low due to the fact that some 2.7% 2.7% 2.4% 2.5% countries such as India (which represents nearly a third of 1.8% our workforce) do not collect data on the number of days of sick leave in the strict sense. In 2012, the rate of absenteeism 1.5% 1.3% 0% for sickness in the sample was 2.5%, a decrease of 0.1% ica er Un ite es tri G Ce erm Fr S an out d he ific compared to 2011. The highest rate was seen in Poland, at 5.2% as last year, followed by Benelux at 3.4%. France at 2.5% lux a & dK un ac nt an M nce La rn Am a di al Co ne ra y or a -P To Ire ing lE a oc n tin E In t Am uro rth lan d Be As d om No ur nd co d ia er pe No rd op e ica was just at the Group average. North America is reporting a significant increase linked to a different coverage with Sogeti US now included. Without Sogeti, the ratio (1.7%) is very similar to last year (1.6%). 0.95% Well being 0.57% 2011 2012 NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS 2011-2012 0.57% 0.58% *The coverage interval for the above data is 77.3%. 0.48% 0.37% Several more regions are now tracking this information (58.9% in 2011). In 2012 the Group recorded 461 work related 0.21% 0.57% 0.48% accidents a ration of 0.48% accidents per headcount, of which 0.11% 0.05% 44% were in France due to the regulations in force relating to the reporting of information. The majority of these work-related accidents were accidents during the home/workplace journey. er ic te d Be ne lu In ia TA L a & Kin en e G x d Am N Ire go tra rm l E an TO or ur y No work-related death occurred in the Group in 2012 (GRI LA7) di la m nd an op & e th c C So ut he d FM a r or ou r Lan E o nc ro e co N ni nt rie tin uro Ampe U s C er an As ica d ia -P acifi c 39 73.5% 72.5% 71.9% Diversity BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY GENDER: 2010-2012 *The coverage interval for the data below is 96.9% of year-end headcount. The percentage of females continued to rise in 2012, increasing by 0.6% over 2011 to reach 28.1% of the headcount 26.5% 27.59% 28.1% at year end. This improvement was mainly due to strong growth in previous years of BPO (a business sector in which the proportion of females can reach 50%), an activity which attracts more females, and despite its recent expansion in countries (notably India where the ratio of males to females is 75/25) and business sectors (Services Infrastructure) where Men Women females are less present in the workforce. Nevertheless, in several geographic regions the percentage of females December 2010 December 2011 December 2012 is increasing at constant scope. In 60% of countries the percentage of females has either improved or stabilized, with India US, Argentina, Switzerland and Guatemala being particularly noteworthy all progressing by 0.9% Monitoring is carried out at the Group level to better assess Recruits 2012 % of female 2011 % of female 2010 % of female and understand the situation of women within the Group, in North America 28.0 28.4 23.3 compliance with applicable legislation, i.e. the percentage of UK & Ireland 24.9 24.0 28.0 females recruited, leaving and promoted. This showed that Nordic countries 30.1 32.9 26.9 females represented 31% of total recruitments (rate of coverage Benelux 17.0 20.5 20.9 of 92.4% in 2012), a 1.3 points improvement versus 2011 which Germany & Central Europe 47.5 45.8 45.2 contributed to the rise in the percentage of women in the France & Morocco 23.6 22.3 20.9 workforce at end-2012 driven by Asia Pacific, Central Europe Southern Europe and 43.7 41.1 40.6 Latin America and Southern Europe/Latin America regions, while Benelux Asia-Pacific 29.5 27.7 26.6 further declined to a low 17%. TOTAL 31.0 29.7 28.1 Nevertheless, the turnover rate for females was marginally higher (at equivalent scope to hires) than for the total Female Attrition 2012 2011 2010 population and increased slightly faster, moving from 15.9% in North America 12.0 12.6 15.2 2010 to 17.6% in 2012 (+1.7 points) while the overall turnover UK & Ireland 12.4 9.6 11.0 rate rose by just 0,7 points during the same period. Nordic countries 17.5 18.2 15.6 Benelux 11.6 13.9 8.7 Germany & Central Europe 20.0 23.6 17.4 France & Morocco 11.4 13.0 8.2 Southern Europe and 16.8 17.3 14.2 Latin America Asia-Pacific 23.0 23.6 24.8 TOTAL 17.6 18.3 15.9 40 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 21% PROPORTION OF WOMEN IN TOP EXECUTIVE 19% POSITIONS PER OPERATING UNIT 17.5% 17.8% 17.3% Following a decline in the proportion of females in the highest 15.1% 14.2% 14.6% executive grades in 2010, this indicator has returned to growth 12.7% 12.8% 13.9% by 0.3% in 2011 and 0.9% in 2012. Nevertheless, it remains 10.7% lower than the total percentage of females in all grades 9.7% combined within the Company. At the end of 2012, 17% of employees who had been promoted to the role of “VicePresident” were female, a percentage slightly lower than the 2011 figure which was 2% higher when compared with 2010. ica nd es x elu ur o ica cifi c In di 01 2 01 1 01 0 00 9 er Ire tri ope oroc er a l2 l2 l2 l2 Am la Co Be n c Am ia& un lE M Pa Tota Tota Tota Tota No tra tin As rth ng No Ce d an La do rd n m nd ce nd Ki an ea d ya Fr ite an ro p Un rm Eu Ge rn he ut So 48.7% BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY AGE: 2010-2012 49.1% 48.7% *The coverage interval for the data below is 97.9% The average age of employees is declined again in 2012 to 34.3 years due to the hiring of young graduates who 24.7% 24% 23.7% represented 42.3% of recruitment in 2012. Average age is lowest and below 30 in Latin America (Brazil/Guatemala/ 11.9% 12.5% 12.3% 11.7% Chile), 4.0% 4.1% India, 4.0% China or Poland, whilst United Kingdom, Sweden, 9.7% 10.9 % Canada and Netherlands are the only country with an average age just above 40 years. < 20-24 years 25-34 years 35-44 years 45-54 years 55 years and + December 2010 December 2011 December 2012 524 NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE GROUP WITH A DISABILITY 2010-2012 308 *the data above is 91% of year-end headcount. 242 Coverage has improved due to the launching of new programs in India in 2012. Data collected indicates that Group employed 55 1,257 disabled people 66 of which 42% are in the UK and 25% in 50 2 6 France.4This is 333 people more than in 2010. ite s S an out ica rie G ific & dK er nt lux Ce erm Fr a d he Pa nt an M nce La rn a Am Ire ing Co u ne ra y or a tin E c di th lan d Be lE a oc n Am uro iaIn d om ur nd co d No rd As r Un No op e er pe ica 2010 2011 2012 41 Appendix C – Additional Environmental Data Capgemini Group Environmental Policy Statement Capgemini is one of the world’s Group’s energy consumption and foremost providers of consulting, associated carbon footprint; technology and outsourcing services. Our business activities are delivered 3 promote energy efficiency from both our own network of offices improvement initiatives in our data and data centers as well as at our processing centers; clients’ sites. 4 implement initiatives to minimize This policy statement applies to all travel (and in particular air travel), offices and data centers managed without disrupting our ability to meet by Capgemini, all employees, and the demands of our clients; suppliers retained by Capgemini. 5 implement initiatives to reduce the Although we do not manufacture amount of waste we generate, and products, we recognize that our to maximize the percentage of our business activities do have impacts waste which is recycled; and on the environment and we are committed to continually improving our 6 have procurement processes which environmental performance. ensure that our suppliers provide products and services which help us We are committed to identifying and to achieve our Group environmental complying with all legal and other policy, particularly in relation to relevant requirements relating to carbon emissions, reducing energy the environmental impacts of our consumption, and minimizing waste operations, and to the prevention of pollution through the adoption of Performance against our objectives and appropriate controls. targets, and this Environmental Policy, will be reviewed at least annually. Specifically, we expect the companies in the countries we operate to: Signed: Paul Hermelin Position: Chief Executive Officer 1 have a full understanding of how to Date: 1st January 2013 quantify and track our environmental impacts (at a minimum, our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions) in line with our statutory reporting requirements; 2 identify energy saving sources within our portfolio of offices to reduce the 42 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Review 2013 The following table shows the total emissions figure of 338,330 tons of CO2 distributed according to the Scopes 1 (Gas and Diesel), 2 (Electricity) and 3 (Business Travel1) definitions as set out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is a global reporting standard seeking to standardize sustainability reporting across organizations. Emissions in tons (CO2e) Scope Gas Diesel Data centre Office electricity Business Travel electricity Scope 1 2,122 7,442 Scope 2 68,118 109,819 Scope 3 150,829 1Note: emissions associated with our general office waste have been omitted until a suitable global emission factor can be applied 1 Note: emissions associated with our general office waste have been omitted until a suitable global emission factor can be applied The last table below shows Capgemini’s consumption of energy together with paper consumption, waste and recycling rates. Energy figures as measured in kilowatt hours, includes the use of electricity across our operations. Currently the use of paper and recycling is measured using different metrics in different countries. Consequently data is provided in terms of the weight of paper purchased, The last table paper below consumed shows Capgemini’s and paper recycled.consumption Finally, the table of energy provides together with the weight of waste and paperofconsumption, details generated recycling the andrates. percentage Energy figures of waste as measured recycled. in kilowatt hours, includes the use of electricity across our operations. Currently the use of paper and recycling is measured using different metrics in different countries. Consequently data is provided in terms of the weight of paper purchased, The last table paper shows consumed the energy paper recycled. andconsumption and Finally, carbonthe table provides emissions associated details with the weight and ofCapgemini of wasteSogeti generated operations andinthe percentage Australia, Austria, of waste recycled. Belgium, Brazil, Chile, China (including Hong Kong), Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Guatemala, Energy Travel Waste MvH Emissions in Tons CO2e Tons Country/Region Energy (All Gas Diesel Data Office Electricity Business Total Waste (Nonsources) Centre Electricity Urban Travel Emissions hazardous) Electricity Heating inc. Hotels (Tons CO2e) Other Europe 32,760 691 95 2,663 7,735 0 22,843 34,026 172 Asia & Australia 2,657 0 0 474 1,554 0 6,579 8,607 0 Latin America 32,580 2 2 223 9,517 0 4,478 14,223 78 Other Sogeti 1,761 0 0 0 297 0 840 1,138 8 Total Other Operations 69,758 693 37 3,361 19,103 0 34,740 57,993 259 Total Largest Operations 337,132 1,429 7,345 64,757 90,529 187 116,089 280,337 1,474 Grand Total 406,889 2,122 7,442 68,118 109,632 187 150,829 338,330 1,724 Hungary, Italy, Mexico, Belgium,Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Swedenand Vietnam as well as Sogeti Notes: 1. Other Europe includes Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, and Slovakia; operations in Belgium, Finland, Luxemburg, Spain, andandSweden. 2. Australia and Asia includes Australia; China & Hong Kong; Philippines and Vietnam; 3. Latin America includes Argentina, Brazil, Brazil CPM Braxis, Chile, Guatemala Mexico; 4. Other Sogeti includes Sogeti operations in Finland, Belux (Belgium and Luxemburg), Spain and Sweden 5. Emission factors as produced by the Carbon Neutral Company have been used to calculate the emissions associated with hotel nights in all countries. It was identified during the external Grenelle II audit, that these factors, when applied outside the UK, may be too high with the result that the figures presented above are likely to be higher than reality. As more appropriate emission 1. Other Europefactors could includes not be Belgium, obtained, Czech theDenmark, Republic, have been figures Finland, reported Germany, hereItaly, Hungary, as included in the Romania, Norway, Poland, total figure for Business Portugal, travel (unlike Spain, Sweden the main body of the report where hotel stays were separated and Slovakia; out for audit). It is acknowledged that the figures represent a likely worse case and the methodology employed will be reviewed for future reports. 2. Australia and Asia includes Australia; China & Hong Kong; Philippines and Vietnam; 3. Latin America includes Argentina, Brazil, Brazil CPM Braxis, Chile, Guatemala and Mexico; 4. Other Sogeti includes Sogeti operations in Finland, Belux (Belgium and Luxemburg), Spain and Sweden 5. E  mission factors as produced by the Carbon Neutral Company have been used to calculate the emissions associated with hotel nights in all countries. It was identified during the external Grenelle II audit, that these factors, when applied outside the UK, may be too high with the result that the figures presented above are likely to be higher than reality. As more appropriate emission factors could not be obtained, the figures have been reported here as included in the total figure for Business travel (unlike the main body of the report where hotel stays were separated out for audit). It is acknowledged that the figures represent a likely worse case and the methodology employed will be reviewed for future reports. 43 More information about our services, offices and research is available at www.capgemini.com Contact Details: James Robey, Group Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Director Capgemini Group, Place de l’Étoile, 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017, Paris, France About Capgemini With more than 130,000 people in 44 countries, Capgemini is one of the world’s foremost providers of consulting, technology and outsourcing services. The Group reported 2012 global revenues of EUR 10.3 billion. Together with its clients, Capgemini creates and delivers business and technology solutions that fit their needs and drive the results they want. A deeply multicultural organization, Capgemini has developed its own way of working, the Collaborative Business ExperienceTM, and draws on Rightshore®, its worldwide delivery model. Learn more about us at www.capgemini.com. Rightshore® is a trademark belonging to Capgemini The information contained in this document is proprietary. ©2012 Capgemini. All rights reserved. Rightshore ® is a trademark belonging to Capgemini.
