CSR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 ABOUT KOMPAN GROUP KOMPAN is the world’s No. 1 playground supplier. We develop, produce and market an extensive range of playground equipment that covers all age groups. All our playgrounds are designed from the ground up to improve childhood health and learning. And all our products offer compelling design, high play value, uncompromising safety, unique innovation and long-lasting quality. For more than 40 years our goal has been to share our knowledge for the benefit of children and young people as well as the adults who work in this field – and it still is. Our unique knowledge centre the KOMPAN Play Institute is a valuable repository of insight into children’s play, health and learning e.g. through research. It’s the perfect complement to our decades of hands-on experience making playgrounds that promote child development. We use this valuable knowledge in our product design to ensure they address key areas of child development great playgrounds are built on knowledge. We aim to operate in a way that not only respects, but also contributes to positive development for people, planet and profit. Contents KOMPAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2013 TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT.....................................................................3 HUMAN RIGHTS............................................................................................................4 LABOUR STANDARDS ...................................................................................................6 ENVIRONMENT..............................................................................................................8 GENDER DIVERSITY........................................................................................................9 ANTI-CORRUPTION......................................................................................................11 EFFORTS FOR SUPPLIERS ..............................................................................................11 2 KOMPAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2013 TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Statement of continued support by the CEO TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: and learning. The concept creates a link between playing and learning, which will have multiple positive effects I am pleased to confirm that KOMPAN reaffirms its supon children. port of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, EnvironFurther we have focused on the continued strengthening ment and Anti-Corruption. of our environmental. As an innovation in 2013, we have changed all our widely used HDPE panels to the new In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe EcoCoreTM: A highly durable, eco-friendly material, which our actions to continually improve the integration of the is not only recyclable after use, but also consists of a Global Compact and its principles into our business core, produced from 100% recycled material. strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our In 2013 the Supervisory Board has – in accordance with primary channels of communication. the Danish Act on Public and Private Limited Companies – set out to increase the percentage of the underrepreThe main focus in 2013 has been the development on the sented gender on the supervisory board and outlined concept ‘The SMART Playground’ by integrating curricula a policy to increase the level of the underrepresented for child development in the Hans Christian Andersen gender in other managerial functions. concept. This concept creates a correlation between play and learning, so that children in day care centres and In 2014, KOMPAN will strengthen its anti-corruption and schools are stimulated by challenges that fit their ages, anti-bribery profile. enhance their motor skills, and promote collaboration Sincerely yours, Connie Astrup-Larsen Chief Executive Officer www.KOMPAN.com 3 HUMAN RIGHTS At KOMPAN we are committed to support and respect their development in terms of motor coordination, ininternationally declared human rights, and not to be tellect, and social skills. Our playgrounds also play an complicit in any human rights abuses. Our largest chalimportant role in the efforts against physical inactivity, lenges and risks in terms of human rights are found in overweight and obesity among children and teenagers. our global value chain. We have suppliers located in KOMPAN wishes to develop playgrounds which will help Asia, which usually implies higher risks of human rights improve the physique of the children in a safe and fun violations occurring e.g. in terms of working hours or lasurrounding. bour rights. In order to manage these risks KOMPAN has developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, which all suppliKOMPAN continuously develops and advances our ers have to commit to and sign. Our work with the code concepts and products. We do this based on the knowof conduct and suppliers is elaborated further below. ledge we gather in the KOMPAN Play Institute where we among other things do studies on children’s play. Article 31 (Leisure, play and culture): Children have the right to relax and play, and to join in a wide range of In 2013, KOMPAN built on the concept ‘The SMART Playcultural, artistic and other recreational activities. (UN ground’ by integrating curricula for child development Convention on the Rights of the Child). in the Hans Christian Andersen concept. This concept creates a link between playing and learning, which will Through our business activity KOMPAN is supporting the have multiple positive effects on children. The concept UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child. On a daily will be launched in all markets in 2014. basis our products encourage and enable children to play and be active, and this has beneficial impact on NG Playgrounds boost Playground activity NI health in a fun way helps children AARR HEA concentrate better LLEE LTH Playground activity g ro u n d Playground combats weight ay activity improves q u e Pl Solu tio problems and children’s academic obesity skills ni U ns Playgrounds help Playgrounds help combat vandalism bridge generation and crime and culture gaps Playgrounds include all abilities and ages SSOOCIA ONN I NCCLLUUSSI IO CIALLI N 4 Hans Christian Andersen KOMPAN Ugly Duckling Narbonne, France www.KOMPAN.com 5 LABOUR STANDARDS As with human rights, KOMPAN’s primary risks regarding is certified according to OHSAS 18001 an occupational the fundamental labour standards are at our suppliers. health and safety management system. This implies that We strive to make sure that none of our cooperating the operating practices are up to date and in compliance parties are complicit in using e.g. child labour, forced with health and safety requirements. It further enables labour or prohibiting the right to association and colour organization to control and gain knowledge of all lective bargaining. You can read more about our work relevant risks and hazards, and consequently improves with ensuring our suppliers comply with our guidelines our performance. The surveillance audit was passed further below. without any non-conformities in 2013. For KOMPAN’s own activities we aim to make sure that The amount of lost hours related to accidents (LTA: we provide our employees with a safe working environLost Time Accidents) has increased to 416 hours (328 ment, be that in the headquarters in Odense, Denmark, in 2012), corresponding to only 0.21% of the total producor in the factories in Sweden, Germany, or the Czech tion time. No serious injuries happened in 2013. We will Republic. Occupational health and safety is an equivacontinue a structured and managed approach to work lent and integral part of all activities of KOMPAN and actively for a safe and healthy working environment for one of our permanent top priorities. Our Occupational our employees in the coming year. In 2013 we estabHealth and Safety policy focuses on preventing injuries lished an Employee Safety Committee for the purpose of and illness, ensuring that we are in compliance with performing regular safety audits to support us to identify all legal regulations and that we efficiently and actively possible risks in the entire plant and prevent accidents involve our employees in the matter. As an important and production time loss. step in this direction our factory in the Czech Republic GALAXY Emerido Hamburg, Germany 6 Hans Christian Andersen Chicken farm & Horse carriage Odense, Denmark www.KOMPAN.com 7 ENVIRONMENT As a manufacturer of outdoor playground equipment, issues. The plants in the Czech Republic and Germany KOMPAN has an integrated approach to environmental have furthermore implemented control systems that considerations. KOMPAN aims to produce sustainable work for compliance with requirements on active products with a long lifespan, which require a low level substances in accessible components, and indepenof maintenance. We aim to use materials and technolodent third party tests are run. In 2013 KOMPAN BV in gies, which have minimal impact on the environment, the Netherlands was ISO 14001 certified as well. and whenever possible we aim to use FSC-certified sources. Our primary focus areas in 2013 in terms of the In 2013 another part of our manufacturing was moved environment were on recycled compounds and environfrom non-ISO certified production facilities to the plant in mentally certified wood. All materials used by the comthe Czech Republic. This shift naturally led to a reduction pany are evaluated on the basis of its impact on the in total energy consumption and waste for the year. environment before deemed acceptable for use. Our initiatives work to ensure that when products are to be In 2013, KOMPAN’s production plant in the Czech disposed all the materials can be reused. As an innovaRepublic performed a tender for waste collection service. tion in 2013, we have changed all our widely used HDPE Having changed to another supplier enables us to collect panels to the new EcoCoreTM: A highly durable, ecoand recycle majority of production waste. Further autofriendly material, which is not only recyclable after use, matic lighting regulation was installed in the shopfloor to but also consists of a core, produced from 100% recycled decrease electrical energy consumption the workplace material. Now KOMPAN are using recycled materials in lighting still being in compliance with the hygiene approximately 70% of our total material consumption, requirements. and 95% can be recycled after use. In the years to come KOMPAN will focus even more on KOMPAN’s production plants in the Czech Republic and how we can minimize the waste of resources and reduce Sweden are ISO 14001 certified, which implies a specific environmental hazards. and structured management approach to environmental MOMENTS Treehouse The Netherlands 8 GALAXY Hamburg, Germany GENDER DIVERSITY In accordance with the Danish Act on Public and Private The global gender distribution by the end of 2013 was Limited Companies the Supervisory Board has in 2013 set approximately 64% men (2012: 67%) and 36% women a target for increasing the percentage of the underrep(2012: 33%). The proportion of women in global manaresented gender on the supervisory board and outlined gement constituted approximately 28% (2012 26%). No a policy to increase the level of the underrepresented women were on the supervisory board in 2013. The goal gender in other managerial functions. The definition of is to achieve a 25% representation of women on the managers is “managers with staff responsibility or mansupervisory board within 2020. agers with special strategic responsibilities in corporate functions”. www.KOMPAN.com 9 IMAGINATOR Pirate Ship Aalborg, Denmark 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to Anti-corruption is still a relatively new area for KOMPAN sustainable development and free trade. At KOMPAN in terms of working actively with the issue in our own we do not accept these practices and therefore do not activities. In 2014 we will increase our focus on the issue accept any kind of undue payment in any of our busiand we aim to develop and implement an anti-corrupness transactions. It is our policy that all elements of our tion program in KOMPAN. supply chain and sale must be completely transparent to everyone interested in knowing more. Principles to work against anti-corruption are integrated in the supplier code of conduct (read more below). EFFORTS FOR SUPPLIERS As a global manufacturer of outdoor playground equipKOMPAN takes a risk based approach to our suppliers. ment KOMPAN has to comply with a number of standThis means that our suppliers are grouped according ards in terms of product safety and environment. It is to the risks associated with the characteristics of their therefore central to us that our suppliers adhere to the geographical location. We have some suppliers from same standards as we do. Our supplier code of conAsia, which we associate with higher risks than e.g. duct describes the requirements KOMPAN expects all suppliers located in Europe. To manage this, we work to our suppliers to adhere to and comply with. The code audit the high risk suppliers at least once a year. At the of conduct is based on the principles of the UN Global supplier audits, which are carried out by either KOMPAN Compact, and covers the following areas: employees or by third party auditors, a standardised questionnaire is developed, which supports the auditor Child labour, discrimination, forced labour, working enviin including all aspects of our code of conduct are disronment, working hours and salary, the right to organize cussed during the visit. and collective bargaining, right to privacy, environment (pollution prevention and resource reduction, chemicals In 2013 more than 99% of our suppliers of raw materials and hazardous materials, air emissions, waste water or components had signed the code of conduct. and solid waste, recycling and reuse of materials and products), and corruption. When making new contract the supplier has to confirm and commit to complying with the code of conduct. If the supplier cannot or will not sign the code of conduct, the engagement will not be made, or the existing agreement will be terminated. 11 Visit KOMPAN’s website for more financial information Use your QR scanner or download a free application to your mobile: http://reader.kaywa.com www.KOMPAN.com KOMPAN A/S C.F. Tietgens Boulevard 32C DK-5220 Odense SØ Denmark Tel.: +45 63 62 12 50 E-mail: info@KOMPAN.com CVR. nr. 40 55 98 17
