2013 Sustainability report Axis in 1minute Number of countries Highlights 179 with partners > Axis implemented a program to prevent corruption, bribes and conflicts of interest. Contents 65,000 More than Employees have gone through an educational program and signed an agreement confirming Axis’ anti-corruption policy. 98 percent of employees at the headquarters in Lund and 100 percent of employees at other offices in the world have completed the training and signed the policy. Axis distributors have signed an amendment regarding anti-corruption to the Standard Distribution Agreement due This report is intended to cover the most important sustainability issues for Axis based on their partners to Axis policy regarding zero-tolerance against corruption. influence on business success and their importance > During 2013, Axis has phased out PVC in several network product series including AXIS P13, AXIS P33, for sustainable development. AXIS M30, AXIS M32, AXIS M31 and AXIS M70. Axis in 1 minute 2 > Axis has made changes to the design with cost, quality and the environment in focus in the development of AXIS T93F, which means that the number of components has decreased by 84 percent. President’s message 4 Sustainable governance 6 > The effect of a new design, fewer components and different choice of materials, is that the product’s, AXIS T92E, weight has decreased by 50 percent. The packaging has also decreased in size. The packaging Axis in the world 8 volume has decreased by about 75 percent overall, from 32 litres to 8 litres. Case story 10 > Since Axis introduced its Supplier Code of Conduct in 2011, the company’s environmental and quality 44 engineers have carried out audits of 111 suppliers in total, of 185 current suppliers (2013). Sustainability goal fulfillment 12 Environmental Responsibility 16 countries > During 2013, Axis opened two new Configuration and Logistics Centers —in Suzhou, China and in Memphis, USA—that allow Axis to optimize logistic flows by being closer to the market and thus decrease its carbon with Axis employees Business Conduct 26 footprint. Social Responsibility 30 > Although Axis has many new employees, as a consequence of a high growth rate, all new employees participate GRI references 36 Number of employees in an introductory course at the headquarters in Lund. For the purpose of implementing the core values, Axis has 1,627 conducted workshops with the employees, during the year. in the Reporting 38 Axis group Axis’ Sustainability Report 2013 follows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines level C. Further 4,717 information may also be found in Axis’ Annual Report 2013 and Corporate Governance Report 2013, both of which are published in Swedish and English. These SEK million reports and additional information are available at in sales www.axis.com Sustainable solutions At Axis, we aim to minimize our climate impact, promote good working conditions and combat for a smarter and safer world corruption and violations of human rights. Sustainability is a natural and integrated part of Axis’ operations and Starting from 2013, Axis is imposing stricter requirements on subconTaking long-term social responsibility an important factor behind the company’s successful growth. At Axis, tractors. A new requirement relating to conflict minerals has been added Axis’ corporate culture is characterized by an entreprewe take sustainability into consideration in all business processes as to the Supplier Code of Conduct. A webinar regarding the company’s neurial spirit, innovation, openness and development, well as throughout the entire value chain. Our corporate responsibility material requirements has also been produced. In addition, Axis has and is an important factor behind our successful growth. is conducted in three areas: environmental considerations, social drawn up new General Instructions for its component suppliers where An important measure in strengthening our unique responsibility and business ethics, and during the year we carried out requirements relating to the environment, social responsibility, safety corporate culture was the core values workshops, which important measures in each one of these three areas. and quality have been made clearer. essentially all employees participated in during the year. The workshops have aimed to make concrete what is I can confirm with pride that 2013 was a successful year and that we Greener products and smarter transports meant by the company’s core values -Think big, Act as continue our ambition to fulfill our sustainability targets. During the Axis works actively on minimizing the direct and indirect environmental one and Always open, and to implement these values in year, our sustainability work also became an increasingly integrated impact of its operations and on limiting the company’s climate footthe day-to-day work. part of the company’s business processes and a natural part of the print. Environmental considerations pervade everything from product day-to-day operations. This has occurred by clarifying and raising development, such as in choosing the design and material for products, Axis’ sustainability work also includes social responthe awareness of sustainability issues both internally and externally, to logistics flows and the final stage of products. Axis’ innovative intelsibility where the company contributes to charity and through training courses and workshops, among other ways, which ligent security solutions feature leading edge technologies, which are provides sponsorship through global and local initiatives. have illustrated what is meant by sustainable operations. environmentally friendly and energy-efficient in the end user phase. Everyone has the right to feel safe and secure, and Axis’ intelligent security solutions help to provide security for Business ethics in all stages During the year, Axis has implemented several important measures in citizens, employees and customers all over the world. Axis is a high-growth company with just over 1,600 employees in the environmental area. We have produced a checklist with guidelines more than 40 countries and 65,000 partners in 179 countries. As for green product design and have completely phased out polyvinyl Continued long-term commitment global market leader, Axis aims to drive the shift towards innovative chloride (PVC) from several camera series. We have also carried out a At Axis, we aim to minimize our climate impact, promote and intelligent security solutions, but the company also aims to act survey of bromine in all components in the company’s products and good working conditions and combat corruption and as a standard-bearer when it comes to business ethics. Therefore we have conducted a comprehensive survey of the minerals tantalum, violations of human rights. As global market leader as it is extremely important that all business relationships between tin, gold and tungsten, with the aim of preventing so-called conflict well as a large employer, Axis serves as a role model. We employees, with suppliers, distributors and other partners are minerals. have good opportunities to influence those around us in pervaded by ethical behavior in line with Axis’ Code of Conduct and the sustainability questions, to set standards and promote company’s core values. All business relationships should be handled in In addition, we have further improved the efficiency of the logistics sustainability in the industry, in the same way as we are a responsible, transparent, credible and consistent way. chain in order to be closer to our markets and thereby reduce transports. driving the shift in the network video sector. Axis has opened two new configuration and logistics centers, one in During the year, Axis has taken its business ethics commitment a stage China and another one in the US. This will provide increased capacity in During 2014, we will continue to work on making susfurther through a comprehensive anti-corruption program and a new the important US market and our presence in China will mean greater tainability into an even more natural part of our way anti-corruption policy. Within the framework of these efforts, all proximity to the suppliers that are located in the region. of conducting business in all areas where we operate. employees have participated in training and have signed an agreement where they undertake to comply with the new anti-corruption policy. Axis is also continuing to optimize and reduce the size of product There is a tremendous commitment to sustainability at For Axis’ approximately 100 distributors around the world, this work packaging, which is generating a positive effect both on the Axis and I am proud of all our employees’ initiatives and has involved signing a supplementary agreeement to the Standard environmental impact of transports and the volume of consumables. efforts, which are very important for ensuring continued Distribution Agreement. long-term sustainable and successful growth. 4 President’s message President’s message Axis is a global company with employees in more than 40 countries and partners in 179 countries. Axis thereby influences the lives of many people – including customers, employees, suppliers and others. Axis intends to create value for its stakeholders, build relations and take responsibility in financial, social, business and environmental matters. Sustainable governance LONG -TERM RE S SP Code of Conduct KE ON Policies and organization > The Sustainability Project Group is made up of repAxis’ Code of Conduct defines the approach, values and guidelines that TA In addition to the Code of Conduct, Axis has formuresentatives from the Corporate functions of Human ees Distribu the company and its personnel shall apply in matters of business IS SI lated a number of policies that guide the company’s Resources, Global Sales, Quality & Environment and oy part tio BI AX pl conduct, business relations, human rights, workplace practices and sustainability work, including a Business Ethics Policy, Communications. The group is responsible for the environmental considerations. The Code of Conduct is based on m ne LIT and Environmental Policy. As a company listed on the development of sustainability efforts in different areas usine ss conduc t r n eb and for extending the reporting to cover additional the following international principles: E Y NASDAQ OMX Nordic exchange, Axis also applies the ibl & s Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. areas within the framework of the UN Global Compact Res >> UN’s Universal Declaration po initiative. ironmental resp E n d u s ers ns S u p p lie rs of Human Rights Axis values: Sustainability is an integrated part of Axis’ business Env >> UN’s Global Compact initiative Act as one. strategy and operations. Despite other decision forums > The Environmental Council contains representaAlways open. on >> The ILO Declaration on Fundamental and in order to support continuous improvements at tives from R&D, Product Management, CommuniPrinciples and Rights at Work. Think big. ility all levels, Axis has created the following organizational cations and Operations as well as members of the nsib framework for its corporate sustainability efforts: Management team. The Council works with general o Axis became a member of the UN Global Compact initiative in y environmental issues and initiates projects aimed at Soci ilit 2007 and has adopted its ten principles in the areas of human al re sp sib > The Sustainability Council has the overall responminimizing Axis’ environmental impact. rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Axis continuously So s or sibility for sustainability matters. Responsibilities strives to improve its performance in relation to sustainability. This cie e st include implementation of Axis’ Code of Conduct and > The Ethics Council is composed of representatives report meets Level C according to the third edition of the Global ty Inv related policies as well as monitoring company activifrom the Management team. The Council handles Reporting Initiative’s guidelines. ties. The council is mainly composed of representatives ethical issues and also consults, discusses and decides from the Axis Management team. on matters related to Axis’ business conduct. Axis’sustainability work is based on the company’s core values and is an integral part of its operations. Business conduct, social responsibility and the environment are the three focus areas. 6 Sustainable governance Sustainable governance 7 Axis Axis operates in a rapidly changing world and in the is affected by global challenges such as world urbanization, sharp population growth, cli ma te cha nges, envi ronmenta l destruction, global conflicts and a growing middle class. The social, political, environmental and economic macro trends are increasing the need for intelligent solutions that enable a smarter and safer world. Axis is global market leader with offices in more than 40 countries and Economic growth and global poverty a broad network of 65,000 partners in 179 countries. Together with its Economic growth and an expanding middle class are leading to inare expected to reach 50 percent, and will subsequently partners, Axis has the world’s largest base of installed network video creasing security awareness and are boosting demand for solutions show an annual growth rate of 25 percent over the products and solutions and is thus well-positioned to take advantage that provide safety in public places, at work and at home. Meanwhile, coming five years. of the opportunities presented by the global trends. economic inequality is a growing problem. Countries with significant economic equalities generally have a bigger problem with violent crime. Demand for network video is expected to grow in Urbanization Today, almost half of the world’s population of 6.46 billion people live on all market regions. The network video market is still In 2008, the world crossed a historic threshold when over 50 percent less than USD 2.5 per day and over 80 percent live in countries where dominated by mature markets such as North America of the global population was estimated to live in cities.1 The world’s economic inequality is continuing to rise.2 and Europe, but a shift is underway, in which emerging urban population is growing by almost 180,000 people every day and markets are becoming increasingly important. the strongest growth is taking place in Asia and Africa. As early as An increased demand for intelligent security solutions 2030, some 60 percent of the total global population is expected to The global macro trends described above imply an increasing need for In Asia, and particularly in China, demand is expected live in cities, equivalent to about 5 billion people. intelligent solutions that create a smarter and safer world. Axis is driving to grow sharply in line with continued strong economic the trend within network video, and the rapid technological advancegrowth and major infrastructural investments. Asia Rapid urbanization and increasingly densely populated cities are inment has enabled new fields of application, new types of integrated consists of markets that differ significantly from creasing the strain on critical infrastructure such as transport services solutions and smart surveillance systems. each other, and which are characterized by intense and energy. Measurement of traffic flows on roads for example, makes competition. it possible to detect accidents faster and assign rescue personnel. In Globally, there is a growing demand for greater functionality. An densely populated cities, demand is also increasing for solutions that example, in the transport sector, is automatic solutions for reading off In the EMEA region (Europe, Middle East and Africa), guarantee people’s security. license plates on roads. There is also increasing demand for specially overall demand for network video is growing. The adapted and flexible solutions and for new types of applications, financial crisis of recent years has primarily had a A changing environment and global conflicts. tailored for specific customer segments. Demand for better image negative effect on demand in Southern Europe. Demand The stream of refugees is increasing in the world due to a number of quality, where, for example, recordings can be used as evidence in order in mature markets such as the Nordic region and Western factors including devastating natural disasters, terrorism, political into identify persons in legal contexts, is also increasing. Europe has remained stable while Russia has shown stability, global drugs trafficking and international conflicts. Above all, strong market growth. Axis generates most of its sales this trend is evident in countries where the security situation is already An important driver of Axis’ growth is the technology shift from analog in North America and in Europe, but is well-positioned sensitive and where it may be difficult for governments to guarantee to digital video surveillance. The global market for surveillances cameras for continued growing demand in emerging markets. the security of their citizens. is expected to grow by 14 percent annually in the years to come.3 In 2014, the market will reach a so-called “tipping point”, where digital surveillance systems, which today only account for 30 percent of sales, 1 Latest Publications. Urbanization: A Majority in Cities: Population & Development: United Nations Population Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. Dec 6, 2013. 2 “Poverty Facts and Stats.” Global Issues. N.p., n.d. Web. Dec 3, 2013. 3 “Country & Industry Forecasting | IHS.” Country & Industry Forecasting | IHS. IHS, n.d. Web. Dec 9, 2013. 8 Axis in the world Case story Improved security on Colombian motorways Axis’ partner SIMS Technologies SAS together with the Colombian motion at speeds of up to 200 km/h, and check license numbers against Colombian public authorities are using Axis cameras transport authority, the National Institute of Roads (INVIAS), has a list of missing vehicles. In addition, unusual patterns of movement and solutions as part of an advanced surveillance system developed a system where smart network cameras enable faster and are identified on the roads, for instance, when a vehicle comes to a more efficient efforts in connection with road incidents along certain standstill or turns unexpectedly, after which an alarm is automatically in order to boost safety on the country’s motorways, with stretches of motorway around the country’s capital Bogotá. sent to personnel who can investigate potential accidents, breakdowns, the aim of reducing the number of accidents and to more robberies or kidnappings. Important entrance and exit roads are also rapidly detect and act in connection with criminal actions In Colombia, strong economic growth, increased productivity and monitored, so that the cameras can detect and send an alarm if there urbanization have meant a greater strain on the country’s infrastructure. are vehicles that are unlawfully positioned in vulnerable locations. such as robberies and kidnappings. Traffic on the country’s motorways is growing by 5 percent each year. In Colombia, there are also significant security challenges, not just in the form of an ongoing guerrilla conflict but also from criminal groups that regularly carry out kidnappings and robberies on the country’s motorways, among other places. With the aim of boosting security, the transport ministry, the defense ministry and the National Institute of Roads (INVIAS) have created the National Highway Safety Program. Axis together with its partner SIMS Technologies SAS, has supplied technological solutions and expertise, which has enabled cost-efficient and sophisticated surveillance of large areas of critical infrastructure, and has thereby contributed to creating a smarter and safer society. The system includes AXIS Q6035-E Dome network cameras featuring HDTV quality, which have been erected at strategic locations in order to monitor more than 1,000 kilometers of motorway. From the INVIAS Road Control and Operations Center, personnel have an automated comprehensive view of the motorways where 44 cameras are equipped with a number of sophisticated technical solutions. The cameras send an alarm to personnel about potential incidents in realtime. Using the cameras’ remote control function, staff can investigate incidents from the control center and when necessary coordinate with the police, security forces and emergency services. Equipment for automated reading of license plates can identify vehicles that are in 10 Case story Case story 11 Environmental Responsibility Axis takes environmental responsibility both locally and globally by minimizing its direct and indirect environmental impacts and 2013 by engaging in partnerships to protect and promote the health of the ecosystem. Environmental responsibility is a guiding principle in every aspect of Axis’ operations from product development to Sustainability the supply chain and the products’ end of life. goal fulfillment Goal Improve the environmental performance of Axis’ network video products. An identified part of the product portfolio shall be PVCfree from 2013. Axis’ network video products shall preferably have low energy consumption during the Goal fulfillment 2013 During 2013, Axis has phased out PVC from the following cameras: AXIS P13 Series indoor and outdoor, AXIS P33 Series indoor and outdoor, AXIS M30 Series indoor, AXIS M32 Series, AXIS M31 Series and from the video encoder AXIS M70 Series. Axis continued to launch energy-efficient cameras such as infrared cameras (IR) cameras and cameras containing Lightfinder technology. These cameras provide high-resolution images— end-use phase. even in the dark—which is favorable from an environmental perspective, because the need Axis is a global company and thereby influences the lives of many people for external lighting is eliminated. – including shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and others in society. Sustainability is an integrated part of our business and Axis is Axis shall reduce its negative environmental During 2013, CO2 emissions per ton-km decreased by 3 percent compared to 2011. In 2013, impact during transportation of products. carbon emissions from transports increased from 284 gCO2/ton-km (2012) to 328 gCO2/ton-km taking long-term responsibility by thinking big. CO 2 emissions per ton-km from freight due to transports of heavy material from one supplier in Malaysia. During 2013, there was an transport shall be reduced by 20 percent in average decrease of 5.6 percent in CO2 emissions (for Axis-controlled outbound transports) At Axis, we take long-term responsibility for our actions in relation to Our overall objective is to take long-term sustainability into consider2016 compared to 2011. per ton-km to customers, compared to the average CO2 emissions for 2012. our employees, customers, partners and suppliers and also in relation ation in all our business processes throughout the entire value chain. to the environment and society as a whole. We shall strive to minimize environmental impact, promote a healthy The environmental impact of Axis’ products Axis introduced guidelines for green product design. Axis extensively analyzed bromine content working environment and also fight corruption and violations of hushall be a key consideration from the beginin all components in all its products. Axis commissioned research on the following minerals: When it comes to managing business conduct as well as our enviman rights. ning of the development phase. tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten to find out where these minerals are currently found and ronmental and social footprint, Thinking Big means thinking globally, from where they come—to prevent conflict minerals. looking beyond immediate impacts and taking long-term responsibility. Axis shall encourage its customers to switch Axis’ remote monitoring functionality decreases the products’ carbon footprint in the end-use to more energy-efficient and environmenphase because it allows operators to access the video material from any computer. tally friendly products by raising awareness about the environmental aspects of Axis’ We conduct our work within three areas: solutions. Educate Axis suppliers about the Supplier During 2013, Axis produced two webinars for suppliers regarding supplier requirements and Code of Conduct and about Environmental processes for declaring the material content of products. and Corporate Social Responsibilit y requirements. Reduce electricity consumption worldwide During 2013, guidelines for efficient use of energy were introduced for regional offices. The total energy use at regional offices (Brazil, USA, Central Europe, North Asia, South Asia, Southern Europe and UK) has decreased by10 percent compared to 2012. The total energy use at the headquarters in Lund has decreased by 29 percent since 2012, due to investments Environmental Business Social and increased environmental awareness through environmental education, newsletters and other information channels. Employees are encouraged to always turn off the lights when Responsibility Conduct Responsibility leaving a room, and to switch off their screens at the end of the workday. Axis has continued to replace traditional lightning with LED lightning and motion detectors have been installed in some of the premises. 12 Sustainability goal fulfillment Business Social Conduct Responsibility In its business conduct, Axis’ By showing concern for all goal is that all of its business and stakeholders, Axis actively takes relationships should be handled social responsibility and ensures in a responsible, transparent, that the company always makes trustworthy and consistent way. a positive contribution. Goal Goal fulfillment 2013 Goal Goal fulfillment 2013 All Axis’ suppliers, subcontractors and conSince Axis introduced its Supplier Code of Conduct in 2011, Axis All Axis employees shall act in accordance Axis hired 224 people during the year. New employees based in Lund tract manufacturers shall comply with Axis’ currently has audited a total of 111 of its suppliers (today Axis has with the Code of Conduct and shall be received a one-day introductory training course while employees Supplier Code of Conduct and other relevant 185 suppliers). trained to understand how it relates to based in other countries traveled to the Lund headquarters for a policies. long-term responsibilities. three-day introduction program. Axis invests significant resources in implementing and reinforcing its strong corporate culture; during Sustainability shall be taken into considerDuring 2013, Axis implemented an extensive anti-corruption program. 2013 almost all of Axis’ 1,627 employees attended a core values ation throughout the entire business process Axis implemented a a new anti-corruption policy through a companytraining course. and in efforts to fight corruption. To achieve wide effort involving both employees and distributors. this, all employees and distributors shall sign By the end of 2013, 98 percent of Axis’ employees in Lund and 100 Axis shall strive to increase its positive Axis’ sustainability work is continuously presented at various ema binding agreement. percent of the employees at other Axis offices around the world sustainability impacts by encouraging employee meetings on a local, regional and global level as well as on the had gone through the program and signed an agreement, thereby ployee involvement. Intranet. Axis utilizes ideas from employees about how to improve committing themselves to follow Axis’ anti-corruption policy. its sustainability work. All of Axis’ distributors have signed an amendment to the Standard Distribution Agreement. Axis shall act sustainably by contributing Different activities have been carried out in Axis’ sales companies to local communities in places where the as well as at the headquarters in Lund. For example, Axis initiated company operates as well as globally. a project to help improve education in Tanzania. Other examples of activities include sponsoring charity runs and donating to charitable organizations at both a global and a local level. Axis’ partners shall have knowledge about At Axis’ partner conferences during 2013 — approximately 100 big and understand the company’s approach to events and several minor events — partners were informed about Axis’ products shall contribute to a smarter, Axis’ products and solutions were installed in several different long-term responsibility and the responsiAxis’ sustainability work. The emphasis on sustainability was also safer and more secure world. customer segments during the year and contributed in many ways to bilities that come with it. highlighted in the newsletters that Axis regularly distributes to its creating safety and security for employees, customers and citizens. partners. 14 Sustainability goal fulfillment Sustainability goal fulfillment 15 Environmental considerations throughout the entire value chain Axis is the global market leader in network video and offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter and safer world. Axis works to minimize the direct and indirect environmental impact of its operations and thereby limit its climate footprint. The company is continually developing innovative and sustainable network products and solutions, and environmental considerations pervade everything from product development to logistics flows and the final stage of the products. A greener product choice Axis works actively to reduce its environmental impact throughout the guidelines for environmentally-friendly product development. The entire value chain and also throughout the entire product life cycle. checklist was launched in 2014. This involves ensuring that design, product development, material Better environment with optimized product and choice, material origin, components and packaging meet Axis’ strict Improved material choice requirements in respect of quality and functionality, while minimizing Axis’ cameras mainly consist of aluminium, zinc, steel, stainless steel, packaging design environmental impacts. PC/ABS (Polycarbonate/Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene), PC (polycarbonate), PA (polyamide polymer), PMMA (polymethyl methacrylate), Axis makes continuous efforts to optimize its product for meeting equally high temperatures, which means Improved environmental footprint 2013 polyurethane, silicone, thermoplastic elastomer and rubber (measured packaging in order to reduce freight volume and thereby that Axis has been able to exclude the outer aluminium During 2013, Axis carried out a series of measures aimed at reducing by weight). reduce carbon dioxide emissions during transports. casing and design a completely plastic protective the environmental impact of its products. Firstly, Axis has created a Apart from a positive impact on the environment, housing. checklist with guidelines for green product design, which was launched For aluminium components, Axis mostly uses recycled aluminium. Axis’ transport costs are also reduced. during 2014. goal as far as possible is to use recyclable material and components. The effect of a new design, fewer components and difOverall, about 95 percent of the material in the products is recyclable As far as possible, Axis also chooses packaging material ferent choice of materials, is that the product weight Secondly, Axis has completely phased out PVCs from certain Axis camor combustible in accordance with Swedish recycling standards. that is recyclable, such as corrugated cardboard instead has decreased by 50 percent. The packaging has also era series. A third important measure has been a comprehensive survey of foam plastic. In addition, Axis works to optimize decreased in size since the protective housing is smaller of bromine covering all components in all the company’s products. Axis Axis’ long-term goal is to offer halogen-free products, which means that the product design, with the aim of achieving positive and the arm of the product has been placed inside the has also carried out a comprehensive survey of the minerals tantalum, the material contains <900 ppm of the halogens chlorine or bromine, environmental effects. actual housing. The packaging volume has decreased tin, gold and tungsten; where they are found and where they come from, which according to IEC (The International Electrochemical Commission) by about 75 percent overall, from 32 litres to 8 litres with the aim of preventing so-called conflict minerals. definition, means the material contains less than 900 ppm chlorine or 75 percent less packaging volume that has a positive environmental effect on transports. bromine, or less than 1500 ppm total halogens. Axis initiated the work AXIS T93F Series comprises protective housings indoor Green design guidelines on being able to offer halogen-free products as early as 2009. Chlorine and outdoor cameras and complement AXIS T92E Post-mounting reduces the packaging For the purpose of integrating environmental aspects into the product is mainly found in PVCs, which Axis is in the process of phasing out Protective Housing Series. Axis has made some changes AXIS T91B Mounts is a series of wall mounts for AXIS P55, development process, Axis has an established Green Product design of its products. to the design with cost, quality and the environment in AXIS Q60 and AXIS P33 Camera Series. The predecessor – the team composed of environmental, product development and design focus. These changes were partly possible due to lower AXIS T91A Mounts, were sent pre-mounted to the engineers. The Green Product design team has examined what tools PVC is harmful to both the environment and human health, since it technical requirements, and mean that the number of customer. By not pre-mounting the arm in the bracket could help to minimize environmental impacts already in the design and is not broken down in nature, is carcinogenic, and releases toxic subcomponents has decreased by 84 percent, compared to the packaging size has decreased by about 20-40 development stage. During the year, the team also completed a product stances during its lifetime. Axis has made a lot of progress as regards AXIS T92E Series. percent, depending on AXIS T91B model. In addition, design checklist. The aim is to ensure design choices that minimize the phasing out PVCs. The following cameras are PVC-free: AXIS P13 Series the change of packaging material from foam plastic to products’ environmental impact, such as selecting components of as indoor & outdoor, AXIS P33 Series indoor & outdoor, AXIS M30 Series AXIS T92E consists of a plastic housing with an outer recyclable corrugated cardboard has contributed to an low weight as possible, avoiding use of brominated flame retardants indoor, AXIS M32 Series, AXIS M31 Series and the video encoder: alumimium casing in order to function optimally in high annual decrease in waste volume of 95 percent, and all and using recycled plastic instead of newly manufactured plastic. AXIS M70 Series. Axis is working continually on phasing out PVCs from temperatures. AXIS T93F has slightly lower requirements packaging material may now be recycled. additional products. The guidelines are based on the result of a number of life cycle analyses performed on selected Axis cameras, combined with generally accepted 16 Environmental Responsibility Survey of bromine The table shows to what extent the minerals are used in Axis’ products and residues can be utilized separately. Axis is responsible for marking the CE marking Bromine is mainly found in brominated flame retardants. During 2013, the number of conflict-free smelters used by Axis’ suppliers. Many of Axis’ products in order to ensure that they are not thrown away, but instead All Axis’ products are CE-marked, and meet requirements under the Axis has carried out a comprehensive survey of bromine in all comsuppliers use more than one metal in components of Axis products. In line go to special waste sorting. EU’s RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances). ponents in the company’s products, which is a first step in being in a with receiving reports from suppliers, Axis will add more smelters to the list. position to meet the long-term goal of being able to offer halogen-free Environmental training Non-compliance products. Axis has identified three areas where bromine and bromiSuppliers’ metal usage In 2013, 146 employees participated in environmental training. The During 2013, no criticism or complaints were made in relation to how nated flame retardants may be found: in circuit boards, in electronic training aims to provide information about the company’s sustainability Axis complies with prescribed rules for product content and other Tantalum Tin Gold Tungsten components including cables, and in mechanical parts made of plastic. work, increase environmental awareness and encourage employees to important information. During the year, Axis did not receive any sig(Ta) (Sn) (Au) (W) act in a more climate-smart way, both in the day-to-day work and when nificant fines or criticism for deficiencies in compliance with applicable In addition to applicable environmental legislation and guidelines, it comes to development of Axis products. The training has resulted in environmental legislation. Nor have other circumstances arisen during Suppliers using 11 37 27 10 such as EU’s legislation RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) new ideas and suggestions for improvement about how the company the year, which indicate that Axis’ products and services would not metal in components and REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and restriction can reduce the energy consumption in its products, how cardboard meet applicable health and safety rules. of Axis products of Chemicals), Axis has its own list of substances that the company boxes can be made smaller and how energy consumption in offices either uses to a limited extent or is in the process of phasing out of Smelters identified can be lowered etc. 28 221 215 68 its products. by Axis suppliers Prevent conflict minerals in the value chain Axis supports the electronics industry’s initiative to prevent trade in so-called conflict minerals, and complies with international trade rules Optimized and recycled packaging Axis’ product packaging is composed of recycled material, apart as well as the trade organization Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalifrom packaging exteriors. The packaging material is composed of PET tion’s (EICC) recommendations and guidelines. plastic, PE foam (Stratocell) and corrugated paper mixed with plastic. Tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten are called conflict minerals in cases where All packaging material composed of PET plastic is recycled and the More energy-efficient they originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and nearby councorrugated paper mixed with plastic can be recycled, whereas the PE foam (Stratocell) is new material. Axis is phasing out the use of PE foam cameras tries, since armed conflicts are ongoing there, and mining operations often (Stratocell) in order to replace it with recyclable material. An important part of Axis’ work on developing new contribute to continued conflicts and result in human rights violations. sustainable products and solutions is to make the camera’s In addition, Axis is working to optimize its product packaging, since energy consumption as efficient as possible. By energyGuaranteeing that products are free from conflict minerals may be a smaller packaging volume has a positive environmental effect on optimizing the software, the camera’s energy consumption challenge due to the complexity in tracing the source of the minerals. transports. Certain products have also been designed in order to be can be reduced with maintained functionality, performance packaged more compactly. Read more on page 17. and image quality. In Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, the company’s suppliers undertake not to use conflict minerals. Axis requires suppliers to report the origin of minerals together with a documented routine showing how supLife cycle analysis During 2013, Axis has carefully mapped the energy conAxis has carried out life cycle analyses on a number of selected camera sumption in five different network cameras (AXIS Q1602, pliers and their subcontractors work to ensure that the components models with the aim of minimizing the environmental impact throughAXIS Q1604, AXIS Q6035, AXIS M1143-L and AXIS P3363-VE) only contain conflict-free minerals. In practice, suppliers must report out the entire value chain. This means that the product’s environmental equipped with the ARTPEC-4 system chip. By measuring if product components contain tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold and impact is examined from the design stage and choice of material, to the the energy consumption for various functions, such as pan, also identify all smelters in the value chain that supply the minerals. finished product, including the possibility of recycling all or parts of the tilt, zoom, Lightfinder, infra-red illumination and motion Suppliers are also responsible for ensuring that the report covers their product, which is important information for Axis’ continued environdetection, Axis has gained an insight into how software subcontractors, and for keeping Axis updated. mental work. Between 60 and 80 percent of a network camera’s total and hardware may be advanced in order to create optimal environmental impact relates to energy consumption when the camera Survey of conflict minerals camera settings from an energy standpoint. is used by the end customer, and it is here, combined with design and With the aim of eliminating conflict minerals, Axis has carried out a material choice and logistics flows, that Axis’ environmental work can A network camera is always switched on, and since comprehensive survey where the company has described what minerals result in the greatest improvements. the energy consumption at the end user accounts for are contained in Axis products and where they come from, which is work that is continually ongoing. between 60 and 80 percent of a network camera’s total End of life environmental impact, positive effects may be achieved In the final stage, the camera is dismantled and broken down. Compoby energy-optimizing software and hardware. EnergyMore than 60 percent of Axis’ suppliers have reported via Electronic nents that contain hazardous material are separated manually. Larger optimization thus means that the camera obtains a longer Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), where they have identified if tin, components such as circuit boards are removed, printed circuit boards service life. Through lower energy consumption, the network tantalum, tungsten and gold are found in their products, where they are melted down and metals such as gold are recycled. Aluminium, zinc, camera generates less heat, which means less wear and come from, if they have identified conflict-free sources, if they impose copper, steel and stainless steel are melted down in order to be reused tear on the hardware, while camera performance may be requirements on their subcontractors, and that they have reported how as raw material. Plastics are recycled in order to be reused in plastic enhanced. their internal processes look for handling the conflict mineral issue. In products or to generate energy. one case, a subcontractor of one of Axis’ suppliers has stated that tin came from a smelter in the Democratic Republic of the Congo conflict In the next stage, Axis is planning to develop more functions Axis’ products are covered by the EU’s WEEE Directive (Waste Electhat will enable network cameras to become even more region. Axis has demanded that the supplier use alternative smelters trical and Electronic Equipment), which means that the electronics energy-efficient. for tin, in conflict-free regions. manufacturer/importer has responsibility for ensuring that the product 18 Environmental Responsibility Example of a smaller installation: IR cameras will result in 50 percent less emissions, compared to an A small industrial company uses 12 cameras in order to monitor its equivalent installation featuring analog cameras. premises in an industrial park. Remote control eliminates false alarms and reduces the Energy saving: need for service visits An analog DVR camera system requires 6 external light sources for All Axis’ network cameras are equipped with remote control, which illumination of an area under surveillance for 8 hours per day. Over makes it possible for personnel to investigate each incident remotely 10 years, the energy consumption for lighting alone would total in order to determine if it is a false alarm or a situation that requires 70,080 kwh, a cost item and source of CO2 emissions that could be action. According to statistics from leading security companies, a total completely eliminated by using cameras with Lightfinder technology of 97 percent of all alarms are caused by incidents that do not require an and IR cameras. action, such as a strong wind that shakes a fence or small animal movements. Using remote control, the camera operator can investigate and Example of a large installation: verify each alarm incident before sending out personnel. Axis cameras A municipality uses cameras for surveillance of schools, libraries and are equipped with a speaker function, which also makes it possible for other municipal buildings. The system includes surveillance of 10 the camera operator to communicate directly with a possible intruder. locations in total with 12 cameras in each location. Remote control is also used for camera management and reduces the Greener surveillance with Axis Energy saving: need for physical service visits. Using remote control, the operator can Over 5 years, there are large differences in the total power consumption, conduct troubleshooting, upgrade the camera’s software or change the An important part of Axis’ sustainability strategy is to work on AXIS M3004 have a power consumption of 9 watts, or approximately including the cameras’ power consumption and possible external angle of a misaligned camera without having to visit the installation. technological development of products with the aim of obtaining seven times less than analog cameras. lighting, depending on the type of camera: For larger camera installations, remote management means considermore energy-efficient and environmentally friendly surveillance. The able financial savings and environmental benefits in the form of fewer environmental advantages of Axis’ network cameras compared to Converted into carbon dioxide emissions, electricity consumption from >> 381,410 kwh for analog cameras driving hours and less fuel consumption. analog camera systems may be divided into three main areas – network Axis network cameras generate 85 percent less emissions, compared >> 68,330 kwh for IR cameras cameras are decentralized systems that consume less electricity to an analog camera system. >> 34,160 kwh for cameras with Lightfinder technology Example of a large installation: compared to analog surveillance systems, extra light sensitive cameras Remote control saves one hour driving time in connection with service that can reproduce color images with HDTV quality in darkness, and Cameras that see in darkness eliminate the need for Measured in the quantity of carbon dioxide emissions, the energy visits to 10 installations with 12 cameras each. Over 5 years, remote remote control functions that eliminate unnecessary personnel turnouts external illumination savings in an installation with cameras featuring Lightfinder technolcontrol will deliver savings of about SEK 2 million (calculated in terms and result in fewer service visits. Axis offers cameras that can reproduce high quality images even in ogy will result in 91 percent less emissions and an installation with of fuel costs and hourly rates for personnel). darkness. Consequently, the need is eliminated for external lighting in Between 60 and 80 percent of a camera’s environmental impact comes surveillance of locations with poor lighting. Since Axis’ light-sensitive from electricity consumption. Improved energy efficiency has significant positive consequences for both the user and the environment in the infra-red cameras (IR cameras) and cameras featuring Lightfinder technology offer high-resolution images even in darkness, external Optimized product design form of reduced operating costs, but above all in the form of sharply illumination is not needed, which is cost-efficient in operating terms During 2013, Axis has continued the work on further optimizing the Replacing metal with plastic means that the cameras do not need reduced carbon dioxide emissions. and beneficial from an environmental perspective. External lighting is design of its products. The aim is to combine quality requirements extra components for electromagnetic compatibility and grounding. the largest single cost item in surveillance and power consumption from with holding down manufacturing costs and minimizing the products’ In the optimized design of the AXIS P32 Series, the cameras also Apart from the camera system’s power consumption measured in lighting is what generates the most carbon dioxide emissions. In larger environmental impact. need less screws, nuts, washers and seals. In this project, Axis has terms of carbon dioxide emissions, two other important parameters systems, the energy savings from cameras that can see in darkness will been able to reduce the number of camera parts by approximately 30 for measuring the environmental impact are the need for external be even more sizable. In the company’s AXIS P32 project, Axis has developed a new series percent compared to similar camera models while retaining illumination of areas under surveillance and related power consumption of network cameras, the AXIS P32 Series. The cameras, which include technological functionality. This together with the use as well as the number of service visits and personnel turnouts caused both outdoor and indoor models, are designed to meet highly imposed of plastic instead of metal has made the camera more by false alarms. demands in terms of quality and cost, while at the same time they are than 40 percent lighter compared to similar outdoor easy to install and use. cameras, which means that the environmental More energy efficient cameras are leading to reduced impact has been reduced in connection with CO2 emissions The AXIS P32 design has resulted in both reduced environmental impact transporting products. Unlike analog cameras, which are connected to a DVR server, Axis and lower production cost. The cameras’ external chassis is made of a network cameras do not need a server, and therefore consume less specially selected plastic instead of aluminium or zinc, which are the A lower number of parts and a greater electricity since they make up a decentralized system, which is accesmaterials normally used in outdoor cameras. In order to meet high proportion of plastic means that the sible via the Internet. Many Axis cameras are also equipped with Powertemperature requirements, Axis uses heat-resistant components, and AXIS P32 cameras require less energy over-Ethernet (PoE), which is an energy efficient solution, allowing the the sensors in the AXIS P32 cameras are especially heat-resistant. during manufacturing. For example, these cameras to obtain their own power supply through the network cable. The choice of components and the robust plastic material have made cameras have considerably reduced the need for it possible to choose a plastic chassis instead of a metal one, which is environmentally-impacting and health-damaging Example, power consumption after 5 years at an normally required in order to conduct heat away and make the camera finishing, such as chromating and powder coating of installation consisting of 8 cameras: shock resistant. camera parts. Analog cameras, which are connected to a standard DVR server have a power consumption of 60 watts. Axis network cameras, such as the 20 Environmental Responsibility Environmental Responsibility 21 A reduced climate footprint business trips have slightly decreased, from 3.2 kg CO2 to 3.1 kg CO2 as a result of taken initiatives towards more efficient energy usage. Since 2011, Axis has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions per tonkilometer by 3 percent. Some of Axis’ transport partners offer carbon dioxide-neutral transports, and in 2013 Axis’ climate compensation Axis works actively to reduce the direct and indirect climate footprint During 2013, freight transportation accounted for 74 percent of was 528 tons CO2. Axis’ is working continually on improving the efof its operations. This includes more efficient logistics flows as well Axis’ total greenhouse gas emissions, and is thus the largest single ficiency of its logistics flows. Read more about transports on page 25. as responsible water consumption and energy usage. Axis is also conducting comprehensive survey work with the aim of examining emissions item. About one third of these emissions are generated by how the company can further reduce its climate footprint. transports from contract manufacturers to Axis’ configuration and Manufacturing logistics centers. Deliveries from Axis’ configuration and logistics cenAxis currently collaborates with 6 contract manufacturers and more Axis’ climate footprint ters to distributors accounted for 29 percent of the greenhouse gases than 100 strategic component suppliers. Contract manufacturers in Axis works continually on improving its climate footprint. Axis’ fourth relating to freight transportation. Axis has conducted a comprehenChina, Mexico, Poland, Thailand, Slovakia and South Korea produce Carbon Footprint Report was completed in February 2014. The primasive survey in order to investigate how the company can reduce the Axis’ printed circuit boards and assemble complete products. ry aim of Axis’ Carbon Footprint Report is to describe Axis’ emissions environmental impact of freight transportation, and Axis has initiated The strategic component suppliers are found all over the world. of greenhouse gases in order to identify how the company can reduce a number of measures. These measures include initiating cooperation Manufacturing processes such as compression moulding/pressure the greenhouse gas emissions of its operations. Axis has also analyzed with an additional manufacturer in Malaysia and moving some purcasting, injection moulding of plastic and finishing require the use of the company’s environmental impact in accordance with Sweden’s chasing to contract manufacturers in Europe (Read more on page 25, energy, water and chemicals and generate emissions to air and water. Environmental Quality Objectives. Smarter transports and more efficient logistics flows). Where production takes place, there is a risk of pollution and waste of resources, and there are also working environment-related risks Data for Axis’ Carbon Footprint Report has been obtained from Axis’ Business trips are the second largest source of greenhouse gases, and associated with the handling of hazardous chemicals. headquarters in Lund, from the company’s regional offices and from account for 16 percent of total emissions. However, Axis is working Axis’ configuration and logistics center in Lund. to reduce business trips, which are connected to sales activities and Axis works close to its suppliers that must comply with Axis’ Supthe ambition to be close to our customers. Considerable efforts have plier Code of Conduct. This includes requirements that suppliers must The standard used in calculating Axis’ climate footprint is the been made to limit travel for Axis employees and for our distributors control energy usage, emissions, handling of chemicals and waste, and international standard — the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, developed through web seminars and online training. that they have well-functioning water and air purification systems. by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Axis conducts training and regularly audits its suppliers in order to Sustainable Development. During 2013, online meetings were conducted for more than 28,000 ensure that they comply with the company’s requirements. Read more participants all over the world, which eliminated a large number of about supplier audits on page 28. According to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a company is responsible business trips for both Axis employees and for people employed by for the emissions that come from the operations over which the compartners. Further measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions will be Water consumption pany has control. This control may either be measured in financial or taken during 2014. Water consumption data is gathered from Axis in Lund, where apin operational terms. The result of the analysis is affected by how a proximately 1,200 of Axis’ employees are based. Axis’ facilities use the company sets the terms of reference, which needs to be taken into Ton CO2e per Sales kg CO2e per employee municipal water supply, which is supplied by Lund Municipality. The account when considering Axis’ results. 5 5 5 5 water extraction sources are not designated as protected areas and have no value in terms of biological diversity. Axis does not use any 4 4 4 4 During 2013, Axis continued to work on reducing the emissions of process water but only water for cleaning, toilets, for drinking etc., tCO2e per SEK 100 M kgCO2e per employee greenhouse gases related to the company’s operations. Outward 3 3 3 3 and thus no water recycling takes place. The quantity of water used freight transportation is the single largest source of carbon dioxide by the employees in Lund in 2013 decreased compared to 2012. Water 2 2 2 2 consumption per employee has decreased by 12 percent compared emissions. Axis has had an action plan in order to reduce these carbon dioxide emissions since 2009. to 2012. The decrease may be explained by increased environmental 1 1 1 1 awareness among employees. During 2013, Axis’ carbon dioxide emissions increased from 13,7324 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Water consumption per employee to 18,829 tons CO2, which represented an increase of 37 percent. tCO 2e per 3,05 3,28 3,99 kgCO 2e 2,8 3,2 3,1 25,0 SEK 100 M The increase was partly explained by an extension of the report’s scope, where few more regional offices are reporting carbon dioxide emissions (regional offices in the Middle East and Eastern Europe Logistics and transports 20,0 have been added) and by the fact that the number of transports to Axis sells its products via an indirect sales model, where the company m3 per employee 15,0 and from Axis’ configuration and logistics centers has increased. In sales are made to distributors, that in turn sell to system integrators addition, new guidelines from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, including and resellers, that sell to the end customer. Axis has a total of 65,000 10,0 requirements for detailed data, have implied improved method of partners in 179 countries. calculating emissions, which has also contributed to the increase. Axis’ 5,0 emissions also increased due to the fact that the company displayed Axis chooses suppliers as close to each market as possible and uses strong growth with new 224 people hired during 2013. Increased sales ship and road transportation as much as possible instead of air 0,0 and procurement of larger and additional premises also contributed. freight. Climate-compensated air freight is used for individual product 2010 2011 2012 2013 CLC 10,0 9,4 11,0 12,0 Carbon dioxide emissions relative to sales have increased by 3.28 deliveries. HQ 11,0 9,0 12,0 8,0 tons CO2 to 3.99 tons CO2 per SEK 100 M (see diagram on next page). The emissions generated by employees relating to energy usage and Axis has an overriding goal of reducing its total carbon dioxide emissions per ton-kilometer by 20 percent by 2016, compared to 2011. 4 An error was found in the calculation for 2012 and the figure has been corrected from 14,072 CO2e to 13,732 CO2e. Environmental Responsibility 23 Chemicals and waste Material Smarter transports and more efficient logistics flows Waste from Axis in Lund is collected by the Lund public cleansing serEnvironmental impacts and consumption of material in Axis’ own vice, which is responsible for waste management in Lund Municipality. operations are primarily related to use of office supplies. Axis has a During 2013, Axis continued to work actively on reducing its climate to significantly reduce air freight from Malaysia to Europe and the US, All waste management occurs in accordance with national legislation. goal of reducing its use of photocopying paper per employee in Lund. footprint in connection with transports and to improve the efficiency and reach its target of reducing total carbon dioxide emissions per The volume of non-toxic waste has increased somewhat, from 176 of logistics flows. Axis chooses suppliers that are based as close to each ton-kilometer by 20 percent by 2016. tons in 2012 to 177 tons in 2013. The increase was due to the comIn 2013, each employee used 4.3 kg of photocopying paper per year market as possible, and uses ship and road transportation as much as pany’s growth, an expansion of premises and more employees. Of the (5.7). The decrease was partly the result of increased environmental possible instead of air freight. Measured in percentage terms, the share of inbound air transports has non-toxic waste, 54.7 percent was recycled, 44.6 percent was burned awareness on account of the environmental training conducted during increased from 26 percent in 2012 to 43 percent in 2013. Since carbon and 0.7 percent went to landfill. 2013, and partly due to double-sided printing becoming a standard Axis prioritizes sea transport from suppliers to configuration and lodioxide emissions from air transport are much larger than from ship setting in all printers. gistics centers around the world, while air and land transportation is and truck transports, the increase has had a significant effect on Axis’ The non-toxic waste from Axis mainly consists of domestic waste. The used for transportation of Axis’ products to distributors and resellers. results for 2013 in respect of carbon dioxide emissions. non-toxic waste from configuration and logistics centers mainly conEnergy consumption Climate-compensated courier transport services are used for individual sists of corrugated cardboard. The toxic waste consists of office elecAxis has an overall goal of reducing power consumption not only product deliveries. Closer to the market tronics, batteries and light bulbs. The toxic waste increased slightly locally in Lund where most employees are based, but also globally. Axis uses suppliers that are based as close to the market as possible in during 2013, to 7 tons in 2013, on account of the company’s growth. During 2013, guidelines for efficient energy usage were introduced Continued reduced climate impact order to streamline logistics flows. Cooperation with two new contract Of these 7 tons, 90 percent was recycled, 9 percent was burned and 1 for regional offices in order to ensure efficient use of energy. The total Axis has an overriding goal of reducing the total carbon dioxide emismanufacturers – one supplier in China and one supplier in Mexico – was percent went to landfill.5 energy usage at regional offices (Brazil, USA, Northern Asia, Southern sions per ton-kilometer by 20 percent by 2016, compared to 2011. initiated in 2012 and has resulted in shorter transport routes to the Asia, Southern Europe, the UK, Germany and the Netherlands) has After two years, Axis has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions per Chinese market and to the US market, which is a key region for Axis. Axis is a company with a high growth rate and is working continually decreased by 10 percent compared to 2012. ton-kilometer by 3 percent, which is a slightly lower reduction than to reduce its volume of waste by continuing to boost environmental expected. New configuration centers in the US and China awareness among employees and by improving its resource manageAxis Communications’ facilities in Lund, where 76 percent of all Axis’ goal is that the company’s products should be configured as close ment. employees are based, receive electricity from external companies Axis has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions considerably in outbound to the final destination as possible. During 2013, Axis opened two new and the energy mix varies depending on the location: Emdalavägen, transports, in other words transports from configuration and logistics configuration and logistics centers: in Suzhou, China and in Memphis, Scheelevägen or Maskinvägen. The energy consumption from the centers to distributors, whereas carbon dioxide emissions from inbound USA. The increased capacity makes it possible for Axis to receive larger Toxic waste facilities in Lund is included in the Carbon Footprint Report. The total transports, in other words transports from contract manufacturers to volumes. Increased capacity in the US market and establishment of a 18 energy usage at the headquarters in Lund has decreased by 29 percent 16 Axis’ configuration and logistics centers, have increased. configuration and logistics center in the Chinese market means defrom 2012 to 2013, as a consequence of investments carried out in 14 creased delivery costs, shorter transport distances and delivery times 12 2012 and increased environmental awareness. Since Axis leases its Carbon dioxide emissions from outbound transports have decreased to distributors, and that less carbon dioxide emissions are generated 10 premises, larger investments to reduce energy consumption can only Ton from 531 to 501g CO2 per ton-kilometer and carbon dioxide emissions from product transports. In the case of China, this also means shorter 8 be made on the initiative of the landlord. Axis has continued to replace 6 from inbound transports have increased from 115 to 253g CO2 per transports from contract manufacturers to Axis’ configuration and traditional lighting with LED lighting and motion detectors have been 4 ton-kilometer. The increase was due to transports of heavy material logistics centers, since several of the company’s suppliers are based 2 installed in several places in the premises. In order to further reduce that Axis buys from Malaysia. To meet demand from customers, Axis in the region. 0 energy consumption at premises, employees are encouraged to always 2013 2012 2011 2010 has needed to use air freight from Malaysia. Series2 7,1 5 14 16 switch off the light after use, and also turn off screens and computers. Reduced packaging Axis has now temporarily increased inventory levels in order to be able Axis is continuing to optimize and reduce the size of its product packagBiological diversity Non toxic waste to use sea transport to a greater extent. To boost capacity, Axis is also ing, which is generating a positive effect on the environmental impact Axis neither owns, leases nor manages land. Neither has the company 180 initiating collaboration with an additional manufacturer in Malaysia, of transports. Read more on page 17. any operations in places identified as protected areas with a high 175 and is moving part of its purchasing to existing contract manufacturers 170 value in terms of biological diversity, nor any operations located in Europe. This has also resulted in shorter lead times to the European 165 nearby protected areas. and American markets. With these measures, Axis expects to be able Ton 160 155 Non-compliance 150 Axis has not received any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions 145 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Axis’ products are sold via an indirect distribution model. Sales 140 2013 2012 2011 2010 take place to distributors that sell the products on to Axis resellers Series2 177 175,9 155,7 174,5 and system integrators, that in turn sell to the end users. Axis has approximately 65,000 partners in 179 countries. Axis’ Configuration and Logistics Centers represent the heart of the company’s logistics flow and are found in Sweden, the Czech Republic, Hungary and the US, and also in China since 2013. The products are transported in bulk from the contract manufacturers to the configuration and logistics centers. The products are completed and software as well as other accessories are added, and they are subsequently packaged and transported to Axis’ distributors. 5 Source: Stena Metal Environmental Responsibility 25 Business Conduct Axis’ business model is based on long-term relationships with partners. Business relations should be handled in a responsible, transparent, credible and consistent way. As global market leader, Axis aims to drive the shift towards innovative and intelligent security solutions together with partners, and also to act as a standard-bearer when it comes to business ethics. employees should act in their own operating environments and how Axis has an indirect sales model and therefore does not have an insight they should handle business relationships with partners as well as other into all projects. This indirect business model means that a large part Business ethics in all stages stakeholders. The Code of Conduct establishes how employees should of the responsibility for production, distribution and installation of deal with issues in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment Axis’ products rests with the company’s partners, in other words supAxis has a transparent corporate culture and all of the company’s Employee anti-corruption program and anti-corruption. The Code of Conduct is based on the UN’s Global pliers, distributors, resellers and system integrators. Axis thus informs business relationships are characterized by an ethical approach. Axis Axis’ employees throughout the world have participated in a training Compact framework for business ethics, which Axis joined in 2007, its partners carefully about the company’s view of sustainability and complies with the guidelines from the UN’s Global Compact as well as program and also signed an agreement where they confirm that they the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the International about Axis’ Code of Conduct. export control regulations. In addition, Axis has a business ethics policy have understood and will comply with Axis’ anti-corruption policy. The Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights with guidelines for how Axis’ business relationships shall be conducted, aim has been to learn the rules and regulations and Axis’ values, and at Work. In 2013, a Global Customer Satisfaction Survey was conducted by Axis. a business ethics council that takes decisions on ethical issues, as well also to be able to use and practice these values in everyday situations. The survey was sent out to customers in 41 countries. The overall survey as an export control policy. The initiative was taken by people in Axis’ sales company who wanted Loyal and long-term relationships with partners results shows that 80 percent of Axis’ partners are highly satisfied with to have clearer support and guidelines in everyday commercial situAxis is the market leader in network video, and has a global presence sales channels, an increase with 6 percent compared to 2010, when the Zero tolerance against corruption ations, which can sometimes be difficult to manage. Now it has been thanks to a well-structured partnership program with 65,000 partlast survey was conducted. Product quality, the range of Axis services Axis has zero tolerance against corruption, and as market leader the made even clearer that the employees have the management’s support ners in 179 countries. Together with its partners, Axis has the world’s and Axis people are highly valued by a large majority of respondents company works proactively to prevent and counter corruption in the in declining business that does not feel right. largest base of installed network video products and solutions. Axis’ and drive their satisfaction. entire industry. In 2013, Axis conducted a number of initiatives with relationships with partners are long-term, and the company provides the aim of further improving its work in relation to business ethics. Axis has just over 1,600 employees in over 40 countries, and 98 its partners with knowledge, skills and innovative products in existing Supplier Code of Conduct One measure was to develop a program targeted towards employees percent of employees at the headquarters in Lund and 100 percent of and new markets. Axis works with a number of carefully selected strategic suppliers and and distributors with the aim of countering corruption, bribes and employees at other offices in the world have completed the training subcontractors. Apart from price, the selection criteria also include conflicts of interest. and have signed the policy. Employees must sign a binding document Axis has several programs for its relationships with partners such as quality, ethics and flexibility. All suppliers must sign and comply with on an annual basis. the Application Development Partner program, the Channel Partner Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, which established business ethics In 2013, Axis also introduced a whistleblower function. This consists program, the Architecture & Engineering program and the Technology requirements in respect of environmental considerations, working of an e-mail address to which employees can send an e-mail if they Supplement to the distributor agreement Partner program. In the framework for Axis Communications Academy, environment and safety, among other areas. Axis continually audits its discover or suspect something improper. Employees can also use it to Axis’ more than 100 distributors have undertaken to comply with more than 35,000 people have participated in training since 2005 in suppliers to obtain assurance that they comply with these requirements. ask questions about how they should handle specific situations. The Axis’ zero tolerance against corruption by signing an addendum to the the advantages of network video. This includes factory inspections as well as interviews with management e-mail address goes to a group of people, including representatives distributor agreement, where they commit to complying with applicable and workers. Read more about supplier audits on page 28. from the company management. legislation against corruption and bribes. Anti-corruption program Axis also informs other partners about its anti-corruption work. Axis Axis’ anti-corruption program is directed towards all employees and disinforms its partners at partner conferences as well as via newsletters tributors and includes a new anti-corruption policy, a training program that are sent to all partners. Resellers Axis for all employees and a supplementary agreement for all distributors. The program is an important part of Axis’ proactive and long-term Code of Conduct for all business relationships Sub-suppliers General CLCs End users sustainability work and is a way to fight all types of corruption, and also manufacturers Distributors All employees are expected to act in accordance with Axis’ Code of helps to clarify Axis’ approach both internally and externally. Conduct. The Code of Conduct is Axis’ set of rules governing how System integrators 26 Business Conduct Business Conduct 27 Clearer guidelines for zero tolerance against corruption During the year, Axis carried out an anti-corruption program directed towards distributors and ments, environmental management system such as identification of Chemical management, working environment and employees. The program was positively received in all markets, both by distributors, that signed environmental aspects and establishment of relevant environmental environmental management systems in focus an addendum to the distributor agreement, and by employees, who participated in training and targets. The second webinar focuses on Axis’ requirements in relation Every time Axis begins collaboration with a new supplier, Axis’ quality signed an agreement in which they undertake to comply with Axis’ anti-corruption policy. Anna to content of products, such as the importance of material declarations, and environmental engineers visit the factory with a local representative Forsberg, Regional Director Eastern Europe, Axis Communications, believes that the company’s reporting of material content, what laws suppliers shall follow etc. The if there is one. The inspection visits usually take one or two days. position has now become even clearer when it comes to zero tolerance against corruption. webinars were launched during 2014, and the aim is that all suppliers should participate in the webinars during the year. Among other things, Axis audits the supplier’s production process “Corruption is a reality in many places, particularly in emerging markets. Axis’ indirect sales from acceptance tests to final delivery, inspects the factory’s model means that we are usually far from the point when the transaction is agreed with the end Axis also organizes supplier conferences in order to create a shared view environmental impact and working conditions including the physical customer, and for this reason we are not so directly exposed to the problem. But it is extremely of future opportunities and challenges in collaboration with suppliers. working environment, working hours and working routines, as well as important that our personnel pay attention to the risk and that we have a process in place to In May 2013, a three-day conference was held where 35 of Axis’ most chemical management. Axis examines fire safety, measurements of handle the situation if suspected irregularities in any transaction should arise.” important suppliers participated. At the conference, Axis reviewed its emissions and noise levels, and reviews processes to ensure that the sustainability requirements for existing and future suppliers. Further operations are conducted ethically. In conjunction with the audit, Axis’ What needs did the anti-corruption program identify? training initiatives are concurrently underway. environmental and quality engineers conduct interviews with both “There was a need for documented global guidelines, even though a lot of the progam’s contents may seem obvious to large parts of the orgamanagement and workers. nization. Our employees should have absolutely no doubt that we have a policy of zero tolerance against all types of bribes and corruption. As Axis has also drawn up new General Instructions for its suppliers of market leader, we should take the lead in terms of taking responsibility and we should serve as an example, both for our customers and for our components. The new instructions clarify requirements in the areas of The supplier audits also cover the possible existence of forced or competitors.” environment, corporate social responsibility, safety and quality. compulsory labor. Axis has identified Malaysia as a country where there is a higher risk of compulsory labor, due to the fact that there How have your customers, distributors reacted to your clearer guidelines? In addition, a new requirement was also added to the Supplier Code are a lot of migrant workers. As regards child labor, Axis so far has not “Our customers have generally welcomed this initiative and view it a further aspect of Axis’ leadership in the market. Our distributors range from of Conduct in relation to conflict minerals. Read more about conflict identified or encountered any operations in the supply chain where risk global companies to small local companies and they are working systematically themselves with this question to a varying degree.” minerals on page 18. of child labor exists. How have your employees reacted to the program? Axis has 185 current suppliers (2013). Since Axis introduced its Supplier The suppliers are classified and awarded points based on parameters “Very well. Axis has a high growth rate and has hired many new employees. Even though Axis managers were in agreement on how the company Code of Conduct in 2011, the company’s environmental and quality and risk level according to country, industry and size. Axis subsequently should act against corruption, there was a need for common guidelines and for active efforts in relation to the issue, as well as for clarification engineers have carried out audits of 111 suppliers in total, of which conducts regular repeat visits and follows up on previous audits. about how employees should act in various situations that can arise.” 39 were in China, 31 were in the rest of Asia, 37 were in Europe and 4 were in North and Central America. If there are deficiencies at a supplier, the parties involved will together What are the greatest benefits of the anti-corruption program? draw up an action plan, which is followed up within a certain time “The company has noticed that the corruption problem exists, and has given the employees rules for how they should act, while Axis has clariThe suppliers that have not been audited are European and American period. If measures are not taken, Axis can discontinue cooperation fied its position to the distributors. We maintain a very high standard of ethics in all our business relationships, and we are continuing to work suppliers of printing material and cardboard, larger electronics and with the supplier. actively with these questions. We work according to our values in our daily contacts with customers and suppliers, which means that we combat accessories suppliers such as Sony, Panasonic and Hitachi as well as all forms of corruption.” agents and distributors of electronics components. Suppliers that are being phased out have not been audited either. Supplier audits Axis has close and long-term relationships with its suppliers and has Increased shared view and clearer requirements a careful process for choosing what suppliers to work with. All supDuring 2013, Axis carried out a number of measures in order to further pliers comply with Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, which establishes improve the sustainability work among manufacturers of the company’s business ethics standards in accordance with the UN Global Compact’s products. These measures are also aimed at creating an even better ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and shared view on sustainability issues between Axis and its suppliers. anti-corruption. An important measure has been increased training of suppliers, inAs global market leader, Axis has a great influence on the network cluding two webinars. One webinar covers the requirements that Axis products industry, and the company works actively to ensure that all imposes on suppliers, which includes comprehensive training about Axis’ products are manufactured in a long-term sustainable way. sustainability work, Supplier Code of Conduct, chemical management requirements, good working conditions and safe working environ28 Business Conduct Business Conduct 29 Taking long-term social responsibility Social responsibility is a cornerstone of Axis’ sustainability work, and Axis’ intelligent security solutions enable a smarter and safer world. As global market leader with a high standard of ethics, Axis is an example for the entire surveillance industry and has a considerable influence on many people’s lives. Axis takes long-term social responsibility for how its operations impact employees, shareholders, partners, suppliers, end users, the public and other important target groups. The company’s social responsibility also includes corporate social responsibility where Axis contributes to charity and sponsors local as well as global initiatives. Axis in society With Axis’ products and solutions, countries and companies can provide Holiday gifts to customers and presents during other festivals include Pensioner assistance, sports events and security for their citizens as well as their employees and customers. donations to Mission 500 for example. In the US, Axis also supports the local charity initiatives Surveillance cameras contribute to preventing crime and help to clear event ‘Build-a-Bike’ where bicycles are built for children. Axis also sponsors sports events and local charitable up crime to a greater extent. Social responsibility is an important part organizations, sports associations and projects. of Axis’ sustainability work and Axis contributes to charity and also Support for training, research and protection of wildlife sponsors projects and organizations at both a local and a global level. For Axis, sharing knowledge and providing support for training are In North America, Axis supports the international chariimportant ways to contribute to social progress. table organization Habitat for Humanity and arranges a Increased security and better quality of life for children Social Responsibility Day where employees can perform During the year, Axis carried out a number of sponsoring initiatives One initiative included the support provided to the Catholic girls’ school voluntary work for a full day during working hours. targeted towards children and young people. Hekima in Tanzania. During 2013, Axis mainly conducted preparatory work, and the first Axis employees traveled to Hekima in early 2014. Sports events sponsored by Axis include the baseball One project during 2013 was Axis SafeKids for Rodem Community Child Axis has donated new technology, purchased locally, built a completely tournament ‘Little League World Series’ in the US, the center and SAM Community Child center in South Korea, which Axis new classroom with computers intended for IT and technical training, 10-kilometer run Lundaloppet in Sweden, a marathon carried out together with the Korea Association of the Community Child and also trained local employees in IT and technology. In addition, Axis race, a cycle race, a horse race and golf tournaments center. Both centers needed to improve child security and safety. Axis upgraded and verified the IT infrastructure, installed computers and in various countries. In Central Europe, Axis provides has donated surveillance solutions including installation and service implemented better technological solutions and also secured the daysupport to an organization that offers assistance to to the two child centers. to-day IT operation. Axis has also established a relationship between pensioners. the school and a local reseller in order to secure additional long-term SAM Community Child center is located on a back street, and after dark IT support. All Axis employees in Sweden have the opportunity to apply Personal integrity the street becomes a haunt for criminals. Since the leaders’ office is to participate in the long-term voluntary efforts. Surveillance cameras help to prevent and solve crimes. situated on the second floor, staff found it difficult to supervise children Axis’ cameras represent one part of a security system, when they were outdoors. Rodem Community Child center in turn is In a number of European countries, Axis has donated network cameras and Axis’ position is that surveillance cameras in themlocated on a very busy street corner, which entails a risk of traffic to universities, colleges and research centers. In Sweden, Axis also selves cannot violate personal integrity. accidents. Break-ins were also a regular occurrence. sponsors the university project “Flickor på Teknis”, which aims to encourage girls to study technological training programs at Lund Institute The end users are responsible for how surveillance In the case of both centers, Axis’ surveillance cameras resulted in of Technology and “Problemlösarna”, which is targeted towards senior cameras are used and how data is stored, which are the improved safety and security for the children. level classes with the aim of encouraging pupils to study technology. two most important aspects of integrity. Axis informs all Furthermore, Axis supports the global non-profit network CoderDojo, parties in order to ensure as far as possible that the soluIn the US, Axis is one of the main sponsors of the non-profit organizawhere children and young people learn how to program. tions are used in a proper way, and that data is protected tion Mission 500’s charity run and walk, which takes place during the and stored securely. In addition, technological innovation international security conference and exposition ISC West in Las Vegas. Axis also sponsors projects that aim to preserve unique animal life, and compliance with national and international regulaMission 500 helps poor and vulnerable children and families in crisis. including an initiative to protect rare birds in Italy. tions help to reduce the risk that cameras may be used in an improper way. 30 Social Responsibility Axis as a workplace Axis’ dedicated employees provide the foundation for All new employees participate in an introductory course Axis’ successful growth. For the purpose of attracting at the headquarters in Lund, which varies in length and retaining employees, Axis works actively with its between one and three days depending on whether the corporate culture, which is characterized by an entreperson is employed in Lund or if he/she comes to Lund preneurial spirit, innovation, openness and development. from another office (then the course is three days long). Today Axis has 1,627 (1,403) employees in more than The aim is that all new employees should get to know 40 countries, which corresponds to an increase of apthe company and the corporate culture and also get proximately 16 percent during 2013. acquainted with Axis’ core values while the management gets to know the new employees. In the introductory Although Axis has many new employees, as a consecourse, new employees are also informed about Axis’ quence of a high growth rate, many employees still Code of Conduct. Information regarding sustainability recognize the unique corporate culture, which is perand how Axis takes long-term responsibility in sustainvaded by entrepreneurship and innovation, openness, ability questions is included in all local introductory cooperation and commitment, as well as development programs starting from 2014. opportunities for employees. Axis’ Code of Conduct Axis’ personnel are the company’s foremost asset, and Axis’ Code of Conduct constitutes the basis for Axis’ Axis is careful to pursue long-term relationships with corporate social responsibility and values. The Code of Core Values Workshops its employees and ensures that they are in focus. The Conduct is Axis’ set of rules governing how employees success of this approach is demonstrated through the should act in their own operating environments and how An example of how Axis works with its core values – Think big, Act “The workshop was partly presented as a game, yet it was very profeslow employee turnover, which amounted to 5.8 percent, they should handle business relationships with partners as one and Always open is its Core Values workshops. Core Values sional. The teams were very well balanced and we had managers and compared to 5.5 percent in 2012. Absence due to illness as well as other target groups. The Code of Conduct workshops have been conducted for employees at Axis offices all over HR personnel who guided us.” is low at 2.2 percent. establishes how employees should deal with issues in the world during 2013. By exchanging ideas and the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and perspectives, employees gained the opportunity Convertino believes that the workshop was a good Recruitment anti-corruption. to put into concrete form what Axis’ core values and effective reminder of Axis’ core values, set in Careful recruitment in all markets is extremely important and corporate culture mean for their work. context with possible scenarios. She continues to for Axis’ continued rapid growth rate and for the comThe Code of Conduct is based on the UN’s Global Comapply the core values in her daily work: pany’s global market leading position in the longer term. pact framework for business ethics (which Axis joined in During the workshops, employees discussed vari2007), the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ous issues, based on situations that can arise in “When we do events and marketing activities, we As part of its strategy to promote future hiring in Sweden, and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration the working day, related to Axis’ operations and always aim to be one step ahead.” Axis maintains close cooperation with universities and on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. corporate culture. The workshops were partly colleges. Axis supports and contributes to research arranged as a game with questions relating “We are open and listen to our colleagues so that projects at both Lund University and at other colleges Axis’ Code of Conduct prescribes that the company shall to facts and values in different scenarios. The everyone’s ideas can be utilized.” in Sweden. advocate diversity and not support or contribute to participants faced potential dilemmas and were discrimination as regards recruitment, salary, access to given a number of different alternative answers “We work in cross-borders teams involving variAxis participates in several initiatives directed towards training, promotion or termination of employment as a as a basis for discussion. ous departments, and we strive to work together students, in order to encourage them to apply for consequence of ethnic or national origin, caste, religion, to reach our shared goals and create the best admission to technical education programs: “Flickor gender, age, sexual orientation, physical ability, trade Rosalba Convertino, Regional Marketing Specialist possible solutions for our customers and partners.” på Teknis”, where female engineers are interviewed in union affiliation or political opinion. at Axis, was very satisfied with the workshop she participated in: order to inspire girls, “Problemlösarna” and “Transfer”. In the Transfer project, Axis’ engineers visit senior level students to lecture about technology and describe what it is like to work as an engineer. Axis also has policies that concern the use of drugs and alcohol, IP@Axis (International Projects at Axis) is a global program for discrimination, equality, harassment, and working environment, which exchange of knowledge and aims to strengthen the corporate culture are applied at all Axis offices. and develop employees, and also to boost networking among employees. Corporate culture Training and zero-tolerance against Axis’ employees are open, dedicated and collaborative. The corporate corruption culture is characterized by openness, innovation and an entrepreneurial Axis has zero-tolerance against corruption. As part of Axis’ long-term spirit as well as development. sustainability work, company employees in more than 40 countries participated in a training program during 2013 and also signed an agreeThe strong corporate culture as well as dedicated and skilled employees ment confirming that they have understood and will comply with Axis’ are important factors behind Axis’ success and a requirement for Axis anti-corruption policy. 98 percent of employees at the headquarters in to maintain continued rapid global growth. Axis is therefore investing Lund and 100 percent of employees at other offices in the world have considerable resources in implementing and advancing the corporate completed the training and signed the policy. The aim has been to learn culture, and in creating an attractive and interesting working environthe rules and regulations and Axis’ values, and also to be able to use ment for all employees. and practice these in everyday situations. Core values Remuneration and benefits The corporate culture is built on the company’s core values Act as one, Axis aims to offer all employees competitive salaries, and the company Always open and Think big. Axis’ core values were drawn up in 2007 operates a bonus program. Terms and conditions are generally handled through a comprehensive initiative where all employees were asked on an general basis. All employees in Sweden are covered by a collecto define Axis’ corporate culture. The result was a firmly established tive agreement (Teknikavtalet between Teknikarbetsgivarna/Unionen/ democratic value system in the corporate culture, which characterizes Sveriges Ingenjörer/Ledarna or IF Metall). On a global basis, 67 percent the entire operations. For the purpose of implementing the core values, of the group’s employees are covered by equivalent agreements. Axis has conducted workshops with the employees, among other initiatives (see article below). All employees have annual salary reviews. All employees shall also have a career development review involving an appraisal of the work Openness and diversity contribution during the year and a discussion about future developOpenness and diversity are important and natural elements in Axis’ ment opportunities. 97 percent of all employees participated in a career corporate culture, the company’s ambition is that it is just as easy for development review during 2013. women as for men to make a career at Axis, regardless of background. The percentage of women in Axis’ management is just over 22 percent, Axis in figures and the percentage of female employees in total amounts to 27 (27) Personnel: 27percent (27) women and 73 percent (73) men percent. Employee turnover: 5.8 percent (5.5) Absence due to illness in Sweden: 2.2 percent (2.2) As a part of its efforts to raise the profile of women and boost equalDiscrimination cases: 0 ity, Axis will start a female network during 2014, initially in Sweden. Workplace accidents: 4 Workplace accidents with fatal outcome: 0 Training Average age, years: 38 (38) IP@Axis Axis pursues a number of initiatives in order to further develop its IP@Axis (International Projects at Axis) is a knowledge-exchange program aimed at strengthening the corporate culture, Employees with university degree: 80 percent employees. In the IPNL leadership program (Internal Program for New developing personnel and increasing networking among employees. The program means that employees can gain the opportunity The composition of the management team: 2 women and 7 men Leaders), new and potential future leaders participate in a 10-month to work on fixed-term projects at an Axis office somewhere else in the world. The composition of the Board of Directors: 1 woman and 5 men training program. IP@Axis was introduced during 2013, and so far this year, two people have participated in the international exchange program. In 2013, Axis started a new leadership program that all Swedish The aim is that many employees will get the opportunity to participate each year. managers shall complete. In Sweden, 18 managers also completed working environment training during the year. The Southern Europe For the person who goes away, it is a way to develop personally and gain new experiences, become acquainted with another region has carried out training relating to ergonomics and safety at culture, see a different part of the world and get a new perspective, while sharing his/her competencies. all offices. 34 Social Responsibility GRI references Axis’ Sustainability Report 2013 follows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines level C. The following index shows where in the report and in the Annual Report 2013 (AR) – Corporate Governance Report – the information can be found. Only the GRI core indicators, and the additional indicators Axis has opted to report, are listed. GRI requirement GRI requirement Indicator Description UNGC Indicator Description UNGC PROFILE 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Economic performance CORE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 1. Strategy & analysis 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. Core EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with 1.1 Statement from President and CEO Ray Mauritsson. 4.2 Chairman’s position. Market presence environmental laws and regulations. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are CORE EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 6 ADD EN29 Environmental impact of transports. 8 2. Organizational profile independent and/or non-executive members. management hired from the local community. Labor practices and decent work performance indicators 2.1 Name of the organization. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Environmental performance indicators CORE LA1 Total workforce. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. CORE EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8 CORE LA2 Employee turnover. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest CORE EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 8 CORE LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. governance body, senior managers, and executives, and the CORE EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 8 bargaining agreements. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. organization’s performance. CORE EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 8–9 CORE LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure improvements. changes. 2.7 Markets served. conflicts of interest are avoided. ADD EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 8–9 CORE LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the energy based products and services, and reductions in days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated members of the highest governance body. energy requirements. fatalities by region. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 8–9 CORE LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee. 3. Report scope and boundary conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and reductions achieved. ADD LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. social performance and the status of their implementation. CORE EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 8 ADD LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing ADD EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 8 performance and career development reviews. 3.3 Reporting cycle. sustainability performance. of water. CORE LA13 Composition of the Board, management and employ1, 6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and ees per category (gender, age group, minority group). 3.5 Process for defining report content, including own performance, particularly with respect to economic, reused. Human rights performance indicators 3.6 Boundary of the report. environmental and social performance. Core EN11 Land owned, leased, managed in protected areas and CORE HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or areas of high biodiversity value. that have undergone screening on human rights and report. principle is addressed by the organization. Core EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, actions taken. 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly affect com4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charproducts, and services on biodiversity in CORE HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for 1, 2, 5 parability from period to period and/or between organizations. ters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization protected areas and areas of high biodiversity incidents of child labor. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. subscribes or endorses. value outside protected areas. CORE HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for 1, 3, 4 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. incidents of forced or compulsory labor. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Society performance indicators boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. ADD EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. CORE SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s 10 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the anti-corruption policies and procedures. report. CORE EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 8 CORE SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 10 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurCORE EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 8 ADD SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political par10 ance for the report. ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 7–9 ties, politicians, and related institutions. CORE EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Product responsibility performance indicators CORE EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 8 CORE PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts 1 CORE EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. of products and services are assessed. ADD EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated ADD PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction. waste deemed hazardous. CORE PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and volADD EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value untary codes related to marketing communications. of water bodies and related habitats significantly ADD PR7 Number of incidents of non-compliance with affected by discharges of water and runoff. regulations and voluntary codes concerning CORE EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 7–9 marketing communications. products and services. UNGC: United Nations Global Compact principle GRI references 37 Reporting Axis AB, company registration number 556241-1065, is a Swedish company and parent company of Axis Communications AB. The headquarters is in Lund, Sweden. This sustainability report is focused on the sustainability Reporting standards and KPIs efforts of Axis Communications and is mainly based This report conforms to the internationally recognized on reporting guidelines issued by the Global ReportGRI standard. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) used ing Initiative (GRI). The reporting follows the GRI’s G3 by Axis are selected from the G3 version of the GRI Guidelines at level C. The report covers 2013 and has standards. The report is self-declared and complies with not been audited. application level C under the GRI standards. KPIs were not subject to third-party checks. Scope The goal of this report is to present an accurate picture Historical data is not available for all Key Performance of the group’s performance in areas relating to sustainIndicators. Unless otherwise stated, the data refers to ability, safety, health and the environment as well as the 2013 calendar year with comparative figures for business ethics. This is Axis’ third sustainability report previous years. and the company’s ambition is to report annually. All currency figures are in SEK unless otherwise stated. Contact for the report: Boundaries Margareta Lantz Axis’ own operations mainly consist of functions such As a company listed on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic stock Corporate Communications as development, purchasing, marketing, service and exchange, Axis follows the provisions of the Swedish Manager technical support as well as administration. Axis also Companies Act as well as the stock exchange rules for Phone: +46 46 272 18 92 works with product configuration and handles shipping listed companies in Sweden. Axis applies the Swedish E-mail: at six Configuration & Logistics Centers (CLCs), of which Code of Corporate Governance. A separate corporate margareta.lantz@axis.com only the Swedish center is operated by Axis. The other governance report for 2013 was published in connection CLCs are operated by outside companies and all office with the Annual Report. premises that Axis uses are rented. For more information, please visit: All production of Axis’ products is carried out by contract www.axis.com manufacturers and the products are sold through an indirect distribution model, in which Axis’ sales occur in the first stage to distributors. As a consequence of this business model, a great deal of the responsibility for production, distribution and specific installation of Axis’ products rests with the company’s business partners. However, Axis works closely with its partners to ensure that its Code of Conduct is understood and followed. Advisors: Angselius & Rönn C ECOL A DI Graphic design: Axis Communications R NO BE L English revised by David Murphy, Word of Mouth Communications Photos: Lars Owesson, André de Loisted, Stefan Lundberg, Axis, Getty Images/ James Hardy, Westend61, Imgorthand, iStockphoto/ Daniel Timiraos, Simone Becchetti, GRADYREESEphotography, 341 425 Shutterstock/ Dariusz Kopestynski, Matton Images Printing: Tryckfolket, 2014 GRI references 39 About Axis Communications Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter, safer world. As the global market leader in network video, Axis is driving the industry by continually launching innovative network products based on an open platform delivering high value to customers through a global partner network. Axis has long-term relationships with partners and provides them with knowledge and ground-breaking network products in existing and new markets. Axis has more than 1,600 dedicated employees in more than 40 countries around the world, supported by a network of over 65,000 partners across 179 countries. Founded in 1984, Axis is a Sweden-based company listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit our website www.axis.com. Corporate identity no. 556241-1065 Axis AB Emdalavägen 14, 223 69 LUND Phone: +46 46 272 18 00 www.axis.com ©2014 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, ETRAX, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. We reserve the right to introduce modifications without notice.
