COP-report 2013 Ulstein Group ASA Ulstein Group ASA supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and operation of our company. With this COP we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Gunvor Ulstein CEO Ulstein Group ASA Human Rights Assessment, policy Ulstein Group’s Code of Conduct is a foundation for our vision and values, and function as a script to affect the and goals attitudes and the culture within the company. All employees should be familiar with the ethical guidelines. It is the responsibility of every manager to ensure that the Code of Conduct are examined and communicated to all employees. The guidelines includes all our global companies. The statement of Human Value: “All members of Ulstein Group have the same value. No discrimination of any kind is accepted, for example on the grounds of sex, race, religion or sexual orientation. Ulstein Group aims in being a corporation that develops diversity and equality”. According to Norwegian Working Environment Act, the company has established Guidelines for notifications, and an Ethical committee where ethical dilemmas may be put up for discussion. Implementation All documentation is available on our digital Personnel Handbook. Awareness raising/ training of employees in Code of Conduct Training program new employees. Dilemma training program to be established on our training portal. Measurement of outcomes Monitoring of the mandatory training in Compliance and Code of Conduct. Labour Assessment, policy In Norway labor rights and the right to collective bargaining are strongly regulated by law. The corporate strategy and goals is to work in compliance with all legal requirements in the different countries we have companies and activity. There is a strong tradition in Ulstein to work for co-determination and to maintain a good dialogue between management and trade unions. The company encourage employees membership in trade unions. Negotiation committees are established to represent the employees in yearly wage negotiations. Employees are represented in the Board of Norwegian companies according to the legal system. Our Personnel Handbook covers policies concerning our employees responsibilities, rights and benefits. Ulstein has a HSE Policy and an Internal Control handbook in compliance with requirements to Health, Safety & Environment. The Norwegian companies are members in the governmental agreement regarding an inclusive working life( IA Enterprise). The agreement is based on a protocol between employer/ trade unions and the authorities for a joint effort to prevent and reduce sickness absence, encourage return to work, improve working environment and promote inclusion. Yearly objectives are set in the Groups companies to reduce the present of sickness absent, the employee turnover and injuries in the production(H-value). Ulstein has a welfare policy : “The Ulstein Corporation should be an attractive and good place to work. Through active welfare work we aim at creating prosperity, increased job satisfaction and social belonging. At the same time we want to focus on activities that promote a good physical and mental health.” Ulstein Group has a policy requiring manning suppliers to adhere to the Labour principles. Implementation In each company with trade unions, it is established a forum for collective bargaining between the management and the trade unions. A Corporate Committee, equal represented with management and union members , will have 4 meetings a year to discuss cooperation and common issues. A Salary policy is established, and we have flexible working arrangement for our employees. All employees are entitled to medical insurance. All employees are encouraged to practice exercise through subsidizing from the companies. The IA-agreement and the follow-up from staff and management have resulted in a decreased rate of sickness absence and H-value. In each business area a HSE yearly report and yearly action plans are worked out. Measurement of Sickness rate for the Ulstein Group should not extend 4.5%. outcomes H-value in the Shipbuilding area should be less than 10. The employee turnover should not extend 10%. Environment Assessment, policy Our goal for HSE: Ensure 100 % compliance with all HSE related procedures and requirements. and goals From HSE Policy in Ulstein Group: “Ulstein Group will strive for all activities and products to have the least possible negative effect on the environment.” From Code of Conduct: “The Corporation must have an internal control system that ensure that all statutory rules and regulations are adhered to. Ulstein Group must be a responsible company in regards to how the company effects the environment.” The Ulstein Group will take gradual, measurable steps towards making its products, processes and operations more sustainable. Under the direction of Code of Conduct ,each individual organisational unit will take necessary actions to ensure energy efficiency in its operations and secure proper materials recycling. Ulstein aims to develop new vessels that helps the customer to increase his value, while reducing emissions and doing less harm to the environment. We seek to challenge conventional wisdom and employ proven technology in new ways, with a keen eye on the environment. This environmental friendly focus is reflected in all our development of ship designs and business development. Examples of this is X-Bow hull design, hybrid propulsion system and electrical propulsion. One important project driver in our innovation processes is environmental friendly products through reducing environmental footprints, increase the operational windows for the vessels and develop safer operations. Implementation Improvement of our waste handling system. Use of environmental-friendly materials in the product innovation and production. Awareness of electricity energy consumptions in our buildings and production facilities. Improvement of our records of substances on products used in the production. Use Ulstein Ship Emission Index system to help the customers to take better decisions to reduce the environmental footprint. Environmental drivers in all our product innovation projects. Measurement of Reduce the electrical energy consume. Project Charters Innovation projects. outcomes Internal audit of environmental performance in compliance with ISO 14001. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy Commitment to be in compliance with all relevant laws. and goals Principles for Corporate Governance approved by Ulstein Group Board of Directors. From Code of Conduct:”Ulstein Group disapproves all forms of corruption. Corruption undermines all kind of business undertakings and destroys free competition. It is destructive for the reputation of the company and puts the company and each individual at great risk.” Guidelines in connection with the exposure of economical disloyalty, and routines in connection with misconduct and irregularities are a part of the digital Personnel Handbook Implementation Revitalization of the notification system and ethical committee. Policy on anti-corruption regarding suppliers and costumers. Risk assessment procedures for high-risk areas of corruption. Training Managers and new employees – digital dilemma-training. Measurement of Internal Audit on Anti-corruption in compliance with ISO 26000. outcomes Reported notifications to the Ethical Committee.
