2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Hear from Our Leaders and Learn About Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at Cisco We are entering a new era where everyone and everything is connected. Creating intelligent and highly secure connections is at the heart of what we do. Our technology brings people together to tackle global challenges faster and more effectively. Governance and Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Environment Find out about our approach to CSR, Read how we embed sustainability Find out how we offer engaging Read how we use our expertise and Learn how we are working to improve our commitment to good governance into supplier assessments, engage development opportunities, recognize technology and work with partners our own environmental performance and ethical conduct, and how we with suppliers to build capability, achievements, and foster an inclusive to help communities thrive, focusing and using our technology to help our respect human rights. and work with others to help address and healthy workplace to help on education, healthcare, economic customers reduce their impacts. industrywide challenges. employees achieve their full potential. development, disaster response, and critical human needs. Contents Introduction Supply Chain Society GRI Index Executive Summary A2 Overview C2 Overview E2 Overview G2 Strategy and Analysis Our separate Executive Summary combines the A3 Message from C4 Our Supply Chain E5 Employee Engagement G4 Economic section overviews of this Chairman and CEO C6 Embedding Sustainability in E6 Education G5 Environmental report to give you a high-level A4 Message from Senior Vice Core Business Practices summary of our achievements E9 Economic Empowerment G7 Social: Labor Practices in fiscal year 2014 (FY14). President, Corporate Affairs C9 Promoting Transparency and Decent Work E12 Healthcare A5 CSR and Our Business C10 Working with Suppliers G8 Social: Human Rights to Build Capability E13 Critical Human Needs A5 About This Report and Disaster Relief G10 Social: Society How to Use This Report A5 Assurance The complete report PDF E15 Supplier Diversity G11  Social: Product Responsibility includes all sections and allows A5 GRI Index full access to videos, search A6 Key Performance Indicators capabilities, and bookmarks. Interactive Elements This document contains interactive elements on Governance and Ethics Our People Environment mouse over and click. Look for these icons throughout B2 Overview D2 Overview F2 Overview this document: Mouse over or click for B4 Governance D4 Working Together F5 Environmental Sustainability interactive content.* B4 CSR Management D6 A Safe and Healthy F13 Materials Click to play video. Work Environment B8 Ethics F16 Energy and GHG Emissions Bookmarks D7 An Inclusive and This PDF is bookmark-enabled. B10 Privacy and Data Security F35 Water Use Diverse Culture We have prepopulated B12 Human Rights F36 Biodiversity and Land Use bookmarks in the Environment D11 Training and Development section only. Opportunities F37 Non-GHG Emissions D12 Rewarding Our People F37 Effluents (Liquid) Recommended Software Adobe Acrobat* Version 7.0 F38 Waste and above. F44 Appendix * Interactive content may not be available on some devices. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback A1 Introduction Introduction Overview Message from Chairman and CEO Message from Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs CSR and Our Business Cisco has been a pioneer in networking From routing and switching hardware to Through the Internet of Everything, About This Report technologies since our inception in 1984. collaboration, security, and video software, we are creating new capabilities, Assurance We continue to evolve and innovate to solve we build the solutions our customers richer experiences, and unprecedented GRI Index our customers’ most important business need to succeed. We sell our products economic opportunities for individuals, Key Performance challenges and to catch market transitions. and services to businesses of all sizes, organizations, and countries. We believe Indicators Our unrelenting focus on innovation has governments, and service providers. that amazing things happen when you enabled us to maintain our position as a connect the unconnected. Governance & Ethics market leader for nearly 30 years. Supply Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback A2 Introduction Overview Message from Overview Chairman and CEO Message from Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs The Internet of Everything CSR and Our Business Networking technology connects people, processes, data, and things in meaningful ways. This is what we call the “Internet of About This Report Everything” (IoE). About 13 billion things and 40 percent of the world’s population are already connected. IoE is creating new ways Assurance to do business and improve people’s lives. The benefits are extensive, from connected education and healthcare to smarter cities, more efficient government services, and job creation. GRI Index Key Performance Indicators 2014 at a Glance Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People More than 600 US$47.1 billion net More than 74,000 suppliers worldwide. sales in FY14. employees. Society 47.1 74,000 Environment $ 165 GRI Index BILLION Operations in more than 165 countries. 26,000 engineers focused US$6.3 billion (13.4% of our FY14 revenue) $ 275 MILLION invested in R&D. US$275 million in cash and in‑kind on innovative research and donations contributed to community development (R&D). programs by Cisco and the Cisco Foundation. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback A3 Introduction At Cisco, one way we see this happening is what we call Ultimately, the success and impact of the Internet of the “Internet of Everything.” In simple terms, the Internet Everything will be measured by the extent to which we’re Overview of Everything is the intelligent connection of people, able to harness its benefits for humanity. With this in Message from processes, data, and things. This will be the most exciting mind, I couldn’t be more excited to see what the future Chairman and CEO phase of the Internet yet, and I believe its impact on holds. We are deeply committed to improving lives, society will be five to ten times greater than the impact communities, and the environment. Message from Senior Vice President, of the Internet to date. Corporate Affairs The Internet of Everything offers countries around the CSR and Our Business world the opportunity to provide better, richer lives for About This Report their citizens and to create new ways for companies John T. Chambers to do business. Whether it’s connected education and Assurance Chairman and Chief Executive Officer healthcare, smarter cities, more efficient government GRI Index services, or transforming job creation, we believe the societal benefits of the Internet of Everything will impact Key Performance Indicators Message from our lives in ways never imagined. It’s not the act of getting connected—or even the number of connections— Governance & Ethics John T. Chambers that creates the value. Rather, it’s the outcomes those connections make possible. Chairman and CEO Supply Chain With companies, individuals, and governments working Our People Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) together, we can help economies worldwide. Governments Society is to use our expertise, technology, and partnerships to alone cannot solve the global challenges we face today. Our Vision create positive impact around the world. CSR has always But by bringing together a diverse set of stakeholders, Environment been one of the pillars of our culture, and I’m extremely we can tackle many of the inequities in education Changing the way we work, live, play, proud of the global impact of our programs. and employment. and learn. GRI Index Our focus on creating value for society, the environment, For example, our role in the White House Information and our business is reflected in the breadth of our commitments. From investing in our people to improving Technology (IT) Training and Certification program highlights the power of public-private partnerships. Our Values labor standards in our supply chain. From improving The program provides IT skills training, certification, • Change the world access to healthcare to reducing our environmental and career placement to help U.S. military personnel • Intensely focus on customers footprint. This is all made possible by the network. transition into the job market quickly. • Make innovation happen Networking technology connects people in meaningful In FY13, we introduced new 5-year environmental goals ways. It has the power to deliver new opportunities designed to focus on the two areas we believe are most • Win together and rich experiences, which connect people around critical to Cisco’s environmental sustainability over the long • Respect and care for each other the world. Networking technology also grows global term. These are greenhouse gas emissions and energy economies and increases well-being. consumption. Our focus is not only on our customers and • Always do the right thing partners, but also on society and the environment. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback A4 Introduction in almost every field, and to harness the potential of the Overview Internet of Everything. Our Cisco® Networking Academy® program teaches these skills to 1 million students each Our CSR Strategy Message from year in 170 countries, providing greater economic We focus on the areas where Cisco’s Chairman and CEO opportunities for individuals and building a pipeline of innovators for the future workforce. expertise, technology, and partnerships Message from Senior Vice President, can have the greatest impact. Corporate Affairs Building tomorrow’s workforce is a major focus of our CSR initiatives going forward. Unemployment is CSR and Our Business high in many countries, especially among young people. About This Report Yet, companies are desperate to find people with the technical know-how, the creativity, and the problemGovernance and Ethics Assurance solving skills they need to fuel innovation and grow. You’ll Our commitment to ethical conduct and GRI Index see in this report how we are working to prepare people good governance makes us a stronger, Key Performance Message from Tae Yoo to fill these jobs and bridge the gap for employers. more resilient company. Indicators Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs Beyond workforce development, we are committed Supply Chain to being a good corporate citizen, particularly in the Governance & Ethics communities where we operate. We are working to cut We work closely with the suppliers who Each day, people around the world face many challenges: our energy use, and with it our greenhouse gas emissions; make our products to maintain high standards Supply Chain access to quality education, unemployment, poverty, and to strengthen our CSR governance and metrics; and to for ethics, labor rights, health, safety, and climate change, to name a few. At Cisco, we’ve learned Our People extend our high standards for sustainability into our global the environment. that when we bring people together, they find innovative solutions to address these problems. And when you add supply chain. We foster diversity in our company and help Society technology to the mix, we can multiply our impact and our employees thrive in their careers while balancing their Our People Environment uncover even greater opportunities. personal lives. Our pride in community inspired us to We offer engaging development opportunities, support nearly 2300 nonprofit organizations in FY14 recognize achievements, and foster an inclusive GRI Index through employee volunteerism, donations, and expertise, There has never been a better time to combine human and healthy workplace to help employees and technology innovation to help people and the planet. as well as through product and cash grants, to create achieve their full potential. Everything is coming online, and we’re connecting more positive impact in the world. of our world every day. At this very moment, 7 billion devices are connected to the Internet, and that number Being socially and environmentally responsible is not Society is expected to increase to 50 billion by 2020. These only good for people and the planet; it is essential to Using our expertise and technology, we work connections are creating massive amounts of data, the long-term sustainability of our business. We are with partners to extend access to education disrupting the way businesses and nonprofits operate, enormously proud of the work our employees and and healthcare, create economic development and giving people greater intelligence for decision partners are doing around the world. This report tells opportunities, respond to disasters and critical making. This is the Internet of Everything, and it’s making some of their stories and shows how technology has human needs, and help communities thrive. networked connections more valuable and relevant than the amazing ability to benefit humanity. ever before. Environment With these connections comes opportunity: for education, We improve our own environmental performance, for jobs, for environmental sustainability, and for economic as well as our customers’, by developing growth. We need millions of people to fill information and products that improve living standards, reduce Tae Yoo communications technology (ICT) jobs in every country, resource waste, and save energy. Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback A5 Introduction CSR and Our Business About This Report Innovation Grand Challenge Overview We are committed to being a responsible company This is our tenth CSR report. It covers our 2014 fiscal Our new Innovation Grand Challenge recognizes, Message from and making a positive contribution to society and the year (FY14), from July 28, 2013 to July 26, 2014. Data promotes, and rewards innovators, entrepreneurs, Chairman and CEO and early-stage startup businesses that can help us environment. This helps us inspire trust in our brand, includes all of our operations around the world, unless connect the unconnected. The global competition aims Message from develop strong relationships with our stakeholders, otherwise stated. The report sets out our approach, to accelerate the adoption of breakthrough technologies Senior Vice President, and create long-term value for society and our business. objectives, and progress on each of the five core and products that contribute to the growth and evolution Corporate Affairs pillars of our CSR strategy: Governance and Ethics, of the Internet of Everything. Three winning innovators Like everything else we do, CSR at Cisco is founded Supply Chain, Our People, Society, and Environment. share a US$250,000 prize. CSR and Our Business on ethical business practices and effective governance. About This Report We strive to work with suppliers and stakeholders In our CSR strategy and reporting, we prioritize the Assurance to manufacture and operate responsibly; create an CSR issues that are most important to our business and engaging workplace for our employees; and develop our stakeholders. These issues are identified through GRI Index technologies that have positive social, environmental, a formal CSR materiality assessment (see page B6). Key Performance and business impacts. Indicators We encourage feedback from stakeholders and use Of course there are challenges. And we work diligently this report to respond to what we have heard during the Governance & Ethics to address these challenges. By doing so, Cisco will become a stronger, even more responsible and resilient year. Changing our approach can take time given the complexity of our business, but we aim to be open and Assurance Supply Chain business. We regularly talk with our stakeholders to help transparent about our progress and the challenges We engage extensively with stakeholders and CSR us understand their views on the most important social we face. experts throughout the year. We listen to their feedback Our People and environmental issues for them, for the information to assess and enhance our CSR approach, performance, Society and communications technology (ICT) sector, and for This interactive PDF enables you to navigate easily and reporting. our business. through the report (see How to Use This Report). Environment The overviews at the beginning of each section are The data in the Environment section is subject to available for download in a separate Executive Summary. internal and external audits in line with our Environmental GRI Index IMPACT MULTIPLIED Cisco CSR programs positively affect Management System and ISO 14001 requirements. Regional reports are planned for Brazil, Mexico, France, people, our planet, and the future. Data that supports public commitments, such as our Several CSR partners share how and Germany to provide relevant environmental, social, goals to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, is Cisco support has helped them and governance details for local stakeholders. multiply their impact with technology. subject to external assurance. WATCH VIDEO GRI Index We align our reporting with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. “By converging people, processes, data, and things, the benefits the See page G1 for an index of conformance with the Internet of Everything delivers to humanity are seemingly infinite.” GRI G3.1 indicators. Environmental indicators are also embedded throughout the environment section for Tae Yoo, SVP of Corporate Affairs, Cisco reference. The CSR materiality assessment we conducted in April 2014 (see page B6) will help us prepare to report against the GRI’s G4 guidelines in our next report. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback A6 Introduction Key Performance Indicators Overview Our key performance indicators (KPIs) are summarized in Table 1. These also are included in the relevant sections of the report and GRI table, alongside additional metrics Message from and performance outcomes. Chairman and CEO Message from Table 1. KPIs FY12 FY13 FY14 Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs Governance and Ethics CSR and Our Business Eligible1 employees completing certification in the Cisco Code of Business Conduct 100% 100% 100% About This Report Employees responding positively to the CSR statements in the Cisco Pulse Survey2 85% 86% 83% Assurance Supply Chain GRI Index Key suppliers3 publishing a CSR report: Manufacturing partners 86% 86% 100% Key Performance Component suppliers 38% 52% 52% Indicators Logistics providers 57% 100% 100% Governance & Ethics Key suppliers reporting GHG emissions through the CDP: Manufacturing partners 88% 100% 100% Supply Chain Component suppliers 56% 100% 100% Our People Logistics providers 46% 74% 86% Our People Society Number of employees Over 66,000 Over 75,000 Over 74,000 Environment Percentage of female employees 22% 23% 23% GRI Index Employees agree that management sets a good example of Cisco values, culture, and Code of Business Conduct 84% 87% 84% Society Total corporate and Cisco Foundation® cash and in-kind contributions (US$) $294 million $297 million $275 million5 Number of hours volunteered by employees 107,150 129,000 136,000 Environment Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2, metric tonne CO2e 251,672 312,525 305,656 Total air travel GHG emissions: Scope 3, metric tonne CO2e 125,605 139,530 157,868 Product trade-in and return: Product return, metric tonne 13,324 12,539 12,180 Product trade-in and return: Material to landfill4 0.43% 0.33% 0.30% 1. Excluding employees in France (which has a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, and those on a leave of absence. 2. Two additional CSR statements were included in the FY14 Pulse Survey (see page D4). Positive result means employees agree or strongly agree. 3. For definition of key suppliers, see page C4. 4. Landfilled material consists only of nonrecyclable materials such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap. 5. Total giving decreased in FY14 because Cisco made several large one-off contributions for specific, time-bound initiatives in prior years and because the value of in-kind contributions through the Cisco Networking Academy program was slightly lower this year. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B1 Introduction Governance & Ethics Overview Governance CSR Management Governance and Ethics Ethics Good governance and ethical communications and processes simple, Companies for seven years running by Privacy and Data Security conduct provide the foundation for hold everyone accountable, and empower the Ethisphere Institute. Human Rights everything we do at Cisco. They help all our employees to do what’s right. us earn trust, manage risks, foster The success of our business depends sustainable growth, and build a resilient Our Code of Business Conduct (COBC), on earning the trust of our customers, Supply Chain business. Collaboration is at the heart as well as our internal ethics resource our partners, and our stakeholders. Our People of our approach. We aim to tackle center and tailored training, helps employees That’s why we place such importance Society challenging issues head on, make our make ethical decisions. Cisco has been on strong governance practices and named one of the World’s Most Ethical ethical conduct. Environment GRI Index < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B2 Introduction Governance & Ethics Governance and Ethics Overview Overview Governance We rely on our employees to uphold our values and follow the expectations we put in our COBC. In addition, we consult with CSR Management stakeholders and experts to keep focused on the most important areas from business and social perspectives. Some of these Ethics include providing expertise to public policy debates for our industry, raising awareness about the importance of privacy and data Privacy and Data protection, and respecting human rights around the world. Cisco strives to contribute to a better society. Security Human Rights Supply Chain 2014 at a Glance Our People Society 100 100 percent of eligible Environment % employees completed 24 internal and external GRI Index certification to the COBC. stakeholders provided input to CSR our updated CSR materiality assessment, identifying priority CSR issues for Cisco. 91 Our Human Rights Roadmap was updated to align with the 91 percent of employees feel United Nations (UN) Guiding that Cisco takes ethical business Principles on Business and concerns seriously. Human Rights. “Ethical companies provide strong returns to shareholders. It is not just the financial reports that matter. Shareholders want to invest in ethical companies. Companies want to do business with ethical companies. Talented people want to work for ethical companies.” Prat Bhatt, Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B3 Introduction Governance & Ethics Governance and Ethics Overview Overview Governance CSR Management 2014 Progress Toward Objectives 2015 Objectives and Beyond Objectives Status Objectives Target Date Ethics 100 percent of eligible1 employees to complete annual certification to the Cisco COBC. 100 percent of eligible1 employees to complete annual certification to the End of FY15 Privacy and Data Cisco Code of Business Conduct. Security Make human rights training available to all employees and mandatory for Maintain a quarterly review and update of our Human Rights Roadmap, End of FY15 Human Rights targeted groups. which aligns to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Continue formal and informal stakeholder engagements throughout FY14 to help us Engage with diverse stakeholder groups to inform our CSR strategy, End of FY15 continue to improve our CSR programs. performance, and reporting. Supply Chain Augment and deepen engagement with key socially responsible investors for more Augment and deepen engagement with key socially responsible investors End of FY15 Our People meaningful dialogue on issues of importance to our investors. for more meaningful dialogue on issues of importance to our investors. Society Maintain positive responses from at least 83 percent of employees to the CSR Maintain an average positive response from at least 83 percent of End of FY15 statement in our annual employee Pulse Survey.2 employees to the CSR statements in our annual employee Pulse Survey. Environment Complete a robust materiality assessment of the CSR issues that are important to Continue evaluating and refining our CSR materiality assessment. End of FY15 our stakeholders. GRI Index Achieved 1. Excluding employees in France (which has a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, those on a leave of absence, interns, and contractors who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct. 2. Two additional CSR statements were included in this year’s Pulse Survey (see page D4). Awards and Recognitions1 CDP Global 500 Climate Dow Jones Sustainability Ethisphere Institute’s World’s FTSE4Good Index2 The 2014 Global 100 oekom Research Change Leaders Index Most Ethical Companies Most Sustainable Corporate Responsibility Corporations in the World Rating Tied for first place. Scored 100 Member of World and North Included for seventh Member of Global, Global 100, Ranked number 11 “Prime” status for disclosure and “A” rating for American Indices consecutive year U.S., and U.S. 100 Indexes performance 1. A full list of CSR rankings and awards is available on our website. 2. FTSE Group confirms that Cisco has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B4 Introduction Governance CSR Management Public Policy Governance & Ethics Our Board of Directors has adopted clear governance Our CSR program aims to address the sustainability Cisco engages with governments at many different levels policies that we believe provide a framework for the issues that are most relevant to our business and focus to help shape public policy and regulations that support Overview the technology sector. Our Global Government Affairs operation of the company in line with our shareholders’ on where we can have the biggest impact. We regularly team works with industry stakeholders, association Governance best interests and legal requirements. Our operational listen to subject matter experts across the business and partners, and government leaders to influence global, CSR Management and financial processes are overseen by our internal gather feedback from external stakeholders. national, and local policies that affect our business. audit team, which reports regularly to the Board Audit Examples of our policy priorities include: Ethics Committee. Full details about our corporate governance CSR Governance • Increasing broadband and next-generation network Privacy and Data processes, policies, and Board committees are available in deployment our Annual Report and on our Investor Relations website. Our CSR activities are stewarded by Tae Yoo, Cisco’s • Encouraging continued innovation in network security Security SVP of Corporate Affairs. Under her leadership, Cisco • Reforming the U.S. patent system Human Rights engages in public-private partnerships that apply our • Limiting regulation of voice over IP technology Risk Management expertise, technology, and relationships for positive Details of our position on these issues can be found Supply Chain We encourage our research and development teams social and environmental impact worldwide. She is the on our Cisco Public Policy Engagements website. to continually push boundaries, ask difficult questions, author of several articles about the role of technology Our High Tech Policy blog also offers insights into how Our People we are working toward our policy goals and enables and seek new ways to connect the world. This culture and collaboration in driving social change. our stakeholders to contribute to the discussion. of innovation allows us to pursue growth opportunities Society for our business that connect people and improve lives. Political Support Environment But it also makes robust risk management essential as Cisco does not make political contributions to we enter new markets and introduce new products candidates for U.S. federal or state elected office. GRI Index and services. We occasionally make corporate contributions in support of local and state ballot measures on issues such as transportation or education that affect our operations The Board of Directors, acting directly and through in California, Georgia, Massachusetts, North Carolina, its committees, is responsible for overseeing risk and Texas. Cisco fully complies with all reporting management. Under the Board’s oversight, Cisco has requirements regarding such contributions. Cisco’s implemented practices and programs designed to employee-sponsored political action committee (ePAC) enables eligible U.S. employees to contribute to the help manage business risks and to align risk taking campaigns of U.S. federal and state elected officials appropriately with our efforts to increase shareholder and political candidates who champion the technology value. Working groups from across the business report industry’s public policy priorities. risks and mitigation strategies directly to the Board’s Audit Committee, which oversees our financial and risk management policies. Employee Pulse Survey Business resiliency is a core part of our risk management • 83 percent of employees agree that Cisco’s CSR activities. Our strong incident management and business activities, which focus on environmental, social, and continuity programs allow us to respond quickly to internal governance issues, positively influence the way Cisco and external disruptions or threats as they look to is perceived around the world. minimize the impact on our employees and our business. • 80 percent are proud of Cisco’s involvement in their community and social causes. • 86 percent believe that Cisco encourages and supports employees to become more involved in the community. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B5 Introduction Figure 1. Our CSR Business Process Governance & Ethics Overview Business Functions Sustainable Business Practices Team Governance CSR Management 6 1 Ethics Performance Measurement CSR Reporting Privacy and Data Security Human Rights 5 2 Supply Chain Global Partners and Forums Our People We partner with a wide range of global and local Implementation Stakeholder Engagement organizations, including governments, nonprofits, and and Analysis Society peer companies, to extend the impact of our CSR programs around the world. Global organizations such Environment as the World Economic Forum (WEF) influence our CSR 4 3 strategy and help us learn from and share expertise and GRI Index best practices with others. Cisco sponsored the 2014 WEF Global Information Technology Report, “Rewards and Risks of Big Data,” which explores the next evolution of the Internet and using big data for social benefit. Our contribution to the Prioritization, Goals, and Initiatives Stakeholder Feedback to the Business report highlights the role of IP networks in the Internet of Everything and explains some of the associated technology and policy challenges. More details, a video, and the full report can be found on Cisco’s High Tech Policy blog. CSR Business Process The SBP team acts as a catalyst for CSR improvements In January 2014 at the WEF’s annual meeting in Davos, by collaborating with others throughout the business We have a robust CSR business process. Our Switzerland, Cisco Chairman and CEO John Chambers to design programs that create long-term, sustainable Sustainable Business Practices (SBP) team sits within spoke on a panel about The New Digital Context, which benefits for our business and society. Our CSR efforts Corporate Affairs. It supports the development of our considered the societal, economic, and technological are embedded in our business activities and distributed forces that are reshaping the digital landscape. Tae Yoo, CSR strategy by managing our reporting, engaging with among local CSR teams and relevant functions such SVP of Corporate Affairs, also hosted a discussion on external stakeholders, feeding their insights back into how technology can aid humanity through The Power of as supply chain, engineering, and ethics and integrity. the business, and helping business units prioritize CSR a Connected World. These business functions set goals, implement plans, issues (see Figure 1). and measure performance. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B6 Introduction CSR Materiality Assessment from peer companies, investors, nonprofits, and social Table 1. CSR Materiality Analysis enterprises. We asked more internal stakeholders to We use a CSR materiality assessment to understand and Governance & Ethics participate this year to gain further strategic insights Environment Society Governance report which environmental, social, and governance (ESG) from those who know our business best. issues are most important to our stakeholders and our Overview Energy and Digital Inclusion Ethical Conduct business. This process helps us prioritize our CSR efforts. Governance We researched and defined the 13 issues identified Greenhouse through the assessment and began the process of Gases Our latest assessment is based on stakeholder interviews CSR Management mapping the relative importance of each issue to Cisco conducted in early 2014. We engaged with SustainAbility, Environmental Digital Rights Human Capital Ethics and our stakeholders (see Table 1). We will take into a think tank and strategic advisory firm that looks to Performance account how much impact and influence we can have Solutions Privacy and Data catalyze business leadership on sustainability. They in each area. We are using the findings to focus our Security interviewed 17 internal stakeholders from across the investment and engagement and to improve transparency Packaging Digital Security Inclusion and business and seven external experts and opinion leaders and Privacy Diversity Human Rights and reporting as needed. Product End Economic Supply Chain Supply Chain of Life Empowerment Labor Standards Our People Water Pollution Ethical Sourcing Society Environment GRI Index < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B7 Introduction Stakeholder Engagement and Environmental Sustainability at Cisco with a broad See Table 2 for further examples of how we engage with group of stakeholders, including our customers. In addition, different stakeholder groups throughout the year. We build relationships with stakeholders and key influencers Governance & Ethics a group of senior leaders from Cisco met with seven through regular dialogue. Understanding their views helps influential human rights organizations and shared with For details on our human rights stakeholder engagement us prioritize issues and better align our business with Overview them the progress made on our Human Rights Roadmap. dialogue, see Human Rights. society’s needs. We use their insights to help us develop Governance They also discussed current trends and future ICT human our CSR strategy, programs, and reporting. In FY14, rights issues. CSR Management we conducted perception studies specifically on CSR Ethics Table 2. Engagement with Key Stakeholders Privacy and Data Security Stakeholder Group Engagement Human Rights Communities Cisco and the Cisco Foundation provide cash, products, and expertise to benefit individuals and communities around the world working with governments, corporations, and nonprofits (see Society). Supply Chain CSR opinion leaders We engage with opinion leaders regularly to inform our thinking on CSR issues. In FY14, global opinion leaders contributed to our CSR materiality analysis Our People (see page B6). In addition, we are engaged with organizations such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). For details on our human rights stakeholder engagement dialogue see Human Rights. Society Customers We keep customers informed about our technology and solutions through the collaborative Cisco Support Forum, where experts host webinars and discussions Environment to respond to specific customer questions. We conduct an annual global customer satisfaction survey. Customer satisfaction scores are tied to the corporatewide employee bonus. We also respond to customer feedback and outline the actions we are taking through the We’re Listening blog. GRI Index Employees Working both virtually and in our offices, a primary objective is keeping leaders, managers, and employees connected. Open communication is encouraged during annual leadership and sales meetings, quarterly “all hands” meetings, and training for new employees. We gather formal feedback through the annual Pulse Survey (see Our People). Governments and We contribute to policy development through industry associations and by sharing our views on key issues on our Public Policy Engagement page and High Tech Policy regulators blog (see Public Policy, page B4). We work with governments on issues such as education and healthcare, where our technologies can bring societal benefit (see Society). In FY14, we engaged with the U.S. Department of Energy on set-top box design (see Environment). Industry We participate in industry working groups such as the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) to promote the role of ICT in sustainability, respond to new regulations, and develop common approaches to challenges like conflict minerals and working hours (see Supply Chain). Investors We communicate with investors through regular meetings, quarterly earnings announcements, our Annual Meeting of Shareholders, our Annual Report, our Proxy Statement, Sustainability indices, this CSR Report, and our Investor Relations website. Our Investor Relations team meets regularly with socially responsible investors (SRIs) and shares investor views with Cisco executives and Board members. Nonprofits Cisco and the Cisco Foundation provide cash, products, and people to support organizations with scalable, replicable, and sustainable solutions that use networking technology to benefit individuals and communities around the world (see Society and the CSR website). Sales channel partners Approximately 80 percent of our revenue flows through our sales channel partners. We use quarterly surveys and hold an annual global Partner Summit to understand how we can help partners grow their businesses. Our Partner Community forums and Partner Education Connection enable partners to learn, share, and collaborate with their peers and Cisco experts. We also use online channels such as Facebook, Twitter, and our Channels blog to communicate with partners. Suppliers We work closely with suppliers to raise sustainability standards and performance throughout our supply chain. These efforts include working with suppliers through our scorecard and auditing process, webinars, and other direct engagements to build their CSR capabilities. We also mentor diverse suppliers and provide training opportunities (see Supply Chain). < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B8 Introduction CASE STUDIES Ethics Code of Business Conduct Our user-friendly COBC E-Book sets out our expectations FROM AROUND THE WORLD Governance & Ethics We expect our employees to act with integrity in for employees and advises them on appropriate behavior. everything they do. Our Code of Business Conduct Interactive elements include an ethics decision tree to Overview (COBC) guides all our decisions. help guide employees faced with difficult decisions, Governance educational videos, pop-up FAQs and definitions, and In a poll about Cisco’s core values, “always do the right links to other Cisco tools and resources. Some content is CSR Management thing” was the one that resonated most with employees tailored to employee job functions and roles. The COBC Ethics across the company. They see this value as the foundation is offered in 14 languages. Privacy and Data without which we could not achieve our other corporate Security values (see page A3). Each year, we require all regular employees (in countries where this is permitted by law) to recertify compliance Human Rights Our reputation for behaving ethically enables us to build with the COBC, to refresh their commitment to ethical long-term, trusting relationships. Customers, partners, conduct, and to make them aware of any changes Cisco Supply Chain and stakeholders worldwide trust the quality of our has made to the Code. In FY14, all of Cisco’s eligible products and services. Talented employees want to work employees1 completed recertification. Newly hired Our People for us. Responses to the ethics questions in our annual employees must certify within three weeks of joining Cisco. Society Pulse Survey indicate a strong and stable ethical culture (see Table 3). We understand that corruption is a particular concern for Environment many stakeholders, as it erodes trust and inhibits economic growth. Our Global Anti-Corruption Policies enables our GRI Index employees and partners around the world to understand how to comply with local and international laws. The Builders of Tomorrow Innovation is crucial for the long-term sustainability of our business. Our Tech Fund allows us to explore and implement innovations to meet evolving market needs. Since 2011, the fund has invested US$20 million in “At Cisco, our approach to business ethics begins with the belief that 22 projects covering a wide spectrum of innovations. These range from researching disruptive technologies compliance is everyone’s job and does not reside in any one department to improving the way home networks connect devices to developing connected vehicles. The benefits of these or with any one person. We invest heavily in proactive communication, innovative vehicle and transport network connections include fuel efficiency, traffic management, collision education, and systems to help our 74,000+ employees and 40,000 avoidance, and more. business partners, operating across 165 countries, understand our ethical The opportunities are endless and will influence the future of collaboration and networking. The Builders standards and their responsibility to live up to them.” of Tomorrow are our engineers today. Roxane Marenberg, Vice President and Deputy General Counsel #TomorrowStartsHere 1. Excluding employees in France (which has a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, those on a leave of absence, interns, and contractors who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B9 Introduction Employee Training and Awareness Our internal ethics website provides training materials Governance & Ethics and videos such as “Cisco Has a Speak-Up Culture,” Know the Code links to policies, and an ethics discussion forum for At Cisco, we believe that long-tern, trusting Overview business relationships are built by being honest, employees. We provide tailored training for specific open and fair. But sometimes situations arise where the right decision isn’t completely clear. Governance employee groups to help them manage issues relevant to their roles. Examples include targeted courses for people So how does the COBC help me? CSR Management joining Sales teams, Human Resources professionals, Ethics and employees who interact with government officials. Our COBC helps you navigate. Privacy and Data Business and regional management can request Our COBC applies to everyone at Cisco worldwide. Security additional training for their teams. Human Rights No one has the authority to make you engage in Anti-corruption training is mandatory for most Legal staff; behavior that violates the COBC. employees in Sales, Marketing, and Services; channel The COBC is extensive...but not exhaustive. Supply Chain partners; distributors; and sales-supporting consultants. In addition, live ethics, compliance, and anti-corruption Our People Cisco continually monitors laws and regulations training was provided by experts from Legal, Compliance, worldwide. Society and Finance to Sales teams in Russia, China, Japan, Annual certification of the COBC and other supplemental code(s) and guidelines is required. Korea, and Thailand. Environment GRI Index Table 3. Employee Pulse Survey Results How to Report a Concern We encourage employees and other stakeholders to promptly report concerns to us about suspected unethical behavior. FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 To do this, they can: I have confidence that 90% 91% 92% 91% • Speak to a manager or Human Resources representative Cisco takes ethical • Contact members of our Legal or Ethics offices directly business concerns seriously • Contact the Ethics Office by email at ethics@cisco.com or through our anonymous web form The management team 81% 84% 87% 84% • Call our global Ethics Helpline, available 24 hours a day in more than 150 languages sets a good example • Disclose gifts, entertainment, or potential conflicts of interest confidentially to the Ethics Office using relevant tools of company values, culture, and the COBC No one will face retaliation if they raise a concern in good faith. Concerns raised mainly relate to conflicts of interest, gifts and entertainment, and Human Resources issues. I know where to go 83% 87% 89% 90% We investigate all concerns and anyone found to have violated our COBC may face disciplinary action, including to report an ethics termination of employment if warranted in certain cases. question or concern Find out more on our website. I can report concerns 75% 78% 77% 80% without fear of retaliation < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B10 Introduction Privacy and Data Security Our guidelines for engineers and product managers help them understand how to integrate privacy and These security services are as important to our business as they are to our customers and partners. Our supplier Governance & Ethics Mounting public scrutiny means privacy and data data protection into new products and applications. review program assesses service providers to mitigate security are among the more pressing issues facing This helps them design features and functionality potential risks for cloud solutions in particular. We use Overview that make it easier for Cisco, customers, and product our cloud security services to help Cisco maintain the the ICT industry. The Internet of Everything (IoE) brings Governance significant benefits to society, but also raises privacy users to protect personal information and comply integrity of our own operations. This helps reduce risks concerns. People can now access and share personal or with relevant regulations. and improve the protection of proprietary information. CSR Management business information in real time anywhere, at any time, We assess potential security risks related to cloud Ethics on any device. This makes securing data more difficult Securing the Cloud solutions based on guidance developed by the Privacy and Data and increases the design challenges for technology Internet-based, or “cloud,” computing is changing the Cloud Security Alliance. Cloud computing introduces Security companies like Cisco. way people and organizations share information. Our new security risks and concerns around technology and Human Rights cloud systems include capabilities that help companies business processes. To succeed, organizations must Our privacy policy is based on respect for our customers secure access to their cloud, and we protect them address cloud security concerns. Learn more about and a commitment to protect the information that they using best-practice security systems, such as Security our cloud journey from John N. Stewart, Senior Vice Supply Chain have shared. We review and improve the policy on a Intelligence Operations. We analyze emerging trends, President, Chief Security and Trust Officer. regular basis to adapt to the changing requirements Our People threats, and innovations in IT security to help us identify of our customers, the Internet, and global business new opportunities and early warnings where security #CiscoSecurity Society environments. threats may occur. Environment We continue to update and enhance our systems to protect customer, employee, and company data. We also GRI Index work to raise awareness about the importance of privacy and data protection. Best-practice security systems keep our networks, systems, and information highly secure. We build privacy into the design of our products, give customers choices about the data they share, and are transparent about how their data is used. Cisco will continue to work with our customers, consumers, and policymakers at all levels to put in place policies designed to protect privacy and security as networking technology continues to evolve. Privacy by Design “Privacy by Design” means privacy is not an add-on but a core component of the development of our products, services, and systems. A dedicated Cisco team provides guidance and targeted training on designing with privacy in mind throughout the business. We host a Global Security Education event to showcase resources, training, and videos on privacy issues to our employees worldwide. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B11 Introduction Compliance Promoting Security Awareness CASE STUDIES Compliance with privacy regulations is managed by a We expect employees to integrate security into their FROM AROUND THE WORLD Governance & Ethics team of representatives from our Legal, IT, Information day-to-day activities. Security is part of our COBC and Security, Sales, Services, Marketing, and Human accompanying training. For Cisco, it is also a business Overview Resources functions. Our global program for reporting imperative to promote security outside our own operations. Governance and tracking incidents provides a standard process to report, categorize, monitor, refer, and investigate Through the Cisco Security Education Program, we are CSR Management alleged incidents. using our experience to help other organizations increase Ethics security awareness. Promoting the right behaviors, such Training is a key component of our compliance as how to use social networking safely, is a key focus. Privacy and Data program. We make online privacy training modules The Cisco Security blog offers regular updates and tips, Security and resources available to all employees and contractors and we publish weekly Cyber Risk Reports that highlight Human Rights current digital security concerns and activity. The reports through our internal privacy portal. We also provide address seven major risk management categories: specific privacy and security training relevant to their roles. Supply Chain vulnerability, physical, legal, trust, identity, human, Privacy and security standards are part of our COBC and and geopolitical. accompanying training. Our People The Cisco Networking Academy We collaborate with peers to share our experiences Introduction to Cybersecurity Society In FY14, Cisco retained the Privacy Seal by TRUSTe, an through organizations such as: independent third party whose mission is to accelerate Cisco Networking Academy program delivers a Environment online trust among consumers and global organizations. • Cloud Security Alliance comprehensive learning experience to help students This demonstrates that our privacy policy and programs • Health Information Trust Alliance develop ICT skills for career opportunities, continuing GRI Index education, and globally recognized career certifications. meet best practices for transparency, accountability, and • National Cyber Security Alliance choice in the collection and use of personal information. In the age of the IoE, the networked connections of • Payment Card Industry Board of Advisors people, processes, data, and things create a greater We also recertified our compliance with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework with the U.S. Department of • International Association of Privacy Professionals need for a robust security infrastructure. The network is used for everything from storing an organization’s Commerce for customer, partner, and employee data. confidential data, to storing personal financial and health information. More connections make data more vulnerable to attacks, creating a growing need for Providing Choice individuals with cybersecurity skills. Transparency and choice are important to enable people The Cisco Networking Academy program’s Introduction and organizations to protect the privacy of their data. to Cybersecurity course covers trends in cybersecurity We understand that people expect to know what data and career opportunities available in this field. is being collected about them and how it will be used. Cybersecurity refers to the people, products, and They rightly expect to be given a choice. We believe they processes that protect electronic data from those with should also be informed about the benefits of sharing malicious intent. This course introduces students to a personal information. variety of networking professionals who discuss the exciting and growing industry of cybersecurity. Like other companies, Cisco must inform employees The course modules define cybersecurity, explain why about how their data is used and the choices available to it is important, and introduce some of the products and processes used to secure data. them. Our products offer customers a range of options in how they can use our technology to achieve their Learn more online. personal and business goals, while respecting privacy. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B12 Introduction Human Rights Figure 2. Human Rights Governance Model Governance & Ethics Cisco’s technology creates opportunities for connectivity, expression, and access to information to a growing Overview number of people across the world. At the same time, Governance we recognize our responsibility to realize these benefits Cisco Board of Directors CSR Management in a manner that respects human rights through our operations, business relationships, products, Ethics and services. Privacy and Data Security Our approach and commitment to upholding and respecting human rights is governed by our Human Human Rights Rights Policy, which was published in December Executive Sponsor 2012 and is updated annually. The policy is informed Randy Pond, Senior Vice President, Operations Supply Chain by international human rights frameworks, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), Our People the International Labor Organization (ILO) Core Labor Society standards, and the UN Global Compact. The policy is anchored in our commitment to applying the UN Environment Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Corporate Affairs Chief Compliance Officer which establish clarity on the relationship between Sustainable Business Practices General Counsel GRI Index state duty to protect human rights and the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. Strategy Compliance Governance Cisco has adopted a formal human rights governance structure to implement our commitment to human rights across the company. Our cross-functional Human Cross-Functional Human Rights Working Group Rights Working Group includes experts from across the business, including Supply Chain, Ethics, Privacy, Investor Subject Matter Experts Public Relations Relations Government Affairs, Business Strategy, Communications, Investor Relations, and others. The Human Rights Working Group is overseen by our Corporate Affairs and Supply Human Enterprise Corporate Ethics Legal Privacy Govt. Business Brand Comms. Legal departments and is sponsored by Randy Pond, Chain Resources Risk Affairs Affairs Strategy Senior Vice President, Operations (see Figure 2). < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B13 Introduction Key Opportunities However, technologies, including ours, can be used by governments and organizations to both enable Information and communications technology (ICT) Governance & Ethics and impede communications, and to both protect plays a powerful role in shaping the way we connect, and impair privacy. communicate, and collaborate with one another. From Overview the way we access and share information to the way Governance Our goal in developing ICT systems is to expand we protect it, ICT can be a positive force for creating access to information and promote innovation. To meet CSR Management new opportunities and advancing human rights. this objective, we build our products on open, global Ethics standards, which we believe are critical to overcoming We use our networking technologies to create new censorship, protecting privacy, and keeping the Privacy and Data opportunities for more people across the world. At the world connected. Security most general level, more than 1 billion people have better Internet access thanks to Cisco’s products, while our Human Rights Cisco, USAID, and World Learning have implemented an ICT By making our products interoperable, we strengthen Cisco Networking Academy program brings technology networking skills-development program to create sustainable the Internet’s capacity to be a positive force for society. education, 21st-century skills, and improved job prospects ICT training through Cisco Networking Academy program. Our work across the world is guided by the following Supply Chain to students in more than 165 countries. To date, we principles: have empowered and prepared approximately 5 million are two great equalizers in life, and establishing a strong Our People • We do not participate in business activities that would students for careers in the ICT field. We also partner foundation for both of these in Myanmar is fundamental Society with humanitarian organizations such as NetHope, a aid repression. for the future of the country. For more information on collaboration of 41 humanitarian organizations, to meet how networking technologies support positive social • We do not support attempts by governments to Environment critical human needs in disaster-stricken areas. outcomes, see Society. balkanize the Internet or create a “closed” Internet, as GRI Index such attempts undermine fundamental human rights, Together with USAID and World Learning, Cisco is including the right to freedom of expression. partnering in a program that promotes networking Freedom of Expression and Privacy • We do not customize or develop specialized or unique systems training which can help to achieve economic As a technology leader, we believe that upholding filtering capabilities to enable regimes to block access development in Myanmar. The University of Computer the rights to freedom of expression and privacy are to information. Studies in Yangon, the University of Computer Studies’ fundamental to our business and society. We strongly Centre of Excellence, and the University of Computer support freedom of expression and open communication • We do not supply nor do we support mediation Studies in Mandalay have joined the Cisco Networking on the Internet, and we are proud of our role in helping to equipment that allows the interception of telephone Academy program. The program has trained 20 faculty make Internet technology ubiquitous, allowing billions of calls made over the Internet using Voice over Internet members and more than 100 students in Myanmar. people in nearly every nation across the world to access Protocol (VoIP). Cisco has long believed that education and the Internet information previously unavailable to them. “Technology is a powerful tool to advance development while contributing to sustainable and inclusive economic growth. This collaboration with Cisco brings innovative technology and education to build on the strengths and capacity of the country. The initiative provides ICT skills training and increases the number of job-ready graduates for the country’s emerging ICT sector.” Chris Milligan, U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) Mission Director for Burma < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B14 Introduction A full appreciation of the human rights issues associated For these reasons, we believe that the threat to freedom Our technology and systems can also play an important with network equipment requires an understanding of the of expression and Internet freedom today resides not in role in helping to promote public safety—through crime Governance & Ethics equipment’s core features. The nature of Internet routing standardized equipment, but in efforts to adopt special prevention assistance, for example—but we recognize is such that in order to deliver messages and content, protocols that deviate from global norms and efforts to that there is a growing concern about the use of Overview service providers generally can see the addresses of the enable special censorship or filtering systems. We have networking equipment for improper surveillance that Governance senders and recipients of information and, in the absence worked in opposition to such efforts and will continue to would violate individuals’ privacy rights. of adequate encryption, the contents of messages and do so. We do not and will not supply video surveillance CSR Management cameras or video surveillance monitoring software in our attachments. Individuals, companies, and countries make Internet Security Ethics their own decisions with respect to how they operate public infrastructure projects in China. We are strongly committed to a standards-based global Internet that Today’s security challenges are real and significant. networks and network security in terms of protecting Privacy and Data maximizes the opportunities for freedom of expression, We want governments to detect and disrupt terrorist Security the network itself from denial of service and other attacks and we do not customize our equipment to help any networks before they inflict harm on our society, our and protecting users from spam, hacking, and virus Human Rights government to censor content, track Internet use by citizens, and our systems of government. We also want to attacks. This requires operators to have capabilities that individuals, or intercept Internet communications. live in countries that respect their citizens’ basic human can also be used to block access to particular websites rights. The tension between security and freedom has Supply Chain or copy and download users’ communications. For become one of the most pressing issues of our day. network management purposes, network operators Our People Product Use also require the ability to identify the protocols used for We believe our role in providing more people across the As a matter of policy and practice, Cisco does not different types of traffic. We cannot shut down such Society world with access to the Internet is hugely important work with any government, including the United States networks—only network operators have that capability. and that operating in most countries brings more benefits government, to weaken our products. When we learn Environment We advocate that users should have access to workable than if we were not present. In all countries where we of a security vulnerability, we respond by validating it, encryption, and we have opposed the efforts of some GRI Index do business, our technology and systems, whether they informing our customers, and fixing it. We react the governments to block users from adequate encryption. are sold directly or through local partners and service same when we find that a customer’s security has been providers, include the same standard Internet-access impacted by external forces, regardless of what country equipment and network management capabilities that or form of government or how that security breach are used by public libraries in the United States, which occurred. We offer customers robust tools to defend their include such capabilities as blocking inappropriate environments against attack, and detect attacks when content for children. they are happening. By doing these things, we have built and maintained our customers’ trust. We also believe in an open Internet where people can access the same information no matter where they are A failure to establish a clear and transparent set of rules in the world. We design our products and services to will produce a fragmented Internet, limiting free speech enable this access while safeguarding human rights. and global economic growth. A serious effort to address these issues can build confidence, and most importantly, Despite these efforts, it has been alleged that some result in the promise of the next generation of the Internet customers in some countries have misused our being met, a world in which the connection of people technology. In some cases, awareness of the fact and devices drives greater freedom, prosperity, and that a government does not respect the open opportunity for all the world’s citizens. Internet is confused with complicity in efforts to limit communications or repress freedom, even where the equipment being supplied is standards-based, Read more about Internet security in a blog post by noncustomized access equipment necessary to Mark Chandler, SVP, General Counsel and Secretary. facilitate communications. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B15 Introduction Global Standards expression, compulsory and child labor, immigration, fair pay, and working hours—to guide our day-to-day activities We believe that open and global product standards play Governance & Ethics and business decisions. a very important role in protecting and respecting human rights. For this reason, we work with policy makers and Overview To help protect the rights of workers in our supply chain, participate in standards-setting bodies, working groups, Governance we maintain a Supplier Code of Conduct, which describes and industry coalitions to create and maintain a secure our expectations on key human rights issues, including CSR Management global standard for many of our leading technologies, the prevention of child and forced labor. Through our ranging from wireline and wireless local-area network Ethics supplier audit process and capability-building programs, (WLAN) connections to video encoding/decoding and we partner with our suppliers to uncover human Privacy and Data security/encryption services. China, however, uses a rights violations and work with them to improve their Security local national standard known as WLAN Authentication performance. Our top priority is to partner with suppliers and Privacy Infrastructure (WAPI) to provide secure Human Rights that share the same values we have about human rights. access to the Internet rather than the IEEE 802.11 For more information about our supply chain program, standard, which is now universally used in Wi-Fi Supply Chain including our positions on slavery and human trafficking networks globally. Although the International Organization and conflict minerals, see Supply Chain. for Standardization (ISO) has rejected the Chinese Our People government’s application to make WAPI an international Society standard, WAPI continues to be used as the default Our Approach to Engagement on standard in China despite concerns that WAPI remains Human Rights Environment incompatible with internationally recognized standards. As our business grows and reaches more people across GRI Index While our equipment supports the globally recognized the world, we must continue to identify and enhance Wi-Fi standard, suppliers and users of our equipment the way we address our key human rights opportunities, companies from all industries to share ideas, exchange in China are able to add WAPI to our equipment. We risks, and challenges. To help achieve our goals, we best practices, and discuss challenges they face in the would not be able to sell our equipment and provide regularly engage and collaborate with our stakeholders, area of human rights, including topics such as reporting, the benefits of an open Internet in China if WAPI could including nonprofits, industry peers, investors, and governance structures, training, and grievance/remedy not be added. Many western vendors of handsets CSR practitioners, to help us gauge expectations and frameworks. In addition, we have separately engaged and infrastructure, however, comply directly with and understand the ongoing effectiveness of our work. BSR to inform our approach to integrating human rights incorporate the WAPI protocols in their products, enabling into our management processes and to collaboratively this nonstandard encryption to proliferate. Our efforts Examples of our collaboration in FY14 include: create an employee training module and facilitate the to oppose WAPI are rendered meaningless when other stakeholder sessions in July 2014. vendors incorporate the code. Nevertheless, we continue Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB): Our to maintain our efforts to push for international standards ongoing dialogue with the Institute for Human Rights and Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC): Cisco is that are used to pursue a safe and secure open Internet. Business, a global think tank focused on the relationship a founding member of the EICC. The EICC Supplier Code between business and human rights, has deepened of Conduct specifically addresses human rights issues, our understanding of external expectations regarding including forced or involuntary labor, child labor, wages Employees potential areas of concern and our ability to address and benefits, working hours, nondiscrimination, respect To safeguard the rights of our employees, we follow and dignity, freedom of association, health and safety, them. We appreciate the relationship and important our COBC, which includes our commitment to uphold protection of the environment, supplier management perspectives IHRB brings on issues we are facing. human rights. We also rely on our many employee systems, supplier ethics, and supplier compliance with policies and guidelines that incorporate relevant laws and Business for Social Responsibility (BSR): Cisco laws. For more information about our involvement with ethical principles—including those pertaining to freedom continued its active participation in BSR’s Human Rights the EICC, see Supply Chain, page C6. of association, nondiscrimination, privacy, freedom of Working Group in FY14. The group serves as a forum for < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback B16 Introduction Global Network Initiative (GNI): We continue to follow continue to meet in FY15 with an ongoing focus on the achievements of the GNI, and are encouraged by engagement with stakeholders, refining the governance Governance & Ethics its expanding membership and engagement across model and processes to address emerging issues and new industries. We support the principles of the GNI organizational changes. The Human Rights Working Overview applicable to operators of public Internet access Group will review all feedback from our human rights Governance networks. Where we have offered to build such networks stakeholder engagement sessions. and operate them temporarily, we have included CSR Management contractual terms specifically permitting us to act in 3. Due Diligence Ethics accordance with the due process protections set forth in In 2014, we conducted a CSR materiality assessment the GNI principles relative to supplying user information that highlights several human rights issues as important Privacy and Data during any period in which we might operate the for Cisco and our reputation. These issues included Security networks. We operate some of the networks providing digital security and privacy, ethical sourcing, and supply Human Rights services that are used primarily by enterprises such chain labor standards. We refined our approach to Human Rights Stakeholder Engagement as WebEx and Callway (which allows for bridging of identifying and addressing human rights risks through In July 2014, five Cisco senior leaders met with experts Supply Chain TelePresence services), and in those circumstances, external engagements and participation in ICT and human from seven global human rights organizations to: we also support the GNI principles. rights forums such as the BSR working group, relevant • Learn about the organizations’ perspectives on human Our People conferences, and peer collaborations. rights priorities Society Our Roadmap for Human Rights • Present our company’s approach to human rights Also in FY14, we finalized a human rights training We continue to implement our Human Rights Roadmap, • Increase transparency and understanding of human Environment program that will allow our employees to gain greater which focuses on four critical areas: policy, governance, rights issues in ICT clarity regarding human rights and the intersection with GRI Index due diligence, and remediation. We have been sharing Cisco representatives from corporate affairs, investor Cisco’s operations and products. The training is an online this framework with internal teams as we believe relations, legal, operations, and supply chain attended interactive module that will require relevant employees this assists Cisco in addressing human rights more the meeting, which was held in our Washington, D.C. to certify its completion. We first launched the training in office and facilitated by human rights experts from BSR. systematically across our organization. FY14 and will be tracking and reporting on it in FY15. Participants from Boston, New York, and San Jose joined via Cisco TelePresence. 1. Policy 4. Remediation The discussion covered substantive issues such as We review and update our global Human Rights Policy privacy, freedom of expression, product use, public In FY14, we continued to integrate human rights into each year. The policy articulates our commitment to policy efforts, and collaborative initiatives. It was Cisco’s Ethics Line. This will allow employees and any human rights and outlines our approach to managing mutually beneficial and we expect it will lead to more other stakeholder to submit questions related to human dialogue. Engaging with the human rights community issues such as privacy, data security, labor rights, and rights concerns by email or telephone. We will review the provides Cisco an opportunity to learn more about freedom of expression. types and numbers of human rights-related questions how our products and services can be used to address submitted through this system to assess how well some of the world’s greatest challenges, such as data 2. Governance employees are aware of this resource and to analyze security, disaster response, and access to education In FY14, our cross-functional Human Rights Working and healthcare. the content of the questions for any patterns or areas Group met on a quarterly basis to discuss implementation of concern. Areas discussed as potential topics for future sessions of Cisco’s Human Rights Roadmap. The group will included human rights in the supply chain, due diligence, employee training, and collaboration with hardware companies. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C1 Introduction Supply Chain Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Overview Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability in A highly dynamic and complex supply take back, recycle, or enable reuse for technology to improve compliance, Core Business chain builds the Cisco products that of Cisco products. We expect all save energy, cut climate impacts and Practices empower businesses and enable our suppliers to meet the same high material use, and get direct feedback Promoting collaboration around the world. We standards for ethics, labor rights, health from factory workers. Transparency work closely with suppliers to manage and safety, and the environment that we Working with Suppliers sustainability issues and improve set for ourselves. These standards are A highly connected supply chain will help to Build Capability performance throughout the supply chain outlined in our Supplier Code of Conduct. us detect and respond to emerging issues and at every stage of the product life cycle. faster and will enhance collaboration. Our People We are exploring ways to apply the Society More than 600 suppliers make Internet of Everything (see page A2) in Environment components, manufacture, test, deliver, our supply chain. We see opportunities GRI Index < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C2 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Overview Supply Chain Overview Our goal is to increase transparency in the supply chain and help suppliers improve their sustainability performance. To do this, we: Our Supply Chain • Embed sustainability into core business practices for selecting and By doing so, we seek to build customer trust, reduce costs, secure continuity of Embedding assessing suppliers supply, respond to stakeholder needs, and protect the Cisco brand. Sustainability in Core Business • Engage with key suppliers to understand the challenges they face, improve Managing environmental impacts in our supply chain is an important part of our Practices performance, and build capability engagement with suppliers. We highlight this at relevant points throughout this Promoting • Work with others to tackle industrywide challenges, through initiatives section of the report. Information on environmental performance related to our Transparency such as the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) supply chain can also be found in the Environment section (see page F11). Working with Suppliers to Build Capability Our People 2014 at a Glance Society Environment GRI Index Enhanced monitoring of working Conducted due diligence on hours for high-risk suppliers. 100 mineral sourcing and published our first Conflict Minerals Report. 100 percent of Cisco supplier managers completed sustainability training. REPORT Increased focus on capability 58 percent of key suppliers have goals to cut greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, up from 45 percent in 2013. 58 % building through collaboration and corrective actions. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C3 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Overview Supply Chain Overview 2014 Progress Toward Objectives 2015 Objectives and Beyond Our Supply Chain Objectives Status Objectives Target Date Embedding Sustainability in 100 percent of key suppliers1 have goals in place to reduce GHG emissions and 100 percent of key suppliers report their GHG emissions to CDP. End of FY16 Core Business report progress toward their goals by end of FY15 (objective changed). Increase percentage of key suppliers that set GHG emissions-reduction End of FY16 Practices 100 percent of key suppliers report Cisco’s share of their GHG emissions by goals in their CDP reports to 75 percent. end of FY15 (objective changed). Promoting Establish a GHG emissions reduction goal for our supply chain operations. End of FY15 Transparency Establish a due diligence process to assess whether tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold in our products are being sourced from conflict-free minerals and publish a Conflict Enhance our supplier engagement by further integrating the Supplier End of FY15 Working with Suppliers Minerals Report by May 31, 2014, as required by the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act. Code of Conduct into day-to-day business operations. to Build Capability Partner with suppliers to identify and realize sustainability improvements in FY14. Require all supply chain employees to complete Cisco’s corporate human End of FY15 rights training. Our People 100 percent of Cisco supplier managers complete web-based training on Work with university partners to incorporate sustainability into business End of FY15 sustainability in FY14. education for supply chain professionals. Society Develop and deploy a new training module on human rights in the supply chain as a Gather real-time feedback from supplier workers and management to End of FY15 Environment supplement to Cisco’s corporate human rights training in FY14. enhance transparency on labor conditions in the supply chain. GRI Index 86 percent of key component suppliers report GHG emissions via CDP in FY14. Develop standards of measurement for allocating supplier-level emissions down to the component level in FY14. Achieved Partially Achieved2 1. Key suppliers are defined as those that receive a business scorecard (see page C4 for definition). 2. Partially achieved objectives are those that have (1) been almost fully achieved and are therefore not included in 2015 Objectives and Beyond, or (2) been reevaluated and replaced by a similar objective for FY15 and Beyond. See the text for details and future plans. “We view sustainability as an integral part of operating a world-class supply chain. We are collaborating with academic and other organizations to promote this thinking among the next generation of supply chain professionals.” John L. Kern, SVP, Supply Chain Operations < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C4 Introduction Our Supply Chain Figure 1. Cisco Manufacturing Around the World Governance & Ethics The manufacturing of our products is entirely outsourced. 8% More than 600 suppliers around the world make finished Supply Chain Cisco products, supply approximately 80,000 parts that Overview go into our products, provide logistical services, and Europe and the collect and recycle products at the end of their useful Our Supply Chain Middle East life. We spend billions of dollars each year with these Embedding suppliers, the majority with: Sustainability in Core Business • Manufacturing partners: A select group of suppliers Practices that produce finished Cisco products Netherlands Promoting • Component suppliers: A much wider group of suppliers, often contracted directly by Cisco to provide Russia Transparency parts to our manufacturing partners according to our Canada Working with Suppliers to Build Capability specifications United Czech • Logistics service providers: A small number of Republic suppliers that distribute our products to customers States China Our People We encourage all suppliers to have strong sustainability Mexico Society Thailand programs. We focus our audit and engagement efforts Environment on approximately 130 suppliers that account for more than 80 percent of our supply chain expenditure. Many of Brazil GRI Index Malaysia these suppliers—nearly all of our manufacturing partners and logistics service providers, and some component suppliers—are considered “key” due to the nature of Asia Pacific 53% their business relationships with Cisco. We assess key suppliers using a business performance scorecard Americas 39% (see page C8). Recent trends in spend are a result of Cisco’s efforts to concentrate our supply chain closer to customer locations and to become more risk-resilient. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C5 Introduction Supply Chain Sustainability Figure 2. Embedding Sustainability into the Supply Chain Governance & Ethics Guiding Principles The following overarching principles apply to our own Supply Chain operations and those of our global suppliers: Overview • Operate ethically and in compliance with applicable laws Our Supply Chain • Value employees, embrace diversity, and promote Embedding a fair and respectful workplace Sustainability in Designs Product and Orchestrates Core Business • Provide a safe and healthy workplace and strive Ecosystem of Partners Practices to reduce the environmental footprint of products and operations Promoting • Be an asset to local communities by supporting Transparency education, healthcare, and basic human needs Working with Suppliers programs, as well as ongoing economic development to Build Capability • Promote engagement with and development of diverse suppliers Our People • Strengthen management systems that govern responsible operations Society Environment GRI Index Component Suppliers Manufacturing Partners Forward Logistics Partners Customers and Make parts Transform parts into Transport and Channel Partners final product warehouse products Purchase and use products Reverse Logistics Processes Return, reuse, and recycle < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C6 Introduction Embedding Sustainability in Governance & Ethics Core Business Practices Supply Chain Sustainability is one of the main criteria we use to assess Overview how our suppliers are doing. We reward suppliers that perform well with opportunities for additional business Our Supply Chain with Cisco, and we recognize their achievements through Embedding our Supplier Appreciation Awards. We aim to help our Sustainability in suppliers improve, but we will not work with those that Core Business systematically fail to comply with our standards. Practices Promoting Transparency Supplier Code of Conduct All suppliers must acknowledge their commitment to the Working with Suppliers EICC Supplier Code of Conduct. We also expect them to to Build Capability extend the Code to their own suppliers. Our People The Code is designed to promote worker safety and fairness, environmental responsibility, and ethical Society business. EICC members review and update the Code regularly to reflect best practices and address Key Challenge: Targeting Environmental Impacts and Related Costs in the Supply Chain Environment emerging issues. Engaging with suppliers to reduce their environmental impacts can help us meet our own sustainability goals, improve GRI Index performance, and reduce the costs of our products across their life cycle. We want suppliers to understand that following the In FY14, we responded to customer feedback to focus on environmental initiatives that provide direct cost savings. Code is essential to be eligible to do business with Cisco. For example, we are expanding our Pack It Green packaging program and continue to prioritize reductions in Our key manufacturing and logistics providers are highly GHG emissions and energy use. FY14 achievements include: engaged. But educating smaller component suppliers that • Saving 1494 metric tonne of GHG emissions, 888 metric tonne of material, and US$6.3 million annually through our don’t have strong sustainability programs can be more Pack It Green packaging program of a challenge (see Engaging Component Suppliers to • Working with one of our customers to optimize the way we deliver “spare” products such as cables and memory Improve Standards, page C7). upgrades, which has saved 130 metric tonne of packaging material and US$2.2 million • Transporting products by sea rather than air where possible, saving 70,000 metric tonne of GHG emissions Suppliers must also comply with the Cisco Controlled Substances Specification. It requires compliance • Working with customers and suppliers to recover products for reuse within Cisco, reducing the need to purchase new equipment and saving in material costs with environmental regulations such as the European Union (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances We aim to build on this progress by streamlining all related programs into a cohesive approach to reducing our GHG emissions. Directive (RoHS) (see Environment, page F10). Other environmental criteria in our Supplier Code of Conduct and audits include non-GHG emissions, waste and effluents, and compliance with all relevant local environmental laws. Biodiversity has not been identified as a significant issue in our supply chain as a whole. However, we expect manufacturing partners to report performance on all Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators that are material to them. For more information, see Environment, page F16. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C7 Introduction Key Challenge: Tackling Excessive Governance & Ethics Working Hours Reducing overtime remains one of the greatest supply Supply Chain chain challenges for our industry. We take this issue very seriously. Many factors contribute to excessive Overview overtime, including production demands, availability Our Supply Chain of labor, and wages. Embedding We closely monitor working hours through our Sustainability in supplier scorecard and audits. But many suppliers Core Business still exceed the 60-hour maximum set by the EICC. Practices We are committed to working with suppliers to better understand and manage the circumstances that Promoting contribute to periods of excessive working hours. Transparency We identify noncompliance related to working hours Working with Suppliers through audits. As part of their corrective actions, to Build Capability relevant suppliers send us weekly updates on compliance with EICC working-hour requirements using an automated tracking system. In FY14, we focused on Our People engaging with 20 suppliers. Of these: • 4 report that at least 95 percent of their workers are Society working 60 hours or fewer per week in compliance with the EICC standard Environment • 11 report that 70 percent of their workers are in compliance Key Challenge: Engaging Component Suppliers to Improve Standards GRI Index • 18 report that less than 5 percent of workers work We have numerous key component suppliers. Engaging them on sustainability can be challenging. Some have longer than 72 hours per week well-established sustainability programs, but many are smaller or less mature companies. We often have limited influence • 19 report that more than 90 percent of workers meet because Cisco is not among their major customers. the EICC requirement to have a rest day every week Coaching and dialogue are helping to overcome this challenge. We provide targeted training for suppliers starting out We take part in the EICC Working Hours task force to set on their sustainability journey and for those with more advanced programs. Cisco is leading the EICC’s program to standards, share best practices, and develop training develop an industry framework for supplier capability building. We also train our own supplier managers to talk with for suppliers on managing working hours. suppliers directly about sustainability (see below). Key Challenge: Preventing Exploitation of Training Cisco Supplier Managers In FY14, we enhanced this training to explicitly cover Student Workers in China human rights in the supply chain. All supplier managers We train our supplier managers to increase their will be expected to complete our new corporate human As a member of the EICC’s Asia Network, Cisco is awareness about sustainability and embed it as part of rights training in FY15. helping to establish best practices to protect student our regular business decisions. The training: workers in China from being exploited. In partnership with • Explains the business case for sustainability All Cisco manufacturing, logistics, and, for the first Nanjing University and a nongovernmental organization (NGO) called the Labour Education and Service Network, • Describes the role of managers in engaging suppliers time, component supplier managers completed the EICC has developed a toolkit for the responsible formal web-based training on sustainability in FY14. management of student interns in China. The toolkit offers • Outlines our Supplier Code of Conduct compliance The Supplier Code of Conduct also is noted in our a practical guide and checklist for managers. It includes monitoring procedures Code of Business Conduct, which is subject to annual legal information and best practices for protection of student interns and effective cooperation between recertification for all eligible employees (see Governance schools and enterprises using student workers. and Ethics, page B8). < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C8 Introduction Supplier Scorecard We already use the EICC Supplier Code of Conduct Table 1. Scorecard Sustainability Survey Results and audit protocol. In FY14, more than 80 percent Governance & Ethics We use a business scorecard to monitor key suppliers’ of our audits were shared EICC audits. In FY14, we Key suppliers publishing FY12 FY13 FY14 performance on a range of criteria, including technology, began using a standard industry platform for sharing a CSR Report cost, quality, responsiveness, and collaboration. Supply Chain environmental data, which Cisco helped develop. Sustainability represents between 3 and 8 percent EICC members can use it to collect metrics, goals, Manufacturing partners 86% 86% 100% Overview of a supplier’s total score. The scorecard asks for: and progress updates from suppliers on GHG emissions, Our Supply Chain • Data and goals on environmental impacts Logistics providers 57% 100% 100% energy, water, and waste in a standardized way. Embedding • GHG reporting through CDP This reduces duplication of effort. Component suppliers 38% 52% 52% Sustainability in • Data on labor issues, such as injury and illness rates, Core Business Our own customers are asking more questions about Key suppliers reporting working hours, and employee turnover Practices sustainability in the supply chain. Customer interest has to CDP • A public commitment to sustainability through increased over the past five years, and sustainability is Promoting reporting or participation in relevant industry groups Manufacturing partners 88% 100% 100% Transparency now frequently included in formal requests for proposals. In FY14, we surveyed more than 5000 customers on Working with Suppliers Survey questions are tailored to each type of supplier. Logistics providers 56% 100% 100% their interest in environmental sustainability and how we to Build Capability We assess suppliers’ sustainability performance at could do better—or help them do better. Of these, 40 Component suppliers 46% 74% 86% least once per year as part of regular business reviews. percent already include sustainability in their procurement Our People Suppliers must maintain strong scores to earn and retain requirements and a further 25 percent expect to do so Key suppliers that have their status as key suppliers. within the next five years. set a GHG emissionsSociety reduction target To address findings from the survey appropriately, we are For more information on the sustainability customer Environment Manufacturing partners Not tracked 71% 100% developing a formal process to more effectively integrate survey, see the Environment section, page F5. GRI Index sustainability aspects into our business decisions and Logistics providers Not tracked 67% 62% to include targeted capability-building initiatives in our regular engagement with suppliers. Component suppliers Not tracked 41% 56% Suppliers are often asked to complete multiple surveys Key manufacturing 100% 100% 100% by different customers. To reduce the burden on them, partners and logistics providers providing we are working with our peers to standardize processes. GHG emissions data related to Cisco products “Manufacturing our products responsibly is a core value for Cisco. We convey the importance of social and environmental performance clearly to our suppliers from day one. We push ourselves to continually improve. We expect the same from our suppliers and monitor their progress through our performance scorecard.” Jeff Gallinat, SVP, Global Manufacturing Operations < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C9 Introduction Promoting Transparency Promoting Supplier Diversity CASE STUDIES Governance & Ethics FROM AROUND THE WORLD Improving transparency in the supply chain is a critical Working with diverse suppliers (womanand minoritystep to help us address some of our most significant owned businesses) supports our business by: Supply Chain sustainability issues: supply chain labor standards, life • Giving us access to a wider range of innovative supply Giving Supplier Workers a Voice with Overview cycle environmental impacts, and ethical sourcing. chain partners Labor Link To target our work with suppliers and peers to improve • Enhancing supply chain competitiveness and Our Supply Chain The Labor Link tool, developed by the nonprofit performance effectively, we need to identify key risks reducing the risk of disruption in our supply chain by Good World Solutions with Cisco’s support, is helping Embedding and impacts. Supply chain transparency is also something broadening our supplier base to increase transparency in the supply chain by getting Sustainability in our stakeholders want to see. Both customers and feedback directly from workers. • Contributing to improved satisfaction for customers, Core Business governments are demanding it (see Key Challenge: some of which include supplier diversity in their Factory workers can use Labor Link to comment on Practices Due Diligence on Conflict Minerals for our response procurement policies and bid packages working conditions anonymously using their mobile Promoting to new U.S. regulations, page C14). We offer a range of mentoring and networking phones. These inputs help validate supplier audit Transparency opportunities to help diverse suppliers develop their findings and identify areas for capability building. To help us understand key impacts in our supply chain global business capability and competitiveness and Labor Link also can be used to send workers useful Working with Suppliers support their economic empowerment (see Society, information via their mobile phones on topics such as to Build Capability and how they are managed, we: page E15). We also encourage our key suppliers to labor issues, health, education, and financial literacy. • Encourage suppliers to publish CSR reports describing buy components, products, and services from diverse Cisco has supported the development of Labor Link Our People how they manage their most significant sustainability suppliers and to report their expenditure with diverse since 2010 when it launched as a pilot program impacts suppliers through our scorecard. involving 100 apparel workers in one country. It has now Society expanded to reach 95,000 people working in apparel • Require suppliers to report GHG emissions and targets and electronics factories and on farms across 10 Environment via CDP and our scorecard (see page C8) countries. In May 2014, Cisco and Good World Solutions we used supplier-specific GHG reporting programs to lay • Conduct site audits of high-risk supplier facilities presented insights from the Labor Link program at GRI Index the foundation for estimating Scope 3 supply chain GHG the Stanford University Responsible Supply Chains (see content starting on page C10) emissions down to the component level. Please refer conference. For more information about our support • Obtain direct feedback from factory workers using to the Environment section for more information on our for nonprofits, see Society (page E13). tools like Labor Link (see feature, this page) efforts in FY14 and objectives for FY15 (see Environment, Heather Franzese, Executive Director of Good World page F3). Solutions, says: “Cisco is pioneering a new model of By the end of FY14, 56 percent of our key component worker engagement, using mobile technology to get suppliers had set goals to reduce their GHG emissions, We encourage suppliers to share information, even in direct, anonymous feedback from workers on their up from 41 percent in FY13. All of our key manufacturing areas where they are not performing well. For example, working conditions, job satisfaction, and individual we ask suppliers to report any environmental or health and community needs. Labor Link mobile survey data partners and 62 percent of our logistics providers have informs Cisco’s capability-building strategy in a way set such goals, and all are able to provide data on GHG and safety infractions, as well as remedial actions, that’s more responsive to local needs.” emissions related to Cisco products. through the scorecard. We make it clear that they will not be penalized for disclosing this information. Our aim is to To gain an accurate picture of the life cycle impacts of promote open, honest dialogue and to work together with our products, we also need to understand the impacts suppliers to reach an acceptable outcome. associated with our supplier GHG emissions. In FY14, < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C10 Introduction Working with Suppliers to Figure 3. Supplier Engagement Process Governance & Ethics Build Capability Supply Chain Overview Our Supply Chain We believe the most effective way to enhance supplier capabilities is through continuing dialogue and support built around our robust audit process. We use audits to monitor suppliers’ compliance with the EICC Code 1 Code of Conduct requirements communicated to all suppliers (see page C6). Embedding of Conduct, assess their performance, and identify Sustainability in opportunities to help them improve (see Figure 3). Where Core Business Scorecard evaluation for suppliers fall short, we help to set out corrective actions 2 Practices key suppliers (see page C8). and follow up to see that these are put into practice. Corrective actions 6 Promoting and capability building Transparency We engage with suppliers regularly to strengthen our (see page C11). relationships and build their sustainability capabilities. Working with Suppliers to Build Capability Cisco TelePresence® and Cisco WebEx® video and web conferencing systems enable us to provide training and 3 discuss audit findings, corrective actions, and other Our People sensitive issues “face to face” with suppliers around the Identify suppliers world. Suppliers can access guidance and training on 5 Society representing top the Code of Conduct and specific topics such as conflict 80% of expenditure. Environment minerals on our supplier sustainability website. 4 GRI Index We also encourage suppliers to join the EICC and participate in wider industry efforts to promote Site audits of high-risk standardization and build capability. With other major facilities (see Tables 2 and 3 brands, Cisco supported the development of the EICC’s starting on page C11). supplier learning website. This has the potential to reach thousands of workers across the industry. EICC self-assessment to identify high-risk facilities. Engaging to Improve Performance In FY14, we refined our strategy to dedicate more We completed audits of 34 supplier facilities in FY14. We Although the overall number of audits decreased from resources to supplier capability building rather than collaborated closely with all 34 facilities to help them put FY13, we have achieved our ongoing goal to audit all focusing on the number of new audits conducted. robust corrective actions in place to close performance high-risk manufacturing facilities at least once every This enables us to engage with suppliers and share gaps (see Table 4 on page C11). Suppliers have resolved two years and all high-risk component suppliers every best practices that are more likely to result in sustained or are pursuing corrective plans to resolve all the major three years. We also met our commitment as a member improvements in performance. Our engagement with issues identified in the FY14 audits. We engage thirdof the EICC to audit at least 25 percent of our high-risk suppliers included collaborating on improvements to party auditors to review progress, and we follow up with suppliers overall. working hours tracking, worker engagement practices, additional site visits to validate corrective actions before and CSR reporting. these are closed (see Tables 2 and 3 on page C11). < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C11 Introduction Table 2. Number of Audits Conducted Table 3. Percentage of High-Risk Suppliers Audited Governance & Ethics FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Manufacturing partner facilities 5 11 22 12 Manufacturing partner facilities 29% 65% 59% 60% Supply Chain Component supplier facilities 8 21 30 22 Component supplier facilities 13% 27% 54% 31% Overview Total 13 32 52 34 Our Supply Chain Embedding Table 4. Audit Findings and Responses in FY14 Sustainability in Core Business Category Finding Response Practices Labor Promoting Working hours Ineffective policy or procedure to manage Suppliers enhanced management systems to monitor working hours and alert line Transparency and control working hours: Overtime and managers of any cases of overtime, increased management accountability, and consecutive days worked without a break improved resource planning during peak production seasons. Suppliers regularly Working with Suppliers are beyond regulatory requirements. submit information on working hours to Cisco through an automated tracking tool to Build Capability (see page C7). Wages and benefits Social insurance does not cover Suppliers set up plans to purchase insurance for workers, improved communications all workers. with workers who do not want to enroll, and made it mandatory for all new hires to Our People enroll for social insurance. Society Freely chosen employment Lack of policy and procedure in place on Suppliers established and implemented policies, provided training on EICC Code slavery and human trafficking: Insufficient of Conduct to labor agents and service providers, and required them to sign a Environment communication of labor requirements to declaration of commitment to the EICC’s Code on Freely Chosen Employment. labor agents and service providers. GRI Index Health and Safety Occupational safety Lack of effective controls on proper use Suppliers established processes to assess potential risks and implement of personal protective equipment and limit preventative actions, and strengthened training to improve worker awareness. worker exposure to occupational health and safety risks. Emergency preparedness Lack of controls for emergency exits. Suppliers established regular checks on the emergency exits and strengthened fire drills. Occupational injury and illness First aid kits not monitored frequently Suppliers put proper procedures in place for renewal of first aid and safety kits enough; investigation reports and and put a dedicated person in charge of investigation and reporting. corrective actions not submitted to labor authority in a timely manner. Environment Hazardous substances Inadequate management of hazardous Suppliers provided training to workers handling hazardous materials, enhanced materials and vendor providing waste operating procedures, and strengthened management procedures and training treatment services. for waste treatment vendor. Ethics No improper advantage Lack of policy on gifts for suppliers Suppliers established policies and procedures to clearly set out requirements and customers. and monitor excessive gifts or benefits. Management System Supplier responsibility Inadequate procedures to manage Suppliers established an audit plan for their own high-risk suppliers, conducted supplier compliance with EICC Code audits, and followed up to check whether corrective actions had been taken. of Conduct. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C12 Introduction Audit Process For any issues identified, the supplier must produce a We prioritize high-risk supplier facilities for site audits. We corrective action plan and subsequently provide evidence Figure 4. Audit Findings by Governance & Ethics identify high-risk facilities using the EICC self-assessment that the corrective actions have been implemented. Category in FY14 process, based on the type of activity and procedures to Action must be taken on priority issues within 30 days, Supply Chain and all findings are expected to be addressed within manage labor and environmental risks at each facility. Management Overview 180 days except for issues that require long-term System Audits are conducted by a third-party auditor at improvement plans. Our Supply Chain the supplier’s facility. They are typically announced We require evidence that issues have been resolved Environment 15% Labor Embedding Sustainability in in advance, but we also conduct some audits and, if needed, we conduct a follow-up audit to check. 7% unannounced. We share audit findings through EICC Core Business We continue to work closely with suppliers until their Practices common audits where our needs align with those of other EICC member companies. performance improves. During FY14, 78 percent of 43% Promoting outstanding corrective action plans were closed within Transparency Auditors use the standard protocol and audit tools the EICC prescribed timeframe. Health 28% Working with Suppliers developed by the EICC. They include: reviewing and Safety to Build Capability documentation, conducting site tours, and interviewing Audit Findings management and employees separately. Audit criteria In FY14, labor practices continued to make up the largest cover all aspects of the EICC Code of Conduct and include Our People portion of findings, particularly in relation to working suppliers’ monitoring of their own suppliers. Audit findings are shared with Cisco and the supplier. hours (see Figure 4). Our new online tool is helping us 7% Ethics Society monitor and address this issue more effectively (see Key Environment Challenge: Tackling Excessive Working Hours, page C7). Looking Forward GRI Index The proportion of findings related to health, safety, and Cisco respects the principles embodied in the Universal environment has increased in FY14. This is likely due to Declaration of Human Rights as reflected in our Human the inclusion of additional questions in these areas in the Rights Policy and is committed to conducting business latest EICC audit protocol. The most common findings in a manner that ensures the ethical treatment of all relate to maintenance of emergency exits. workers in our supply chain. As part of that commitment, freely chosen employment has always been an important Findings related to ethics and management systems have element of our Supplier Code of Conduct. The treatment Supporting Effective decreased. Most of our key suppliers have developed of foreign workers, including indebtedness from excessive Social Compliance Auditing ethics policies and effective management systems. recruitment fees and the holding of travel documents Leaders from Cisco and other organizations are Their understanding of the requirements of the EICC and other means of restricting employee movement, supporting the Compliance Practitioners Association Code of Conduct has also improved. Based on the has become a growing concern, especially in southeast (CPA) to strengthen auditing of social responsibility FY14 audit findings, the next challenge in this area is and working conditions. The CPA seeks to bolster the Asia. In response, the EICC’s task force on forced labor to help suppliers extend these requirements to their and human trafficking has developed more detailed code audit profession through continuous education and a commitment to ethical behavior. Such an independently own suppliers more effectively. For more detailed audit language and audit protocols to promote an industrywide run professional auditors’ association will support efforts findings, see Table 5 on page C13. solution. In FY15, Cisco is placing renewed emphasis to improve factory working conditions. The initial focus on this important issue in our supplier engagement and is on auditing factories in China. The CPA aims to raise standards of professional conduct to improve the training activities, as well as implementing the EICC quality of auditing and, in doing so, drive performance enhanced standards as part of our audit program. improvements among suppliers in the long term. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C13 Introduction Table 5. Categorization of Audit Findings in FY14 (Continued) Table 5. Categorization of Audit Findings in FY14 (Continued) Governance & Ethics Findings Findings Findings Total % of Audit Findings Findings Findings Total % of Audit Identified Identified Identified Number Elements Identified Identified Identified Number Elements Supply Chain as Priorityi as Majorii as Minoriii of Audit Resulting in as Priorityi as Majorii as Minoriii of Audit Resulting in Elementsiv Findings Elementsiv Findings Overview Labor 19 60 38 1174 10% Environment 0 10 8 632 3% Our Supply Chain Freely chosen employment 0 12 13 Environmental permits and 0 1 1 Embedding reporting Child labor avoidance 1 2 6 Sustainability in Pollution prevention and Core Business Working hours 15 29 9 0 1 0 resource reduction Practices Wages and benefits 3 12 4 Hazardous substances 0 7 6 Promoting Transparency Humane treatment 0 0 3 Wastewater and solid waste 0 1 0 Working with Suppliers Nondiscrimination 0 1 1 Air emissions 0 0 1 to Build Capability Freedom of association 0 4 2 Product content restrictions 0 0 0 Ethics 0 9 11 461 4% Management System 0 19 22 595 7% Our People Business integrity 0 2 2 Company commitment 0 0 0 Society No improper advantage 0 3 3 Management accountability 0 1 1 Environment Disclosure of information 0 0 0 and responsibility Intellectual property 0 1 0 Legal and customer GRI Index 0 3 1 requirements Fair business, advertising, 0 2 1 Risk assessment and risk and competition 0 3 2 management Protection of identity 0 0 1 Improvement objectives 0 4 2 Responsible sourcing of minerals 0 0 3 Training 0 0 3 Privacy 0 0 0 Communication 0 0 1 Nonretaliation 0 1 1 Worker feedback and 0 0 2 Health and Safety 0 54 24 838 9% participation Occupational safety 0 11 2 Audits and assessments 0 4 0 Emergency preparedness 0 16 7 Corrective action process 0 1 2 Occupational injury and illness 0 7 7 Documentation and records 0 0 1 Industrial hygiene 0 9 2 Supplier responsibility 0 3 7 Physically demanding work 0 2 0 Notes to table: Audit finding: A nonconformance with the EICC Code of Conduct found during an audit. Criteria for categorization of Machine safeguarding 0 2 5 findings are in accordance with the EICC Validated Audit Process Audit Operations Manual. i Priority finding: A major nonconformance with significant and immediate impact. Food, sanitation, and housing 0 7 1 ii Major finding: A significant failure in the management system that renders established processes or procedures ineffective. iii Minor finding: Typically an isolated or random incident that does not necessarily indicate a systemic problem with management systems. iv Total audit elements: The total number of audit criteria with the potential for a finding. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback C14 Introduction process of their supply chain. From June 2014, relevant companies must publish a report, Governance & Ethics as part of their filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, disclosing whether those minerals originated from the DRC or its bordering countries. Supply Chain “Conflict minerals” include columbite-tantalite (“coltan”), wolframite, cassiterite, and gold, which are refined to produce tantalum, tungsten, tin, and gold (“3TG” metals), respectively. Overview Our Response Our Supply Chain Cisco is committed to sourcing components and materials from suppliers that share our Embedding values around human rights, ethics, and environmental responsibility. We are taking all steps Sustainability in to comply with relevant legislation. Core Business Our Conflict Minerals Policy asserts our commitment to source minerals in a manner that Practices respects human rights and our support for the goals and objectives of the Dodd-Frank Promoting Act. Our Supplier Code of Conduct also includes the responsible sourcing of minerals and Transparency requires suppliers to conduct appropriate due diligence. We have communicated the policy to all suppliers. In FY14, we provided training sessions to educate suppliers, strengthen their Working with Suppliers capabilities, and improve data quality. Suppliers can also access training and guidance on to Build Capability conflict minerals on our supplier website. We support an industrywide approach to the complex issue of conflict minerals through Our People our participation in the EICC’s Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). Cisco has adopted the CFSI’s standard industry tools and templates, which suppliers can use to disclose which Society smelters are in their supply chain, and which we can then use to report this information to customers. The accompanying Conflict-Free Smelter Program (CFSP) determines which Environment smelters and refiners can be validated through independent audits as “conflict-free.” We rely on our direct suppliers to evaluate their own supply chains to understand which GRI Index smelters or refineries provide the 3TG metals in our products. To do this, we use the Key Challenge: Due Diligence on Conflict Minerals reporting template developed by the CFSI. The Issue In our first year of reporting, our suppliers identified 1366 smelters and refineries that they used to source 3TG metals. Of these, 66 were found to comply with the CFSP’s assessment Increased scrutiny from NGOs and growing interest from governments have put a spotlight protocols. These statistics provide insight into the extent of the significant challenge our on the sourcing of certain minerals used in electronics and other industries. The concern is that proceeds from the mining of these minerals in conflict regions, such as the Democratic industry faces, particularly as relatively few smelters and refiners have been verified so far Republic of the Congo (DRC), are directly or indirectly financing or benefiting armed groups as conflict-free. accused of major human rights abuses. We are working with other CFSI members to verify the status of the other facilities and Resolving this issue demands extensive collaboration. The mines from which minerals are encourage more smelters and refineries to comply with the CFSP. We are also working sourced are several tiers away from companies like Cisco in the supply chain. Improving with suppliers to improve the accuracy and completeness of the data they provide and to transparency in the mineral supply chain is a critical first step. better understand the sourcing strategies they are implementing to eliminate the use of noncertified smelters. The U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) of 2010 requires any company that makes products containing conflict minerals and the metals For more information about our conflict minerals due diligence processes, see our derived from them to conduct a reasonable country-of-origin inquiry and due diligence Conflict Minerals Report. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D1 Introduction Our People Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Overview Working Together Our employees contribute significantly We respect and care for each other Collaboration is at the heart of our culture. A Safe and Healthy to our shared vision to create a more through an open environment that offers Cisco technologies enable people to Work Environment connected world. Cisco’s success our employees opportunities to learn collaborate with colleagues around the An Inclusive and Diverse Culture depends on our ability to attract, retain, and grow. We encourage employees world. Employees share ideas, brainstorm and develop talented people. We to gain new skills and experience, and solutions, and recognize achievements Training and Development offer attractive benefits and career to develop their careers at Cisco. Open to help us succeed together. Our Opportunities opportunities, and foster an inclusive communication, within offices and across technologies also promote flexible Rewarding work culture that promotes innovation cities, helps us work well together and working that can enhance health and Our People and inspires our employees to perform always strive to do the right thing. well-being by enabling people to better at their best. balance work and personal commitments. Society Environment GRI Index < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D2 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Overview Our People We want our people to feel they are helping to change the world. Our values underpin the company culture and support a great Overview employee experience. Working Together A Safe and Healthy The five key pillars of our People strategy are: Work Environment • Working Together: We promote a culture of honest, transparent communication, • Providing Training and Development Opportunities: We offer training, An Inclusive and seek ongoing input from our employees, and provide extensive opportunities to mentoring, and development programs and encourage our employees to Diverse Culture collaborate and innovate. build a career with Cisco. Training and Development • A Safe and Healthy Work Environment: We invest in our employees’ health and • Rewarding Our People: We provide a competitive rewards package, including Opportunities well-being, offer flexible work practices, and provide a safe workplace. wide-ranging benefits, and we recognize our employees’ achievements and • An Inclusive and Diverse Culture: We recruit a diverse workforce and foster an contributions. Rewarding Our People inclusive culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected, and heard. Society Environment 2014 at a Glance GRI Index Launched Connected Recognition, a fast, easy, and fun way for employees to recognize their colleagues for 10 Ranked number 10 on the World’s Best Multinational Workplaces list by Great Place to Work institute. 87 percent of employees 87 exhibiting Cisco values. are proud to work at Cisco. Introduced an enhanced Launched more ways to support career 55 Occupational Health and development, including a Career Safety management system. Development website, Career Days, and Career Advisory program. Ranked number 55 on the Fortune “100 Best Companies to Work For” list. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D3 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Overview Our People 2014 Progress Toward Objectives 2015 Objectives and Beyond Overview Objectives Status Objectives Target Date Working Together Launch a new People strategy by end of FY15 focused on: Launch a new People strategy focused on: End of FY15 A Safe and Healthy • Talent: Deliver innovative and consistent career development and employee • Talent: Deliver innovative and consistent career development and Work Environment experience. employee experience. • Leadership: Build diverse and global leadership capabilities and pipeline. • Leadership: Build diverse and global leadership capabilities and pipeline. An Inclusive and Diverse Culture • Culture: Inspire employees to embrace culture, values, and integrity. • Culture: Inspire employees to embrace culture, values, and integrity. • Organizational effectiveness: Deliver organizational transformation through • Organizational effectiveness: Deliver organizational transformation Training and Work Force Planning and Organizational Health Analytics. through Work Force Planning and Organizational Health Analytics. Development Opportunities Improve our employee survey scores in the areas of development, organizational Launch a new performance management program. End of FY15 alignment, and recognition.1 Rewarding Introduce a capability-assessment model and leadership accountability to End of FY15 Launch a new performance management program by end of FY15. provide managers with the capabilities they need to develop their teams. Our People Establish a differentiated compensation model that rewards behaviors and End of FY15 Increase diversity awareness with an emphasis on gender awareness. outcomes that support business success. Society Launch new rewards and recognition program that highlights employee contributions. Strengthen recruitment by building a clear picture of what Cisco offers End of FY15 Environment prospective employees. GRI Index Develop a talent plan for key strategic roles, with a priority on internal End of FY15 Achieved Partially Achieved1 Ongoing talent progression. 1. Our employee survey was amended this year, so trending data at the category level is not possible. Trends for individual questions within categories were mixed, with some showing improvements and others remaining stable or declining. Transition to an enterprisewide approach to drive awareness, increase our End of FY15 workforce diversity, and integrate inclusion into key business and talent systems, policies, and practices. Flexible Work Environments In annual surveys, employees repeatedly say workplace flexibility is one of the best things about working at Cisco. Thousands of workers in Connected Workplace environments all over the world report significantly higher levels of satisfaction, teamwork, and productivity. These benefits help us attract and retain top talent. Our flexible work practices also help us meet our environmental goals by reducing the need for air and car travel. Ninety-one percent of employees say their managers support their efforts to balance work and personal life. See more on the Cisco website. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D4 Introduction Working Together Pulse Survey One of our most important listening tools is the annual Table 1. Pulse Survey Results FY14 Governance & Ethics We use our technology to enable employees to work Pulse Survey. We have run this confidential online Category Score (%) Supply Chain together wherever they are in the world. Listening to our survey for the past six years. In FY14, 75 percent of people and encouraging them to share ideas helps us Development 77 our employees worldwide participated in the survey. Our People evolve and enhance the company. Employee engagement 79 We consider scores of 80 or above to be positive, and Overview With approximately 74,000 employees located at 380 scores of 70–79 to be good but with room for improvement. Immediate manager 84 Working Together sites in 165+ countries on six continents, it’s important Scores in most categories and key questions remain good that we stay connected. Cisco leaders regularly talk or very good (see Table 1), and our scores in nearly all Inclusion and diversity 80 A Safe and Healthy with people through formal “all-hands” meetings and categories remain significantly higher than those of our Work Environment Innovation 76 personal interactions. They use our Cisco TV, WebEx,® peer companies. An Inclusive and TelePresence,™ and Jabber® technologies to speak with Integrity and ethics 90 Diverse Culture people anywhere in the world in real time. We simplified and shortened the survey in FY14. These Training and changes mean that we cannot provide meaningful Leadership climate 69 Development Through our Global Site Strolls program, Chairman and comparisons with previous years for the overall category Opportunities CEO John Chambers and other senior executives join scores. But we can provide trend data for certain Organizational agility 77 virtual meetings via videoconference with small groups individual questions that remained the same. This data Rewarding Respect for people 78 Our People of employees. In the first year, Site Strolls at 45 sites is included in relevant sections throughout this report. worldwide gave employees the opportunity to interact Rewards and recognition 67 personally and informally with senior leaders. In FY14, we also improved our process for reporting Society and responding to Pulse Survey results (see feature, Strategic alignment 73 Environment We expect all our managers to keep employees informed page D5). We will use the findings to refine the way and to promote open communication within their we engage with employees, enhance their experience, Team climate 82 GRI Index teams. Our online Management Central portal provides and improve our business. information, tips, and tools to help them do this. Listening to our employees is just as important as speaking to them. We take full advantage of Cisco technologies to “I am always impressed how our leaders make great efforts to engage enable employees to ask questions and let us know what they think. Blogs, social media, and our crowdsourcing with employees, despite the challenging schedules they hold. I appreciate tool, Innovus, help us connect. Employees also have the their candor and genuine willingness to listen to the thoughts, ideas, and opportunity to speak to Cisco management in person—at company meetings or informal gatherings or through their concerns we have.” managers. We share feedback with relevant departments Site Stroll participant, North Carolina throughout the company, and update employees on how we are responding. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D5 Introduction Tapping Into Innovation Governance & Ethics We encourage all our people to share their ideas Supply Chain for products, solutions, markets, and better ways of doing business through our online SmartZone. Our dedicated Action Learning Forum develops the most Our People compelling ideas. Overview To stretch our employees’ imaginations, we create opportunities to get them out of their day-to-day Working Together situations and reward their innovation. Engineers gather for daylong events such as “Hackathons” and A Safe and Healthy “GeekFests,” where they work on solutions to real Work Environment business problems and think creatively about future An Inclusive and products. The IT Global Innovation Program rewards Diverse Culture and recognizes our IT people who push the boundaries of what’s possible and keep us ahead of the curve. In Training and China, Thinkubation 2.0 encourages engineers to be Development more creative and to take risks. Our inaugural Internet Opportunities of Everything Innovation Challenge inspired employees to develop an innovative app. Six finalists pitched their Rewarding ideas to Cisco decision makers. Choosing a winner Our People was so tough that they picked three. Each winner was rewarded with a US$5000 prize and will see their idea added to Cisco’s product development roadmap. Society Environment Key Challenge: Responding to Employee Feedback GRI Index Our FY13 Pulse Survey highlighted three lower-scoring areas in need of attention: development, organizational alignment, Employee Pulse Survey and recognition. We have worked in FY14 to improve our employee experience in these areas and are pleased to see • 87 percent are proud to work for Cisco, compared employees express more positive views in the latest survey. with 89 percent in FY13. Following a significant focus on career-development support (see page D10), 75 percent of employees feel they can meet • 84 percent are excited about the way their work their career goals at Cisco, up one point from FY13. We believe this score will further improve next year as new programs contributes to Cisco’s success. become better established. • 84 percent agree that management sets a good Our new Connected Recognition program has been well-received (see page D11). We hope to see improvements in survey example of Cisco’s values, culture, and Code of scores on Rewards and Recognition next year as a result of this program. We will monitor our employees’ experiences Business Conduct. over the year and continue to look for ways to improve their experience in this area. “I am proud to work in an organization that is not only brave enough to state where they have overlooked an issue, but is actively and openly talking about how they will make necessary changes to correct the problem.” Jaclyn Lanasa, Regional Sales Manager < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D6 Introduction A Safe and Healthy through our Emergency Notification System. They also can reply to let us know if they are safe or need help. CASE STUDIES Work Environment Governance & Ethics FROM THE UNITED STATES Supply Chain Health and Wellness We invest in the health, safety, and wellness of our Enabling Health and Wellness We aim to create a healthy workplace that encourages Our People employees because we care about their well-being. employees to stay well. Simple, fun, and effective In the United States, we provide a wide range of We want our employees to stay productive and creative. programs to help people take charge of their health. programs help them deal with challenges that affect Overview We offer world-class medical and wellness resources, They can complete an online health assessment that their ability to be focused and productive. Working Together technologies that support flexible work practices, and helps them develop personalized wellness programs; a wide range of benefits. track participation in fitness activities; receive support A Safe and Healthy Trained counselors provide personal and emotional from expert health coaches; and access resources on Work Environment support on a wide range of issues through our free, nutrition, fitness, sleep, life balance, and preventive Occupational Health and Safety confidential Employee and Family Assistance program. care. We also encourage people to participate in An Inclusive and wellness challenges and offer financial incentives for In FY14, we implemented an Occupational Health and We also offer specialized support on issues such as Diverse Culture taking part in health and fitness activities. Safety management system to standardize our safety care for the elderly, adoption, and dealing with cancer. Training and Our Expert Medical Opinion program gives Cisco Our U.S. Health Centers help employees save money, programs globally. The system is modeled on the billing them at a 20 to 30 percent lower rate than Development employees and their families the opportunity to receive Opportunities internationally recognized OHSAS 18001 standard. community doctors. For employees in our largest health Through this process, we have improved our methods for a free second opinion on medical conditions from plans, preventive care is covered at 100 percent, and Rewarding identifying hazards, assessing risk, and applying controls independent experts. their deductible is waived when they use the Health Our People Center for injury and illness visits. For members who consistently across our operations. Local teams continue We provide state-of-the-art fitness facilities at our five use our Preferred Provider Organizations, generic to monitor effectiveness, engage with management, and prescriptions are free. Society largest U.S. locations. We offer onsite health and medical drive improvement. See Table 2 for key data. care in San Jose, California; Research Triangle Park, Environment Ergonomics continues to be our greatest occupational North Carolina; and Bangalore, India, including: GRI Index safety risk. We support office-based employees through • Primary and family medical care our Global Ergonomic Program, which helps them • Chiropractic, acupuncture, and physical therapy identify, measure, and reduce ergonomic risks. Our Lab Safety Program follows global regulatory and industry • X-ray and lab services standards to assess, communicate, and manage • Vision and dental care lab-based safety hazards. • A pharmacy and access to external specialists in areas such as dermatology Emergency Response More than 3200 people are part of 120 Emergency Employees located elsewhere can connect with a Table 2. Health and Safety Data Response Teams worldwide, ready to respond in primary care doctor or specialist through our telehealth emergency situations. They are trained to administer technologies. FY12 FY13 FY14 first aid, help evacuate buildings, and provide Total incident rate, per 0.25 0.23 0.38 other assistance. During our Wellness Week in October 2013, we offered 100 full-time-equivalent free screening services, consultations, and a range of (FTE) employees We conduct annual Incident Management Drills to be workshops at Cisco sites in the United States and India to prepared for a real emergency. In the event of a disaster, Lost work days, per 100 0.4 0.7 3.671 help employees prioritize health and wellness. Sessions FTE employees we keep our employees and others informed through the included body mass index spot checks, health quizzes, Cisco Employee Connection website. In certain countries, cooking competitions, and talks on weight management, 1. The overall incident rate increased year over year; however, it is within the expected range based on industry and our own injury data over the past people can sign up to receive text, email, or voice alerts aerobic exercise, and women’s wellness. five years. The increase in lost work days was due to a small and isolated number of ergonomic and slip-and-fall incidents. The EHS team is using this information to evaluate and improve our accident-prevention programs. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D7 Introduction Flexible Working We live and work in a fast-paced global economy An Inclusive and Employee Pulse Survey Governance & Ethics Supply Chain where people increasingly need to juggle personal and Diverse Culture • 89 percent of employees feel they can bring their authentic self to work, whatever their background professional demands on their time. We harness our people’s diverse experiences and or belief, compared with 82 percent last year who felt they could succeed at Cisco without sacrificing Our People We invest in collaborative technologies to help backgrounds to better understand the needs of global aspects of their personality or culture. employees balance their commitments and work customers, drive innovation, and enhance employee Overview engagement. We work to create a culture where everyone • 86 percent of employees feel their team fosters a effectively with colleagues around the world. Our IP climate in which diverse perspectives are valued, Working Together phones and WebEx, Jabber, TelePresence, and Virtual feels welcomed, valued, respected, and empowered. the same as FY13. Office technologies enable employees to work together We aspire to lead our industry in inclusion and diversity. A Safe and Healthy at any time and in any place. These services improve Work Environment employee well-being and enhances productivity. Creating an Inclusive Culture All employees must set a relevant goal that holds them An Inclusive and accountable for inclusive behavior as part of their annual Diverse Culture A network of inclusion and diversity (I&D) teams at Cisco Connected Workplaces, which combine open-plan performance review process. Those who make a significant global, functional, and regional levels lead our efforts to Training and workstations with privacy rooms, lounges, e-cafés, and contribution to our inclusive culture are recognized through promote a culture of I&D across Cisco. We emphasize Development recreation spaces, enable employees to work flexibly the I&D Ambassador Recognition Program. Opportunities the importance of I&D to every employee within their within the office, too. These functional but inviting first few days of working with us and help them understand Rewarding “creativity zones” promote collaboration and innovation. More than 13,000 Cisco employees in 42 countries what it means in practice. Our People Many users report significantly higher levels of satisfaction participate in one of nine Employee Resource and teamwork. We have already converted several million Organizations (EROs) that support Cisco’s diverse Our online guide includes short videos to bring I&D square feet of office space into Connected Workplaces communities: Early Career Network; Cisco Asian Affinity Society issues to life, a self-assessment tool to help employees and are rolling these Workplaces out across the business. Network; Connected Black Professionals; Connected become ambassadors for I&D, and suggestions about Environment actions they can take. We also provide training, videos, Disabilities Awareness Network; Conexion—Latino and workshops to help improve awareness, address Community; Connected Women; Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, GRI Index Transgender & Advocates; Indians Connecting People; unconscious bias, practice inclusive behaviors, and learn how to communicate supportively. and Veterans Enablement and Troop Support. EROs welcome anyone who supports their community. EROs use their connections to help Cisco reach into diverse communities, meet diversity goals, and create value for the company. We embed I&D considerations into our core talent review and planning processes through our Integrated Workforce Planning Initiative, and at all levels of our recruiting processes. To reach a wide group of candidates, we use social media and mobile technology, and draw on our EROs’ and partners’ connections with diverse communities. We provide an e-learning training program for our recruiters and hiring managers to help them develop fair, effective, and inclusive interview skills. We also are committed to further improving the percentage of our panels that include diverse interviewers. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D8 Introduction In FY14, we ran three training sessions for our internal benefits after the Supreme Court struck down the recruiters worldwide to improve their abilities to source discriminatory Defense of Marriage Act and California’s Product Accessibility Governance & Ethics diverse candidates. Proposition 8 in 2014. We continue to provide our own We do not want anyone to be excluded from the Supply Chain equalizing benefits for employees who cannot yet access benefits of connected technology. Through the Cisco We want all individuals at Cisco to be treated equally equal treatment in their states. Accessibility Initiative, we strive to design products that and have equal opportunities to succeed, regardless meet the needs of people with disabilities. Our People of race, ethnicity, gender, disability, sexual orientation, In December 2013, India’s Supreme Court reinstated Accessibility is considered in the design, shipping, Overview or veteran status. Section 377 of the Penal Code, which criminalizes and use of our products. We monitor our progress homosexuality. We strongly oppose this ruling and sent and regularly refresh products, packaging, and Working Together documentation. Product managers complete training on We have received numerous awards for our diversity an email to all employees in India stating our unwavering the importance of accessibility. In FY14, we extended A Safe and Healthy efforts at international, national, and local levels. Many support, appreciation, and protection for GLBT training on accessibility guidelines for web and mobile Work Environment awards are given to us year after year. A full list of our employees and allies. applications to more than 1000 product managers, An Inclusive and awards can be found on our Inclusion and Diversity website. developers, sales personnel, and other employees. Diverse Culture In FY14, we extended our industry-leading medical From February 2014, all new Cisco web-based benefits for transgender and transitioning employees by products and sites must comply with the World Wide Training and Generations Web Consortium’s latest Web Content Accessibility providing free gender-transition planning and support Development Every generation has different learning and communication Guidelines (W3C WCAG 2.0 Level AA). Opportunities for transitioning employees and their managers and styles, work-life balance needs, and preferred ways for their immediate colleagues. We have supported five gender In FY14, the Cisco Accessibility team and Cisco Rewarding contributions to be recognized. We strive to accommodate transitions since this program launched in 2009. Collaboration Technology Group came together to Our People the differing life stages of our employees with our flexible develop and enhance the accessibility of desktop collaboration endpoints through the Cisco DX Series. work culture. The three models incorporate Talkback and Explore by Disability Touch features. Specifications were developed based Society We help our employees work productively and positively We want Cisco to be as accessible as possible. We are on accessibility testing and customer feedback. Learn Environment together regardless of age by raising their awareness of committed to removing barriers for disabled employees, more about Cisco product accessibility. different generations’ needs and preferences. Examples customers, partners, and suppliers. Our Accessibility GRI Index include a “Millennial Bootcamp,” and “Communicating and Design and Evaluation Lab in San Jose, California, works Engaging with Millennials” training for managers. with accessibility experts and people with disabilities to Ethnicity design and build products that can be used by all people. Cisco must have a mix of employees that mirrors Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity the markets where we do business in order to drive Our offices, labs, and systems are designed to We embrace gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender innovation and relevance with our customers. accommodate employees with disabilities. We take their (GLBT) individuals as part of the Cisco family. For 10 needs into account when developing employee resources years running, the Human Rights Campaign has awarded We have an opportunity to increase ethnic diversity. and experiences. Our Cisco Maps app includes integrated Cisco a score of 100 percent for our inclusive approach. We are focused on attracting and developing talent and assistive technology to help our employees navigate Cisco providing an inclusive culture that encourages retention. buildings, resources, and services. Our technologies, Wherever legally practicable, we provide equal benefits workplace flexibility, and Connected Disabilities Awareness such as insurance, maternity/paternity leave, and We strive to achieve these efforts through strategic Network help disabled employees make important adoption-related benefits for GLBT employees. We also sourcing for university and professional hiring, internal contributions to our work and feel included. provide training through our Cisco Safe Space Program development programs, and Employee Resource for Employee Relations professionals to manage concerns Organizations. In FY14, Cisco’s Connected Disability Awareness Network related to GLBT issues sensitively and for any employees (CDAN) in India was honored by the Disability Matters who want to be advocates for their GLBT co-workers. In addition, Cisco partners with several professional Conference for the Workplace category, recognizing our organizations to accelerate our ethnicity strategy. achievements in workplace accessibility for people with In the United States, we are adjusting our compensation Examples include: the Hispanic Association on Corporate visual disabilities. and payroll practices to take advantage of new allowable < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D9 Introduction We use strategic sourcing for university and professional CASE STUDIES hiring, internal development programs, Employee CASE STUDIES Governance & Ethics FROM THE UNITED STATES Resource Organizations, and strategic partnerships to FROM AROUND THE WORLD Supply Chain achieve these efforts. Partnership with The Executive Leadership Inspiring Girls and Racial and Ethnic Programs include: Our People Council (ELC) Minorities to Pursue ICT Careers • JUMP and DARE for Women: These leadershipOverview To develop and empower black talent, Cisco partners Not enough girls show an interest in science, with The Executive Leadership Council (ELC) to create development programs are focused on high-potential technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) Working Together an inclusive business leadership pipeline and drive women at many levels of the organization and include education, which contributes to low representation leadership development. career planning, mentoring, and skills development. of women in the ICT field. Increasing the pipeline of A Safe and Healthy Approximately 100 of Cisco’s top leaders have Both programs show Cisco’s commitment to building technical talent to include more females and racial Work Environment attended The ELC’s annual 2-day event. Cisco shows a pipeline of female talent. and ethnic minorities is critical to the success of our An Inclusive and its commitment through a high degree of executive business and the technology industry overall. • Gender Allies: Women are paired with male allies Diverse Culture participation and by leading several leadership Mentors can be influential in motivating girls to study development sessions for Cisco employees including: through our new Cisco Men for Inclusion program. The science and technology. Cisco has pledged to encourage Training and Cisco Functional Circles, “Blue Sky” Brainstorming men who take part in the program are trained to use 20 percent of our workforce to spend 20 hours a year Development Discussion with Emerging Leaders, The ELC Senior their influence to support female colleagues and spark on STEM mentoring by the year 2020. Because a Opportunities Exec Panel, and Career Innovation. stronger collaboration with women. particular emphasis is placed on encouraging women, Rewarding Participants find value and are benefiting from attending. girls, and racial and ethnic minorities to enter STEM, • Women of Impact Conference: In March 2014, 3000 this effort is part of our wider commitment as a founding Our People One participant stated: employees, customers, and partners attended this member of the US2020 initiative (see Society, page E9). “This atmosphere catalyzes the development of The ELC full-day conference held across 52 sites in 27 countries mentoring relationships that are bound to positively In June 2014, 220 senior executives from nine Cisco Society affect career progression. It provides attendees with an to gain practical advice on career development, to offices in India, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the opportunity to obtain candid career advice from others interact with leaders, and to expand their network of United States met with STEM students, answered their Environment who have ‘been there’ or who can offer an outsider’s allies and mentors. Approximately 8000 new connections questions, and shared advice. Exciting experiments got perspective.” were made, and 94 percent of attendees felt the time students interested in STEM subjects. GRI Index was a worthwhile investment in their career. On International Girls in ICT Day in April 2014, Cisco offices worldwide opened their doors to more than • Cisco Empowered Women’s Network is a global 2200 girls aged 13 to 18. Hundreds of employees Responsibility (HACR), IT Senior Management Forum community of highly motivated professional women used presentations, panels, and regional TelePresence (ITSMF), and the Hispanic IT Executive Council (HITEC), that provides a forum for Cisco customers, partners, sessions to show that Cisco values diversity and that among others. Cisco has established scholarship girls can thrive in ICT careers. and employees to network motivate, and empower programs with the National Society of Black Engineers each other through energizing and engaging events Watch this video to learn more. (NSBE), the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers held during Cisco Live!, with 450 attendees in 2014 (SHPE), and the National Consortium for Graduate and sustained through ongoing events. The charter Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science. is to increase the representation of motivated women in the IT industry, to provide women with tools that Gender will enable them to enrich and advance their careers, At Cisco, women make up just under a quarter of our to galvanize leaders to prioritize the empowerment global employees. We aim to increase their numbers by of women in their organizations, and to provide attracting more women to the business, providing an opportunities to “pay it forward” by empowering inclusive culture that encourages retention, and helping women in the global community. women move into leadership roles. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D10 Introduction Diversity Data We have published workforce diversity statistics in our Figure 1. FY14 Workforce Diversity Snapshot Governance & Ethics Corporate Social Responsibility Report since 2005. This year Supply Chain we have expanded the data to include additional gender, Workforce Diversity — Overall race, and ethnicity information from Cisco’s 2014 EEO-1 26% Female 36% Asian 23% Female Our People report. Our 2014 EEO-1 submission can be found online. 77% Male 74% Male 5% Hispanic/Latino 3% African American/Black Overview Global Gender U.S. Gender U.S. Ethnicity 0.3% American Indian/Alaska Native Table 3. Gender Diversity Overall Overall Overall 0.1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander Working Together 1% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) FY12 FY13 FY14 54% White/Caucasian A Safe and Healthy Work Environment Female employees globally 22% 23% 23% Workforce Diversity — Technical* An Inclusive and Diverse Culture 15% Female 49% Asian Female new hires globally 23% 23% 23% 4% Hispanic/Latino 85% Male Training and 3% African American/Black Development Female managers globally 20% 20% 19% 0.3% American Indian/Alaska Native Global Gender U.S. Ethnicity Opportunities (including directors) Technical Technical 0.1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 1% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) Rewarding Female vice presidents 16% 16% 17% *Based on Alignment to EEO-1 Job Categories 43% White/Caucasian Our People globally Workforce Diversity — Non-Technical* Female employees 25% 26% 26% Society in the United States 35% Female 22% Asian 65% Male 7% Hispanic/Latino Environment Female managers 22% 23% 22% 4% African American/Black 0.2% American Indian/Alaska Native in the United States Global Gender U.S. Ethnicity GRI Index (including directors) Non-Technical Non-Technical 0.1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 1% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) *Based on Alignment to EEO-1 Job Categories 65% White/Caucasian Female vice presidents 18% 19% 18% in the United States Workforce Diversity — Leadership Managers* and VPs 19% Female 22% Female 31% Asian 5% Hispanic/Latino Table 4. Ethnic Diversity 81% Male 78% Male 2% African American/Black Global Gender U.S.Gender U.S. Ethnicity 0.3% American Indian/Alaska Native FY12 FY13 FY14 Managers* Managers* Managers* 0.1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.4% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) Percent of non-Caucasian 46% 46% 46% 62% White/Caucasian employees in U.S. operations 22% Asian 17% Female 18% Female 83% Male 82% Male 4% Hispanic/Latino Percent of non-Caucasian 52% 48% 44% 0.3% African American/Black new hires in U.S. operations Global Gender U.S. Gender U.S. Ethnicity 1% American Indian/Alaska Native VPs VPs VPs 0% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander Percent of non-Caucasian 26% 24% 28% 0% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 72% White/Caucasian vice presidents in U.S. *People managers, directors, and senior directors operations < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D11 Introduction Training and Development develop senior managers and directors for specified critical roles across the business. In FY14, almost 1500 Thinking Big at the Innovation Academy Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Opportunities directors, managers, and technical leaders participated in Leadership Development training. In addition, our Cisco is built on innovation. But it is not always clear how to challenge employees to “think big.” In FY14, We invest in our employees’ professional development Cross-Cultural Connection program aims to improve we asked them. Interviews and workshops with global collaboration and develop global leaders. employees helped us identify five key elements to Our People from their first day at Cisco and at all levels of the promote innovation: questioning, observing, networking, company. Learning opportunities nurture the skills experimenting, and associating. We launched the Cisco Overview needed to create and implement Cisco’s business In addition to formal training programs, stretch assignments Innovation Academy to develop these skills. strategy. These opportunities also give employees and job rotation options give employees opportunities to Working Together The online academy is available to all employees. Users the tools they need to build their careers at Cisco. build new skills while fulfilling short-term company needs. can take a test to assess which of these skills they need A Safe and Healthy Mentoring is also important. All employees are assigned a to develop. Then they can access e-learning courses, Work Environment mentor on or before their first day to help them understand webinars, videos, apps, and other tools to strengthen Skills Development Cisco’s culture and become proficient in their new job. their skills, and join online discussions to share ideas An Inclusive and Diverse Culture We give everyone at Cisco opportunities to learn new skills, We encourage them to work with mentors through a range with their peers. Within weeks of establishing the whatever their role, function, grade, or location. In FY14, we of programs, including one-to-one, group, cross-cultural, academy, thousands of employees were already using Training and it to learn and share ideas. We plan to roll out an spent more than US$155 million on more than 2.9 million and reverse mentoring. Our Global Mentoring Connection Development Innovation Enablement Center to champion initiatives Opportunities hours of training and development for our people. website makes it easy to find appropriate mentors. developed through the academy. Rewarding Our Professional Skills program offers more than 200 Our People courses to improve core competencies and build Career Progression leadership capabilities. We provide different learning We want our employees to have long, thriving careers Society environments to suit employee needs, from web-based at Cisco. We provide resources to help them do so. In training and virtual classes to classroom training, FY14, we conducted a range of events to help employees Environment workshops, and short tutorials. We provide specialized understand the opportunities available to them, including training for engineers. In FY14, more than 28,000 of them Career Days, Learning Days, University Days, and other GRI Index took part in 842,000 hours of training on topics including events tailored to people at specific sites. Employees can product development, innovation, and management. also access coaching from professional career advisors We also conducted approximately 100 events that through our new Career Advisory Services. allowed participating engineers to share knowledge and ideas and to be inspired. Our new Career Development website provides information that people can use to progress in their careers at Cisco. We offer support at various levels for all our leaders. In Employees can take advantage of a Career Navigator FY14, we added two follow-up sessions to the Manager tool and a 3-step guide to Plan Your Career; learn about and Advanced Manager Series to support participants available assignments to gain new experience; and in applying the program’s concepts back on the job. connect with mentors, peers, and advisors. Almost 35,000 Employees who took part in the Advanced Manager employees visited the site in the first six months after it was Series increased their productivity by up to 18 percent. launched. It complements our existing Talent Connection Program, which helps employees find and apply for We also introduced programs for leaders in India as available jobs around the business to help us fill as many part of our focus on developing capabilities in emerging openings as possible with internal candidates. markets. A new Leadership Pipeline program aims to < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback D12 Introduction Rewarding Our People CASE STUDIES Governance & Ethics FROM AROUND THE WORLD We want to share Cisco’s success with our employees Supply Chain and recognize their indispensable contributions. Our “Total Rewards” philosophy includes competitive Connected Recognition Our People performance-based pay, comprehensive health Employees can now recognize colleagues who coverage, and other benefits such as employee and exemplify Cisco’s values through our new Connected Overview family assistance programs. Recognition program. Launched in January 2014, the Working Together program aims to make recognition fun and easy. Our rewards strategy is to provide compensation, Anyone at Cisco can nominate a co-worker who has A Safe and Healthy benefits, and long-term savings packages that are gone above and beyond to make an outstanding Work Environment competitive in each of the markets where we operate. contribution to Cisco’s success. These nominations An Inclusive and We aim to provide “total cash” (inclusive of base pay and help us give our employees timely recognition for their Diverse Culture efforts. Awards range from gift cards of US$25 (or the bonus) at or near the top quartile of market, based upon local equivalent) to US$5000 in cash. Cisco covers Training and competitive benchmarking of our peer companies, at all projected taxes associated with these awards, with an Development Cisco work locations. Cisco’s FY14 total compensation aim of enabling employees to enjoy the full value of their Opportunities to employees was approximately US$14 billion. This awards. There is no limit to the number of awards an Key Challenge: Improving Cisco figure includes salary, benefits, bonus, commissions, employee can receive. Rewarding Performance Connection Our People and stock awards. The program was designed to respond to our employees’ Employees meet with their managers three times a year desire for more frequent recognition, while reinforcing to set performance, development, and career goals and our cultural values and generating positive interactions Everyone at Cisco contributes to our performance and Society to discuss progress through our Cisco Performance between employees. Nominations and recognition can Connection process. They also can request feedback should have an opportunity to benefit from our success. be kept private if desired. Since the program’s launch, Environment from colleagues throughout the year. We give performance incentives to our employees 65 percent of employees have been recognized in some worldwide, including an annual cash bonus and stock way by their managers or peers. Cisco Performance Connection was one of the GRI Index incentives for eligible employees. lowest scoring areas in our FY13 employee survey. We conducted extensive analysis to understand employee concerns and how to improve and have been Our internal “What Cisco Offers You” website gives testing alternative processes. We plan to launch a new employees information about the benefits available performance management process in FY15. to them and helps them take advantage of these opportunities. We also consider a positive work environment and an appropriate work-life balance to be part of every employee’s experience at Cisco. Cisco Pulse Survey We aim to excel in all areas of the employee experience • 71 percent of employees feel there are readily and offer culturally relevant time-off programs. available internal development opportunities, compared with 65 percent in FY13. In our FY13 Pulse Survey, employees told us they • 79 percent receive ongoing feedback from their wanted more recognition for their work. We responded managers about how to improve, the same as FY13. with a new global recognition program (see Connected Recognition, this page). < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E1 Introduction Society Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Overview We use our expertise, technology, and value. We focus on improving access to students for jobs and aims to support their Employee Engagement resources to make a positive contribution healthcare; promoting skills development long-term employability. Education to society. Connecting the unconnected is and entrepreneurship; supporting programs what we do. We work with others to build that use technology to improve education We also encourage employees to Economic Empowerment thriving communities, improve people’s outcomes; and helping nonprofits deliver share their expertise and support their Healthcare lives, and support the long-term success food, clean water, shelter, and disaster relief. communities through volunteering and of our business. donations. In FY14, Cisco employees Critical Human Needs & Disaster Relief The Cisco Networking Academy is our volunteered more than 136,000 hours; Supplier Diversity To make a significant and lasting impact, we flagship CSR program, and it helped 1.2 their donations and matched funds invest in scalable, self-sustaining programs million students obtain new jobs between contributed over US$11.4 million to in the areas where Cisco can add the most 2005 and 2013. The program prepares nonprofit organizations. Environment GRI Index < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E2 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Society Overview Our People We work with nonprofits, governments, and educational and healthcare institutions to meet some of society’s biggest challenges. Society Overview We seek to: Employee Engagement • Improve access to education and healthcare suppliers and promote economic empowerment in underserved communities. • Equip people with the knowledge and skills to become economically self-sufficient We also integrate accessibility into the design of our products to enable people Education • Enhance society’s ability to meet critical human needs and respond to disasters with disabilities to enjoy the benefits of our technologies. Economic Empowerment Cisco contributes technology, funding, and expertise to support these programs Building strong communities supports the growth of our business by creating Healthcare and help our long-standing partners build capacity to extend their impact. Our economic stability; by giving us access to new markets, customers, and sources core business activities also make a difference to society. We support diverse of innovation; and by building a healthy pipeline of well-educated talent. Critical Human Needs & Disaster Relief Supplier Diversity Environment Our Society Strategy GRI Index Technology Expertise Partnerships Cash Cisco’s CSR vision is to combine technology and human creativity to solve social issues and help communities thrive. Education Economic Empowerment Healthcare Critical Human Needs and We train people in ICT and support We promote skills development, We use networking technology to Disaster Response programs that use technology to job creation, entrepreneurship, and improve access to healthcare in We help partners improve access improve education outcomes.  financial inclusion in underserved remote regions and enable health to food, clean water, and shelter, See page E6. communities. professionals to share expertise.  and support communities affected  See page E9. See page E12. by natural disasters.  See page E13. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E3 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Society Overview Our People 2014 at a Glance Society Overview Employee Engagement Education $ 275 MILLION 1 million students participated in the Cisco Networking Academy program; 88 percent say the US$275 million in cash and US$674,400 in direct aid training helped them find a Economic in‑kind donations contributed to for disaster relief worldwide new or better job or an Empowerment community programs by Cisco through employee donations educational opportunity.1 and the Cisco Foundation. and matching gifts. Healthcare 674,400 Critical Human Needs & Disaster Relief $ Supplier Diversity Environment GRI Index More than 6900 children have received medical consultations using Cisco video technologies across all of our healthcare Employees volunteered 136,000 hours to support their communities, up more than >5% programs since inception. 5 percent from 2013. 1. Based on exit surveys from 10,565 students completing courses through Cisco CCNA® 4 or higher from FY12 to FY14. “Each day, people around the world face many challenges. We’ve learned that when we bring people together, they find innovative solutions to address these problems. And when you add technology to the mix, we can multiply our impact and uncover even greater opportunities.” Tae Yoo, Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E4 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Society Overview Our People 2014 Progress Toward Objectives 2015 Objectives and Beyond Society Objectives Status Objectives Target Date Overview Provide at least 7 million meals for people in need through employee End of FY15 Increase access to specialized pediatric care in the state of Sergipe, Brazil, by supporting remote consultations between rural family health clinics and university hospitals. donations to our annual Global Hunger Relief Campaign. Employee Engagement Use our technology to support a digital picture archiving and communications system Reach 145,000 employee volunteer hours. End of FY15 Education (PACS) and collaboration among healthcare clinicians in Jordan. Engage 500 employees in 10,000 STEM volunteer hours as part of our End of FY15 Economic 7-year commitment to the US2020 initiative. Expand the number of physician specialties using the pediatric telehealth network Empowerment at Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital and increase the number of patients seen. Support 5500 remote patient visits worldwide through Cisco collaboration End of FY15 Healthcare Encourage women and girls to pursue education and careers in technology fields through technologies. the Networking Academy™ program and participation in events like Girls in ICT Day. Critical Human Needs Connect 7000 US military veterans to ICT training, credentials, and job End of FY15 & Disaster Relief Expand the use of Cisco NetSpace™ online learning environment by establishing opportunities through Phase 2 of the IT Training and Certification Program new partnerships that enable us to deliver content via the platform. and similar state initiatives. Supplier Diversity Reach 150,000 employee volunteer hours.1 Reach 250,000 factory and farm workers through the Labor Link mobile End of 2015 platform developed by Good World Solutions and supported by Cisco. Connect U.S. military veterans to jobs by providing Cisco WebEx technology to Reach 70 social enterprise customers supporting 80,000 farmers and End of 2015 Environment facilitate virtual interviews at military bases and by supporting further development microentrepreneurs and 3 million poor beneficiaries through our support and adoption of the Pipeline job skills matching platform, h2h.jobs. for Grameen Foundation’s TaroWorks initiative. GRI Index Achieved Partially Achieved Ongoing Integrate diverse suppliers/partners and business solutions into the Ongoing sales department to meet customer requirements. 1. Partially achieved objectives are those that have (1) been almost fully achieved and are therefore not included in 2015 Objectives and Beyond, or (2) been reevaluated and replaced by a similar objective for FY15 and Beyond. See the text for details and future plans. Performance Summary Performance Summary FY12 FY13 FY14 Total corporate and Cisco Foundation cash and in-kind contributions (USD) $294 million $297 million $275 million1 Number of hours volunteered by employees 107,150 129,000 136,000 MEET THE FUTURE ARCHITECTS OF THE INTERNET OF EVERYTHING More than 5 million students around the world have expanded Number of active students in Cisco Networking Academy courses 1 million 1 million 1 million their horizons and launched careers in ICT through the 1. Total giving decreased in FY14 because Cisco made several large one-off contributions for specific, time-bound initiatives in prior years and because Cisco Networking Academy program. International the value of in-kind contributions through the Cisco Networking Academy program was slightly lower this year. Networking Academy NetRiders competitions allow them to test their skills and help them stand out in the job market. WATCH VIDEO < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E5 Introduction Employee Engagement CASE STUDIES CASE STUDIES Governance & Ethics FROM AROUND THE WORLD FROM AROUND THE WORLD We encourage employees to support local community Supply Chain programs by donating their time. Volunteering helps our people gain new perspectives, develop leadership skills, Cisco Support for Comic Relief Raises Mentors Matter for Australian Our People and work better as a team. Many employees include More Than Just a Smile Women in ICT volunteering in their personal development plans. Society Cisco employees in the United Kingdom and Ireland Globally, women are underrepresented in ICT careers, have volunteered their time and expertise to raise and Australia is no exception. Shae Howard, a Cisco In FY14, Cisco employees volunteered more than more than £1 million for Comic Relief over the past Partner Business Consultant in Sydney, knows firsthand Overview 136,000 hours, more than a 5 percent increase over 15 years. Comic Relief’s annual campaigns are centered how important role models can be for young women Employee Engagement FY13. Employees can easily track and record their on comedy and sports. They raise funds for a range of launching their careers. She is helping them advance in volunteer hours through Community Connection, nonprofits in more than 70 countries. ICT by volunteering with the Lucy Mentoring Program. Education our internal matching gifts platform. Employees use In 2014, more than 100 employees were involved in Participants in the program receive about 40 hours of Economic Community Connection to find nonprofits to support, organizing fundraising events for Sports Relief. They guidance and mentorship from senior ICT professionals. Empowerment raised approximately £200,000 through a series of But Shae saw an opportunity to take the program a make donations, and request matching funds from the sponsored events including a sprint-distance triathlon step further. She recruited six colleagues to join her as Healthcare Cisco Foundation. and a virtual pub quiz at 14 Cisco offices. Our U.K. CEO, mentors in a new group experience that provides an Critical Human Needs Phil Smith, also recruited CEOs from other companies extra 20 to 30 hours of support and gives young women & Disaster Relief The Foundation matches up to US$1000 for cash to participate in a separate triathlon at the London 2012 exposure to more opportunities in the field. donations and US$1000 for volunteering (at $10/hour) Olympic Park through the Leaderboard Challenge. Supplier Diversity Read more about the Lucy Mentoring Program on per employee per year. Employees can choose from Cisco also provides technical support. We invested our website. nearly 2900 approved organizations in 45 countries to £360,000 in equipment for Comic Relief’s annual receive matched funds for their own cash donations telethons, which makes it possible to collect millions Environment and volunteer hours (at US$10/hour). In FY14, employee of pounds through public donations in just a few hours. donations and matched funds contributed a combined Cisco was recently honored with a “Business Charity” GRI Index award for its support of Comic Relief. total of over US$11.4 million to nonprofit organizations. In FY14, we extended eligibility for matching funds to organizations nominated by just one employee rather than by 10. This means more employees can support small, local programs they are passionate about. All organizations are subject to thorough reviews to determine eligibility with our giving policies. Regional Cisco Civic Councils, run by employees, work with our Community Relations team to identify volunteer opportunities, manage product and cash grants, and build strong relationships with local nonprofits and WHY I VOLUNTEER: CISCO EMPLOYEES nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). TELL THEIR STORIES Cisco has a strong culture of giving. Cisco employees explain why they In FY14, many of our U.S. volunteers supported efforts give their time and talent to support to promote science, technology, engineering, and math their communities. (STEM) education as part of our contribution to the WATCH VIDEO US2020 initiative (see page E9). < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E6 Introduction Education The Cisco Networking Academy program helped 1.2 million students obtain new jobs between 2005 and Figure 1. Cisco Networking Governance & Ethics 2013. In exit surveys of students completing courses Education helps people better their lives by giving them through Cisco CCNA 4 or higher from FY12 through Academy Student Career Supply Chain the skills and knowledge they need to succeed. We use our technology and resources to change the way people FY14, 97 percent said the program has had a positive Outcomes (Global) Our People learn and to improve access to education in underserved impact on their lives, and 88 percent reported that it led communities all over the world. to job and/or educational opportunities including a new Percentages reflect those students who believe Cisco Society job, a better job or promotion, increased responsibilities, Networking Academy helped them attain the stated Training people in ICT is a key focus for Cisco. It is higher salary, deciding on a program of study, or pursuing opportunities. Based upon 10,565 exit surveys of students Overview who completed courses through Cisco CCNA 4 or higher critical for digital inclusion, builds a talent pipeline for our more education. from FY12 to FY14. Employee Engagement industry, and offers great opportunities for entrepreneurs. As the Internet of Everything takes off, so will demand for We know the skills students gain from the Networking Education skilled workers in ICT. Academy will give them a great start in their ICT careers. 97% Economic To understand the impact of our investment in the Empowerment Cisco Networking Academy program, we want to find out more about what former Healthcare Since 1997, the Cisco Networking Academy program has students do once they have completed their courses. said the program has had a equipped more than 5 million students with valuable ICT positive impact on their lives Critical Human Needs It can be challenging to get follow-up information. skills. In FY14 alone, 1 million were enrolled. The program & Disaster Relief prepares students for entry-level ICT jobs and aims to Over the past two years, we have worked to make our Supplier Diversity support their long-term employability. exit surveys and data collection more effective. By 88% automatically including students unless they opt out, we Students can access courses online using cloud-computing increased the proportion who are willing to take part in Environment technology and work toward globally recognized Cisco surveys to 95 percent in FY14. We also are using social obtained a job opportunity certifications. The training is designed to foster critical media to reach former students to further improve survey and/or educational opportunity GRI Index thinking, innovation, and problem solving. Learning how response rates. So far, response rates have remained to apply their skills to real-world business problems around 5 percent (compared with industry norms of encourages many budding entrepreneurs to start their between 2 and 10 percent). We are continuing our own ICT businesses. Approximately 9000 academies in 170 countries are efforts to enhance information on student outcomes. 68% obtained a new employment opportunity, including new job, increased salary, supported by more than 500 Academy Support Centers or greater responsibilities and Instructor Training Centers. Courses are delivered “Top of mind for me is how we in partnership with schools, community colleges, universities, and other organizations through a blend can all come together for a of online and classroom learning. collaborative approach to solving The Cisco NetSpace online learning environment enables 20,000 Networking Academy instructors to collaborate our world’s most pressing issues, such as education, healthcare, 51% obtained a new job wherever they are in the world. This cloud-based platform supports course delivery in the classroom and facilitates and the global economy.” a global learning community. Over 810,000 students John Chambers, Chairman and CEO and instructors use the Networking Academy Facebook community to connect, collaborate, and share ideas. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E7 Introduction CASE STUDIES Governance & Ethics FROM AROUND THE WORLD CASE STUDIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD Supply Chain Mexican Brothers Launch ICT Careers by Cisco Challenge for Social Innovation Our People Winning Networking Academy Competition In FY14, we hosted our first annual social innovation competition in France: Jesús Israel Nava won Cisco’s NetRiders national Le Défi Cisco (the Cisco Challenge). We worked with two nonprofit Society organizations, Ashoka and Aristote. More than 50 Cisco employees competition in Mexico in 2012 using skills he learned through the Networking Academy program. His younger helped to run the competition and mentor the teams. Overview brother Andrés Illescas followed in his footsteps to win The winning team of Networking Academy students used the Internet of Employee Engagement in 2013. Both young men aim to use the competition to Everything to improve pedestrian safety for visually impaired people by launch their ICT careers. bringing the traditional white cane into the 21st century. The idea was Education Networking Academy students compete for the annual inspired by a team member’s visually impaired uncle. Economic NetRiders competition by showing off their skills The innovative cane acts like a guide dog, interacting with the surrounding Empowerment through written tests and simulation activities to solve environment, sensing obstacles, and warning the user. It can also provide real-world ICT problems. information on local shops and businesses using tagging technology. Healthcare Jesús’s victory helped him secure his dream job Competition entries were evaluated based on their originality, potential social Critical Human Needs as a networking consulting engineer for Advanced or environmental impact, and feasibility. The team was awarded €70,000 in & Disaster Relief Services at Cisco Mexico. Andrés was so determined cash, technology, and Cisco mentorship to make their idea a reality. In June 2014, the group received the Pepite Award, Supplier Diversity to win he spent up to 14 hours a day preparing for the a National Prize for Innovation from the French Ministry of Education, and met with French President François Hollande. competition. He believes the competition will make his résumé stand out when he leaves school and embarks Watch a video about these young innovators. on a career in ICT: “Everything included in the test is Environment something I’ll do in the future.” Find out more on our website. GRI Index CASE STUDIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD Connecting ICT Students to Internships in Italy Youth unemployment in Italy is a chronic problem, rising above 43 percent in June 2014 for 15to 24-year-olds. Cisco is helping skilled young people find work through the Junior Networking program. Launched in 2009, the program helps fill the gap between secondary school ICT classes and ICT careers. Those taking part gain Cisco CCNA training, followed by 5or 6-month internships with one of 40 companies. Since 2010, 150 students have participated; 97 percent of them have found jobs in ICT. Learn more on our website. 1.2 MILLION The Cisco Networking Academy program helped 1.2 million students obtain new jobs between 2005 and 2013. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E8 Introduction Figure 2. Percentage of Female Students in Cisco Networking Academy Courses Around the World Governance & Ethics Supply Chain We are committed to increasing the number of women and girls going into ICT careers. Globally, 20 percent of Networking Academy students are female. 47% 30% 28% 28% Our People CLICK ON THE NUMBERS FOR MORE INFORMATION, Society THEN CLICK TO CLOSE Overview Jordan Turkey China Cambodia Employee Engagement Education Economic Empowerment Healthcare Critical Human Needs & Disaster Relief Supplier Diversity Environment GRI Index Mexico Saudi Arabia South Africa India Indonesia 31% 38% 32% 37% 27% < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E9 Introduction Education Partnerships BUILDING CAREERS IN CAMBODIA CASE STUDIES Governance & Ethics Science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) Our partnership with Passerelles FROM AROUND THE WORLD numériques Cambodia is helping education is a business imperative for Cisco. Many young people who learn ICT Supply Chain students don’t have access to the resources that can skills earn up to five times the Our People equip or inspire them to pursue STEM careers. We use Making a Connection with Children in average monthly salary. our expertise, product donations, and cash grants to help Northern Canada WATCH VIDEO our nonprofit partners engage students and deliver STEM Society Our Connected North program, launched in FY14, education more effectively. These programs introduce uses Cisco TelePresence collaborative technology to To support the link between STEM education and Overview children as young as 11 to STEM fields and encourage enhance education in remote communities in Canada’s employment skills, Cisco endorsed the Davos Declaration them to pursue relevant further education and careers. far north. The territory of Nunavut, in northern Canada, Employee Engagement has school dropout rates of approximately 75 percent on the Grand Coalition for Digital Jobs at the World The US2020 program, born out of a White House call and the highest incidence of youth suicide in the world. Economic Forum Annual Meeting in January 2014. Education for STEM mentorship, aims to create opportunities for We have been invited to serve on the advisory group Using TelePresence technology, students can connect Economic students from kindergarten through college to discover with teachers, experts, and other youth from around the that is developing strategies to fight the e-skills gap in Empowerment world. This helps to create more engaging classroom Europe. We also are active participants in the European science and technology through hands-on projects and experiences and enhance student participation. More Commission’s E-Skills for Jobs campaign. Healthcare academic coaching. Cisco joined the launch of US2020 than 90 percent of participating students say that these Critical Human Needs at the White House Science Fair in 2013 with nine other virtual learning sessions make school more fun, and the technology companies and education nonprofits. The school principal reports an increase in attendance. Economic Empowerment & Disaster Relief 7-year program aims to connect students of all ages Supplier Diversity with mentors working in STEM careers. In FY14, 844 U.S. Cisco employees have signed up as mentors and We depend on thriving economies for business growth. volunteered more than 8500 hours to support US2020. We make cash investments and donate Cisco products to Environment innovative nonprofit organizations that use technology to Cisco also sponsored the US2020 City Competition, help people in underserved communities gain skills, find GRI Index which challenged cities to develop innovative models meaningful employment, start their own businesses, and for increasing STEM mentorship and hands-on student access knowledge needed to make informed decisions projects. Seven winning city coalitions will share US$1 for themselves and their families. million in financial, consulting, and staff support from US2020 partners to start local STEM mentorship Skills Development and Employment movements. We work with nonprofits to enhance the employability of individuals in underserved communities around the world. We continue to work with MIND Research Institute, These organizations provide training and employment for which aims to revolutionize math education through students and workers, particularly women, to help them visual learning. Cisco has provided business expertise, gain the skills and experience they need to find long-term business development support, and more than US$4 employment and stable incomes. On average, the people million in cash and product grants since 2004. This 22 schools in Virginia. This brings its total reach to who participate in these programs earn more than double is supporting the development and scaling of MIND’s 630,000 students and 25,000 teachers in 35 states. the average local salary. The extra income enables them game-based Spatial Temporal (ST) Math program to Students using ST Math have improved their math results to live more comfortably, send their children to school, help students master key math concepts and build at double or triple the rate of students not using ST Math. and save for the future. problem-solving skills. MIND used our latest grant In FY14, Cisco received the MIND Research Institute’s in FY13 to extend ST Math to 6000 students at National Partner in Innovation Award. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E10 Introduction Supporting Employment Skills for Underserved Populations CASE STUDIES Governance & Ethics FROM THE UNITED STATES ICT training, education, jobs, career counseling, and Supply Chain life skills coaching from our nonprofit partner Digital Divide Data (DDD) give low-income young people the Returning Marine Takes on a Our People skills they need for sustainable careers. DDD employs New Challenge in ICT disadvantaged youth in paid ICT jobs serving publicSociety U.S. Marine Andrew Marsh knew he had the leadership and private-sector clients and provides them with health skills to succeed in any civilian job. The addition of Overview insurance and scholarships toward a university education. a globally recognized ICT certification is making his To date, DDD has hired more than 2000 young people. résumé really stand out. Employee Engagement Half of them are women and 10 percent have disabilities. Andrew had a bachelor’s degree in computer science Education DDD helps workers move out of poverty, support before joining the military. He was keen to get back their families, and boost their livelihoods. The average Ma’antech in 2011. In FY14, we announced a further into the ICT sector following four years of service. Economic But he found it difficult to demonstrate to potential salary of DDD employees is three to four times the investment of US$1 million over the next three years. Empowerment employers that the skills he had gained as a U.S. local average, and total earnings over their lifetime This investment will be used to run diversity workshops Marine could be transferred to a civilian role. He used Healthcare increase by an estimated US$175,000. By gaining jobs, and recruiting services for member companies, provide the US IT Pipeline to find a qualification that would help Critical Human Needs education, training, and career counseling, DDD workers mentoring and skills development programs, and support him get the type of job he wanted and enrolled in the & Disaster Relief can continue to move up the career ladder. Many go entrepreneurship. More than 30 Cisco employees have IT Training and Certification program supported by on to pursue successful careers at other companies, volunteered as mentors. Cisco. Within just a few months, he had gained three Supplier Diversity useful industry certifications. government organizations, and nonprofits. Helping Veterans Transition to Civilian Work Andrew believes the program is helping him get Since 2010, Cisco has provided US$850,000 in cash recognition for his skills and knowledge. “So many Veterans have strong leadership and teamwork skills. [veterans] sell themselves short because they do not Environment investments and product grants that are helping DDD But their experiences are often difficult to match with have a way to validate their experience and apply for GRI Index work more efficiently and build capabilities to reach more civilian job descriptions when they retire from military more advanced positions. If they had been able to disadvantaged youth in other parts of the world. Our service. We work with Futures, Inc. to help veterans find articulate their skills to the potential employer, they support in FY14 is enabling DDD to enhance the reliability jobs through a cloud-based platform called the Pipeline, would have a higher paying job that is a better fit to of its services and extend its reach in Africa, Latin their skills.” which matches military skills to civilian jobs. Active-duty America, and the United States. military personnel, reservists, and veterans can access Andrew attained a job as a storage and virtualization consultant with a technology firm that supports defense the job-matching tool through the US Military Pipeline. In Israel, we are leading the Ma’antech program to place and intelligence agencies. Watch the video. From January 2013 to the end of FY14, more than Israeli-Arab engineers, who are underrepresented in 215,000 veterans and military personnel found work the Israeli ICT sector, in high-quality jobs. Working with through the Pipeline. 41 other ICT companies, collectively we have placed more than 950 Israeli-Arab engineers in ICT jobs, Our financial support in FY14 helped Futures, Inc. doubling the number in the sector since we launched develop a new Pipeline feature tailored to the United Service Organization (USO) and a pilot for a veterans’ CLOSING THE DIGITAL DIVIDE IN CAMBODIA credentialing program in Michigan. In addition, the Meet Socheat Keo, a one-time Pipeline has been used at 17 military hiring events computer novice who now oversees to prematch applicants to job openings that fit their 400 technology employees for Digital skills and interests. At the Hiring Heroes Fair in Raleigh, Divide Data. WATCH VIDEO North Carolina, in May 2014, 51 percent of applicants who were interviewed received job offers. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E11 Introduction In April 2013, we launched a veterans’ program that uses HERfinance provides financial literacy training to lowPipeline technology to fast-track transitioning military income factory workers and helps them gain access to Governance & Ethics personnel through ICT training and certifications from basic financial services such as bank accounts. In FY13, Supply Chain Cisco and similar companies and then matches them to Cisco provided US$75,000 to support a partnership high-demand civilian jobs. Nearly 400 veterans enrolled between nonprofits Good World Solutions and Business Our People in training as part of the pilot program, and 59 percent of for Social Responsibility. The grant was used to monitor those who had transitioned out of the military say it helped and evaluate HERfinance training outcomes through Society them get a new job. Of those employed, 81 percent say direct dialogue with factory workers via mobile devices their new job was what they hoped for, or better. using Labor Link (see Supply Chain, page C9). A pilot Overview program in 11 garment and footwear factories in India has Employee Engagement The Cisco Networking Academy curriculum is offered already reached more than 10,000 workers. Preliminary on 21 U.S. military bases, helping soldiers learn the results show that 73 percent of participants feel more Education skills needed to deploy and manage the military ICT confident talking about finances, 68 percent are using Our Global Impact Economic infrastructure in the field. More than 51,000 military new financial products, and 100 percent have a financial Empowerment personnel have completed Networking Academy training Read more stories about our worldwide impact online. plan for the future. Healthcare and are better equipped for career opportunities once their service is over. Cisco also supports social enterprises and entrepreneurs Critical Human Needs around the world. For example, we work with nonprofits its loan recipients and beneficiaries through a survey of & Disaster Relief to help people launch new businesses and foster 7500 farmers in Africa. The survey will measure poverty Supporting Financial Inclusion levels and identify local challenges, crop preferences, Supplier Diversity self-sufficiency and economic growth. and Entrepreneurship and management practices to help Root Capital better More than 2 billion people live on less than US$2 a day. In FY14, we announced a US$6 million investment in meet farmers’ needs and improve the efficacy of their Environment Without access to financial services it is hard to break the Badia Impact Fund to support early-stage technology loans. Cisco’s investments in TaroWorks have helped cycle of poverty. Technology is helping to connect people innovations in Jordan. This investment is part of the scale the program. It now has 37 social enterprise GRI Index to these services so they can save for the future, provide US$10 million commitment we made in 2011 to fund customers in 16 countries, which support 50,000 for their families, start business ventures, and become a sustainable model of job creation and economic microentrepreneurs and benefit 2 million people. financially stable. development in the country. The goal is to mobilize capital to bring new technology to market, create jobs, Cisco also supports Living Goods, a nonprofit that gives and accelerate innovation. Mixed Dimensions is one of entrepreneurs (mainly women) an opportunity to make the startups benefitting from an investment by Badia a living in their communities as agents for affordable Impact Fund. Its technology platform for gaming and health products and information. The agents sell 3D application developers is used by 16,000 developers mosquito nets, clean-burning cook stoves, and basic in 110 countries, and this funding will help it expand, medications. They also educate their communities about creating new jobs in Jordan. public and family health issues. Our initial grant helped Living Goods develop a mobile platform to manage and We support the Grameen Foundation’s TaroWorks support agents. Additional funding in FY14 is being used program, which uses mobile technology to help social to develop new applications, including a health diagnosis enterprise clients collect real-time data, manage field and treatment guide for agents to use with customers. operations and customers, and measure impacts. Living Goods works with more than 1100 agents in One client, Root Capital, provides loans and financial Uganda and Kenya. Its agents have treated more than education for small agricultural businesses. Root Capital 563,000 children and supported mothers through nearly is using TaroWorks to better understand the needs of 154,000 pregnancies. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E12 Introduction Healthcare diseases such as some pediatric cancers. Cisco’s TelePresence videoconferencing will enable oncologists Since the program began, physicians have used HealthPresence1 to see more than 300 patients. The Governance & Ethics to meet virtually to discuss cases, identify treatments, 1-year pilot program, completed in February 2014, Technology is helping to connect people to healthcare Supply Chain in remote or underserved regions. We are using Cisco and develop best practices for cancer care. Five medical enabled the first 266 health visits, including 117 networking technology to improve access to quality centers and a genomics research institute in the United new consultations, 87 established patient visits, 49 Our People healthcare for people who need it most. States are involved in the initial pilot. As consultations go postoperative visits, and 13 preoperative virtual exams. forward, we will measure the effectiveness of physician The percentage of patients waiting a month or more to Society Cisco TelePresence, WebEx, and HealthPresence®1 interactions, the ability to share genomic data, and the see a doctor fell from 53 to 37 percent. Patients and their collaborative technologies enable “care at a distance” quality of treatment plans. families reported 100 percent satisfaction with the quality Overview by extending the reach of doctors and other healthcare of the exam and more than 97 percent overall satisfaction Employee Engagement providers through virtual interactions. Using handheld Our Connected Healthy Children programs in China and with the experience. Following the success of the pilot cameras and stethoscopes, healthcare providers can Brazil, launched in FY13, are helping children in remote program, the hospital has taken over management of the Education provide patient information to doctors and specialists rural areas to access quality healthcare. In partnership effort and has decided to expand the program by adding Economic remotely. High-quality video and audio systems also with the United Foundation for Children’s Health (UFCH), telehealth capabilities at several new regional clinics. Empowerment the program has facilitated more than 100 patient visits in facilitate face-to-face interactions with remote patients. Healthcare the Sichuan Province of China; 72 children have received remote diagnostic consultations and 15 children have Critical Human Needs received diagnosis and treatment. In Brazil, there is a Much of our healthcare work & Disaster Relief focuses on pediatric care as part major gap in access to specialized care between children Supplier Diversity of our Connected Healthy Children in urban and rural areas. The program uses Cisco program. For more information technology to connect Family Health Clinics in the towns about other healthcare initiatives, visit our website. of Tobias Barreto and Lagarto, in the northeastern state Environment of Sergipe, to pediatric specialists at the Federal Medical University campus in Lagarto and the University Hospital GRI Index Photo: Marcus Autism Center in Aracaju. Each clinic can “see” 80 to 100 patients per Extending Access to Pediatric Care month. A roving team uses mobile technology to extend Two out of three deaths among children under six could support to even more remote areas. be prevented with effective primary care. But there is Key Challenge: Overcoming Unforeseen a global shortage of pediatricians, especially in rural Access to pediatric care is a problem in the United Circumstances in Brazil areas. We are using technology to increase access to States, too, where more than 15 million children live At Cisco, we are determined not to let unforeseen and delivery of care to children worldwide. To date, more in regions with fewer than 22 pediatricians and family challenges get in the way of progress. Shortly after than 6900 children have received medical consultations doctors for every 100,000 children. Children in Northern we launched Connected Healthy Children—Brazil, through our healthcare programs. California often have to wait up to nine months and travel lightning struck and damaged the equipment at one long distances to see a specialist. We completed a pilot of the two family health clinics participating in the In FY14, we launched our children’s health partnership program in FY14 to test the use of telehealth technology program, making it unusable for remote patient visits. Repairs are underway at the site, but a labor dispute in with the Virtual Pediatric Network. Our goal is to pilot at the Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital in Palo Alto, Brazil made it impossible to schedule and coordinate high-definition video collaboration to help improve the California, to overcome this challenge. We used Cisco visits at both clinics. These factors have slowed the way doctors make care decisions about children with HealthPresence1 technology to connect remote patients rollout of the program, but we are using our culture of cancer. It is often difficult for experts spread around to physicians at the Pediatric Group of Monterey and problem solving to find new solutions. The Connected the globe to collaborate regularly, especially on rare California Pacific Medical Center. Healthy Children team sought permission to step in as healthcare coordinators to schedule at least a small number of appointments for patients until the labor dispute is resolved. 1. Cisco networking and collaboration products are not intended for use in emergency situations or for real-time patient monitoring. Cisco technology enables enhanced communications to occur across geographies; availability varies based on regulatory status country by country. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E13 Introduction Critical Human Needs and For example, Water For People is using the Field Level Operations Watch (FLOW) mobile application Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Disaster Relief developed with Cisco’s support to improve fieldlevel data collection and analysis. This increases We support nonprofit organizations around the world that help transparency, accountability, and sustainability of Our People meet critical human needs for food, drinking water, and shelter, water projects in developing regions. and we support relief efforts following natural disasters. Society FLOW is used by 116 organizations in 35 countries. In India, Water For People used FLOW to support its Overview Meeting Critical Resource Needs school sanitation and menstrual hygiene programs, Employee Engagement We help nonprofits provide basic resources to communities which have already benefited students in nearly 50 in need and to make their organizations more financially schools. Education sustainable and effective in the long term. This enables them Economic to have a lasting impact on the communities they serve. Empowerment Healthcare Critical Human Needs Figure 3. Cisco Social Investment Criteria and Process Supporting Nonprofit Partners Cisco uses technology to help nonprofit organizations & Disaster Relief scale their programs and make their operations more Supplier Diversity efficient. Our best-practice guidelines help us set up Invest in innovative early-stage successful partnerships from the start. We approach idea development that has Identify and validate outcomes each new partnership as a long-term engagement, with potential to scale, replicate, from initial deployment that the expectation that we will invest the necessary time Environment d T and become financially an p Mees demonstrate success and and resources to help the program achieve its goals. sustainable. e lo a lead to long-term impact. We start by developing a clear vision, strategy, plan, GRI Index Ce e nd 1 De a t t a su r e 2 and objectives to measure long-term success. We also v establish governance and operating structures with our partners to define roles and responsibilities, set Fund New expectations, and facilitate effective decision making. Opportunity To help us measure the impact of our partnerships and see that grants are used effectively, we launched a new Social Impact Tracking Platform in FY13. Nonprofit partners use the tool to report the impact of their er 4 O p Su d a a at n d 3 programs. This helps us track progress during the grant st te Proven in multiple an ee Expand and scale period, undertake corrective action where needed, and al c environments. Scalable, ai n S c e pli solution beyond initial measure the value of our investments. Tracking these replicable, and sustainable. R population; confirm metrics also gives our partners information to help with Poised for further global impact in multiple diverse strategic planning by identifying effective practices to expansion. environments. scale up, challenges, and impacts on the communities and individuals they serve. In FY14, the platform helped us determine that 79 percent of beneficiaries reached through our strategic, • Innovative solution • Path to financial sustainability • Targets >65% economically underserved global cash grant investments were from economically Criteria • Replicable, scalable • Technology-based • Measurable social outcomes and/or socially disadvantaged populations, exceeding our goal of 65 percent. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E14 Introduction Responding to Emergencies CASE STUDIES CASE STUDIES Governance & Ethics Every year, natural disasters cause devastation around the FROM THE UNITED STATES FROM AROUND THE WORLD world. We support organizations such as NetHope, CARE, Supply Chain Feeding America, Habitat for Humanity, and the American Red Cross to help communities recover and rebuild. Our People Our Tactical Operations team provides emergency Society communications infrastructure to help coordinate relief efforts. Trained employee volunteers in the Cisco Disaster Overview Incident Response Team support the team, using Cisco Employee Engagement Network Emergency Response Vehicles, Emergency Education Communications Kits, and other technology to provide satellite, 4G, and other communications channels in Economic regions affected by disasters. By responding to Empowerment Photo: Community Solutions emergencies and natural disasters within the first Healthcare few days, Cisco often enables recovery and relief Reducing Chronic Homelessness agencies to get communications up and running faster Critical Human Needs Chronic homelessness is a problem across the United & Disaster Relief than government or local providers can. States. Many homeless families and individuals are unable to break the cycle of poverty. Cisco supported Supplier Diversity In FY14, Tactical Operations responded to Typhoon Community Solutions’ 100,000 Homes Campaign to Emergency Response in the Philippines Haiyan in the Philippines, the Washington Navy Yard find homes for chronically homeless people across the Cisco Tactical Operations deployed 11 people on three shooting in the United States, and the St. Mary’s College country. The campaign met its goal a month ahead of teams to the Philippines between November 2013 and Environment fire in Leyland, United Kingdom. We also provide schedule. By June 2014, homes had been found for January 2014 to reinstate communications in the wake funding through employee fund-raising. In FY14, we ran more than 101,000 people, including 30,000 veterans. of Typhoon Haiyan. The first team was on the ground GRI Index campaigns to support relief efforts following Typhoon Cisco’s initial grant of US$75,000 in FY12 supported the within four days of the typhoon hitting land. On arrival in Haiyan in the Philippines and flooding in Mexico and the Sharing Innovations Initiative that helped participating Guiuan, they found that every building in the town had communities share best practices. Average monthly been damaged or destroyed. Balkans region. Employees contributed US$337,300 to housing placement rates for chronically homeless these campaigns and matching funding from the Cisco individuals increased from 1.6 percent to 5.1 percent in They acted quickly to set up satellite communications Foundation brought the total raised to US$674,400. equipment. Soldiers used this equipment to find just six months. This is more than double the program out what was happening in other locations and help target of 2.5 percent per month. direct relief efforts where they were most needed. Cisco also participates in working groups that promote In FY14, we made a further investment of US$225,000 The teams also supported air traffic control in safely cooperation between publicand private-sector to help Community Solutions deploy a Performance coordinating humanitarian aid flights. They then organizations that work on disaster relief coordination Management and Communications Platform to support traveled to Borongan, where they installed satellite and technical standards, including the United Nations efforts to tackle homelessness in 25 communities. communications equipment to help the military and Working Group on Emergency Telecommunications. local police run the relief effort from a local community center and enable other Philippine government agencies to establish their own relief operations. A LifeLine in a Crisis The Tactical Operations teams also supported the UN Emergency Telecommunications Cluster—a Cisco is working with nonprofit One World South Asia and India to extend a LifeLine to communities struck by disaster. global network of organizations that provide The LifeLine program already uses mobile technology to give farmers in India information on crops and markets to help common communications services in humanitarian boost their harvests and income. Our product and cash grants will enable One World South Asia to use LifeLine to provide emergencies—and international NGOs like NetHope a communications helpline in a crisis and provide access to financial resources and guidance on growing medicinal plants and the International Office for Migration. and conserving endangered local plants. The program is being piloted in India’s Uttarakhand region, where devastating floods damaged agricultural communities in June 2013. Find out more on our website. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E15 Introduction Supplier Diversity • South Africa: We submit information about black-owned Governance & Ethics Cisco spends billions of dollars with suppliers every suppliers in line with the government’s Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment initiative. IN FY14 Supply Chain year. Where appropriate, we source products and • United States: We help customers meet regulatory Cisco ranked sixth among the top 50 U.S. services from diverse suppliers and support diverse obligations to increase the use of women-owned companies providing multicultural and diverse Our People partners in our sales channel. This supports economic and minority-owned businesses, such as those business opportunities by Diversitybusiness.com. empowerment in underserved communities and benefits imposed on utility companies and suppliers to state Cisco has been included in the ranking for six Society our business by giving us access to a wider group of and federal agencies. years running. It is based on feedback from more Overview innovative partners (for more on the business benefits, than 650,000 womenand minority-owned see Supply Chain, page C9). Employee Engagement Capability Building and Business businesses. See more about Cisco’s supplier Development diversity awards through FY14 on our website. Education Promoting Diverse Businesses We connect diverse suppliers and channel partners Economic Diverse businesses are those that are at least 51 percent with relevant Cisco business units and other potential Empowerment owned and operated by a minority or historically customers through the Cisco Global Supplier Diversity Healthcare disadvantaged group. These include the nine groups Business Development (GSDBD) program. They meet Diverse Business Classifications defined by the U.S. federal government (see box at right). executives from Cisco and other Fortune 500 companies • Small Business Critical Human Needs Cisco actively solicits all of these groups to give them the to discuss potential business opportunities at our Partner & Disaster Relief • Veteran-Owned Small Business greatest opportunity to supply us with goods or services. Operations Diversity Forums. Supplier Diversity • Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Many of our customers want to know about our Cisco supports women-owned businesses as a • Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) Zone expenditure with diverse suppliers and our support for corporate member of WeConnect International and the Small Business Environment diverse partners. In FY14, we responded to information Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). • Small Disadvantaged Business and reporting requests from more than 80 customers. These organizations promote women-owned businesses GRI Index • Woman-Owned Small Business by connecting them to multinational companies through Supplier diversity also is a regulatory requirement in networking events, business fairs, and conferences. • Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business markets such as: • Minority-Owned Business • Australia: We prepare a Reconciliation Action Plan We also help diverse businesses build their capabilities • Women-Owned Business Enterprise that is designed to promote business, education, and and develop their businesses through tailored local employment opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres programs in Australia, Canada, South Africa, and the Strait Islander Australians. United States. • Canada: There are no federal requirements about Australia supplier diversity in Canada, but an increasing number of provincial, territorial, and municipal policies require Cisco is a member of Supply Nation, which supports the greater focus on diversity initiatives, including growth and development of indigenous-owned suppliers. aboriginal procurement policies in Manitoba, Nunavut, Member companies work with Supply Nation to meet their and Ontario, and a Social Procurement Framework in Reconciliation Action Plan procurement goals, and the the city of Toronto, Ontario. group provides networking opportunities for companies and indigenous-owned and Torres Strait Islander suppliers. We participate in annual supplier meetings and business fairs through Supply Nation. In FY14, Cisco led a workshop on Tier 2 sourcing at the conference in Sydney, Australia. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback E16 Introduction Canada Cisco is a member of the Canadian Aboriginal and CASE STUDIES FROM THE UNITED STATES Governance & Ethics Minority Supplier Council (CAMSC). This coalition of Supply Chain multinational companies aims to promote procurement opportunities with major corporations for suppliers owned Our People ProSys Raises Its Profile with Support from Cisco and operated by Canadian Aboriginals and Minorities. With Cisco’s support, one of our diverse partners, ProSys, has gained visibility among potential customers. The womenIn FY14, we participated in two major CAMSC events. owned business, based in Atlanta, Georgia, secured a US$14.7 million contract to sell Cisco technology to a major Society At the annual Business Achievement Awards gala, Nitin multinational company. Kawale, president of Cisco Canada, was the keynote Overview ProSys designs thousands of technology solutions for private sector, government, and educational customers each year. speaker. We also sponsored and moderated a panel at The company’s CEO participates in the Executive Mentor Protégé Program. In 2013, the company earned recognition as Employee Engagement the CAMSC Diverse Partner’s Technology Forum. the Cisco South Commercial Partner of the Year. ProSys won the award for its excellence in bringing together custom ICT Education solutions and engineering expertise with innovative technology applications and best-in-class products. South Africa Economic We participate in the South African Supplier Diversity Empowerment Council, a group of more than 20 businesses working Healthcare to promote the growth of black-owned companies. Critical Human Needs This group shares best practices and builds relationships & Disaster Relief with black-owned suppliers. Supplier Diversity United States Since 2002, we have sponsored 71 people from 47 diverse suppliers to complete a 4-day workshop on Environment leadership skills and strategy at the Management GRI Index Development for Entrepreneurs Academy at the University of California, Los Angeles. Cisco executives mentor CEOs from diverse suppliers through our Executive Mentor Protégé Program. The 2-year program helps participating CEOs to secure significant new business (see case study). In FY14, Cisco awarded WebEx product grants worth more than US$21,000 to nine nonprofit organizations to help them support more diverse businesses. At the National Minority Supplier Development Council’s conference, we cohosted our largest annual Partner Operations Diversity Forum with more than 100 participants in attendance. We also cohosted the first annual International Minority Business Enterprise Day for more than 145 participants from 75 diverse businesses. See more about our efforts to support diverse businesses on our website. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F1 Introduction Environment Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Environment We believe our information and communInnovation is at the core of Cisco’s Within Cisco, we’re building environmental Overview ications technology (ICT) can improve the environmental sustainability initiatives. sustainability into each business function Environmental world’s standard of living, improve the For our customers, this means changing and process. We believe that improved Sustainability use of resources, and improve energy the way people work, live, play, and learn sustainability creates net benefits to our Materials efficiency, delivering new value to our through networking technologies that business, our customers, and the planet. Energy and GHG customers and society. create new business and social value. Emissions Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Waste Appendix GRI Index This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F2 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Environment Overview Our People Society Energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are the most important and most complex environmental issues for Cisco. Energy consumption includes the energy used in our own operations, in the extended operations of our supply chain Environment partners, and by the products we bring to market. In February 2013, we announced five new GHG reduction goals focused on Overview improving the energy efficiency of our operations, with a target date of 2017. Environmental Sustainability Improving the energy efficiency of our products is a priority because the energy consumed during their use accounts for up to Materials 90 percent of our products’ life cycle carbon footprint. This means that innovation in our products and services that promote Energy and GHG energy efficiency and waste reduction can reduce GHG emissions by users of our products. In developing innovative products Emissions and solutions, we are using the power of the Internet to create sustainable business models for our customers. Water Use Biodiversity and Land Use Non-GHG Emissions 2014 at a Glance Effluents (Liquid) Waste Cisco tied for #1 across all sectors #1 Cisco launched a 4-year, more than on CDP’s 2014 climate survey; and -30 Appendix US$50 million1 EnergyOps Program we celebrated our seventh year Cisco achieved a 30 percent (operational energy) to meet Cisco’s on CDP’s Disclosure Leadership absolute reduction in GRI Index new Scope 1, 2, and Scope 3 businessIndex and our fourth year on the Scope 1 and 2 GHG air-travel GHG emission reduction goals Performance Leadership Index. emissions worldwide, to be achieved by FY17. from a FY07 baseline. 360 MILLION In FY14, Cisco spent $9.6 million on energy $ efficiency and renewable energy initiatives as part of the global EnergyOps Program. Customers returned 12,180 metric tonne of Cisco products for reuse and recycling, and we reused over $360 million of Cisco equipment. $ 9.6 MILLION 1. Currency amounts reported in the Environment section are U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F3 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Environment Overview Our People Society 2014 Progress Toward Objectives 2015 Objectives and Beyond Objectives Status Objectives Target Date Environment Complete the development of the ICT Sector Supplement to the Greenhouse Gas Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 FY17 Protocol (GHGP) standards. percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Overview Cisco is a founding member of the GHGP ICT Sector Supplement effort. A member of Reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 emissions worldwide by FY17 the Steering Group, Cisco is also co-editor of the chapter on transport substitution. Environmental 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). The ICT Sector Supplement is expected to be published in early 2015 following final Sustainability review by stakeholders. Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net, consumption-weighted electricity emission FY17 Materials Continue customer and stakeholder engagement on environment factor to half of the latest International Energy Agency world average emission factor publicly available before the end of FY17. sustainability issues. Energy and GHG We completed a customer listening survey, inviting 5,000 customers to provide Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per unit of revenue worldwide FY17 Emissions their views on environmental sustainability issues and priorities. by 15 percent by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Water Use Scale reporting of GHG emissions to CDP by our supply chain. Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 25 percent FY17 Biodiversity and We continue to make significant advancements in our supply chain engagement of our electricity every year through FY17. Land Use and reporting. 100 percent of our contract manufacturers, 87 percent of our component suppliers, and 95 percent of global transport providers responded Non-GHG Emissions to the CDP 2014 survey. Effluents (Liquid) Achieved Ongoing Waste Appendix GRI Index “We believe that technology has a tremendous role to play in minimizing our carbon footprint, but we need to deal with the physical footprint of this technology in a different way. Cisco’s focus on the circular economy helps us to work together with our clients, and look at new ways to help clients manage the life cycle of their technology more effectively.” Colin Curtis, Director of Sustainability, Dimension Data This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F4 Introduction Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Environment Overview Our People Society Key Performance Indicators (KPIs; Base Year, if Applicable, and Last 5 Years Reported) FY07 Performance Summary FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments Environment Baseline Year1 Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 Values from 2012 CSR Report have Overview 436,489 376,141 416,927 251,672 312,525 305,656 and 2, metric tonne CO2e. been updated. Environmental Percent progress against reduction goal. Cisco’s new corporate GHG reduction Sustainability Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, Scope 1 and goal was announced in February 2013. base year -14% -4% -42% -28% -30% 2, GHG emissions worldwide by 40% Materials absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Energy and GHG Total Scope 3 air-travel GHG emissions, All emissions recalculated using the Emissions metric tonne CO2e. United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 199,104 96,442 114,707 125,605 139,530 157,868 Water Use (DEFRA) 2014 emissions factors (Ricardo-AEA/Carbon Smart); Biodiversity and radiative forcing not included. Land Use Percent progress against reduction goal. FY12 was goal year for first, 5-year Non-GHG Emissions Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, business-airgoal of -25%. base year -51% -42% -37% -30% -21% 2 travel, Scope 3 emissions worldwide by Effluents (Liquid) 40% absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Waste Product return, metric tonne n/a 8,580 11,595 13,324 12,539 12,180 Appendix Returned material sent to landfill Landfilled material consists only of nonelectronic waste materials, such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, n/a 0.33% 0.89% 0.43% 0.33% 0.30% and shrink wrap, accompanying Cisco GRI Index products returned by customers for recycling. 1. Our annual CSR reports include data for the past five fiscal years and, for GHG/energy, our goal base year. 2. If air travel from the approximately 5,000-employee NDS acquisition is excluded, FY14 value is -25%. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F5 Introduction Environmental Sustainability Our efforts in each area can be found in the cross-references to the relevant sections of this Table 1. Sustainability Materiality Tiers for Cisco Environment-Related Issues Governance & Ethics Environment chapter. This section describes our environmental sustainability Supply Chain opportunities and challenges and how we manage Tier Environment Topic them to improve our environmental performance. It is Energy and GHG emissions are the most important 1 Product energy efficiency Our People organized according to the Global Reporting Initiative and complex environmental issues for Cisco. The issue (GRI) G3.1 reporting framework. This framework sets out of energy consumption includes not only our own Energy consumption (operations) Society operations, but also the extended operations of our the principles and standard disclosures organizations can supply chain partners with whom we outsource business 2 Waste (product EOL) use to report environmental performance and impacts. Environment functions such as contract manufacturing, component 3 Waste (product packaging EOL) Overview supply, and logistics. Product energy efficiency is Environmental Sustainability Materiality important because, for most Cisco products, the use Water pollution (liquid effluents) Environmental Our environmental sustainability materiality assessment phase makes up from 80 to 95 percent of the product’s Sustainability Transport emissions (from product logistics) is based on input from stakeholders, results of life‑cycle carbon footprint. Product delivery and packaging also Materials assessments (LCAs), and other analyses of Cisco represent an opportunity for us to reduce impacts related 4 Waste (operational “trash”) products. We prioritized environmental impacts into five to logistics and material usage. Energy and GHG Hazardous materials Emissions tiers, as shown in Table 1. These priorities are based on the impact from Cisco’s operations, the impact from We have focused our energy and GHG efforts on Water use Water Use our supply chain, and the use of our products by our improving our operations, supply chain, product energy efficiency, and technology solutions to facilitate emissions Biodiversity and land use Biodiversity and customers in combination with the overall impact of the Land Use ICT industry sector. This environmental sustainability reductions for our business and our customers. We 5 Non-GHG airborne emissions materiality ranking is unchanged from FY13. We continue recognize there’s an opportunity for our products to Non-GHG Emissions to receive feedback from our customers and other help reduce GHG emissions in other industry sectors. Effluents (Liquid) stakeholders that our priorities have been correctly We also work to minimize the environmental impact Principles identified. In addition, we saw the continuation of a of our products by providing comprehensive product Cisco policies are developed under the following Waste 5-year trend of steadily increasing customer interest in end-of-life (EOL) services for our equipment. Cisco has governing principles for environmental sustainability. We: Appendix sustainability as reflected in RFPs, surveys, and other built a worldwide network of qualified recyclers through • Integrate environmental responsibility throughout our customer inquiries we answer throughout the year. several programs, discussed in more detail in the Product business while meeting customer expectations with GRI Index Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling section. respect to product function, delivery, quality, service, In FY14 Cisco invited about 5000 customers across all and EOL management. regions and market segments to complete an online Discussions of issues listed in Table 1 are provided under survey on environmental sustainability. We have surveyed the appropriate topic of the Environment section. • Work with our suppliers (“extended operations”) to our customers previously. Customer feedback from integrate environmental responsibility into all life cycle this survey confirmed the priority of our environmental Table 1 is structured around the GRI G3.1 performance phases of our products. sustainability issues. The top three issues identified by indicator categories. Corporate Social Responsibility • Use the GRI G3.1 performance indicators to guide the customer listening survey are: Materiality is discussed in the Governance and Ethics our environmental impact assessment, reporting, section and is based on research performed by an and initiatives. Although we focus our investment on • Product energy efficiency external consultancy. Tier 1 and 2 issues, all GRI indicators are accorded • Sustainable product fulfillment, an issue category due diligence in assessing impact and implementing that includes electronic delivery of software, improvement programs. documentation, and product packaging • Provide complete, accurate, and public environmental • Product takeback and recycling reporting for our stakeholders. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F6 Introduction Cisco maintains the following governance for our create and implement operational change. Teams focus • Addresses immediate and long-term impacts of an environmental sustainability efforts: on corporate-level initiatives that directly enhance Cisco’s organization’s activities, products, services, and Governance & Ethics environmental performance. processes on the environment • We actively seek out stakeholder engagement and Supply Chain analysis on sustainability materiality assessment, • The SET is responsible for Cisco’s strategy, initiatives • Gives order and consistency for organizations to reporting, and the results of our initiatives. and performance for major environmental initiatives. address environmental concerns through the allocation Our People • Our Sustainability Executive Team (SET) governs our The Sustainable Business Practices team, within of resources and assignment of responsibility, as Society major environmental initiatives. SET is organized around Corporate Affairs, manages the strategy, funding, well as through ongoing evaluation of practices, specific tracks. Each track is sponsored by an executive resources, organization, schedule and execution of each procedures, and processes and their impacts Environment from the affected business function. All tracks are SET track, as well as environment-related issues not • Focuses on the improvement of the system and co-sponsored by the executive that chairs SET. requiring SET engagement. The executive sponsor of environmental performance Overview SET is Randy Pond, SVP, Operations. • We maintain ISO 14001 certification for sites with Environmental • Cisco’s Enterprise Risk Management process, Cisco seeks to decrease our negative impacts while significant potential for environmental impact. Sustainability which assesses business risk and reports to the increasing our positive impacts on the environment. • We use our CSR Business Process to govern This concept is explained in our Corporate Environmental Materials Audit Committee of our corporate board, includes reporting, stakeholder engagement, feedback to Policy. This policy, in conjunction with our EMS, provides environmental sustainability in its audit checklist. Energy and GHG the business, initiative prioritization, goal setting, an environmental performance framework that permits us Emissions implementation, and metrics for environmental Cisco’s overarching CSR objective is to build to monitor and manage the environmental impacts that Water Use sustainability issues. sustainability into each business function and process. we find to be a priority for our business. Biodiversity and The risk from increasing GHG concentrations in the Cisco’s EMS is certified to the international EMS standard Land Use earth’s atmosphere is real and significant. Cisco Performance-Based Compensation ISO 14001:2004. Cisco sites for ISO 14001 certification Non-GHG Emissions supports the reduction of global GHG emissions through In our continued effort to drive environmental are selected based on a set of criteria that includes: improvements to our products and operations and sustainability, performance deeper into our organization, Effluents (Liquid) • Facility size and lab area through the actions of our suppliers. We use our own our two Cisco Presidents have established environmental Waste products to demonstrate at-scale innovative and sustainability goals, which are rolled out across • Building headcount capacity or persons housed cost-effective methods for reducing GHG emissions, their organizations. Employees are able to link their • Primary facility function Appendix helping our customers to do likewise. individual goals to company priorities and management team goals, such as established for environmental GRI Index Cisco uses our position as a respected global leader and sustainability. Performance against these goals is used an industry bellwether to achieve practical and effective for compensation and bonus decisions. solutions to global environmental challenges. We believe that the most effective leadership is done by Environmental Management System example. We will continue to improve our environmental An environmental management system (EMS) refers impact assessment, reporting, and initiatives and to the management of an organization’s environmental encourage our supply chain and business partners to impacts and programs in a comprehensive, systematic, further develop best practices for their own operations. and planned manner. An EMS: • Serves as a tool to improve environmental Organization performance Key executives, in tandem with business functions that • Provides a systematic way to manage environmental are covered by our environmental management system, impacts, requirements, and programs This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F7 Introduction These criteria enable us to apply resources to certify with the generation or use of materials, impacts on air Scope and Implementation sites that we believe will make the greatest contribution and water, and depletion of natural resources. All of this All of Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified sites are audited by Governance & Ethics to reduce environmental impact. After a site has been information is incorporated into the calculation of an an independent third party. Sites that were part of an Supply Chain selected for certification, an analysis is performed to environmental score, which then guides the prioritization acquisition are included in the scope of the Corporate evaluate its associated environmental impacts. This of facilities, sustainability materiality of the issues, and Environmental Policy and corporate environmental Our People includes an evaluation of corporate functional areas; the mitigation of the associated negative environmental initiatives. Table 2 shows Cisco’s key performance the associated products, activities, or services at that impacts. Figure 1 shows Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified indicators (KPIs) for our ISO 14001 certification. Society location; and the environmental impacts associated site locations. Environment Overview Figure 1. Cisco ISO 14001 Certified Site Locations Environmental Sustainability Materials Energy and GHG Emissions Bedfont Lakes/ Reading, United Kingdom Water Use Boulder/Englewood, Galway, Ireland Amsterdam, Netherlands Biodiversity and Colorado Land Use Chicago, Illinois Brussels, Belgium Paris, France Non-GHG Emissions San Jose, California Vimercate, Italy Effluents (Liquid) Richardson, Texas Beijing, China Boxborough, Massachusetts Tokyo, Japan Netanya, Israel Waste New York, New York Austin, Texas Shanghai, China Appendix Atlanta, Georgia Herndon, Virginia Hong Kong, China Research Triangle Park, Bangalore, India GRI Index North Carolina Singapore Sydney, Australia This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F8 Introduction Table 2. Cisco Environmental Management System ISO 14001 Certification Governance & Ethics KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments Supply Chain Number of Cisco sites with 27 28 30 30 28 Decrease due to closure of two sites (Chatswood, Australia and Our People ISO 14001 certification Monza, Italy). Calendar year certifications are assigned to fiscal year (e.g., CY14 assigned to FY14). Society Percent of real estate portfolio 96% 95% 96% 93% 93% Real estate footprint is viewed as a better measure of potential with ISO 14001 certification environmental impact than a headcount-based metric. Candidate ISO Environment 14001 sites are filtered by minimum size and engineering lab function. Overview Environmental The EMS is used to identify the most significant Sustainability Table 3. Aspect Teams per Region environmental impacts at each Cisco site and to set Materials relevant corporate and local environmental objectives Aspect Teams Global Teams Americas Europe and Asia Pacific, Total or targets. Based on potential impacts, site teams adopt Emerging Japan, China Energy and GHG one or more initiatives to implement; when possible Markets (EEM) (APJC) Emissions these initiatives also align with corporate-level programs. Water Use Waste reduction and recycling 8 8 7 23 All ISO 14001–certified sites have teams that pursue Biodiversity and environmental goals. The site operational teams report E-scrap management1 8 9 3 20 Land Use on goals, initiatives, and metrics that measure Cisco’s environmental performance on an internal ISO 14001 Energy management1 0 1 7 8 Non-GHG Emissions dashboard. Our 28 ISO 14001 certified sites have a Effluents (Liquid) total of 59 ISO 14001 Aspect Teams that addressed Green initiative/environmental 6 1 0 7 site-specific environmental impacts during CY14. While awareness2 Waste the Monza site closed and is now considered part of Wastewater management 1 0 0 1 Appendix Vimercate, Italy, for a majority of this year Monza tracked its own site Aspect Teams before moving and is included Total per Region 23 19 17 59 GRI Index in the data provided. Table 3 lists the number of Aspect 1. These Aspect Teams have site-specific activities and goals but also support a corporate–level/global goal. Teams per region that report on site-specific goals 2. Used at smaller sites, these teams typically include activities around employee engagement, energy management, and activities. e-scrap management, waste reduction and recycling, and local green activities unique to that site. Cisco’s primary corporate sustainability activities (such environmental performance goals, initiatives, and metrics. the EMS to capture globally environmental activities as GHG and energy management, product environmental We use performance tracking, metrics, and governance material to sustainability. In addition, Cisco’s EMS compliance, and supply chain management) are included to monitor our progress toward meeting our goals and to aligns closely with the company’s GHG and energy in our certified EMS and are part of the internal and guide us in finding ways to improve our EMS. management program and supports the company’s external audits performed annually. In CY14 we did not Sustainability Information System (SIS). The SIS helps include the corporate-level programs in the internal ISO While challenges exist in scaling site-level ISO Cisco expand our sustainability data collection, improve 14001 dashboard due to organizational changes, but the certification with changes due to acquisitions and the accuracy of that data, and focus limited resources programs were a part of our internal and external audit company growth, we continue to improve the linkage on more important tasks, such as evaluating and plans. This will enable us to internally track key corporate between the sites and corporate-level goals to enable implementing mitigation projects. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F9 Introduction Internal audits as part of Cisco’s EMS provide regular events, such as Virtual Earth Day and video-on-demand assessments as to whether our environmental processes classes. These show employees how they can contribute Governance & Ethics and commitments have been implemented and how well to our environmental goal of reducing carbon emissions we are improving our EMS at our certified sites. The by creating new products like the Cisco DX80 and Cisco Supply Chain frequency of these audits depends on criteria such as the TelePresence SpeakerTrack 60, Cisco TelePresence Our People size and operational activities at the site, in addition to products, improving upon existing product designs, and the results of previous year-over-year findings. Typically, working with our supply chain to make upstream operations Society within a 3-year period, every site receives one onsite more environmentally conscious. audit and one virtual audit. In FY14, we conducted 26 Environment internal audits, seven of them were virtual audits using Cisco continues to expand our sustainability coursework Overview Cisco TelePresence or Cisco WebEx, and five were targeted to employees who have a significant role in “hybrid” audits including an onsite and remote auditor defining product requirements or developing our products Environmental using Cisco TelePresence or WebEx. and packaging. In FY14, sustainability initiatives such Sustainability as Pack It Green and One Future have sponsored live Materials As mentioned earlier, Cisco participates in annual learning sessions with both internal and external experts external audits by a third-party registrar for independent covering topics that inspire and promote expansion of Energy and GHG Emissions verification and certification of our EMS to the ISO new and existing sustainability best practices and design14001:2004 standard. These audits identify areas of for-environment (DfE) principles. We will revamp our Water Use improvement and performance, while providing external product development community webinar in FY15, which Biodiversity and validation and verification of our EMS processes has been completed by over 1400 employees, to reflect Land Use and programs. evolving DfE principles. Link to EMS Certificate Non-GHG Emissions The data and processes for the environmental portion To further embed environmental practices into our Effluents (Liquid) Audits Identify Best Practice of our CSR Report were incorporated in the ISO 14001 standard business operations, Cisco offers employee An important component of our audit process is internal audit plan to provide additional verification of training on our business management system, which Waste identifying best practices. These are shared across the validity of the data reported. In CY14 this internal includes our EMS and environmental policies. We also Appendix business functions through our internal EMS newsletter audit included nine different teams and verified the offer training for our IT and engineering employees to and our ISO 14001 committee meetings, which include data-gathering process for about 130 environmental provide information on how they can actively reduce the ISO 14001 key partners. GRI Index statements in the 2013 CSR Report. Verification of data, energy use within Cisco’s labs and data centers. Energy Management Best Practice as well as processes, is key to reporting valid data A total of 337 racks had cold aisles enclosed throughout and is a proactive process to identify data gaps. This Cisco works in collaboration with the Electronic Industry the St. Leonard’s Sydney, Australia labs which allowed a decrease in the number of required computer room will continue as part of the scope of Cisco’s ISO 14001 Citizenship Coalition (EICC) to develop common air conditioning units for the three labs from 18 down internal audit program. industry training, tools, and standards to support to 14. This resulted in an estimated daily energy suppliers in improving their sustainability capabilities reduction of 674 kWh and a GHG reduction of 2.44 and performance. For more information on Cisco’s Employee Training metric tonne per day. To support our goal to incorporate environmental design engagement with EICC (see Supply Chain). The audit program also identified 23 Positive principles into our products, systems, and solutions, we Comments. The positive comments were identified in various processes and/or activities at nine different implemented companywide informational and training certified sites around the globe. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F10 Introduction Life-Cycle Assessment used, and product refurbishment and recycling are more Hazardous Materials Cisco uses life-cycle assessments (LCA) to estimate effective. To this end, environmental design features were Governance & Ethics As a global supplier of electronic equipment to GHG emissions associated with our products. This incorporated into our product requirements document. consumers and industry, Cisco conforms to applicable Supply Chain work is described in more detail in Scope 3 Life Cycle regulations for product, packaging, and battery materials. We have incorporated a DfE approach into our standard Emissions, page F28. LCA is a holistic approach for Global environmental regulations and Cisco’s interest Our People design processes that focuses on the following areas: assessing the environmental impact of a system, in reducing the impact of the materials used in the Society process, or product. LCA analyses can cover all or • Energy efficiency (minimum 80 percent efficient power manufacturing of our products and in our supply chain selected life cycle phases, LCA helps Cisco: supply and efficient component selection) have helped spur the development of our Controlled Environment • Assess the materiality of various contributors to • Hazardous materials Substances Specification. The purpose of this environmental impact specification is to communicate Cisco’s substance use Overview • Design-for-recyclability and upgradability and reporting requirements to engineering, component • Facilitate more informed selection of alternative • Recycling marking on plastic components (ISO 11469, Environmental suppliers, and manufacturing partners. The specification materials that are environmentally preferable SPI codes) for ease of sorting during recycling Sustainability outlines the controlled substances and any conditions • Understand the impact of product power consumption • Packaging and fulfillment (reduction of materials and of use, regulatory restrictions, such as Restriction Materials on product environmental footprint package volume as well as logistics impacts) on Hazardous Substances (RoHS), substances to be Energy and GHG • Compare assembly and test scenarios to help develop reported and phased out, and substances under study for Emissions • Design for longevity more energy-efficient manufacturing processes potential inclusion on the controlled substances list. For • Compatibility with product takeback programs additional information on RoHS and other material related Water Use • Inform packaging and accessory kit reduction projects regulations visit Cisco’s Materials webpage. In addition, Biodiversity and on the trade-offs of alternative materials and the Cisco’s DfE principles are derived from a combination for up-to-date, product-level information, visit our selfLand Use environmental impact improvement of reducing of sources, including formal requirements (for example, service Product Approvals Status (PAS) tool.1 Non-GHG Emissions materials ECMA-TR370) and other best practices developed • Understand the relative carbon efficiency of different within our business. Examples of DfE guidelines to aid Effluents (Liquid) separation, identification, and recycling of materials modes of transport for moving our products from Waste manufacturing to logistics centers and to our include: Appendix customers • Mechanical parts greater than 100 grams consist of one material. To aid in performing LCA work in various areas, we utilize GRI Index • Plastic parts greater than 25 grams are designed with tools and data sources such as PE International’s GaBI material coding, as per ISO 11469, so plastic material 6.3 and other publicly available data sources, such as the types can be more easily identified at the recycler. International Energy Agency (IEA), the United Kingdom Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs • All plastic parts are free of metal inlays and can be (DEFRA), and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). separated with common tools, improving recyclability. In FY14, approximately 97 percent of newly released Design for Environment products incorporated DfE principles. We have incorporated environmental design principles into our products and manufacturing processes so that less raw material, packaging, and transportation are This section is bookmark enabled. 1. Note: Cisco.com registration is required. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F11 Introduction Separate from the efforts just mentioned, lead-based solder qualified new PCB laminate materials that do not have has been a key component of circuit boards and other HFRs for use in new high-end switching and routing Governance & Ethics electronic parts. Although lead solder is currently exempt products. Cisco qualified several halogen-free laminates from the RoHS Directive for networking infrastructure that are available for use. The cost, design flexibility, and Supply Chain equipment, partial product conversion and testing efforts performance of these qualified laminates make them Our People continue to allow us to make significant progress toward attractive for a growing percentage of Cisco products, removing lead assembly solder from Cisco products. and we are encouraging our business units and suppliers Society For the transition, we have developed a lead-free solder to select these laminates for new designs. specification for components, interconnects, and printed Environment circuit board reliability. We also have implemented data Since then, Cisco has continued to qualify more halogenOverview management systems to manage lead-free information, free PCB laminate materials and has increased their use assessed supplier capabilities, tested the reliability of in many new products. We will continue to research new Environmental alternative substances, and developed a product conversion laminate materials as they become available and apply Sustainability performance evaluations. Cisco complies with applicable roadmap. In the interest of protecting product quality, we them to new products where quality and performance Materials are working with global industry associations to develop requirements can be met. packaging regulations that restrict the use of heavy highly reliable lead-free solder. metals and dangerous substances in our packaging. Energy and GHG HFRs in Cisco Designed Plastic Parts Emissions Halogenated Flame Retardants and Cisco is monitoring the plastic resins used in the parts we Batteries Water Use design. To date, we have gathered and refined information Batteries in Cisco products are generally used to Polyvinyl Chloride Biodiversity and Two examples of substances outside the current scope on the presence of HFRs in Cisco designed plastic parts maintain information in system memory when the device Land Use of global regulatory requirements that Cisco monitors for provided to or manufactured for Cisco through design is powered off. These products are designed so the reduction and substitution in the manufacturing of our documentation and surveys with our manufacturers. batteries can be easily located and recycled. Product Non-GHG Emissions electronics are polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and nonregulated Our research found that approximately 86 percent of labels provide an indication that the product contains a Effluents (Liquid) resin compounds (by component volume) used in Cisco battery. This information alerts our recyclers that a battery halogenated flame retardants (HFRs). Cisco has been Waste working with manufacturing partners, industry standards products either do not contain a flame retardant or use a should be removed before further processing. technical committees, and academia to validate proposed halogen-free flame retardant. In addition, as part of the Appendix DfE guidelines, the use of alternatives to HFRs in plastics alternatives for HFRs and PVC. We have continued to Supply Chain identify, confirm, and qualify alternatives to plastics is recommended for new designs. We have embedded, and continue to improve, GRI Index containing HFRs used in our products. Over the past PVC in Cable Insulation responsible supply chain practices as part of our routine three years, we have performed material assessments, business processes to make environmental sustainability surveyed suppliers, and identified the areas within our Cisco worked on the iNEMI PVC Alternatives Project to a key criterion in our assessment of, and ongoing business where we could have the greatest influence and reduce cable insulation PVC content. This effort focused relationships with, our suppliers. Discussion success transitioning to HFRand PVC-free materials. on understanding the environmental trade-offs of standard, of these practices is provided in the Supply Chain This issue is most relevant to Cisco as it relates to printed nonhalogen, and bio-based cable jacketing. and Environment sections of this CSR Report as circuit boards, plastic parts that we have designed, and indicated below: Cisco also is a member of the High-Density Packaging cable insulation. Findings from these efforts for each Users Group (HDPUG) Brominated Flame Retardant • Supplier Code of Conduct area are described in the following sections. (BFR)/Polyvinyl Chloride-Free Cables and Wires • Supplier Audits HFRs in Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs) Project, which is comparing the electrical, mechanical, • Supplier Scorecard performance, and manufacturability requirements of • Training Cisco Supplier Managers In FY12, Cisco performed our own reliability and signal alternative materials with existing options; designing • Working with Suppliers to Build Capability integrity testing of new laminate alternatives by way of and manufacturing test samples; and conducting • Scope 3 Cradle-to-Gate Emissions new material qualification processes. As a result, we • Scope 3 Supply Chain GHG Emissions Prioritization This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F12 Introduction Employee Engagement • Employee commuter incentives: The San Francisco • Energy solutions: Aim to highlight execution activities In FY14, Cisco encouraged and supported employee Shuttle Pilot program provides transportation to where Cisco can develop a strategy and vision for Governance & Ethics employees and contractors living in San Francisco to new marketplaces interest in the environment in the following activities: Supply Chain our headquarters in San Jose. In FY14, Cisco provided • Circular economy: Work with the Ellen MacArthur • Virtual Earth Day: This annual activity consists of a about 50,000 rides to and from work, which prevented series of webinars on a variety of environmental topics Foundation to provide a coherent framework for a Our People about 2.4 million miles from being driven by employees. either specific to Cisco or of general interest to our transition to a restorative economy Society worldwide employee base. Cisco encourages employee use of mass transit • Operational excellence: Drive sustainability efforts at some sites through programs that allow eligible across the business, sharing ideas (projects), new • Think Green, Act Green and Environmental Management employees to use pretax dollars to purchase Environment Newsletter: Internal, quarterly newsletters summarize innovations, and decision making with accountability mass-transit passes. on progress Overview Cisco’s environmental activities for the period. Cisco continues to install additional electric vehicle • People and partnerships: Engage and collaborate Environmental • Year-end shutdown: Cisco requires that the majority of (EV) charging stations for our employees and visitors our employees take time off at the end of December. with a wide range of subject matter experts including Sustainability in certain locations. The EV charging program is This is a great opportunity to engage our employees economists, scientists, technical architects, and Materials described in more detail in Scope 3 Employee behavior-change specialists on the importance of turning equipment off, especially Commuting, page F27. Energy and GHG lab and ICT equipment, before the shutdown begins. Emissions • Amsterdam Green Community: This team, which At the end of FY14, there are about 2300 contributing In FY14, this shutdown period was 9 days in length and consists of volunteers from multiple departments, members within the OneFuture community. Water Use resulted in approximately $1 million in energy savings and 3700 tonne CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) in avoided is focused on ways to reduce energy usage, waste, Biodiversity and GHG emissions. and travel at the Cisco Amsterdam campus. Regulatory Fines Land Use • Employee electronics recycling (e-scrap): Once a year, GRI EN28: Monetary value of significant fines and total Corporate sustainability objectives can be linked to Non-GHG Emissions number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance on Cisco’s Recycle IT Day, employees can bring in individual goals in Cisco’s online performance management any used electronics to have them recycled using the with environmental laws and regulations. Effluents (Liquid) system. Employees are encouraged, as part of their same vendors and processes used in our business. individual performance goal setting, to identify connections Waste Our EMS certifications provide a regular assessment See page F41, Internal Programs for Cisco. to company priorities and line-management goals. Appendix of our environmental compliance. We emphasize the Both Cisco presidents have established environmental importance of transparency in all business decisions. sustainability goals which roll out across their organizations As part of Cisco’s Code of Business Conduct employees GRI Index and align individual and business objectives with our are encouraged to raise concerns or report issues environmental sustainability improvement goals. without fear of retaliation. We investigate any allegation of noncompliance to determine root causes and implement OneFuture is a sustainability forum open to all employees corrective actions, if needed, to prevent their recurrence. to help unleash the skills, imagination, and capabilities Cisco’s proactive approach and close attention to within Cisco to meet the needs of our changing world. environmental requirements have resulted in no fines or OneFuture focuses on four core areas where we penalties greater than $10,000 in the past five years. encourage our employees to envision the future direction and develop creative solutions to help get us there. The four areas of focus include: This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F13 Introduction Materials Figure 2. Four Dimensions of Environmental Packaging Design Governance & Ethics GRI EN1: Materials used by weight or volume. Supply Chain Packaging Material Optimization Our People Packaging Design a package that adequately protects the product from transport damage/waste while, at the The growing amount of municipal solid waste being same time, optimizing the volume of material and complying with all relevant environmental regulations. Society added to landfills from product packaging is an environmental concern to Cisco. To address Cisco’s Environment impacts in this area, our packaging designs minimize material usage while protecting against damage during Space Efficiency Optimization Overview Designing a package that optimizes space/cube efficiency during transport. shipping, warehousing, and other handling. Packaging Environmental engineers work with the product design teams to reduce Sustainability protrusions, the overall fragility of the product, and the Materials product’s external dimensions to reduce the overall Optimizing Distribution amount of packaging required. Energy and GHG Designing the product for distribution in order to further reduce the overall amount Emissions of packaging material used and/or greenhouse gases emitted in transportation. Products that are damaged in transit have both negative Water Use business and environmental impacts. Customer Biodiversity and dissatisfaction increases while resource use, energy, Land Use and materials increase because the damaged product Environmentally Friendly Materials requires repair or replacement. Each packaging design Designing in recycled content and recyclable features. Non-GHG Emissions goes through rigorous drop and vibration testing to Effluents (Liquid) confirm the required level of product protection. Once Waste basic packaging and material requirements have been met, Cisco evaluates four additional aspects of Cisco’s products, while at the same time improving the optimization. This methodology continued to be used in Appendix environmental package design, as shown in Figure 2. overall customer experience. “BU Champs” work to FY14 to prioritize improvement efforts. identify opportunities, sponsor pilot and best practices GRI Index Packaging Material, Space Efficiency, projects, and assist in educating others. The Pack Detailed investigations, including customer surveys and a and Distribution Optimization It Green Initiative continues to view our packaging Six Sigma “green belt” process improvement project, were GRI EN29: Significant environmental impacts of challenges from the product fulfillment level in order performed to determine the most critical root causes of transporting products and other goods and materials to prioritize, design, and implement improvements losses of efficiencies for the targeted product tiers. used for the organization’s operations, and transporting that go beyond just the packaging itself. members of the workforce. In FY14, Cisco continued to address the identified losses Product packaging efficiencies were measured for all of efficiencies in the following ways: In FY14, Cisco continued to apply the four dimensions shippable products. On page F12 of the Environment • Increased business participation in Pack It Green of environmental packaging design as part of our section of our FY12 CSR report, Cisco defined our by 27 percent release process for both new products and some legacy packaging efficiency metric as the total weight of the • Expanded sustainable packaging and fulfillment product offerings. Pack It Green is a cross-functional, product packaging over the weight of the product plus solutions best practices across the business cross-product movement of Cisco employees with a its packaging. Packaging efficiency ratios within each mission to eliminate excess environmental waste and category or tier of product combined with shipment • Continued development of new strategies for transport costs associated with the packaging and fulfillment of volumes were compared to one another to identify of goods by marrying new material technologies, the best opportunities for packaging and fulfillment system capabilities, and customer feedback This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F14 Introduction In total, this work has resulted in approximately 888 metric Packaging Although Cisco promotes the use of recyclable packaging tonne of material (corrugated board, plastic, wood, and Generally, Cisco product packaging uses corrugated whenever possible, some applications require the use of Governance & Ethics other packaging materials) saved annually. In addition, dissimilar materials joined together that cannot easily be cardboard that includes some recycled content. In Supply Chain these changes are expected to save $6.3 million annually addition, thermoformed cushions made from 100 percent recycled, for example, metallized anti-static bags (also through material and freight cost reductions. recycled polyethylene are used on some products. known as ESD or electrostatic discharge bags). When these Our People However, this type of cushion is not suitable for every not-easily-recyclable materials are used, we minimize the Sustainable Packaging and Fulfillment Solutions product, and therefore some products use foam cushions quantity of, and amount of material used in, the bags. Society Cisco’s sustainable packaging and fulfillment solutions made from virgin material or recycled substitutes. result in a minimum set of items in each shipment and, Products Environment in some cases, can even eliminate items that customers Almost all Cisco packaging for new products is made In addition to recycled packaging content, most products Overview don’t require. All of these packaging and fulfillment either of one material or multiple materials that are have material that has been recycled from other products. strategies not only reduce our material usage, but also separable for recycling.1 Customer, municipal, and regional Electronic products consist primarily of electronic circuit Environmental help reduce GHG emissions through lower transportation recycling practices vary depending on the market. What boards, steel, and plastics. There is a robust global Sustainability weights. To read more about Cisco’s efforts in this area, is easily recycled in one market may not be as easily secondary market in recycled metals such as steel and Materials see Scope 3 Logistics, page F31. recycled in an emerging market or a remote location. The copper, but Cisco does not require a minimum percentage Energy and GHG ability of customers to recycle our packaging depends on of recycled content in new product manufacturing because Emissions Categories and FY14 highlights in this area are outlined the recycling facilities in place in their region. In addition, the secondary markets don’t offer granularity in material in Table 4. customers may also not have internal processes to specification at an economic cost. Water Use handle separately each category of recyclable material. Biodiversity and Best practices developed for these categories are We use reground plastic (a product of the excess material Land Use regularly incorporated into our product design process Cisco legacy products, including those produced manufacturing) in certain portions of our IP phones. In Non-GHG Emissions through our design-for-environment guidelines; see by acquisitions, may not incorporate all current best addition, we have begun to assess the possible use of Design for Environment, page F10. packaging practices. A similar challenge also exists for recycled plastics within both our IP phones and storage Effluents (Liquid) packaging provided by a Cisco supplier that is delivered product lines. intact to the end customer. Based on planned volume, Waste Products customer input, and projected savings, Cisco redesigns For product documentation, we encourage our vendors Appendix Understanding the materials that make up our products, to use natural inks where practical. However, where clarity some existing packaging designs to reduce the volume and balancing this with regulatory requirements and is important, such as in safety materials and operating of material used and to improve recyclability. As products our customers’ needs, help us to identify opportunities instructions, the vendor is expected to use a type of ink that GRI Index go end-of-life, Cisco’s overall packaging becomes more to reduce or eliminate waste. A key requirement for does not bleed or fade. We also scrutinize the amount of resource efficient and recyclable. our product designs is minimizing materials while still printed text required within a document, making it a goal to achieving performance and reliability targets. The plastic used in Cisco packaging falls into categories move as much as possible into an electronic format while identified by codes 1 to 7. Polyethylene (codes 2 and 4) balancing regulatory requirements. Finally, we continue Recycled Content is the predominant material. Many but not all of the plastic to scope the requirements of Forest Stewardship Council GRI EN2: Percentage of materials used that are recycled components are labeled. (FSC) certified sourcing, with many of our vendors already input materials. certified or using FSC certified paper. This section is bookmark enabled. 1. A notable exception are electrostatic discharge (ESD) bags, which have a metalized coating on the plastic that make recycling impractical. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F15 Introduction Table 4. Sustainable Packaging and Fulfillment Solutions: Focus Areas Governance & Ethics Category Benefits FY14 Example Supply Chain Primary product Reduce packaging and shipping New packaging for Cisco UCS® blade servers enabled us to ship the blades and chassis together. This project is expected to save Our People configurable options costs by integrating product, Cisco over $2.2 million annually and eliminate 737 metric tonne of waste, plus increase operations efficiencies for our resellers. subcomponents, and accessories Society into one carton. Secondary product Reduce materials, packaging, Customers can choose not to receive: Environment configurable options and shipping costs by providing • UCS storage product power cables customers with a way to opt out • Aironet® wireless access point mounting brackets and clips Overview of receiving cables, brackets, and We intend to expand the availability of such options to address growing sustainability-minded customer demands. However, similar items. widespread customer awareness and adoption of such options remains a challenge. Environmental Sustainability Bulk packaging Reduce packaging and shipping The high-volume cable spares bulk-pack models piloted in FY13 were adopted by many business units in FY14. Over 128 cable Materials costs, and increase operations products are fulfilled using the model. Return on investment (ROI) is estimated at $2.2 million and 130 metric tonne of anticipated efficiency, by shipping like products annual savings from the FY14 efforts alone. Energy and GHG in a carton selected during packing Emissions The success of the bulk-pack models inspired a pilot on memory spares in FY14. By partnering with customers to meet their based on the order quantity. packaging and labeling requirements, Cisco successfully launched our first bulk-packed memory spares modules on the UCS Water Use product line. Biodiversity and Electronic delivery of Increase dematerialization and As a result of its success in FY13, the eDelivery program discontinued tracking electronic fulfillment adoption for software and Land Use software, licenses, operations efficiency. Reduce CDs, license spares. and product paper, and packaging. Reduce However, opportunities abound to reduce software, licenses, and product documentation that ship with our product hardware. Non-GHG Emissions documentation packaging and fulfillment costs. In FY14, our security and storage products began to ship with pointer cards that direct customers to online documentation, Effluents (Liquid) eliminating CDs and paper documentation. Waste Cisco will support CD-based product documentation by exception-only in FY15. Appendix Multipack products Reduce packaging and shipping We continued to investigate possible solutions to address end-to-end fulfillment challenges for our channel partners. (or ecopack costs, and increase operations As a result, in FY15, we are asking executives to solve critical challenges that are preventing widespread adoption of this most products) efficiencies, by selling “bundles” of efficient manner to fulfill high-volume products. GRI Index like products in specific volumes. Increase customer satisfaction; identified as a significant issue by customers in our 2013 Sustainability Customer Survey, page F5. Dense packaging Reduce packaging and shipping We reassessed high-volume switching products for dense packaging optimization in FY14, achieved further optimization within the costs by optimizing supply chain year, and identified future opportunities for FY15. packaging between our factories. Packaging reuse Reduce packaging and In FY14 storage products lead this category. We now reuse many of our Nexus® and UCS blade server chassis pallets received and recycling within related costs. from suppliers for shipment to our customers. our supply chain and Cisco products use recyclable polyethylene bags for moisture protection or consolidation of accessory kit subassemblies. to our customers Over the years, we have reduced the thickness and size of many bags, and we have regularly encouraged suppliers to reuse these and any electrostatic discharge (ESD) bags. In addition, Cisco continues to substitute metallized antistatic bags with a fully recyclable antistatic bag when possible, particularly for high-volume products (for example, optical modules). This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F16 Introduction Energy and GHG Emissions chance” of averting warming beyond 2°C above preindustrial temperature. 5. Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 25 percent of our electricity every year Governance & Ethics through FY17. This section reviews Cisco’s environmental impacts and our initiatives concerning energy and GHG emissions. As part of the development of our FY17 GHG goal we Supply Chain Cisco decided early in our GHG reduction efforts to make The GRI G3.1 indicator protocols place GHG emissions used the EPA Goal Evaluation Model. The model predicted 5-year commitments because the scale of the problem Our People that ICT industry revenues will grow significantly through under the Emissions, Effluents, and Waste category. and solution doesn’t lend itself to a short term planning Because Cisco’s GHG emissions are almost all directly the FY17 goal year, and it also predicted that the industry Society and actions approach.2 Without a long time horizon, large associated with the use of energy (typically electricity), emissions normalized to millions of dollars will increase investments, which have a potential for a big payoff, we report GHG emissions with energy. 16.5 percent over the same period. These two projections Environment don’t get done. With our latest goal setting exercise we combined indicate a business-as-usual increase in secured a 5-year spending plan of more than $50 million Overview Cisco has successfully met two GHG emission reduction absolute emissions. Any goal that includes a reduction for operational energy efficiency projects (not including goals to date: in absolute emissions is considered aggressive based Environmental products or supply chain). We believe Cisco demonstrates on the EPA model. Our current GHG goal is a 40 percent Sustainability • September 2006: Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) a best practice approach around goals setting, by: reduction in absolute emissions by FY17 (FY07 baseline), commitment to reduce GHG emissions from all Cisco • Committing to realistic longer time-horizon goals, Materials an additional 15 percent reduction from our 2012, 25 business air travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute befitting the scale of the problem percent reduction goal (that we met). Energy and GHG by FY09 (against a FY06 baseline). Emissions • Consistent and precise wording of goals with clear In February 2013, Cisco announced a set of five new measurement methodology Water Use This CGI goal was met in 2009 and the commitment goals related to our operational energy use and GHG has been closed. • Consistent and transparent reporting (5 years plus Biodiversity and emissions. We believe formal goals should address the • June 2008: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency baseline year data in our CSR Report in a format that Land Use issues that our environmental sustainability materiality (EPA) Climate Leaders commitment to reduce all does not change from year to year) assessment determined to be most relevant, which for Non-GHG Emissions Scope 1, 2, and business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG Cisco are GHG and energy. Experience with our past • Third-party assurance for all goal-related reporting Effluents (Liquid) emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by end goals and suggestions from stakeholders helped to of CY12 (CY07 baseline). inform the establishment of our new goals: Cisco has been recognized for our GHG reporting by Waste CDP and the EPA Climate Leaders: This goal was met in 2012 and the commitment has 1. Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Appendix • In September 2013, Cisco tied for the top spot on been closed. worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). CDP’s Global 500 with a disclosure score of 100 and GRI Index an “A” performance rating. We share the top spot The June 2008, 25 percent absolute reduction goal 2. Reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 overall with six other companies worldwide that also exceeded the annual reduction needed to meet emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 received a maximum score. We were alone in first reductions suggested by the Intergovernmental Panel (FY07 baseline). place in the ICT sector. We were also at the top of the on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report. 3. Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net, consumption-weighted S&P 500 assessment, tied with two other companies. We set our next 5-year goals based on guidance from electricity emission factor to half of the latest • These rankings are based on information submitted The 3% Solution report, named for the annual emissions International Energy Agency (IEA) world average to CDP in June 2013. This represents our sixth reduction thought to be needed through 2020 to emission factor publicly available before the end year on the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index meet IPCC guidance. According to the IPCC Annex 1, of FY17. (CDLI); and our fourth on the Carbon Performance developed countries need to reduce GHG emissions by 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, and 4. Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per Leadership Index (CPLI). For a long-term problem like 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. Such a unit of revenue worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 climate change, consistently high rankings over an stabilization pathway was said to provide a “reasonable (FY07 baseline). extended period are strong evidence of a company’s commitment to improving GHG emissions disclosure and performance. 1. In our annual CSR Report we include CDP scoring released in September of the same year (2014); which is technically after the fiscal year covered by this report. This section is We do this because the scoring is for Cisco work completed in the covered fiscal year and represents the most recent and relevant information available. bookmark enabled. 2. Sadly, many organizations that publish rankings and ratings do not share this long-term perspective, subtracting points unless annual goals are in place. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F17 Introduction • Scoring for CDP 2014 was announced in our FY15 and Operations Scope 1 and 2 Table 5 lists our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. Scope 2 will be included in next year’s CSR Report. emissions typically represent over 93 percent of overall Governance & Ethics GRI EN3: Direct energy consumption by primary • In February 2014, Cisco also was recognized for our Scope 1 and 2 emissions and as a result, identifying and energy source. Supply Chain Excellence in GHG Management (Goal Achievement) implementing projects that specifically reduce Scope 2 through the EPA Climate Leadership awards. Cisco GRI EN4: Indirect energy consumption by primary emissions is a major focus area for Cisco as part of our Our People overall energy and GHG reduction strategy. In FY14, our received the award for meeting our 5-year 25 percent energy source. GHG reduction goal. Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions were 30 percent less Society GRI EN16: Total direct and indirect GHG emissions absolute than our FY07 baseline, solid progress against • In September 2013, Cisco was recognized as a Green our plan to meet a 40 percent absolute reduction by FY17. by weight. Environment Power Partner of the Year by the U.S. EPA. Overview Additional information about awards Cisco received Environmental in 2014 for our CSR efforts are available on our website. Sustainability Materials Table 5. Summary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Energy and GHG FY07 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments Emissions KPI Baseline Year1 Water Use Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 1, metric 50,578 52,515 60,718 65,832 55,811 49,901 Biodiversity and tonne CO2e Land Use Total gross GHG emissions: Scope 2, metric 451,647 581,252 599,528 628,164 666,393 709,021 Gross is used consistent with CDP terminology. Non-GHG Emissions tonne CO2e Gross GHG emissions do not include reductions Effluents (Liquid) from renewable energy purchases. Waste Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 2, 385,911 323,626 356,209 185,840 256,714 255,755 Contractual is used consistent with CDP metric tonne CO2e terminology. Contractual GHG emissions include Appendix reductions from renewable energy purchases. GRI Index Scope 1 and 2 emissions (gross) intensity, 14.4 15.8 15.3 15.1 14.9 16.1 Gross intensity is a measure of operational metric tonne CO2e per million dollars of revenue efficiency commonly used by many Cisco stakeholders. Scope 2 emissions from primary data, percent 96.0% 98.5% 97.9% 97.9% 96.3% 97.1% Total contractual GHG emissions: Scope 1 436,489 376,141 416,927 251,672 312,525 305,656 and 2, metric tonne CO2e Percent progress against reduction goal. base year -14% -4% -42% -28% -30% Cisco’s new corporate GHG reduction goal Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, Scope 1 and 2, GHG was announced in February 2013. emissions worldwide by 40% absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline) 1. In the interests of transparency, our reporting policy for environmental metrics is to show the baseline year, data for the past five, completed years, the goal, and progress against the goal. Table format and goal wording does not change year to year. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F18 Introduction Historical Scope 1 and 2 emissions data often vary EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership provides See Table 6 for a summary of all of our energy-related from previous publicly reported values, either in the additional program guidance. KPIs. Indirect energy or electricity represents 88 percent Governance & Ethics most recent CDP survey or in our FY13 CSR Report, of overall energy consumption. Additionally, although because of updated emissions factors, adjustments for Each year, an independent third party provides a limited energy consumption has continued to rise year-overSupply Chain acquisitions or divestitures, or correction of any errors assurance review of our GHG inventory, including all year since FY07 at Cisco, a general trend throughout Our People found during review. To support standardization and emissions relevant to our current GHG reduction goals, the ICT sector, Cisco has been able to slow the growth benchmarking across companies, Cisco uses the GHG namely Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission sources. This of our energy consumption by implementing the various Society Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard limited assurance review is provided in accordance with projects described in this section. as the basis for our Scope 1 and 2 calculations. The the ISO 14064-3 International Standard. Environment Overview Table 6. Energy Totals Environmental Sustainability FY07 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments KPI Baseline Materials Year1 Energy and GHG Energy usage, GWh 1,254 1,491 1,613 1,750 1,763 1,791 Emissions Water Use Indirect energy usage, GWh 1,029 1,267 1,353 1,465 1,521 1,572 Electricity is the only indirect energy source used by Cisco. Biodiversity and Land Use Direct energy usage, GWh 225 224 260 285 241 219 Direct energy consumption is the sum of Cisco’s natural gas and diesel usage for heating Non-GHG Emissions and backup power generation and regular Effluents (Liquid) gasoline and diesel fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. Waste Electricity usage, GWh 1,029 1,267 1,353 1,465 1,521 1,572 Appendix Natural gas usage, GWh 148 115 118 144 111 104 GRI Index Energy use per unit of revenue, GWh of energy 35.92 37.24 37.31 37.99 36.26 37.99 Note: Energy use per unit of revenue is one of consumed per billion dollars in revenue our five new goals; we have reported historical values where available. Percent progress against reduction goal. n/a +3.7% +3.9% +5.8% +0.1% +5.8% Goal: Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per unit of revenue worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 (FY07 baseline) This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F19 Introduction Table 7 provides use-weighted electricity emission Reducing Emissions from Operations Reducing our energy consumption and GHG emissions factor KPIs for all Cisco facilities, as well as for our GRI EN5: Energy saved due to conservation and and enabling a diverse energy supply for our operations Governance & Ethics major data centers. Including the effect of renewable make good business sense, help us stay competitive, efficiency improvements. Supply Chain energy purchases, Cisco’s global average contractual and benefit the environment. Our overall strategy to emissions factor is 162.7 percent below the world GRI EN7: Initiatives to reduce indirect energy accomplish this is to: Our People average. This favorable comparison reflects locating consumption, and reductions achieved. • Continue to deploy global space policy and the Cisco facilities where low-carbon grid electricity is available Connected Workplace, which increases the utilization Society and our engagement with utilities and green power GRI EN18: Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas of our office space (see example Cisco Connected providers to procure renewable energy. The ongoing emissions, and reductions achieved. Workplace layout) Environment challenge in future years will be to prevent our global, average emission factor from increasing as Cisco grows GRI EN30: Total environmental protection expenditures • Improve the efficiency of our buildings, with a focus Overview in emerging markets where low-carbon and no-carbon and investments by type. on our engineering labs, Cisco’s largest consumers of Environmental electricity is less readily available. energy and greatest source of GHG emissions Sustainability • Use electricity from certified low-carbon and Materials renewable sources Energy and GHG Emissions Table 7. Electricity Emissions Factors Water Use Biodiversity and FY07 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments KPI Land Use Baseline Year Non-GHG Emissions IEA world average emission factor, 507.1 502.3 502.3 502.3 528.7 536.0 Latest 2011 International Energy Agency g CO2e per kWh (IEA) emission factor used for FY14. Prior Effluents (Liquid) years used latest IEA factors available at time Waste of prior-year reporting. Appendix Cisco, global average electricity emission 439.1 458.8 443.2 428.7 438.1 451.1 The increase from FY13 to FY14 is due to factor (gross), g CO2e per kWh the increase in the world average emissions factor and a decrease in the availability of GRI Index hydroelectric power in India. Cisco, major data center average electricity 394.9 435.4 435.0 423.0 438.2 447.9 emission factor (gross), g CO2e per kWh Cisco, global average electricity emission 375.2 255.5 263.3 126.8 168.8 162.7 factor (contractual), g CO2e per kWh Percent progress against reduction goal. -26% -49% -48% -75% -68% -70% Goal: Reduce Cisco’s FY17, net, consumptionweighted, electricity emission factor to half of the latest IEA world average emission factor publicly available before the end of FY17. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F20 Introduction In FY13 Cisco approved more than $50 million in funding to implement a suite of energy efficiency and Governance & Ethics renewable energy projects throughout our real estate Supply Chain portfolio between FY14 and FY17. In FY14, we avoided approximately 27.2 million kWh of energy consumption Our People and 14,100 metric tonne CO2e by investing $9.6 million to implement 90 energy efficiency and renewable Society energy projects. We estimate that implementing energy efficiency and renewable energy projects has avoided Environment approximately 237 million kWh of energy and avoided Overview 97,700 metric tonne CO2e for Cisco since FY09.1 Environmental Table 8 shows the energy savings associated with our Sustainability GHG reduction projects implemented from FY10 to FY14. Materials Energy and GHG Global Space Policy and Cisco Emissions Connected Workplace As a result of Cisco’s new building space policy Water Use approved in FY11, we continue to expand the use of Example of Cisco Connected Workplace Layout Biodiversity and Cisco Connected Workplace (CCW) in our real estate Land Use portfolio by requiring that all new buildings and renovation projects comply with CCW design specifications. By the For more on Cisco Connected Workplace, watch • Infrastructure: Improving air flow management, Non-GHG Emissions end of FY14, CCW represented approximately 31 percent this video. ventilation, cooling, and similar building infrastructure Effluents (Liquid) of our total office space. CCW is a very cost-effective systems Waste GHG-reduction strategy because of the leverage of Labs • Rationalization: Evaluating lab operations, removing increased average occupancy or space utilization. Over 60 percent of our operational electricity is used unused equipment, and using virtual machines to Appendix In FY13 we approved a master plan to convert eight to power and cool equipment in our engineering and increase server utilization of our buildings to the CCW environment through FY17. services labs. Making our labs more energy efficient • Lab technology: Installing smart power distribution GRI Index This conversion will decrease the number of buildings represents the largest opportunity to reduce Cisco’s units (PDUs) and Cisco EnergyWise to monitor power using energy and increase the utilization of our remaining GHG emissions and energy costs. and control the use of our lab equipment buildings. We expect to have reduced our facility footprint To reduce lab energy consumption, we are implementing by approximately 1 million square feet after the planned the following steps: conversion is complete. Table 8. Energy and GHG Emission Reduction Projects KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Number of projects implemented 21 19 26 103 90 Annual energy savings, million kWh/yr 7.4 16.8 15.6 76.5 27.2 Total estimated annual CO2e savings, tCO2e/yr 3,300 7,400 7,300 34,000 14,100 This section is bookmark enabled. 1. Our first 5-year goal was announced near the end of FY08. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F21 Introduction • Change management: Deploying multiple employee engagement strategies to educate our employees Governance & Ethics and provide incentives for labs to actively monitor and Supply Chain conserve energy Our People As an example, reconfiguring one of our St. Leonards, Australia labs to a cold aisle containment layout, as Society shown in the nearby figure, saves about $150,000 per year in electricity costs. Our lab energy management Environment program was recognized by the Uptime Institute, Overview receiving its’ 2013 Green Enterprise IT Award in the Green Digital Infrastructure category. Environmental Sustainability Using the following steps, we continue to engage our lab Traditional vs. Cold Aisle Computer Room Configuration Materials employees to sustain the energy reduction achieved in previous years: Data Centers • Reclaimed water use in cooling towers (North Carolina) Energy and GHG Emissions • Energy champions: We engaged hundreds of engineers In the past two years, Cisco has opened new • Nonchemical water treatment system who volunteered to be “on-the-ground” change energy-efficient data centers in Research Triangle Park, Water Use • Water-efficient plumbing agents to drive a personal energy conservation North Carolina, and Allen, Texas. These data centers Biodiversity and message throughout our global network of labs. are designed to achieve a Power Usage Effectiveness • Occupancy sensors integrated with lighting and Land Use (PUE) of 1.41 and 1.35 at full load, respectively. Both temperature controls • Digital signage: We used over 200 digital signs have achieved a Leadership in Energy and Environmental • Landfill diversion during construction Non-GHG Emissions installed at our largest labs to show lab energy Design (LEED)-NC Gold Certification (v2.2) from the U.S. Effluents (Liquid) consumption statistics, tips on how to save energy in Green Building Council. In these data center designs, Case studies are available on our website on the design labs, and winners of energy conservation awards. Waste Cisco incorporated numerous features to reduce energy and construction of our data centers. • Energy management plans and performance goals: consumption and environmental impacts, including: Appendix We developed detailed energy management plans • Chimney rack hot-air isolation for improved cooling and performance goals that labs and employees could efficiency GRI Index adopt and get credit for their energy conservation accomplishments from their own business unit. • Waterside and airside economization • Rewards and recognition: We created regular • Variable frequency drives on major equipment, opportunities for employees to be rewarded and including pumps, chillers, and computer-room air recognized for exemplary energy conservation efforts. handler units For example, we recognized employees of 10 labs • Higher-voltage electrical service distribution of that achieved at least 65 percent energy savings and 480/277V; rack distribution of 415/230V 19 buildings that achieved at least 40 percent energy • 439 kW solar photovoltaic cells on building roofs savings during Cisco’s FY14 year-end shutdown period. • Heat recovery from data hall for office space use (North Carolina) • Education and training: We created online courses to teach employees how to reduce energy consumption • LED exterior lighting in their labs. • Low-E glass windows Cisco Data Center, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F22 Introduction Building Energy Efficiency We applied these standards globally in FY11. In FY14, we included green leasing terms into 16 negotiated lease Learn how Cisco improved energy efficiency at its Cisco takes three parallel approaches to improve energy Governance & Ethics agreements representing over 466,000 square feet of Shanghai, China campus. Read Blog. efficiency in our real estate portfolio: Supply Chain office space. The green leasing terms in our standard • Identify and implement energy-efficiency projects template vary by size of the premises and length of the throughout our global operations upgrades and onsite renewable energy projects, embeds Our People lease agreement, but in general, the larger the premises • Incorporate efficiency into new or significantly sustainability criteria into our building design standards and the longer the lease, the more comprehensive the Society renovated spaces following U.S. Green Building and engages Cisco employees to participate in energy green leasing terms. Sample terms in the green leasing Council LEED standards conservation. Currently, the GEMS team is managing a template include: Environment more than $50 million, 4-year global EnergyOps program • Apply Cisco’s “green leasing” standards in selecting • Temperature controls to implement hundreds of efficiency and renewable Overview leased space and work with landlords to improve the energy projects consistently across Cisco’s real estate • Submeters for major utilities energy efficiency of their buildings portfolio to help achieve our FY17 energy/GHG reduction Environmental • Building recycling program Sustainability goals. In FY14, 90 energy efficiency and renewable We have made significant progress toward integrating • No chlorofluorocarbons used in HVAC system energy projects worth approximately $9.6 million in Materials green building standards into our real estate since our • Bicycle storage and facilities in which cycling funding were identified and implemented by this team Energy and GHG first LEED-certified building was built in August 2009. commuters can change for work across many Cisco facilities, including: Emissions By the end of FY14, 30 Cisco facilities had achieved LEED certification, 22 of them Gold or Platinum status. • Green building certification (LEED, BREEAM, • Increasing lighting efficiency by updating lighting Water Use controls and using high efficiency T8 bulbs and These LEED facilities include the data centers in Allen, ENERGYSTAR) Biodiversity and Texas, and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, which LED technologies Land Use both achieved LEED Gold certifications. Another new Incorporating these terms into leases is important for • Installing variable frequency drives and premiumLEED facility is a renovation project in Bangalore, India, Cisco because approximately half of Cisco’s real estate efficiency motors and pumps in our HVAC systems Non-GHG Emissions which received one of the highest-rated Platinum LEED footprint is leased, and the leases are often long-term Effluents (Liquid) • Installing solar window film to reduce heat gain and ID+C scores in the world (96 points). commitments. In addition, if we do not specify any green improve occupant comfort Waste leasing requirements at the time of leasing, it can be Cisco worked closely with our legal department and real difficult to incorporate these requirements later. Appendix estate partner to create “green leasing” terms and to integrate these terms into our standard lease template. Not all of the terms in Cisco’s green lease template are GRI Index Green leases provide corporations with a valuable mandatory for every lease. At a minimum, the template is opportunity to communicate and implement sustainability a tool for Cisco to negotiate with the landlord to include goals as well as to provide a foundation for measurement. Cisco’s sustainability principles in the leased facilities. Energy Management Cisco maintains a Global Energy Management and Sustainability (GEMS) team that leads sustainability initiatives across Cisco’s 23 million square feet of global real estate. This team includes Cisco employees as well as energy managers working for our facility partners that manage day-to-day operation and maintenance of our buildings. The GEMS team manages Cisco’s global annual utility budget, identifies and implements demand side and supply side energy solutions such as energy efficiency Installed Window Film Reduces Energy Costs, San Jose, California This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F23 Introduction • Installing waterside economization and dry cooler Onsite Power Generation: Solar technologies to improve free cooling utilization In FY14, Cisco installed and commissioned three solar Governance & Ethics • Improving insulation of heating and cooling piping, photovoltaic (PV) systems at our facilities in Allen, Texas, Supply Chain valves, and pumps Richardson, Texas, and Bangalore, India, which increased our total onsite solar PV capacity from 200 kW to 1.7 MW. Our People • Improving hot and cold aisle containment within Collectively these systems will produce annually 2.0 our labs Society million kWh of electricity for Cisco, saving over $380,000 • Implementing Cisco’s EnergyWise-as-a-service and and preventing more than 1150 metric tonne CO2e of energy management control policies on our production GHG emissions each year over the 25-year Environment IT environment life of the systems. Watch a time-lapse video of the Overview • Continuing an employee engagement campaign to solar-panel installation at Richardson, Texas. Solar Project at Cisco Data Center, Allen Texas Environmental promote, educate, and incentivize our employees to Sustainability conserve energy We also evaluated additional locations for installing solar PV systems in FY14, and as a result, began implementing Materials an additional 966 kW solar PV carport system at our Energy and GHG Boxborough, Massachusetts campus at the beginning of Emissions FY15. This project is expected to be completed in FY15. Water Use Onsite Power Generation: Cogeneration Biodiversity and and Fuel Cells Land Use Cisco installed a 425 kW cogeneration system on our Non-GHG Emissions campus in Bedfont Lakes, United Kingdom that became Effluents (Liquid) operational in FY14. This system supplies both normal and emergency power to an important lab facility on Solar Project at Cisco Data Center, Richardson Texas Waste campus as well as cooling through an absorption chiller. Dry Cooler Unit Saves $280,000 per Year, Ontario, Canada Appendix By using the waste-heat recovery capabilities, the system reduced GHG emissions annually by more than 800 metric tonne CO2e. In FY14, we evaluated additional GRI Index locations for both cogeneration and fuel cell installations but have not yet found a location where the return on investment is competitive with other energy-efficiency and renewable-energy projects. We will continue to evaluate cogeneration and fuel cells for economic onsite power generation. Solar Project at Cisco Office Building, Bangalore India Heat Exchanger Saves over $400,000 per Year in Energy Costs, San Jose, California This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F24 Introduction Purchasing Renewable Energy Table 9. Renewable Energy Purchasing electricity generated from renewable or other Governance & Ethics low-carbon sources is an important component of our FY07 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 KPI Supply Chain GHG reduction strategy. Cisco purchases renewable Baseline Year power where it is available in the local power market. Our People Electricity from renewable sources, GWh 110 351 358 552 523 583 We have purchased power from noor low-carbon Society sources in the United States and Europe since 2006. GHG emissions reduction from renewable 66,000 258,000 243,000 442,000 410,000 453,000 In FY14, we established a new procurement process to energy, metric tonne CO2e acquire 5 percent of the electricity we purchase through Environment the Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) from eligible renewable Percent progress against reduction goal. 10.7% 27.7% 26.5% 37.7% 34.4% 37.1% Overview energy sources located in India. We plan to support Goal: Use electricity generated from noor low-carbon energy sources in other regions of renewable sources for at least 25 percent Environmental of our electricity every year through FY17 Sustainability the world as they become available in the marketplace. Cisco’s global renewable electricity purchases are Materials summarized in Table 9. Energy and GHG Table 10. FY14 Electricity Usage from Renewable Sources Emissions Cisco has increased renewable power purchases since FY06 by buying Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) Percent of FY14 Electricity from Renewable Sources Water Use and by entering into green power contracts with various Region FY07 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Biodiversity and electricity suppliers in the United States. In FY14, Baseline Year Land Use Cisco purchased 484 million kWh of Green-e Certified Non-GHG Emissions RECs and green power that was certified by Green-e, Europe 31.4% 65.4% 64.4% 61.8% 73.0% 64.5% generated by wind projects located in Texas and the Effluents (Liquid) United States 9.5% 28.6% 27.4% 43.6% 40.3% 43.9% eGRID Midwest Regional Organization West (MROW) Waste region. Additionally, Cisco purchased approximately Global 10.7% 27.7% 26.5% 37.7% 34.4% 37.1% 97 million kWh through various European green power Appendix suppliers. We continue to follow the guidelines from DEFRA and use the country-specific grid average is updated quarterly. In addition, Cisco was awarded the GRI Index emission factor when calculating emissions associated EPA Green Power Partner of the Year in September 2013, with green power purchased in Europe. which was the second time since 2008 that Cisco was recognized with this prestigious award. Cisco participates in the U.S. EPA’s Green Power Partnership. In the July 2014 EPA green power rankings, The percent of electricity purchased from renewable Cisco was listed fifteenth among the National Top 100, energy sources for various regions is shown in Table 10. eleventh among Fortune 500 companies, and fifth in the Top 30 Tech and Telecom companies. This EPA ranking This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F25 Introduction Operations Scope 3 Scope 3 Business Air Travel Cisco’s total global GHG emissions from business air GRI EN29: Significant environmental impacts of travel over the last five fiscal years (including our baseline Governance & Ethics GRI EN17: Other relevant indirect GHG emissions transporting products and other goods and materials year FY07) are shown in Table 11. Travel reduction by weight. Supply Chain used for the organization’s operations, and transporting to meet our first 5-year goal were aided by budget Scope 3 emissions cover a broad range of activities, members of the workforce. reductions due to the economic downturn beginning Our People including our supply chain, logistics, product use, and in late 2008. Since then, Cisco has been entering new product end of life. Cisco provides comprehensive Cisco believes that the global problem of climate change markets that require developing new and expanded Society information on our Scope 3 emissions in response to requires a significant reduction in emissions in absolute partnerships, which has pushed travel up. In FY15, we will Question 14 of the 2014 CDP Investor survey. Cisco has terms. For our operations, we have made the following reinvigorate the discussion to better leverage our remote Environment collaboration technologies for these new opportunities. set a Scope 3 air travel GHG emissions reduction goal public commitments that impact Scope 3 emissions: Overview and is focusing our Scope 3 operations-related efforts • September 2006: Cisco made a commitment at the To date, we have not adopted different emissions factors Environmental on reducing business-air-travel emissions. As part of Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) annual meeting to reduce for different classes of air service, for two reasons. First, Sustainability this effort, we have developed and are using business GHG emissions from all Cisco business air travel our focus is on using remote collaboration technologies processes, management practices, information systems, worldwide by 10 percent absolute by FY09 (against Materials to avoid travel. Reporting reduced emissions because and standardized assessment methodologies for using a FY06 baseline). This goal was met in 2009 and the a larger percentage of employees flew economy class Energy and GHG Cisco network technologies to reduce air travel. Cisco commitment closed. Emissions this year compared with last year moves the focus away is also the editor of the Transport Substitution chapter of • June 2008: EPA Climate Leaders commitment to from the goal of travel substitution. Second, we are Water Use the GHGP ICT Sector Supplement under the auspices of reduce all Scope 1 and 2 and business-air-travel unsure how to characterize emissions factors for different the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Biodiversity and Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent classes of air travel for a single company. Even though Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Land Use absolute by end of CY12 (CY07 baseline). This goal Cisco is a large company, it is likely that scheduled was met in 2012 and the commitment closed. air service has not been changed by our reduction Non-GHG Emissions The following sections provide additional detail on our Scope 3 emissions reporting and reduction activities. • February 2013: Cisco announced a new goal to in air travel, even reductions measured in hundreds Effluents (Liquid) of thousands of flights per year. Of course, as more reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 Waste emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute by companies adopt collaborative network technologies, FY17 (FY07 baseline). the number of plane flights should decrease. Therefore, Appendix GRI Index Table 11. Scope 3 Air-Travel Greenhouse Gas Emissions FY07 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments KPI Baseline Year Total Scope 3 air-travel GHG emissions, metric 199,104 96,442 114,707 125,605 139,530 157,868 All emissions recalculated, starting with tonne CO2e our 2013 CSR Report, using DEFRA 2014 emissions factors (Ricardo-AEA/Carbon Smart); radiative forcing not included. Percent Scope 3 air-travel emissions from 98.0% 96.1% 98.2% 98% 98% 98% Primary air-travel data adjusted to represent primary data 100 percent of Cisco business air travel. Percent progress against reduction goal. base year -51% -42% -37% -30% -21%1 FY12 was goal year for first 5-year goal of Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, business-air-travel, 25 percent. Scope 3 emissions worldwide by 40% absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline) This section is bookmark enabled. 1. If air travel from the approximately 5,000-employee NDS acquisition is excluded, FY14 value is -25%. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F26 Introduction we have chosen not to complicate what is inherently a auditor. All numeric claims made in the Environment chapter • Personal Cisco TelePresence videoconferencing: conceptual reduction by not considering class-of-service of the 2013 CSR Report, including Scope 3 air travel, were Hardware-based (for example, DX80, MX300) personal Governance & Ethics flown in selecting emissions factors. subject to a multi-day, detailed, bottom-up audit in FY14 video totals more than 8000 units. Software-based Supply Chain conducted by our internal ISO 14001 audit team. (Cisco Jabber) videoconferencing is available to all Each year, an independent third party provides a Cisco employees using Cisco assigned laptops. Our People limited assurance review of both our Scope 3 air-travel Reducing GHG Emissions from Scope 3 • Cisco Connected Workplace videoconferencing: emissions data and our calculations. For our FY13 CSR Business Air Travel Society Cisco Connected Workplace is Cisco’s shared office Report, in response to a comment during the external To replace physical travel and meet our business space solution. Many small, flexible-use rooms for 1-2 assurance process, we updated the emissions factors air travel reduction goal, we rely on Cisco remoteEnvironment people have smaller videoconferencing units installed, used in the calculation to the latest DEFRA emissions collaboration technologies, including Cisco TelePresence totaling more than 400 units worldwide. Overview factors and applied them to all years reported in Table 11, videoconferencing, Cisco WebEx desktop conferencing, including our base year. This change in emissions factors Cisco Unified Communications, and Cisco Jabber • Cisco WebEx desktop conferencing: WebEx is Environmental is the reason the total Scope 3 emissions in metric tonne collaboration software. available to all Cisco employees using Cisco assigned Sustainability laptops. Cisco TelePresence and Cisco WebEx have changed from those reported in our earlier CSR Materials reports. Emissions factors used are from DEFRA 2014 Our rollout of Cisco remote-collaboration technologies now interoperate. For example, WebEx users can and depend on length of flight segment but not on class across the company continues, but the rate of adoption see and hear—and can be seen and heard in—Cisco Energy and GHG of service. has matured. Therefore, we are no longer trending TelePresence rooms, expanding the types of remote Emissions adoption metrics that we have included in our previous collaboration enabled by Cisco technology. Water Use We don’t apply different emissions factors across the CSR reports. These technologies include: Use of WebEx is pervasive at Cisco. Essentially Biodiversity and time frame in which we report because Cisco’s focus is all Cisco employees using Cisco assigned laptops • Immersive Cisco TelePresence videoconferencing: Land Use on substituting the use of ICT for physical air travel, i.e., are eligible to have a WebEx account. Hosting and Cisco has more than 1500 Cisco TelePresence rooms actual travel reduction. If we varied the emissions factors, attending WebEx meetings with other employees, Non-GHG Emissions deployed in our offices worldwide. we believe that, for transparency, we would also need our customers, our partners, and other stakeholders Effluents (Liquid) to report the total annual emissions from air travel using is as common (and easy) as using the telephone. constant emissions factors to remove any effect of a Waste modernizing air fleet as the likely reason for the reduced Appendix emissions factors. GRI Index During our initial 5-year goal period that ended in FY12, Cisco had to overcome upward pressure on travel from business growth and then work to achieve absolute reductions in emissions compared to the FY07 base year. As a result of this earlier effort, we experienced our first reductions in air-travel emissions, measured on an annual basis, starting in FY08. As the economy has recovered our travel did increase over the past several years, although we successfully met our FY12 reduction goal. Our Scope 3 air-travel emissions reporting business process has been audited in the past by both our internal ISO 14001 audit team as well as our external ISO 14001 Cisco TelePresence 3200 Series Unit (18 Users) Connecting with Multiple TelePresence Units (on Screens) This section is bookmark enabled. 1. Refer to the Scope 3 Business Air Travel section in the Environment chapter of our 2013 CSR Report. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F27 Introduction We use Cisco TelePresence, Cisco Jabber, and Cisco It is difficult to project with certainty what might have employee travel between home and work, as well as WebEx for virtual company meetings, executive happened to Cisco air-travel emissions without the between buildings at a Cisco site. The wide availability Governance & Ethics operational reviews, department “all hands” meetings, widespread adoption of our collaborative technologies. of collaboration tools within Cisco permits employees to Supply Chain and our annual senior leadership “offsite” meeting, To estimate avoided emissions, Cisco has compared become well versed in integrating these technologies thereby expanding the types of interactions that can be changes in our actual air-travel emissions against changes into their daily business activities. Several Cisco network Our People conducted remotely. Additionally, about one-quarter of in revenue and headcount. Revenue and headcount are two technologies permit flexible working environments, our annual global ISO 14001 site audits are performed factors thought to correlate with changes to the amount including Cisco Virtual Office and Cisco OfficeExtend. Society using Cisco remote collaboration solutions. This real-world of air travel. Our data indicated that, from FY04 to FY06 Cisco Virtual Office provides wired and wireless voice, experience guides product development and helps with and before the acquisition of WebEx and the introduction data, and video service for an employee’s home or small Environment the rollout of supporting management practices. of Cisco TelePresence, changes to GHG emissions commercial offices. OfficeExtend is a simpler, remote Overview were roughly proportional to changes in revenue and wireless access point in the employee’s home that The net effect of our adoption of collaborative headcount. The revenue side of this observation is provides the same, highly secure communications to a Environmental technologies has been a reduction in travel, carbon consistent with the fact that about two‑thirds of Cisco’s wireless local-area network (WLAN) controller at the Sustainability emissions, and travel costs, plus an increase in employee air-travel emissions were originally from our sales and connected Cisco campus. Materials productivity and work-life balance. At the same time, we service organizations, both “high-touch” business maintained and grew the customer relationships we need functions. The more products sold, the more customers Over 25,000 Cisco employees have adopted Cisco Energy and GHG Emissions for continued revenue growth. Cisco serves, and the greater the potential for business Virtual Office, which includes a Cisco Integrated Services travel. In addition, in the past, if someone was hired, it Router and IP Phone, to effectively work remotely. Water Use However, replacing business air travel with remote was likely they would become travelers. Although telecommuting or working in a flexible office Biodiversity and collaboration requires more than just installing space does not directly reduce air travel, it does afford Land Use technology. We also had to adapt business processes, Scope 3 Employee Commuting opportunities to become more proficient in using management practices, and culture to take full advantage collaborative technologies, especially important for a Non-GHG Emissions Teleworking of these new network technologies. As experience with 24/7 global company. This proficiency can be applied The employee skill set developed to reduce business Effluents (Liquid) remote collaboration technologies increased, both within directly to business activities where remote collaboration air travel, and the accompanying business processes Cisco and among our customers and partners, remote reduces air travel. Waste and management practices, are also used to reduce interactions have progressed from being the exception of Appendix a few years ago to now being a standard practice within Cisco. We anticipate they will be expected behavior GRI Index worldwide in the near future. Scope 3 Business Air Travel: Avoided GHG Emissions The Transport Substitution chapter of the draft GHG Protocol ICT Sector Supplement distinguishes between emissions reductions and avoided emissions. Emissions reductions are actual, measured, absolute changes to emissions. Avoided emissions project what might have happened if an action hadn’t been done. Cisco focuses on emissions reductions, but we receive inquiries about avoided emissions, so a brief discussion is provided. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F28 Introduction Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Electric vehicles purchases by Cisco employees continue Governance & Ethics to increase, particularly in locations where Cisco has Supply Chain major operations, such as California and North Carolina. One concern that often prevents people in general from Our People purchasing electric vehicles is so-called “range anxiety.” Because charging can be a time-consuming process, Society (taking about 2 hours to get 40 miles of charge), the workplace is a logical place for charging stations. Environment Overview Providing charging stations on our campuses for employees and guests has key benefits for Cisco. Environmental As an employee service, it can assist with employee Sustainability satisfaction, recruiting, and retention. Supporting electric Materials vehicle adoption also aligns with our sustainability Energy and GHG strategy and can help reduce Scope 1 emissions related Emissions to our fleet operations. We installed our first electric vehicle charging station in FY11. By the end of FY14, Water Use we had a total of 163 stations with 303 charging ports Biodiversity and available for use by Cisco employees and guests at no Land Use cost at several campus locations, including: Non-GHG Emissions • San Jose, California Effluents (Liquid) • Research Triangle Park, North Carolina Electric Vehicle Charging at Cisco (San Jose, California) Waste • Lawrenceville, Georgia Appendix • Boxborough, Massachusetts Because emissions from the electricity used to charge workplace charging to share our experience and help • Bedfont Lakes, United Kingdom employee EVs are less than commuting in a fossil-fuel expand the electric vehicle charging network. These powered car, Cisco has directly contributed to saving outreach sessions included a webinar for the NCPEV GRI Index • Green Park, United Kingdom about 450 metric tonne of CO2e in GHG emissions as Task Force in June 2014. • Lysaker, Norway a result of employees and guests using these onsite • Amsterdam, Netherlands recharging stations. These figures are expected to Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions increase as more employees buy electric vehicles and Cisco’s general use of life-cycle assessment (LCA) In addition to these stations provided by Cisco, we we expand the number of charging stations in our real techniques was discussed in an earlier section, have also been working with property owners at our estate portfolio to meet the additional demand. (Life-Cycle Assessment, page F10). Carbon footprinting, leased facilities to include electric vehicle charging for the LCA specifically focused on the environmental impact all occupants of their facilities. In FY14, we joined the U.S. Department of Energy EV from GHG emissions, is the subject of multiple standards Everywhere Grand Challenge, which helps promote activities as well as increasing inquiries from channel the installation of workplace charging stations through partners, service provider partners, and customers. Promoting Electric Vehicles: By offering electric vehicle the sharing of information and best practices. We also ISO 14040:2006 provides the principles and framework charging, Cisco sparks employees to reduce emissions. participate in webinars and one-on-one discussions for life-cycle assessment as part of environmental Read Blog. with other companies who want to learn more about management. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F29 Introduction Cisco has adopted the five product life cycle stages Cisco is committed to shaping our industry in this area product families, we have determined that the use phase defined by the GHG Protocol in its 2011 Product Life through two avenues: accounts for between 80 and 901 percent of the carbon Governance & Ethics Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard, which itself life cycle impact as shown in Figure 3. • Internal research to develop our capabilities Supply Chain is based on the ISO 14040-series standards: • Industry engagement Larger core routers and switches life cycle emissions can • Material acquisition and preprocessing Our People Our LCA work has focused on our most common approach 95 percent from the use phase, because power • Production products, including IP phones, standalone switches, and is higher relative to weight. For lower-power devices­—like Society • Distribution and storage routers, which cover a substantial portion of our product endpoint devices that might have a shorter lifetime, can • Use line. We also have done LCAs on Cisco TelePresence be turned off, and whose use is compatible with idle or Environment • End of life videoconferencing to determine the net benefit from standby modes—the percentage of emissions from the Overview using ICT as a substitute for travel. For many of our use phase is lower but still the largest contributor. Environmental Sustainability Figure 3. Breakdown of GHG Emissions by Life-Cycle Phase for Select Product Categories Materials Energy and GHG IP Phone Chassis-Based Switch Small Access Router Emissions Water Use 0.2% Transport -0.2% End of Life 1% Transport -0.4% End of Life 1.45% Transport -0.2% End of Life 6% Manufacturing 5.95% Manufacturing Biodiversity and Manufacturing Land Use Non-GHG Emissions 19.5% Effluents (Liquid) Waste 80.5% 93.4% 92.8% Appendix Use Use Use GRI Index Large Chassis Router Mid-Level Ethernet Switch 3.2% Transport -0.2% End of Life 3% Transport -0.5% End of Life 4% Manufacturing 8.5% Manufacturing 93% 89% Note: Negative EOL values indicate material credits Use Use associated with recycling and reuse of materials This section is 1. Global emissions factors can vary by a factor of three, which impacts use-phase emissions. This analysis used the global average electricity emissions factor. bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F30 Introduction Cisco IP Phone. The largest impact areas identified in The collective intent of these efforts is to build and share Figure 4. IP Phone Manufacturing this phase (integrated circuits, bare printed circuit boards, knowledge, apply life cycle concepts to our product Governance & Ethics displays, and assembly and test processes) are also the design and operations, build engagement with academia, Phase Impacts Supply Chain most challenging for which to collect accurate data to and support the ICT sector in working toward practical support LCA modeling. To address this challenge, we are and useful methodologies to assess the GHG emissions Our People 3% Electronic 1% Packaging working with industry peers and suppliers to collect more data and improve calculations. impact of our products. Society Components (excl ICs) 1% Enclosure Metals Scope 3 Cradle-to-Gate Emissions Environment 3% Cables <1% Electromechanicals Cisco participates in several ICT industry efforts working Cisco receives numerous inquiries from stakeholders toward a common approach to assessing environmental concerning supply chain emissions. This interest is Plastics impacts of products, including: Overview properly founded on the concern that GHG emissions Environmental 10% Integrated Circuits • GHGP Scope 3 and previously referenced product from subcontracted activities do not appear in Cisco’s Sustainability 35% accounting and reporting standards Scope 1 and 2 reporting. We subcontract the assembly Memory 13% • GHGP ICT Sector Supplement: Cisco is a founding of our final products and also rely on a worldwide network Materials of component suppliers and logistics providers. These member and chapter editor Energy and GHG 13% business partners, in turn, rely on additional supply Emissions 22% • European Telecommunications Standards Institute chain partners to support their respective contributions LCD Screen (ETSI) LCA assessment of telecommunication to Cisco products. Water Use equipment and service, DTS/EE-00014 Printed Wiring Board Biodiversity and • International Electronics Manufacturers Initiative To address the “subcontracting” of our GHG emissions, Land Use each year, we invite our suppliers to report to CDP. (iNEMI) Eco-Impact Evaluator Project (completed in Non-GHG Emissions FY13) to develop a simplified LCA tool for ICT products Because we strongly support CDP’s mission, for the last In FY12, Cisco improved our capability to perform (Cisco was co-editor) several years, we’ve published a facsimile of the letter Effluents (Liquid) LCAs. We developed tools to automate the electronic to our suppliers requesting them to report to CDP. Our • High-Density Packaging Users Group (HDPUG) PWB Waste component bill-of-materials analysis of products using March 2014 letter is provided as Appendix 1. The status Environmental Life Cycle Analysis project focusing design files and standardized life cycle models. Since of supplier reporting to CDP is shown in Table 12. We Appendix on developing a model for the manufacturing of bare then, we have focused on specific areas within our LCA continue to expand our request to report to CDP to more circuit boards analysis to further improve data availability and accuracy categories of suppliers that support Cisco’s business. GRI Index in the materials and manufacturing phases. Figure 4 • Sponsorship of Stanford University civil engineering shows the manufacturing phase carbon footprint of a graduate program project and MIT internship on 28 suppliers that reported to CDP in FY13 did not do so sustainability in FY14. We continue to work with suppliers to embed sustainability reporting into their annual business cycles. Table 12. Supply Chain Partners Reporting to CDP1 KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments Contract manufacturing, by percent of spend 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Tier 1 partner. Goal: 100 percent Approved Vendor List (AVL) components, 69% 69% 80% 86% 87% Tier 2 partner. Goal: 80 percent by percent of spend Global transportation, by percent of spend 50% 50% 93% 98% 95% Tier 1 partner. Goal: 90 percent 1. Cisco’s top-level metric for supply chain reporting to CDP is based on total Cisco spend within each supplier category. In the Supply Chain section, the supply chain objectives and Table 1 introduce a related goal and metric based on “key” suppliers, or those suppliers with whom Cisco has direct relationships and a reasonable ability to influence behavior. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F31 Introduction Scope 3 Supply Chain GHG Emissions Prioritization The Sustainable Packaging and Fulfillment Solutions, the most GHG emissions, during the use phase. Product Cisco is using emissions data reported to CDP to page F14, describes our packing reduction and electronic energy efficiency has emerged as a key design criterion Governance & Ethics delivery efforts that also promote freight weight reduction in our products in light of our increasing awareness of understand the types of components and manufacturing Supply Chain processes that contribute the most to cradle-to-gate and reduced GHG emissions from product shipping. climate change issues, and is one of the most important emissions so that we can prioritize our GHG emissions sustainability issues identified by our customers, see Our People reduction efforts with our suppliers. Because a few To promote sustainability in our supply chain, we need to page F5. suppliers still don’t report to CDP, we substitute estimates maintain strong relationships with our suppliers, and we Society must support them with their efforts to publicly report and Customers and regulators are increasingly requiring or other data as available to support this prioritization. set reduction goals. Since FY11, we have been scoring products that minimize energy costs and GHG Environment We generally allocate supplier emissions by supplier suppliers on providing sustainability performance data emissions. Every year, the number of inquiries related Overview revenue (i.e., Cisco spend). For example, if our spend and on any important initiatives that have led to to environmental sustainability we get from analysts, with a supplier is one percent of that supplier’s revenue, reductions in the environmental impact of delivering customers, shareholders, and nongovernmental Environmental our products. For more information on sustainability in organizations (NGOs) increases. Cisco tracks the energythen we allocate one percent of that supplier’s Scope 1 Sustainability and 2 emissions to Cisco-related activities. supplier scorecards, see Supplier Scorecard section in use regulations and certification programs of all countries Materials the Supply Chain chapter. to assure compliance as requested by our customers. We include final manufacturing, assembly, and test as For these reasons, improving product energy efficiency Energy and GHG Emissions an additional category of spend so these steps in the Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Product Energy represents more than just a regulatory requirement product life cycle are included in our cradle-to-gate Efficiency) for Cisco; it is a significant opportunity for us to help Water Use prioritization. In addition to prioritizing our suppliercustomers save on energy costs, reduce global energy GRI EN6: Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Biodiversity and emissions reduction initiatives, this data can also be used renewable energy-based products and services, and demand, and lower GHG emissions in addition to making Land Use to benchmark or validate data lookups used in life-cycle reductions in energy requirements as a result of these our products more competitive. assessments. We continue to refine our understanding initiatives. Non-GHG Emissions of the relative contribution to total GHG emissions of the Advocacy and Standards Development Effluents (Liquid) various product life-cycle phases so our investments in GRI EN26: Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Cisco engages with governments, regulatory agencies, Waste GHG reduction efforts are properly targeted. products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. and standards-setting bodies in key jurisdictions to monitor and influence the development of emerging Appendix Scope 3 Logistics As global energy use has risen, so have GHG emissions. product energy-efficiency requirements and standards, A key initiative over the past several years has been While the ICT industry accounts for about 2 percent particularly around climate change. We believe that GRI Index to optimize our global virtual factory-to-factory freight of the world’s GHG emissions from energy, we expect these activities, when done properly, bring clarity and movement of goods, specifically “shifting” transportation ICT energy consumption to grow faster than GDP.1 consistency to the global marketplace and create modes from air to ocean whenever possible while still Product energy efficiency is an important focus for predictable requirements that reduce risk and enable meeting customer expectations on lead time. In FY14, Cisco because of the number and type of energycompanies to focus on the environmental issues these efforts saved more than 77,000 metric tonne consuming products that we sell each year. Some of important to their business. Specifically, we believe of CO2e emissions, and have since been built into a these devices are replacements; others are additive, that product energy-efficiency standards can promote playbook that helps to drive best practices in this area contributing to the growth in emissions from ICT innovation by being performance based; by taking into for both new and legacy supply chain maps. equipment. Throughout their life cycle, our products account product functionality; and by relying on objective consume the largest proportion of energy, and release criteria, real-world data, and system-level efficiency. This section is 1. Jonathan Koomey, Growth in Data Center Electricity Use 2005 to 2010, Analytics Press, August 2011, bookmark enabled. www.analyticspress.com/datacenters.html; and Gartner 2007, http://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/503867 < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F32 Introduction We have been working closely with the EPA to define Table 13. Energy Efficiency-Related Initiatives and Organizations ENERGY STAR standards for relevant products since Governance & Ethics 2008. In 2013 the EPA released Version 1.0 ENERGY Organization Area/Issue of Engagement Supply Chain STAR specification for Small Network Equipment; its Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Cisco is an active member of ATIS and engages with other member objective was to differentiate more efficient products Our People Solutions (ATIS) organizations to develop standards relevant to the telecom industry. across six types of networking equipment. The EPA In 2010, Cisco took a lead role in the development of the ATIS TEER estimates that if all small network equipment sold in Society standard for the measurement of product energy efficiency. the United States met ENERGY STAR requirements, Minimum Energy Performance Standards (MEPS) Energy performance requirements and maximum power the energy cost savings would grow to more than Environment $590 million each year and prevent more than 2.6 (Australia and Korea) consumption of standby modes. Overview million metric tonne of annual GHG emissions. Cisco European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) Cisco is engaged with ETSI in the development of standards for is working to qualify in-scope products with this and Environmental energy efficiency. other existing ENERGY STAR specification programs. Sustainability Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Cisco is a founding member of the EICC, sits on its board, To date, this includes set-top boxes, enterprise servers, Materials and contributes to the development and revision of the EICC IP phones, and small network equipment (SNE). Energy and GHG Code of Conduct. We are actively engaged in the development of an Emissions ENERGY STAR specification for large network equipment EU/ErP (Europe) Cisco is an important stakeholder that helps with the development (LNE) which will cover a significant portion of our Water Use of energy using product (ErP) regulations and voluntary agreements routing and switching products. A list of Cisco ENERGY for Europe. Biodiversity and STAR-qualified products is available on the ENERGY Land Use International Telecommunication Union (ITU) (worldwide) Cisco is a major contributor to the ITU-T SG5 Lead Study Group STAR program website. on ICT and climate change. Cisco presented to ITU the ATIS TEER Non-GHG Emissions methodology, which was then incorporated into Measure L, Cisco considers ENERGY STAR specifications to be Effluents (Liquid) energy-efficiency metrics and measurement for telecom equipment, a useful means to promote product energy efficiency creating the opportunity for a single worldwide metric. Waste improvements. However, we believe that an approach Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) (Japan) Minimum energy efficiency requirement for networking router and that addresses product energy efficiency across an Appendix entire product system is a better way to measure and switch product groups. promote product energy efficiency. ENERGY STAR GRI Index U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Environmental Cisco has been actively working with the EPA for more than four standards generally apply to a single point of power Protection Agency (EPA), Green Grid years to define ENERGY STAR standards for networking equipment: supply conversion at the front end of the total system. SNE, LNE, telephony, and servers. Cisco also has actively worked with Lawrence Berkeley National Labs, the EPA/DOE technical arm, In contrast, the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Navigant, NRDC, and Ecova on measurement methodologies and Solutions (ATIS) Telecommunications Energy Efficiency metrics. Cisco routinely provides feedback to these organizations Ratio (TEER) measurement method covers all power on best practices, draft standards, and actual power measurement conversion and power distribution from the front end of procedures for relevant products. the system to the data wire plug, including applicationspecific integrated circuits (ASIC). For more on what Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) TRAI is an Indian government regulatory organization for the telecom industry. In 2011 it released recommendations and Cisco is doing with ATIS TEER and ASIC, guidance on energy efficiency metrics and measurement. Cisco see Improving Product Energy Efficiency, page F33. provided extensive document reviews and recommendations on how to align with existing and widely adopted ATIS/ANCI and ITU-R Table 13 highlights several illustrative examples of relevant documents. energy efficiency initiatives and organizations that Cisco participates in. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F33 Introduction As part of this system power efficiency approach, we Figure 5. Total System Power Figure 7. ASIC Performance are working to reduce energy demand for ASIC found in Governance & Ethics most Cisco products. ASIC are designed for a particular Efficiency* (Percent Improvement) Gbps/W (Core Routing ASICs) application in a particular product. Lower-cost, higherSupply Chain volume products that we sell use off-the-shelf original Our People 1 4 3.64 equipment manufacturer (OEM)-designed ASIC chips. Society 0.80 0.84 For our enterprise and data center switches, Cisco TOTAL SYSTEM POWER EFFICIENCY 3.5 0.8 0.72 Nexus and Cisco Catalyst® switches, we design our Environment 0.6 0.57 3 2.67 own ASIC chips. As shown in Figure 6, ASICs account for a significant percentage of board-level energy Overview 2.5 2.17 consumption. Gbps/W 0.4 2 Environmental Sustainability 0.2 1.5 1.48 We are developing energy savings approaches for our ASIC chips that include: Materials • Feature-based energy management: ASIC chips are 1 0 Energy and GHG often developed to be rich in features and capability CY05 CY10 CY13 CY15 Emissions 0.5 so they can be used in many products. We are developing new ASIC chips that are configurable to the Water Use 0 specific features within the product using such ASIC Biodiversity and CY05 CY10 CY13 CY14 * Total internal system power conversion and distribution from plug to chips. As an example, such a chip would not draw the Land Use ASIC; covers the complete internal power system conversion. YEAR OF PRODUCT RELEASE power needed to manage 48 ports when it is placed in Non-GHG Emissions a 24-port switch. Effluents (Liquid) Improving Product Energy Efficiency • Voltage scaling: To compensate for the performance Waste Figure 6. Example of Board-Level When Cisco evaluates product energy efficiency, we variation inherent in manufactured products, we are scaling, or adjusting, the energy consumed by ASICs Energy Consumption by Function consider the entire system power performance. We to achieve performance standards and minimize Appendix measure the efficiency loss as electricity passes through each component (or function). This can include for example energy consumption. We are adjusting the ASIC chip GRI Index 9.9 Miscellaneous the external power supply, front-end line card, point energy requirements (up and down) to compensate for 3.1 CPU of load, and ASICs. Over the past nine years we have any manufacturing variation in performance. aggressively reduced our product energy consumption • Adaptive power management: This enables an ASIC Memory while increasing performance. For example, products to actively manage the energy it requires based on the with release dates from CY05 to CY15, we have increased load of work it is processing. 9.5 ASIC circuit card power from 500W to 1350W and gone from 45.8 8kW to 28kW chassis using conventional fan tray cooling Our ASIC power-reduction techniques have shown a methods. These improvements have resulted in a total cumulative power reduction of 40.7 percent (gigabits per 31.7 available power increase of 2.5 times while increasing our second per watt consumed [Gbps/W]) since 2005; see total system power efficiency by 46 percent over the same Figure 7. Field-Programmable period (Figure 5). Our vision is to develop common power Gate Array (FPGA) designs and specifications across Cisco technologies to continue the improvement of system power efficiency. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F34 Introduction These ATIS TEER standards have been incorporated into Scope 3 Product End of Life Figure 8. System Performance the Network Equipment Building System (NEBS) design The last product life cycle phase defined in the GHGP Governance & Ethics guidelines applied to telecommunications equipment Improvements, Gbps/W in the United States. NEBS is the most common set Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard Supply Chain is end of life (EOL) management. There are minimal of safety, spatial, and environmental design guidelines emissions associated with this life cycle phase for Our People applied to telecommunications equipment, and 1.0 0.91 compliance is an industry, but not a legal, requirement. Cisco products, and most of them are connected to Society 0.9 the transport of the returned product and the recycling All Cisco products that have entered the market since process. The largest impact of recycling on GHG 0.8 2011 have gone through the ATIS TEER testing. emissions is reducing upstream emissions. For more Environment 0.7 information about our product, takeback, and recycling Overview 0.6 We have used the ATIS TEER standard to develop energy programs, see Product Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling, profiles for representative models and products within the page F38. Gbps/W Environmental 0.5 following product families: Sustainability 0.4 • Cisco ASR 9000 Series Aggregation Services Routers As Cisco introduces initiatives to increase the return Materials of used or EOL products, we will need to study the 0.3 0.23 • Cisco ASR 5000 Series Aggregation Services Routers relative environmental impact of earlier or later product Energy and GHG for Mobile Packet Solutions Emissions 0.2 0.11 retirement. Energy efficiency usually improves with each 0.1 • Cisco Catalyst 1900 Series, 2800 Series, 2900 Series, new product generation, so earlier product retirement Water Use 3800 Series, 4500 Series, 6000 Series, and 6500 0 can decrease overall emissions since the use-phase Biodiversity and CRS1 CRS3 NCS6008 Series Switches emissions dominate the product life cycle. However, Land Use CY05 CY10 CY14 • Cisco CRS-1 and CRS-3 Carrier Routing Systems creating new products introduces other environmental Non-GHG Emissions impacts. A similar dynamic exists in the automotive • Cisco Network Convergence System (NCS) industry. For example, is it better to retire a relatively Effluents (Liquid) 6008 Router In 2009, Cisco was co-editor for several of the ATIS TEER new 30-mpg car for a 50-mpg car? We will use LCA Waste • Cisco ONS 15454, NCS 4016, NCS 2000 Series techniques to inform our strategy in this area. standards and Energy Efficiency of Telecommunications Multiservice Provisioning Platforms Appendix Equipment: Methodology for Measurement and Reporting standards, and specifically those regarding: • Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches • Servers and server blades (ATIS-0600015.01.2009) GRI Index The products tested make up more than 90 percent of • Transport and network systems (ATIS-0600015.02.2009) Cisco products that are in ATIS TEER scope. Figure 8 • Router and Ethernet switch products presents system performance improvements, in Gbps per (ATIS-0600015.03.2009) watt consumed, for a sample of our core router products (CRS-1, CRS-3, NCS) for which first-, second-, and These ATIS TEER standards created a framework for third-generation energy performance was measured measuring product energy usage that takes into account using the ATIS TEER standard. The results show that product functionality and uses real-world loads to in these products, there was an 8.5-fold increase in determine energy efficiency across the entire product. normalized bits-per-watt performance between the This is important because it allows companies like Cisco three generations of products, with only a 2.5-fold to compare energy-usage design improvements from increase in power usage. product generation to generation, and it helps consumers make more informed purchasing decisions. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F35 Introduction Water Use greatest opportunity for Cisco to reduce our impact on water resources globally is by continuing to make our • Installing variable-frequency drives in our cooling towers • Installing two-way valves for toilets, sink aerators, Governance & Ethics products more energy efficient. GRI EN8: Total water withdrawal by source. low-flow showerheads, and pre-rinse spray valves for Supply Chain kitchen sinks GRI EN9: Water sources significantly affected by In FY14, we continued measuring our water use so we Our People can better understand the impact of our programs, and • Converting the last of our decorative fountains at our withdrawal of water. we were able to collect water data for 72 percent of our Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, campus into Society total real estate portfolio by area, as shown in Table 14. landscaped beds planted with native drought-resistant Our water use represents significantly less water We have made great strides in improving our ability to plants consumption per employee than the average person Environment track water consumption for much of our real estate uses each year in the United States. However, because Overview some of our facilities are located in regions where water operations, but this continues to be an ongoing challenge rights and usage are an issue of concern, we have been given the size and geographic dispersion of our Environmental operations and the fact that many of the locations Sustainability conscious and careful of water use in our operations. Since FY07, we have been collecting and tracking water where Cisco shares a building with other tenants do Materials usage data for our major campus locations. Using the not have water submeters installed. Energy and GHG World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s Emissions water tool, we found that three of our sites are located in Wherever appropriate, Cisco reduces water consumption water-scarce areas and two sites are in water-stressed within the operation of our buildings and uses reclaimed Water Use water for landscaping and similar applications. Over the areas. Key objectives of Cisco’s water management Biodiversity and program are to: years, we have been able to make many changes to Land Use our landscaping practices while creating attractive and • Identify and respond to site-level water conservation Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, Decorative Fountain (Before) inviting landscapes for our customers, employees, and Non-GHG Emissions opportunities for our operations surrounding communities. Effluents (Liquid) • Work with partners such as local governments, water utilities, and owners of our leased buildings to pursue In FY14, we continued to support and maintain several Waste and replicate best practices in our operations water conservation initiatives throughout our campus Appendix locations, many of which started as early as FY08. Our environmental sustainability materiality assessment Examples of these initiatives include: determined that operational water use (office building GRI Index • Using irrigation controllers throughout the San Jose potable water, sanitation, landscaping, and cooling main campus towers) is not a significant impact area for our business. However, because the production of electrical power • Using recycled water for irrigation and fountain is one of the largest uses of fresh water worldwide, the displays Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, Decorative Fountain (After) Table 14. Water Use KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments Total water use, m3 1,753,269 1,763,536 2,311,548 2,300,266 2,577,189 Includes irrigation (where used) and potable water. Real estate portfolio covered by 67% 68% 71% 68% 72% water reporting This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F36 Introduction • Replacing turf with planter beds that require little GRI EN25: Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity water, and installing drip irrigation lines to improve value of water bodies and related habitats significantly Governance & Ethics irrigation efficiency affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of Supply Chain • Using a water harvesting system at our Bangalore, water and runoff. India, campus to capture rainwater for filtering and use Our People At Cisco, land use for facilities and office-based We mitigate our impacts in water-scarce areas by operations represents our primary impact on biodiversity. Society We mitigate our impact by reducing the demand for incorporating resource constraints into our local office building and data center development plans. physical office space. Our employee telework programs Environment and other support solutions, such as Cisco Connected Overview Workplace, Virtual Office, and OfficeExtend, are Burrowing Owl in Cisco Developed Habitat Preservation Area Environmental Sustainability Biodiversity and instrumental to our strategy. in Alviso, California, Adjacent to Our San Jose Campus Materials Land Use The flexibility of Cisco Connected Workplace and our collaboration technologies reduces the demand for assessments, we generate an annual biodiversity summary report that summarizes GRI EN11-15 and EN25 GRI EN11: Location and size of land owned, leased, office space by more efficiently using existing space and Energy and GHG for all existing land and property we own. For example, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas of enabling employees to work remotely while remaining Emissions in Alviso, California, a 20.4-acre parcel of land we own high biodiversity value outside protected areas. productive. A space using Cisco Connected Workplace can Water Use is a protected habitat for the burrowing owl (ICUN Red accommodate approximately 30 percent more employees List Category Least Concern) and a rare plant species Biodiversity and GRI EN12: Description of significant impacts of activities, compared with a traditional office layout, substantially (called Congdon’s Tarplant). Protection activities we have Land Use products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas reducing office space and land use requirements and the implemented on this land include: and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected associated impacts on the environment. As mentioned Non-GHG Emissions • Developing and implementing a wetland mitigation areas. previously, in FY13 Cisco approved a master plan to convert Effluents (Liquid) eight of our buildings into the Cisco Connected Workplace plan that created 0.77 acres of wetlands in the habitat GRI EN13: Habitats protected or restored. work environment by FY17. By doing this, we will increase preserve area and establishing a 5-year monitoring Waste the density in our remaining buildings and reduce our program and maintenance program Appendix GRI EN14: Strategies, current actions, and future plans facility footprint by approximately 1 million square feet. • Implementing a rare plant species mitigation plan, for managing impacts on biodiversity. Table 15 shows the percent of our portfolio with biodiversity such as for Congdon’s Tarplant, which involves seed GRI Index assessments in place. collection and replanting within the habitat preserve GRI EN15: Number of International Union for Conservation area and ongoing maintenance over a 5-year period of Nature (IUCN) Red List species and national Cisco also evaluates the biodiversity and land-use • Implementing a burrowing owl mitigation plan that conservation list species with habitats in areas affected impacts of facility sites through environmental impact required us to complete preconstruction surveys for by operations, by level of extinction risk. assessments required for permitting. From these burrowing owls Table 15. Biodiversity and Land Use KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments Percent of real estate portfolio with 65% 63% 61% 61% 60% Includes International Union for Conservation of Nature biodiversity assessment (IUCN) Red List and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations. Owned property. This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F37 Introduction • Installing 12 artificial burrows in the habitat preserve area, implementing habitat maintenance measures compounds (VOCs) from occasional use of cleaning products, nitrous oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) Effluents (Liquid) Governance & Ethics to encourage owls to relocate to and remain in the from onsite fuel combustion, and the subsequent GRI EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled Supply Chain preserve area, monitoring the owls during construction development of ozone from the photochemical reaction and reused. activities, and installing a permanent perimeter fence of NOx. Our People for protection of the preserve area GRI EN21: Total water discharge by quality and Table 16 summarizes our non-GHG-related airborne destination. Society • Locating grazing cattle on this habitat preserve area as emissions: VOCs, NOx, SOx, and particulate matter. a method of weed abatement and soil compaction to NOx and SOx emissions originate from the combustion GRI EN23: Total number and volume of significant spills. Environment help facilitate wetlands establishment of fossil fuels in vehicle engines, boilers, or emergency Overview generators that are occasionally used and tested onsite. We seek to situate our operations in areas where we Environmental Sustainability Non-GHG Emissions At locations across Northern California, Cisco complies can successfully serve our customers while limiting our negative environmental impacts. Operations location with California Air Resources Board requests and is an especially important consideration with our data GRI EN19: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Materials does not use powered mechanical equipment, such centers. We currently cool most of our data centers by by weight. as gasoline-powered lawn mowers, after 11 a.m. on air movement. However, as equipment becomes more Energy and GHG designated Spare the Air days when air quality is poor compact and consumes more power per unit area, we Emissions GRI EN20: NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions in the San Francisco Bay Area. need to identify more efficient cooling mechanisms. Water Use by type and weight. One of the options we have begun to implement is Biodiversity and In accordance with the 1987 Montreal Protocol on water-based cooling. Because most of Cisco’s production is outsourced to Land Use Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, we also have supply chain partners, our global operations primarily worked with our supply chain partners to phase out Table 17 tracks liquid spills and discharges from Non-GHG Emissions consist of standard office activities and research labs. ozone-depleting substances (ODS) in their manufacturing Cisco facilities. This limits our non-GHG emissions to volatile organic Effluents (Liquid) processes. Waste Appendix Table 16. Non-GHG Emissions KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments GRI Index Volatile organic compound (VOC) negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible Quantities of VOC-based chemicals deployed are minimal emissions and are not required to be monitored. NOx, metric tonne 241 339 381 341 270 SOx, metric tonne 0.84 1.05 1.11 1.00 0.88 Particulate matter negligible negligible negligible negligible negligible This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F38 Introduction Waste companies have sold to channel partners and end-user customers. Of products sent to our e-scrap recyclers, and reuse of the returned product as well as any residual material that is sent to municipal waste and landfill. Governance & Ethics nearly 100 percent is recycled and all commodity Supply Chain Product Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling fractions go to downstream recyclers to be made into Information on our compliance with product recycling GRI EN27: Percentage of products sold and their new products. During FY14, Cisco refurbished, resold, regulations can be found online. Products are labeled Our People packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. or reused over 2764 metric tonne of products returned with a crossed-out “wheelie bin” symbol to encourage to Cisco. Table 18 provides the annual total weight of end users to reuse or recycle electronics instead of Society disposing of them in the trash. Our trade-in and takeback programs are designed to product returned to Cisco and data on refurbishment bring back the products that Cisco or our acquired Environment Overview Table 17. Effluent Spills and Discharges Environmental Sustainability KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments Materials Spills and discharges none none none none none In FY14, there were no reportable spills or discharges to the environment from Cisco facilities or operations worldwide. Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Table 18. Product Trade-in and Return Biodiversity and Land Use KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments Non-GHG Emissions Product return, metric tonne 8,580 11,595 13,324 12,539 12,180 Lighter and more powerful products are in part responsible for the decreasing trend in product return weight. Effluents (Liquid) Waste Refurbish, resell, and reuse rate, n/a 17% 25% 25% 23% Data unavailable prior to FY11. percent Appendix Returned material sent to landfill 0.33% 0.89% 0.43% 0.33% 0.30% Landfilled material consists only of non-electronic waste materials, such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap, GRI Index accompanying Cisco product returned by customers for recycling. We have nine different programs in operation to support Table 19. Cisco Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling Programs our product trade in, takeback, and recycling efforts. These fall into three categories, as shown in Table 19. Category Material Stream Customer programs • Cisco Technical Migration Program (TMP) • Cisco Takeback and Recycle Program Information regarding our trade in, takeback, and • Exceptional Pick-Up Program (EPUP) recycling programs is provided in the following text and is supplemented by our product recycling web portal.1 Programs for companies producing • Scrap/Reuse Program A flow diagram of the programs listed in Table 19 is or repairing Cisco products • Global Scrap Program shown in Figure 9. Internal programs for Cisco • eBin/Lab Scrap Program • Non-Genuine Brand Program • Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program • E-scrap events This section is bookmark enabled. 1. Cisco Connection online registration required. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F39 Introduction Customer Programs Reuse is always our first priority. In FY14, Cisco reused Figure 10. The number and location of Cisco authorized We have two trade-in programs, the Cisco Technology over $360 million of Cisco equipment, calculated at recyclers continue to expand based on the growth in our Governance & Ethics standard cost. Any item that is not reusable goes to one business and the requirements of local regulations. Migration Program (TMP) and the Exceptional Pick-Up Supply Chain Program (EPUP), for customers that are purchasing new of our authorized recyclers. equipment and have qualifying equipment to upgrade. Engaging with our takeback and recycling programs Our People Eligible customers receive an additional discount for The Cisco Takeback and Recycle Program is focused is easy and straightforward. Customers go to the returning working used equipment to us. These programs on Cisco branded items that do not qualify for either of web portal, select the program that applies to them, Society our two trade-in programs. This program also accepts and submit a pick-up request form. Cisco’s contracted are the single largest flow of materials back to Cisco and they provide the newest and best-quality used equipment equipment from other manufacturers that has been third party then contacts the customer to arrange the Environment displaced in the customer’s network by newly purchased pick-up and work out the logistics for returning the for refurbishment and reuse. Overview Cisco items. The equipment is typically old and has no materials to the appropriate location. Trade in materials are routed to value recovery and reuse value, or it is damaged. These materials go to Environmental the closest approved recycling site. Currently, there are queued for refurbishment for resale or reuse to Cisco Sustainability Capital® Remarketing, Cisco Service Supply, or an 30 recycling locations around the world, as shown in Materials internal Cisco lab. Energy and GHG Emissions Water Use Figure 9. Reverse Logistics Material Sources and Flow of Materials for Reuse and Recycling Biodiversity and SOURCES OF REVERSE Land Use Cisco End Customer Cisco End Customer Contract Repair eBin & Lab Data Center Server Recycle IT Non-Geniune Brand Non-GHG Emissions Contract Manufacturers Trade-In Program Takeback & Manufacturers & RFDsScrap Program Recycling Program Events Program Protection Program Scrap/Reuse Program LOGISTICS MATERIALS (TMP/EPUP) Recycle Program Global Scrap Program (Internal) (Internal) (Internal) (Internal, Not Public) Effluents (Liquid) Waste Appendix RL RECEIVING Cisco Reverse Logistics Cisco Reverse Logistics Cisco RL Value Recovery Value Recovery Value Recovery Non-Proprietary Parts CENTER GRI Index Receiving Center Reuse Program Components Resale REFURBISH, Cisco Capital Cisco Capital Cisco Service Supply Cisco Service Supply Remarketing Remarketing Reuse to Customer REUSE, RESALE Refurbishment Vendor Refurbishment Vendor Resale to Customer or RFD RECYCLERS Reverse Logistics Recyclers This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F40 Introduction Figure 10. Cisco Reverse Logistics Locations Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Environment Sweden Russia Netherlands Overview United Kingdom Environmental Germany Sustainability Belgium Switzerland Materials France Canada Italy Japan California Energy and GHG Spain Emissions Arizona Texas South Carolina Hong Kong Water Use Florida China Biodiversity and India Land Use Mexico Thailand Non-GHG Emissions Costa Rica Venezuela Effluents (Liquid) Malaysia Waste Colombia Appendix Singapore GRI Index Peru Brazil South Africa Chile Argentina Receiving and Reuse Recycling Recycling Subcontractor Warehouse/Disassembly This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F41 Introduction Programs for Companies Producing or Repairing seize counterfeit Cisco equipment. When non-genuine We hold quarterly business reviews with each of the Cisco Products equipment is found, we use a special witnessed protocol four contracted recyclers to review the past quarter’s Governance & Ethics whereby the collected materials are properly destroyed. results, to go over all action items that were to be worked The Cisco manufacturing Scrap/Reuse Program takes Supply Chain excess, obsolete, or damaged materials from our contract on during the quarter and the focus areas for the next manufacturers, manufacturing partners, original equipment As mentioned previously in Employee Engagement, we quarter. We also conduct random spot site audits of the Our People manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers hold annual Recycle IT Days for our employees. Cisco recycling facilities. (ODMs), and proprietary component suppliers. employees and contractors can bring in their e-scrap Society from home and have Cisco pay to have the materials E-Scrap Recycling Process Our contracted repair manufacturers and distribution recycled properly. Any Cisco office location can host Each load of e-scrap is weighed on calibrated scales Environment a recycling day event. In April 2014, we held our 19th depots use the Global Scrap program for their excess, upon arrival. Next, each unit is demanufactured, and Overview obsolete, or damaged materials. Both of these programs e-scrap event, with 129 Cisco sites around the world a high-level sort into “commodity fractions” separates are a valuable source of reusable product. participating and more than 211 metric tonne of used the steel, aluminum, cardboard, plastic, wire/cable, and Environmental electronics collected. Since Cisco started holding these Sustainability printed circuit boards. Certain fractions may then be Internal Programs for Cisco events, our employees and contractors have helped shredded. Some Cisco printed circuit boards contain Materials recycle over 2230 metric tonne of used electronics. a battery that is removed prior to shredding. After the The largest of Cisco’s internal programs is the eBin/Lab Energy and GHG Scrap Program. The eBin program began at our San shredding, an additional hand or mechanical sorting Emissions Jose campus, where 185 labs produce a large amount of E-Scrap Recyclers is done to pull off any loose pieces of the commodity e-scrap, and now eBin includes all Cisco labs and offices We currently have four contracted e-scrap recyclers. fractions. All fractions are sent to downstream recyclers Water Use worldwide. The eBins are green plastic rolling bins where Each recycler has several company-owned facilities. for further recycling to eventually be sold on the global Biodiversity and materials are collected in the labs for recycling. Smaller Each recycler also has several subcontracted recyclers materials markets. Shredded printed circuit boards go Land Use to provide global recycling coverage. Cisco’s contracted to a specialized smelter where as many as 19 metals labs may have only one eBin, and large labs may have Non-GHG Emissions more than a dozen. Each eBin has an owner, and when recyclers are certified to one or more e-scrap specific are harvested from the boards. These harvested metals the eBin is full, the owner visits our recycling web portal recycling standards, such as R2, R2 Rios, and eStewards. are sold on the global metals markets. Any batteries or Effluents (Liquid) and fills out a pick-up request. The Cisco authorized Our contracts require recyclers to enforce our strict packaging materials sent to recycling facilities are sent to Waste recycler responds to arrange the date and time of pick recycling processes upon any of their subcontractors downstream recyclers as well. up and to deliver any requested empty eBins. doing Cisco work. We must approve of each prospective Appendix recycling company and each recycling location prior to sending any Cisco equipment for processing. Additionally, Product Packaging End of Life The Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program serves GRI Index our recycling program described earlier is formally We have not adopted a packaging takeback program, data centers in 11 countries. When a data center no documented and is part of the contract with each of as the environmental impact, including transportation longer needs a server, it is offered to other Cisco data our recyclers. and emissions, from a packaging takeback program centers for possible reuse. When one of these servers outweighs the potential benefits when compared reaches the end of its useful life, it is recycled, with all Each contracted recycler provides Cisco with monthly with using local recycling. Therefore, Cisco takes the parts being shredded. Some products are not reused reports showing all cases opened and processed on a approach of designing our packaging to be separable because they have, or have had, sensitive data residing lot-by-lot basis. When each lot is processed, the report and recyclable so it can be directed to local packaging in their memory. includes a mass balance showing the weight as received material recycling programs. See page F13, Materials— The Non-Genuine Materials Program handles items that and the weights of each fractional commodity separated Packaging. we occasionally receive in equipment returns that are from the lot. non-genuine Cisco products. Non-genuine items also come to Cisco through law enforcement actions that This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F42 Introduction Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) GRI EN22: Total weight of waste by type and disposal Figure 11. Recycling Rates for Solid Waste from Major Governance & Ethics method. North America Operations (Trash) Supply Chain GRI EN24: Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Our People treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the 100% Society Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 90% Environment Cisco’s Waste Reduction and Recycling Program for Overview our operations is a key component of our ISO 14001 80% certification and global environmental policy. We Environmental Sustainability routinely collect and recycle waste streams, including 70% batteries, CDs and diskettes, beverage containers, trash, Materials wood and pallets, cardboard, mixed paper, confidential Energy and GHG waste, packaging materials, toner cartridges, compost, 60% Emissions polyurethane foam, landscape waste, mobile phones, food waste, and construction waste. Electronic waste collection Water Use 50% programs are described in the previous section. Figure 11 Biodiversity and shows our trash recycling rates for solid wastes for our Land Use major North America campus locations. 40% Non-GHG Emissions Municipal and regional recycling practices vary. What 30% Effluents (Liquid) is easily recycled in one region may not be as easily Waste recycled in another. The ability of our facilities to recycle 20% operational waste often depends on the recycling Appendix facilities in place in that region. All Cisco facilities take steps to reduce their operational waste and recycle 10% GRI Index materials that can be recycled in each location. For example, initiatives at our San Jose headquarters led 0% the way by diverting 87 percent of all waste streams 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 in FY14. In addition, Cisco campuses in San Jose, FISCAL YEAR California, and other North American locations host programs for composting and recycling food wastes Total San Jose Boxborough RTP where municipal facilities are available to process these materials. During FY14, the food waste separation program at the San Jose campus diverted approximately 800 metric tonne of food waste that otherwise would The significant decrease in the solid waste recycling projects is the likely cause. The overall RTP program is have been sent to local landfills. The waste was rate observed in FY14 at our RTP site, Figure 11, is being reviewed to better understand this change and set then turned into compost and made available by the currently under evaluation. Preliminary findings suggest new recycling goals for the campus. municipality for purchase by gardeners. a combination of increased headcount and construction This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F43 Introduction Table 20. Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) Governance & Ethics KPI FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Comments Supply Chain Total operational waste generated, 4,845 4,643 4,524 5,015 6,909 Our People metric tonne Society Percent real estate portfolio covered by 46% 51% 58% 52% 56% Includes major campus locations in the United States, waste reporting India, and China. Environment Total operational waste recycled, 3,443 3,345 3,119 3,772 5,432 Overview metric tonne Environmental Operational waste recycled, percent 71% 72% 69% 75% 79% Sustainability Materials Table 20 shows our solid waste metrics. Note that Energy and GHG Figure 12. Breakdown of Solid-Waste Streams (Trash) operational waste recycling performance depends on Emissions both Cisco performance and the availability of supporting at San Jose, California, Headquarters Campus Water Use services by local waste hauling and disposal vendors. In addition, a breakdown of our waste stream for the Biodiversity and San Jose site in Figure 12 illustrates our key sources of Land Use <1% Foam operational waste, the complexity of proper waste stream Non-GHG Emissions 1% Mixed Recycling <1% Special Projects segregation, and the need for local recycling services. 2% Mixed Paper <1% Cans & Bottles Effluents (Liquid) 2% Recycled Construction Waste <1% Other Waste 4% Wood Appendix 4% Confidential Paper GRI Index 7% Cardboard Landscape Waste 36% Waste to Landfill 13% 15% 15% Compost Surplus Donation This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback F44 Introduction Appendix From: To: Subject: Cisco Request to Report Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions to CDP Governance & Ethics Date: Wednesday, March 26, 2014 10:22:28 AM Supply Chain Global Supplier Management Letter Our People Society Environment Overview Environmental Sustainability Cisco request to report greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to REFERENCES CDP 1. CDP 2014 Investor Survey (with Supplier Module questions). Materials 26 th March 2014 The questions that must be answered to meet Cisco scorecard requirements per Step 1 are highlighted in the Energy and GHG Dear Valued Business Partners and Suppliers: following Cisco markup of CDP’s questionnaire: https://www-1.compliance2product.com/c2p/getAttachment.do? Emissions Cisco, our stakeholders, and our customers are concerned about GHG emissions — from Cisco's operations and products code=zuk4Z5lsatDXRAEjTJTlKxFoXoVZDrFqNmGcSbCRB1vxAaWf7AO6cWXqPGaNzK14 as well as from the operations of our suppliers and business partners. For the fifth year, Cisco invites our partners and suppliers to report their GHG emissions to CDP. Companies are encouraged to answer all CDP survey questions. Water Use Cisco is committed to reducing GHG emissions. In 2012, Cisco met our public commitment to reduce Cisco’s worldwide 2. CDP Supply Chain Responder Information Pack Scope 1, 2, and Scope 3 business-air-travel GHG emissions by 25 percent absolute by 2012 (against a 2007 baseline). Biodiversity and About a year ago, we announced a new set of five-year, GHG-related goals to be completed by 2017 (Reference 4). https://www.cdp.net/Documents/Guidance/2014/cdp-supply-chain-responder-pack-2014.zip from Land Use https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/guidance-supply-chain.aspx Companies can be invited to report to CDP in two ways: 3. CDP verification guidance: https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Respond/Pages/verification.aspx Many large, publicly traded companies are invited directly by CDP to respond to CDP’s Investor Survey. If your Non-GHG Emissions company has already received such an invitation in February, Cisco requests that your organization respond by the 4. Cisco blog: Cisco Announces New Greenhouse Gas Reduction Goals requested deadline (the end of May). http://blogs.cisco.com/csr/cisco-announces-new-greenhouse-gas-reduction-goals/ Effluents (Liquid) Through CDP’s Supply Chain program, of which Cisco is a member, Cisco will be requesting our suppliers to report 5. CDP reports summarizing 2013 responses: to CDP (by the end of July). The supply chain request includes the same questions as the Investor Survey plus Waste questions from a separate Supply Chain Module. If your company already responds to the Investor Survey, only a a. Global 500: response to the Supply Chain Module need be submitted in July. https://www.cdp.net/CDPResults/CDP-Global-500-Climate-Change-Report-2013.pdf Appendix It is Cisco's long-term objective for all suppliers and partners to complete the following five-steps: b. S&P 500: 1. Report to CDP annually, responding at a minimum to the questions highlighted in Reference 1. https://www.cdp.net/CDPResults/CDP-SP500-climate-report-2013.pdf GRI Index 2. Make the Investor Survey response publicly available (via the option provided for this purpose in CDP's Online c. Supply Chain Report: Response System). https://www.cdp.net/CDPResults/CDP-Supply-Chain-Report-2014.pdf 3. Demonstrate third-party review of your GHG emissions per Reference 3. d. Other climate change reports are available at: 4. Set a GHG emissions reduction goal (absolute reduction goals are preferred). https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Results/Pages/All-Investor-Reports.aspx 5. Request that your suppliers and business partners also report to CDP using the same process described in this letter. Supplier compliance to Cisco’s requirement to report GHG emissions to CDP is included in Cisco’s supplier scorecards. Please refer to separate communication concerning Cisco’s supplier scoring procedures. By the middle of April, if you have not received an invitation from CDP to respond to CDP’s GHG questionnaire, please contact CDP at respond@cdp.net. The CDP Supply Chain questionnaire and supporting information are provided as Reference 2. Do not send your emissions information to Cisco. Report your GHG emissions directly to CDP via CDP’s Online Response System (ORS, https://www.cdp.net/en-US/MyCDP/Pages/InvestorledRespond.aspx). Cisco will obtain your reporting status and emissions information via an analytics package offered by CDP. Please forward this request to the appropriate party within your company. If you have any questions about Cisco's or your company's carbon reporting, please contact us at cisco-cdp-questions@cisco.com. Best regards, Gary Cooper VP, Global Supplier Management This section is bookmark enabled. < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G1 Introduction GRI Index Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Our People Society Environment GRI Index Strategy and Analysis Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility Global Reporting Initiative Index The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are a set of internationally recognized indicators covering a company’s governance, economic, labor, human rights, society, and environmental impacts. “(The) GRI’s mission is to make sustainability reporting standard practice for all companies and organizations. Its Framework is a reporting system that provides metrics and methods for measuring and reporting sustainability-related impacts and performance.” < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G2 Introduction This table covers the GRI G3.1 indicators found in Cisco’s 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, 2014 Annual Report, and company websites. Governance & Ethics GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Supply Chain Strategy and Analysis Our People 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization CEO Letter Society 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Section Overviews, Executive Summary, Environment Governance and Ethics/CSR Materiality Assessment Organizational Profile GRI Index 2.1 Name of the organization Cisco Systems, Inc. Strategy and Analysis 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Cisco Products and Services Economic Environmental 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, About Cisco, and joint ventures Cisco Corporate Overview Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Corporate Headquarters Social: Human Rights 170 West Tasman Drive San Jose, CA 95134 Social: Society USA Social: Product 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or Cisco Corporate Overview, Responsibility that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Worldwide Contacts 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form FY14 Annual Report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Cisco Corporate Overview, FY14 Annual Report 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Cisco Corporate Overview, FY14 Annual Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership FY14 Annual Report 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CSR Awards and Recognition, Inclusion and Diversity Awards, Investor Relations Awards Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Introduction/About this Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Cisco Fiscal Year 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual, Cisco Fiscal Year 2014 < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G3 Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr_report@cisco.com Supply Chain 3.5 Process for defining report content Governance and Ethics/CSR Management, Governance and Ethics/CSR Materiality Assessment, Our People Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement Society 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) Introduction/About This Report Environment 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Only as noted in report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that FY14 Annual Report GRI Index can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Strategy and Analysis 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying Assumptions and techniques are explained throughout the Economic estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report sections, Introduction/Assurance Environmental 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such No major changes: any adjustments are explained within re-statement the sections Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied No major changes: any adjustments are explained within in the report the sections Social: Human Rights 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report This table Social: Society 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Introduction/Assurance Social: Product Responsibility Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible Corporate Governance, for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Corporate Governance/Committees 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Corporate Governance, John T. Chambers, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest Corporate Governance governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Governance and Ethics/Ethics, governance body Governance and Ethics/How to Report a Concern, Our People/Working Together 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and Cisco’s 2014 Proxy Statement executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Corporate Governance, Code of Business Conduct 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance Corporate Governance/Committees body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G4 Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Introduction, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Message from John T. Chambers Chairman and CEO, Supply Chain Message from Tae Yoo, Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Our People Code of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct Society 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of Cisco’s 2014 Proxy Statement, Environment economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or Code of Business Conduct, compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Supplier Code of Conduct GRI Index 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Cisco’s 2014 Proxy Statement, environmental, and social performance The Lead Independent Director is responsible for presiding over Strategy and Analysis the annual self-evaluation of the Board of Directors Economic 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Cisco’s CDP 2014 Submission, Cisco’s Corporate Environmental Policy, Environmental Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions Social: Labor Practices 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Governance and Ethics/Global Partners and Forums, and Decent Work organization subscribes or endorses Governance and Ethics/Human Rights, Social: Human Rights Focus Area: Supply Chain Social: Society 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations Governance and Ethics/Global Partners and Forums, in which the organization: Governance and Ethics/Human Rights, Social: Product • Has positions in governance bodies; Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capability, Responsibility • Participates in projects or committees; Our People/An Inclusive and Diverse Culture, • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or CSR Community Partners, • Views membership as strategic Environment 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Economic Disclosure on management approach Message from John T. Chambers Chairman and CEO, Message from Tae Yoo Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, FY14 Annual Report/Letter to Shareholders Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, FY14 Annual Report donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change Cisco’s CDP 2014 Submission, Cisco’s Corporate Environmental Policy, Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G5 Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations FY14 Annual Report Supply Chain EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Cisco does not receive financial government support Our People Market Presence Society EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations We provide competitive levels of compensation above local of operation minimum wage requirements Environment EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation Not material: 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced GRI Index EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant Not material: 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced locations of operation Strategy and Analysis Indirect Economic Impacts Economic EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through Society Environmental commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Social: Labor Practices EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Society and Decent Work Environmental Social: Human Rights Social: Society Disclosure on management approach Environment/Overview, Environment/Environmental Sustainability/Principles Social: Product Responsibility Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment/Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environment/Materials/Recycled Content Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ Operations Scope 1 and 2 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ Operations Scope 1 and 2 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable-energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ requirements as a result of these initiatives Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions/ Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Product Energy Efficiency) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G6 Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics Water Supply Chain EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment/Water Use Our People EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environment/Water Use Society EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environment/Effluents (Liquid) Environment Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use GRI Index value outside protected areas Strategy and Analysis EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use high biodiversity value outside protected areas Economic EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use Environmental EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use operations, by level of extinction risk Social: Human Rights Social: Society Emissions, Effluents and Waste Social: Product EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ Responsibility Operations Scope 1 and 2 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 3 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Environment/Non-GHG Emissions EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Environment/Non-GHG Emissions EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environment/Effluents (Liquid) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environment/Waste/Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Environment/Effluents (Liquid) EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Environment/Waste/Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G7 Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics Products and Services Supply Chain EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions/ Our People Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Product Energy Efficiency) Society EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Environment/Waste/Product Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling Environment Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Environment/Environmental Sustainability/Regulatory Fines GRI Index environmental laws and regulations Strategy and Analysis Transport Economic EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Environment/Materials/Packaging/ Environmental organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce Packaging Material, Space Efficiency, and Distribution Optimization, Social: Labor Practices Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ and Decent Work Operations Scope 3/Scope 3 Business Air Travel Social: Human Rights Overall Social: Society EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environment/Materials/Packaging/ Packaging Material, Space Efficiency, and Distribution Social: Product Optimization, Responsibility Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/ Operations Scope 1 and 2/Reducing Emissions from Operations Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on management approach Our People, Supply Chain Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Our People/An Inclusive and Diverse Culture LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Our People/An Inclusive and Diverse Culture LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, Our People/Rewarding Our People, by major operations FY14 Annual Report Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Not reported LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in We meet all applicable laws, regulations, and standards where collective agreements we do business < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G8 Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics Occupational Health and Safety Supply Chain LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that Not reported help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Our People LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region Our People/A Safe and Healthy Work Environment Society and by gender Environment LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, Governance and Ethics/Risk Management, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Our People/A Safe and Healthy Work Environment, GRI Index Our People/Rewarding Our People LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Not reported Strategy and Analysis Economic Training and Education Environmental LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Our People/Training and Development Opportunities Social: Labor Practices LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Our People/Training and Development Opportunities and Decent Work assist them in managing career endings Social: Human Rights LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender Our People/Training and Development Opportunities Social: Society Diversity and Equal Opportunity Social: Product LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, Our People/An Inclusive and Diverse Culture Responsibility age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation Not reported LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Not reported Social: Human Rights Disclosure on management approach Governance and Ethics/Human Rights, Supply Chain/Supplier Code of Conduct Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening Processes, Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capability HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights Supply Chain/Our Supply Chain screening, and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant Governance and Ethics/Human Rights, to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Our People/Training and Development Opportunities < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G9 Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics Non-Discrimination Supply Chain HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Not reported Our People Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Society HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capability bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Environment Aspect: Child Labor GRI Index HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures Supplier Code of Conduct, taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capability Strategy and Analysis Forced and Compulsory Labor Economic HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Supplier Code of Conduct, Environmental and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capability Social: Labor Practices Security Practices and Decent Work HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human Not material: 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced Social: Human Rights rights that are relevant to operations Social: Society Indigenous Rights Social: Product Responsibility HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Not material: Cisco's operations do not uniquely impact indigenous people Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Not material: 100% of our manufacturing is outsourced assessments Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Governance and Ethics/Employee Training and Awareness, Governance and Ethics/How to Report a Concern, Governance and Ethics/Human Rights Governance < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G10 Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics Social: Society Supply Chain Disclosure on management approach Society Our People Local Communities Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and Society/Employee Engagement, development programs Society/Cisco Networking Academy Environment Corruption GRI Index SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Governance and Ethics/Risk Management, Governance and Ethics/Code of Business Conduct Strategy and Analysis SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures Global Anti-Corruption Training, Economic Governance and Ethics/Code of Business Conduct Environmental SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Global Anti-Corruption Overview, Social: Labor Practices Governance and Ethics/Code of Business Conduct and Decent Work Public Policy Social: Human Rights SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Governance and Ethics/Public Policy, Social: Society Cisco Public Policy Engagements Social: Product SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Governance and Ethics/Public Policy and Political Support Responsibility Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes FY14 Annual Report Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with FY14 Annual Report laws and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Not material SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts Not material on local communities < Previous View 2014 Cisco CSR Report Cisco CSR Website #IoE4SocialGood We Welcome Your Feedback G11 Introduction GRI G3.1 Guideline (Continued) Location Governance & Ethics Social: Product Responsibility Supply Chain Disclosure on management approach Governance and Ethics/Privacy and Data Security, Governance and Ethics/Human Rights/Product Use, Our People Environment/Environmental Sustainability Society Customer Health and Safety Environment PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, Environment/Life-Cycle Assessment, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Environment/Hazardous Materials GRI Index PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety Supply Chain/Supply Chain Sustainability Guiding Principles, impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Supply Chain/Audit Findings Strategy and Analysis Economic Product and Service Labeling Environmental PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and Not reported services subject to such information requirements Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service Not reported information and labeling, by type of outcomes Social: Human Rights PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey, Social: Society Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement Social: Product Marketing Communications Responsibility PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including Marketing communications are regulated by national and advertising, promotion, and sponsorship international law and are also subject to voluntary codes. Cisco’s marketing communications are also governed by our Code of Business Conduct and by additional guidelines and best practices. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Not reported communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Not reported Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use FY14 Annual Report of products and services Americas Headquarters Asia Pacific Headquarters Europe Headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam, San Jose, CA Singapore The Netherlands Cisco has more than 200 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (111OR) © 2014 Cisco and/or its affliates. All rights reserved. This document is a Cisco Public Information.
