Corporate Translation Interpreting Localization Sustainability Report 2012 Consulting Our contribution to the sustainable development of society Dear readers, there are various opinions and criteria for defining tradition and one can certainly discuss the existence or non-existence of the traditional non-financial reporting of CIKLOPEA. We are certainly glad that you will have the possibility to glance at and read our report on social responsibility for the third year in a row, and we sincerely believe that our regular practice of reporting becomes a tradition. Our report for this year was again prepared in accordance with the G3.1. guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, according to which it ranks as a level ‘C’ report. In preparing the report we also followed the requirements of ISO 26000, as well as the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact initiative in the field of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Through the analysis of business data and publication of financial statements for the year 2012, we concluded that this was yet another record year for CIKLOPEA. The increase in demand for translation and localization of content to regional languages was noticeable. At the same time, due to the prolonged crisis and decline of economic activity, economists have been looking for new and innovative solutions in their market approach and have recognised the globalisation of content as one of the most rewarding and most effective solutions in the effort to reach new customers on the global market. CIKLOPEA’s team of employees promptly recognised these trends and adjusted our production capacities accordingly, whereas the figures show that our translation capacities translated over 11 million words during the year 2012. During 2012 CIKLOPEA continued the initiated process of restructuring and reorganisation with a clearly defined objective, which is to successfully implement the mission and help companies and institutions properly communicate ideas and messages to their clients and targeted markets by providing professional language services and non-linguistic support, as well as to realise the vision and be recognised as the leading provider of language services in the wider region of South East Europe. With this report we wish to share our values with those who recognised us as a desirable partner, associate or potential place of work and we would be glad if you shared your impressions with us. Sincerely, Sandra Boljkovac Stojak Founder and CEO of CIKLOPEA. 2 Communicating your ideas Table of Contents 1. Corporate Social Responsibility our contribution to the society in which we live and work......................... 4 2. Corporate Social Responsibility from the very beginning............................................................................. 5 3. Organisational Profile....................................................................................................................................... 6 4. Economic Indicators........................................................................................................................................ 8 5. Donations and Investments............................................................................................................................. 9 6. People our greatest asset............................................................................................................................ 10 7. Innovations and Technology.......................................................................................................................... 13 8. Environment................................................................................................................................................... 14 9. Human Rights, Child Labour and Corruption................................................................................................. 15 10. Conclusions and Objectives for 2012............................................................................................................ 16 11. Index.............................................................................................................................................................. 18 Communicating your ideas 3 1. Corporate Social Responsibility our contribution to the society in which we live and work D uring the year we regularly communicate with our organisation, as well as in relation to trends of the all stakeholders: employees, vendors and partentire language industry. Each week we communicate ners, current and future customers and all othtips on translation and localization to our beneficiaries ers who find our topics interesting through news and from the ordering and use of language services to adannouncements, blog posts, statuses and comments vice on how to work in the language industry. We also on social networks. We strive to be informative, educaregularly publish linguistic advice and share experience tional and interesting, and thus regularly publish news and knowledge with the wider community. about happenings within Why do we report? Once a year we try to integrate the most important events in a single report, which is mainly dedicated to non-financial data from our business. Our previous Corporate Sustainability Report was issued in December 2012. By the end of the year it is certainly nice to have a specific location for reading the summary of the most important events and then to draw the line and ask ourselves to what extent were we socially responsible and contributed to development of society. All of our employees eagerly await new reports, and we hope that in our previous publications we have also succeeded to raise the interest of our occasional readers in our work and organisation. Reporting on Corporate Social Responsibility and the general non-financial aspects of business in the Republic of Croatia is still not customary, therefore we believe that with our example we encourage the desired changes and hope to stand out in a positive way among other translation companies. For whom is this report intended? Our reports about the non-financial indicators of work and life of our employees, as well as about the values of social responsibility are primarily intended for: • current and future employees • current and future vendors • current and future clients • local and wider community in which we operate • all others who share our values of corporate social responsibility or feel the need to contact us in terms of suggestions for improvement or comments 4 Communicating your ideas 2. Corporate Social Responsibility – from the very beginning } } Approaching the tenth anniversary of our business, the retrospective views are becoming particularly popular. Therefore, we proudly present the corporate social responsibility awareness timeline. 2003 Establishment of the company 2005 KE HGK and Corporate Social Responsibility Association 2008 CSR Index 2010 Internal Code of Conduct 2011 Our first Corporate Sustainability Report for 2010 Beginnings of practical training for students, 2011 future translators 2012 CSR Index Awar Our second Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 for 2011 2012 Free application for smart mobile devices 2013 CSR Index Award This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. Communicating your ideas 5 3. Oranisational Profile About us in brief as other services within the specific linguistic domain. These services relate to linguistic and intercultural consulting, consulting and management during the translaCIKLOPEA is one of the leading translation and localition process, education and copywriting. zation service providers in the Republic of Croatia and in the wider region of South East Europe. We operate We are positioned in the global market as a company as a specialised external (outsourcing) language partspecialised in the translation and localization into the ner that provides complete language services and supSEE languages in combination with all European lanport to its clients. guages, as well as in the translation of all types of texts in the language combinations of all European and world CIKLOPEA has a portfolio of services that are divided languages. into four basic groups: translation, interpreting, localization and consulting services. Our fields of specialisation are: • Medical/Pharmaceutical/Health Services The translation services group includes services that • IT relate to managing translation projects, written transla• Engineering/Industry/Technology tion services and supporting services such as proof• Law reading or editing. The interpreting services group • Economics/Business/Finance/Insurance includes services of written translations with notariza• Marketing & PR tion by court certified legal interpreters, simultaneous • Tourism interpretation, consecutive interpretation and the rental of technical conference equipment as well as technical support in the organisation of conferences, meetings Certificates and travelling arrangements as supporting services related to interpreting. The localization services group CIKLOPEA is certiincludes services of localization project management, fied according to ISO localization, internationalization and globalization, as 9001:2008 (Quality Manwell as layout, prepress (DTP – desktop publishing) and agement System) and proof checking services as supporting services related EN 15038:2006 (quality to localization. The consulting services cover a wide standard for translation spectrum of advisory, managerial, educational, as well services companies). 6 Communicating your ideas Organisational chart Board of Directors Operations Human IT and Marketing management/ Linguistic Fiance and resources technical and sales project team controling management support management } } In 2012 the Board of Directors of the CIKLOPEA company comprised two members, performing the duties of the executive and strategic operatives. Due to the size of the company, the Board of Directors also represented the supervisory body. Communicating your ideas 7 4. Donations and Investments I n 2012 CIKLOPEA became a bronze sponsor of Translators Without Borders, with which we took part in the effort to make humanitarian translations available to more people around the world. } We are proud and honoured to } ion support Translators Without Borders. Certificate of Appreciat We present this honor to Supporting their work for us means supporting good deeds.” CIKLOPEA d.o.o. (Marina Orešković, Chief s without Borders and our In grateful recognition of mission to prov ide your support of Translator peop le acce ss to vital knowledge in their language. Operations Officer at CIKLOPEA.) for your support. We are deeply thankful } Lori Thicke, President, TWB “We are incredibly grateful to Director, TWB Rebecca Petras, Program Ciklopea for this assistance, which } is critical to enable us, in turn, to support more humanitarian work around the globe.” (Lori Thicke, Co-founder of Translators Without Borders) • Translators Without Borders is a US-based non-profit organisation. The mission of Translators Without Borders (initially founded in France in 1993 as Traducteurs sans frontières) is to translate knowledge for humanity. Translators Without Borders has met that mission through quality humanitarian translations provided by a community of trained translators to vetted NGOs who focus on health, nutrition and education. Translators Without Borders volunteers translate millions of words each year, focusing on three types of humanitarian translations: crisis translations needed urgently to inform people in crisis, translations that support an NGO’s operations, and translations that directly support people in need by translating educational and healthcare information into local languages. The non-profit organisation’s vision is to expand its open digital platform to help make knowledge more accessible worldwide through humanitarian translations. The initial goal is to assist humanitarian organisations with two million dollars worth of free translations per year. • The financial support provided by sponsors is critical in sustaining and growing the organisation, particularly in under-resourced languages. In the course of humanitarian action, the participants of this praiseworthy association have become aware of a huge global need for translation, which is for the people in poor countries to be able to access global knowledge in their own language. According to UNICEF more people die from lack of knowledge than from diseases. People in poor countries are simply unable to access global knowledge in a language they understand. Mobile technology may be bringing this knowledge closer to the most vulnerable groups. Translators Without Borders is delivering this much needed help by developing a scalable training programme so that more people will be able to access the knowledge they need in a language they understand. Ciklopea is proud to be supporting Translators Without Borders in this work. 8 Communicating your ideas 5. Economic Indicators 2011/HRK 2012/HRK % changes Trend Operating revenue 6.587.954 7.477.623 14 % # Operating costs 5.315.059 6.143.862 16 % # Employees wages and benefits 1.698.463 1.763.023 4% # Income tax 270.876 278.077 3% # Payments to providers of capital 1.111.156 1.074.390 -3 % $ Value retained 1.508.064 57.514 -96 % $ F inancial data in the year 2012 recorded a mild growth trend in terms of realised revenue as a result of years of investment in human and technical resources and a steady market presence. The costs and duties follow the natural growth and development of the organisation. Total realised revenue of CIKLOPEA accounted for about 5.5% of the estimated market of all translation companies in Croatia. According to the latest statistical report for 2012, there are 227 companies registered for translation activities in Croatia. Communicating your ideas 9 6. People our greatest asset T he employees, together with a strong network All the employees at CIKLOPEA are university educatof permanent business partners, constitute ed, mostly in the field of translation studies and linguisthe team of CIKLOPEA which endeavours to tics, whilst others hold a degree in the field of engineerrespond to the challenges of the contemporary busiing and management. ness environment. Our key competitive advantage is reflected in developing our own work methodology as well as superior project management and highly qualiNumber of employees during fied translation and management staff. This means that thanks to technical equipment, the excellent team and the year superior project management, we are able to face additional technical requests of our clients primarily regardCIKLOPEA’s success is based on its educated, creaing the translation or demanding localization projects tive and innovative staff. The acknowledgement of our where the product needs to be adjusted to linguistic, people as our most important resource and capital cultural and political environment of the user, i.e. of the determines our business decisions, our organisational target market. and management structure as well as all the processes in the organisation. Number of employees in 2012 by months 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 LA1 Turnover 2012 • Number of employees during 2012 was LA4 • Our employees are not covered by collective constant, and we ended the year with 15 bargaining agreements but they have full-time employees, of which 2 employees an elected employee representative that (29%) worked under a fixed-term contract, presents issues that might arise to the and 13 (75%) under an indefinite contract. 15% Management Board. All staff and managers are hired locally. Number of employees who left and for whom it was necessary to find a replacement 10 Total averageCommunicating number your ideas of employees 18 17 Turnover Reasons for leaving were: 16 During 2012 eight female employees aged 25-35 left • 4 to become freelance translators • 1 due to the completion of a project and expiration the company. There were changes in some positions 15 the year, which led to a high total number of deof her contract; the company had no other position during she could fill partures. Proportionately, there was a high number of • 2 due to filling another position with the objective of 14 and registrations of employees. arrivals personal career development, which is not related to the language industry 13 • 1 during probation period. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Turnover 2012 15% Number of employees who left and for whom it was necessary to find a replacement Total average number of employees 85% Education • All new employees in 2012 completed Workforce by gender in 2012 L A 8 mandatory first aid and occupational Expenditure on education (seminars and courses) in safety training. We have had no work2012 amounted to 36,959.69 HRK. Theme selection related injuries reported since our for education is based on the individual needs of emestablishment in 2003. In the following ployees and upon the estimate about which kind of adyear new staff will undergo work safety ditional knowledge and skills could increase employee training. efficiency, raise the overall quality of processes and services and contribute to employee satisfaction. In Men 2012 the employees of CIKLOPEA chose the following 6% training seminars: language workshops for translators, editorial seminars for Croatian language, communication skills seminars, international seminars and professional meetings, seminars in the field of public procure• CIKLOPEA regularly evaluates employee ment and effective debt collection and training for court LA12 performance and, in accordance with interpreters. the results, introduces measures of improvement and objectives for the next period, or defines models of motivation and Women reward. 94% Communicating your ideas 11 Total average number of employees Workforce by gender in 2012 85% We are aware that the language industry predominately employs women, but what matters to us is to discover, develop and hire competent people regardless of gender and develop the talents of employees. Consequently, representation of female gender in our company is strong as it follows a global trend: 94% of our employees are female employees and 6% are male employees. Workforce by gender in 2012 Men 6% Women 94% 12 Communicating your ideas 7. Innovations and Technology Free CIKLOPEA application for smart mobile devices At the end of 2012, just at the moment of holiday allocation, CIKLOPEA introduced a free application for smart devices with Android and iOS operating systems. To download this free and useful application it is just enough to type in the keyword “ciklopea” when searching in Google Play or Apple App Store and the use of applications with three advanced features can begin. This application is the result of our striving to make ordering a translation and receiving a translation cost estimate simpler, faster and more reliable and to get closer to our current and future customers and facilitate communication. While creating the application, we put ourselves in our customers’ shoes and tried to make it simple and understandable to everyone. This means that you don’t need to be a language industry expert to get to grips with it. This was also our greatest challenge: to achieve simplicity and comprehensibility, and it this way making the application available to everyone. The application has three advanced functions: • Translation Calculator – this function enables you to estimate the cost of translation that you need • Urgent translation – a function used to place orders for urgent professional translations of up to 100 words delivered within one hour at a fixed order price regardless of word count (which means that, for instance, the same price and delivery deadline will apply for 20 and 100 words) • Translate Snapshot – a very practical and simple function which lets you photograph the document you need translated and automatically, by means of the function, submit it to us for translation. The application is intended for all users of our services, as well as for all stakeholders and everyone interested in modern technology and the ways in which it can find application in the language industry. Communicating your ideas 13 8. Environment T he nature of our business is such that we have We systematically record and monitor energy costs and no specific impact on the environment and that strive to reduce energy consumption as much as we is why we pay close attention to every detail in can. order that our work has the least negative impact on the environment as possible, and to make our practice With construction modifications of our workspace in a positive example for preserving the existing natural 2012 we enabled the effective and sustained use of resources. daylight instead of artificial lighting. With this procedure we made our workspaces more pleasant to be and • We dispose of used paper in an appropriate manner work in and we directly reduced the consumption of in order to contribute to environmental protection. electricity used to illuminate the space. • We dispose of electronic equipment in an appropriate manner. • We control power consumption: turn off the com• In 2012 CIKLOPEA did not receive any puters and all electronic devices at the end of the EN28 fines or other penalties for non-compliance day. • We participate in public transport. All of our emwith laws and environmental regulations. ployees receive payment for transportation in the city in which they live. • We avoid the use of disposable cutlery and cups. 2011/HRK 2012/HRK % changes Energy costs 51.769 45.408 -14 % 14 Communicating your ideas 9. Human Rights, Child Labour and Corruption N } } either we nor our partners use or assist child or forced labour in any aspect of our business. Since it was founded in 2003, Our employees are acquainted with the CIKLOPEA has received no fines policies and procedures related to human rights because compliance with or non-monetary sanctions for nonthese principles underlies our business principles. compliance with laws and regulations. Furthermore, our company has never been linked to any corruption charges. Our employees do not receive anticorruption training because there have never been any incidents. If there are any inappropriate situations, our employees know how to handle them because they are well aware of the anti-corruption guidelines from our internal code of conduct. Communicating your ideas 15 10. Conclusions and Objectives for 2013 Previous work and results achieved require further improvement and development, and therefore we have defined several objectives for the coming year: • Establishment of a formal professional association for the promotion of the values of the industry and profession • Innovations and development in the field of language technology • Increasing the level of information security • Programme development for practical training for students, future translators • Development of human resources management position and the application of proven contemporary practices in human resources management. 16 Communicating your ideas The Ten Principles Our report was done in accordance with the GRI The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption framework enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration What is the GRI Reporting on • Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Framework? • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development The Sustainability Reporting Framework provides guid• The United Nations Convention Against Corruption ance on how organizations can disclose their susThe UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, tainability performance. It consists of the Sustainabilsupport and enact, within their sphere of influence, a ity Reporting Guidelines, Sector Supplements and the set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour Technical Protocol Applying the Report Content Prinstandards, the environment and anti-corruption: ciples. The Framework is applicable to organizations of any Human Rights size or type, from any sector or geographic region, and has been used by thousands of organizations worldPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the wide as the basis for preparing their sustainability reprotection of internationally proclaimed human rights; ports. and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Labour The Guidelines are the foundation of the Framework Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of and are now in their third generation (G3). They feature association and the effective recognition of the right to Performance Indicators and Management Disclosures collective bargaining; that organizations can adopt voluntarily, flexibly and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and incrementally, enabling them to be transparent about compulsory labour; their performance in key sustainability areas. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and The G3.1 Guidelines are the latest and most complete Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect version of GRI’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Guideof employment and occupation. lines. These Guidelines are based on G3 but contain expanded guidance on local. community impacts, human rights and gender. While G3-based reports are still Environment valid, GRI recommends that reporters use G3.1, the most comprehensive reporting guidance available toPrinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary day approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater enSource: http://www.globalreporting.org/ vironmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • In an effort to raise awareness of governing Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrupbodies on reporting on sustainability, we tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. present the principles which we adhered to Source: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/AboutThewhen we prepared the Report. GC/TheTenPrinciples/index.htmlhttp://www.unglobalcompact.org/AboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/index. html Communicating your ideas 17 11. Index Profile Page Explanation for Applicable Global Description Disclosure reported on omission Compact principle Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 2 Principles 1 and 2 Organizational profile 2.1. Name of the organization. 2 2.2. Primary brands, products and/or services 6 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 2.3. 7 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4. Seat. 6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names 2.5. of countries with either major operations or that are specifically 6 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6. Nature of ownership. 7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 2.7. 6 and types of clients/beneficiaries). 2.8. Scale of the reporting organization. 6 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, No changes since 2.9. N/A structure, or ownership. the last report. 2.10. Awards received in the reporting period. 5 cover 3.1. Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. page, 2, 21 3.2. Date of most recent previous report (if any). 4 3.3. Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) II 4, 21 3.4. Contact person for questions regarding the report or its contents. 21 3.5. Process for defining report content. 17 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased 3.6. facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for 17 further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 3.7. 17 (see the Completeness principle for an explanation of the scope) CIKLOPEA has been independent Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, since its inception 3.8. outsources operations, and other entities that can significantly affect N/A and it operates comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. in the market independently. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided No restatements in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., 3.10. N/A in relation to the mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of previous report. business, measurement methods). 18 Communicating your ideas Profile Page Explanation for Applicable Global Description Disclosure reported on omission Compact principle No significant Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11. N/A changes from the boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. previous report. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 3.12. 18 report. Governance structure of the organization, including committees 4.1. under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, 6,7 such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 4.2. 6,7 executive officer (if so, state the reasons for such decision). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 4.3. number of members of the highest governance body that are 6,7 independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4. 6,7 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.14. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 4.15. 4 engage. Economic Indicators Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other EC1. 9 community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management 9 Principles 7, 8 EC7. 10 hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. and 9 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services EC8. provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or 8 Principle 2 pro bono engagement. Environment Principles 7, 8 EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 14 and 9 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonPrinciples 7, 8 EN28. monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws 14 and 9 and regulations. Principle 2 Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and LA1. 10 region. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover Principles 1, 2 LA2. 11 by age group, gender, and region. and 6 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees LA13. per category according to gender, age group, minority group 11 Principle 6 membership, and other indicators of diversity. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4. 10 Principle 3 agreements. Communicating your ideas 19 Profile Page Explanation for Applicable Global Description Disclosure reported on omission Compact principle Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control LA8. programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 11 community members regarding serious diseases. Education Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12. 11 development reviews, by gender. Child Labour Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant Principles 4 and 5 HR 6. risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to 15 Principles 1 and 2 the effective abolition of child labour. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and measures HR 7. 15 Principles 4 and 5 to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks SO2. 15 Principle 10 related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption SO3. 15 Principle 10 policies and procedures. SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 15 Principle 10 20 Communicating your ideas GRI Declaration Level Report Application level C C+ This is a C Level report; CIKLOPEA shall publish Report on reports annually. 1.1 OUTPUT G3 Profile 2.1 − 2.10 Disclosures 3.1 − 3.8, 3.10 − 3.12 Publisher: 4.1 − 4.4, 4.14 − 4.15 CIKLOPEA Ltd Međimurska 21 10 000 Zagreb Standard disclosures Report externally verified Not required Croatia OUTPUT G3 Disclosures on Management Images used are owned by Ciklopea. Approach Report on a minimum G3 Performance of 10 Performance OUTPUT Indicators & Sector Indicators, including at Supplement least one of the following: Performance social, economic and Indicators environmental. * Sector supplements in the final version BraunGraf Graphic design BraunGraf, www.braun.hr BraunGraf Responsible person: Mladen Stojak, Managing Director Person for contact about information in the report: Marina Orešković, COO Zagreb Headquarters Međimurska 21, 10 000 Zagreb Tel: +385 (0)1/375-1736 e-mail: info@ciklopea.com © 2013. All rights reserved Communicating your ideas 21 ©
