GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS: 1st Report, 2014 ShiftIN Partners – Consulting Firm Co-enabling your strategy. From withIN CONFIDENTIAL This report is solely for the use of client organisation’s personnel. No part of it may be circulated, quoted, or reproduced for distribution outside the client organization without prior written approval from ShiftIN Partners Statement of Continuous support It is with prodigious honor that I confirm ShiftIN Partners continuous commitment to the ten principles of Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication ShiftIN Partners conveys and manuscripts its determination in evolving those principles within its sphere of impact. ShiftIN Partners has embedded Global Compact’s principles within the company’s Strategy, Culture and day to day operations. Furthermore, we plan to engage in collaborative projects that will advance the broader development goals of the United Nations particularly the Millennium Development Goals. ShiftIN Partners has made an announcement to its stakeholders and general public adhering to this commitment statement. In recognition to the key requirement for being part of the Global Compact, ShiftIN Partners submits this Communication on Progress (COP) that illustrates its efforts in implementing the ten principals. Moreover, as per our original commitment and according to Global Compact COP Policy, ShiftIN Partners commits through its culture of public transparency and submits this report within one year of joining. Sincerely, Mr. Amancio Torres CEO, ShiftIN Partners COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 2 1. Our CSR Policy 2. Our Commitment to GC 3. Our Next Steps COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 3 About ShiftIN Have you ever thought about how the shift key changes everything? Preferred • 50+ client relationships with blue chip Organizations in Government and Private sector across GCC in the last 2 years Strategy Partners in • Our team has 20+ years experience in strategy consulting Middle East • HQ in Abu Dhabi, with offices in Dubai, Riyadh, Doha and Kuwait ShiftIN Partners is the leading boutique consulting in the GCC solely • ShiftIN Learning Solutions, our training arm, has trained more focused on helping clients develop than 550 managers across 60+ organisations in the Middle East Strategy Execution Capabilities that Thought • Co-authors of Strategy Execution Heroes by Jeroen de Flander enable the organization to achieve the Leadership • Several white papers and articles published on Strategy Execution necessary Shift, working from withIN. • The world’s largest survey and benchmark in Strategy Execution • Collaboration: Our team integrates seamlessly with our clients The ShiftIN • Capability building: focus on knowledge transfer and development way • Flexibility: if client’s requirements change, we adapt. • Excellence in delivery: all our engagements are led by our Partners ensuring quality and results. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 ABOUT US | 4 Our Values These values are what make ShiftIN’s professionals the people they are. They unite us and inspire us to go above and beyond ... Putting the Client First Creativity Our clients’ challenges are our obsession. We constantly Talent, versatility, and the insights derived from widestrive to do what’s best for them. First and foremost, that ranging experience are a given. To that mix of ShiftIN means ensuring that they obtain the greatest possible return qualities, we add creativity. Among our professionals, we on their investment. Where appropriate, we will encourage the free flow of knowledge and ideas, encourage demonstrate our conviction by linking our compensation to our people to challenge existing paradigms, and believe in client performance. Putting the client first also means having approaching issues with a fresh perspective and new ideas. the flexibility to be able to adapt our direction to our clients’ This fresh approach, we believe, is what makes us changing needs and realities—because a rapidly changing successful—as individuals, and collectively, as a firm. environment is among clients’ greatest challenges. Fellowship Transparency ShiftIN’s partnership approach imbues every facet of our We prize transparency at all levels, and believe our working environment and working relationships, not only transparency helps us establish a level of trust and with our clients but also internally within our team. We communication with our clients that facilitates problem believe that achievement requires an environment of solving and progress. By pursuing a climate of openness, we cooperation, collaboration, camaraderie—and strong can more readily get to the root of a problem, address any personal and professional relationships. All are critical to weaknesses, and correct any mistakes. A problem is only a success, and make work rewarding for everyone. problem if we don’t solve it. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 5 Our Stakeholders Our shared values are the basis of our relationships with all our stakeholders… Our Society Business Our Partners Community Our Clients Our Our Employees Environment Our Values Creativity Putting the Client First Fellowship Transparency COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 6 Our CSR Policy Working towards a positive shift for all… Our Clients Our Employees We are committed to ‘Put the Client First’ and provide the best level We offer our employees a unique opportunity to enhance their of service to our clients, with high flexibility, helping them achieve professional development and accelerate their career advancement. better performance which in turn reflects on their communities. They work in a highly challenging, non-hierarchical environment. We We also promote ethical best practices and CSR to our clients, believe in making the most out of their capabilities, and make it a support their initiatives, engage their stakeholders towards a positive priority to mentor and guide them all along the way. impact and creating shared value. Our Partners Business Community At ShiftIN, partnership is our guiding philosophy: it’s how we As we are an entrepreneurial company within the business assemble the finest expertise available to deliver optimal solutions. community we also support entrepreneurship as a main block in any And as we forged strategic partnerships and relationships with the country’s economy. We value creativity and innovation and we are foremost experts in specific disciplines, we always base our committed to building capabilities as well as generating and sharing partnerships on respect, transparency and ensure ethical practices. knowledge continuously. Our Society Our Environment We are responsible towards the society we live in, and we are We act responsibly towards our environment, within our facilities committed to contributing to this society and to creating a positive and team. Moreover, we promote environmentally responsible impact, whether through our clients, and promoting CSR within their behaviours with our stakeholders and work with others to enhance strategies, always advising on ethical practices ,or directly through innovation in sustainability. our own social initiatives and engagements. Our Values Creativity Putting the Client First Fellowship Transparency COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 7 Our CSR Policy Working towards a positive shift for all… Our Clients Our Employees Build Capabilities Our Partners Instil Commitment Business Community Our Society Create Value Our Environment Our Values Creativity Putting the Client First Fellowship Transparency COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 8 1. Our CSR Policy 2. Our Commitment to GC 3. Our Next Steps COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 9 Human Rights Principles: Our Approach Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ShiftIN Partners Approach to P1 & P2: Policies and Goals • To illustrate our utmost commitment and support of the Global Compact principles, ShiftIN’s code of conduct states clearly that principles concerned with human rights are major sources of policy making in our company. Therefore, a clear directive in the code of conduct states that consultants, contractors and/or suppliers should immediately report any case of human rights violation, internally or at clients’ premises, to their partner-in-charge. And after further investigation, proper action must be taken to rectify and prevent future occurrences of such violations. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 10 Human Rights Principles: Activities (1/2) ShiftIN Partners has taken an active role of building capabilities and empowering NGOs, through offer Pro Bono Consulting and Training Programs… Activities ShiftIN is committed to the development of Education as a basic Human Right, therefore we have employed our skillsets to assist an organization that work on such causes Pro Bono with a 3-month pro bono engagement. Dubai Cares is a Consulting clear example of our commitment to these principles and causes. In addition we have provided coaching services for young Emirati entrepreneurs as part of our collaboration with Al Ahli Group. ShiftIN has been an avid supporter of Human Rights issues and has worked closely with NGO’s and International Organizations in support of its mission to support and care Pro Bono for refugees around the globe. ShiftIN has provided the Capabilities following Organizations with complimentary seats on their Building management courses: UNHCR, Dubai Cares, Khalifa Fund for Development, Global Youth, Dubai Women Council, and Endeavor. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 11 Human Rights Principles: Activities (2/2) Examples COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 12 Human Rights Principles: Measurements & Results Measures & Results Achieved • Number of consulting hours allocated Pro Bono to Pro Bono engagements: 184 hours Consulting Measurements • Total in-kind contribution: 275,000 AED • Number of training seats allocated proPro Bono bono: 20 Capabilities • Number of students trained: 20 Building • Number of organizations benefited from Measurements training programs: 7 • Total in-kind contribution: 180,000 AED • Total amount of monetary contributions Other to international organizations: 6,000 Measurements AED COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 13 Labour: Our Approach (1/2) Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ShiftIN Partners Approach to P3, 54, P5 & P6 • ShiftIN is determined to avoid any form of benefiting from forced or child labor or any tactic to limit employees’ rights to collective bargaining and freedom of association. Our code of conduct states clearly our employees’ rights and responsibilities in the context of their clear and concise employment contracts, and the process they can report any violation of their rights to our management. In addition to that, our code of conduct stresses that our partners must ensure our suppliers’ and clients’ proper and fair labor practices, and prohibits them from benefiting from any form of violation to labor right directly or indirectly. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 14 Labour: Our Approach (2/2) & Activities Description of our processes • ShiftIN Partners is a truly global work environment, were more than 12 nationalities that co-exist under the same roof, adding important values to our cultural diversity. • All employees are actively encouraged to maximize their potential and develop long term careers within the firm. • In addition, our recruitment policies establish clearly an environment with no discrimination on gender, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation or disability. • In addition we have implemented a performance based culture, where all employees are assessed based on performance and promotions are given based on merits. • Finally, we have established an internal academy to develop our own staff. Activities Internal Activities: • Established Performance Management System for all ShiftIN Partners and Engagement employees within and • Established communication and engagement sessions • Established a monthly Academy sessions for internal staff outside ShiftIN External Activities: • Conducted volunteer sessions with Adopt-a-camp initiatives to pack gift boxes during Ramadan • Sponsored labor initiatives through crowdfunding such as “Champ of the camp” COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 15 Environment: Our Approach (1/2) Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility friendly technologies Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environment ShiftIN Partners Approach to P7, P8, P9 • We, at ShiftIN, dedicate a serious amount of thought to Environmental factor while we develop and work on clients’ strategies. This is clearly evident in our clients’ direction towards sustainability in general and towards environmental causes specifically. We have helped to developed and create several Sustainability Strategies as well as to support organizations in introducing CSR scorecards. • We have implemented policies that aim to reduce our carbon footprint through promoting car pooling and reduce the daily commuting between Dubai and Abu Dhabi, in addition we are in the process of select an offsetting mechanism that could cover our carbon footprint when it comes to travel. • In addition an aggressive expansion in virtual consulting is stemming from our strategy that highlights sustainability. Virtual consulting entails video conferencing, virtual online classrooms, and publications that minimize travel, which is directly reflected on our carbon footprint. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 16 Environment: Our Approach (2/2) & Measurement Our approach to measuring our environmental impact ShiftIN business, like most consulting firms, is travel-heavy and asset-light business. Therefore, our measurements are focused on travel and we believe it is the main factor that we can improve on. The following are carefully watched indicators that, due to the nature of the consulting business, are not expected to be lower with increasing business volume. We have done our carbon inventory based on the following energy consumption of our head office in Abu Dhabi and our serviced offices in Dubai, Doha, Kuwait and Riyadh, the electricity consumptions of consultants computers and other electronic aids, and the business related travel (for both road and airplanes) in terms of domestic, medium haul and long haul, hotel accommodation nights, and finally the emissions of the several training and events that we conduct in hotel rooms. Measures & Results Achieved • Total number of miles travelled by road = 13,770 miles travelled • Total number of miles travelled by air = 90,912 miles travelled • Total number of CO2 emissions by road transport = 16.45 metric tons Carbon • Total number of CO2 emissions by air transport = 23.67 metric tons Inventory • Total number of hotel nights: 240 nights • Total number of CO2 emissions by hotel accommodation = 8 metric tons • Total number of CO2 emissions by events = 0.10 metric tons Total number of CO2 emissions by offices = 10 metric tons COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 17 Anti-Corruption: Our Approach Principle 10: Business Should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ShiftIN Partners Approach to P10 • ShiftIN works on this principle on many different dimensions. Clear guidelines of ethics and conducts are contained in the “Code of Conduct”, which establish the expected behavior of all our employees, contractors and suppliers. • It is the policy of ShiftIN Partners that no employee, representative or agent of the firm shall do business for or on behalf of ShiftIN Partners in any manner that could violate either the UAE law (or any other country where we operate) or that violate the Code of Conduct. • In addition ShiftIN Partners engages with auditors in annual basis to review that all its financial practices are within international standards. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 18 Anti-Corruption: Measurements & Results Measures & Results Achieved • Number of corruptions complaints involving ShiftIN employees: 0 Anti-corruption • Number of minor observations detected by auditors: 0 Measurements • Number of major observations detected by auditors: 0 COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 19 1. Our CSR Policy 2. Examples of our initiatives 3. Our Next Steps COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 20 Next Steps As a company committed to sustainability and towards advocating it through our practice, we intend to develop our CSR framework Formalize our commitment to CSR through evolving our report to 1 the GRI standard Define and measure performance indicators for the remaining 2 Global Compact Principles that do no have measures yet Finalize our approach to CSR and sustainability offering to clients to 3 be integrated with our framework Define and implement initiatives that will help to bridge gaps on 4 measures (i.e. carbon offset schemes) COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014 21 www.shiftinpartners.com Abu Dhabi Dubai Doha Kuwait Riyadh T +971 2 656 58 66 T +971 4 319 9343 T +974 4452 7987 T +965 222 7 3752 T +966 1 200 04 15 F +971 2 656 5867 Emirates Towers. Level 41 Commercialbank Plaza F +965 222 7 3753 F +966 1 460 47 74 Level 4 Building B. Al Mamoura Sheikh Zayed Level 14 Level 18 Sahab Tower P.O. Box 19970 Mohammed Bin Khalifa Street P.O. Box 31303 P.O. Box 27111 Salhia, Kuwait City Riyadh 11445, KSA P.O. Box 46400 Dubai, UAE Doha, Qatar P.O.Box 626 Abu Dhabi, UAE 15457, Kuwait 22 COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2014
