DLA PIPER UN GLOBAL COMPACT: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 www.dlapiper.com | 01 REPORT I. INTRODUCTION II. RESPECTING AND SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING LABOUR RIGHTS) 1. Our People 2. Our Suppliers 3. Our Clients 4. Our Communities i. Human rights ii. Access to justice iii. International development III. CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT 1. Within the Legal Sector 2. Within our Firm 3. In Our Supply Chain 4. Through our Advice to Clients 5. Through our Pro Bono Projects IV. WORKING AGAINST CORRUPTION V. FURTHER INFORMATION STATEMENT I have the pleasure to submit DLA Piper’s first annual Communication on Progress. This report describes the steps we have taken during 2013 to make the Global Compact and its ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our firm. It also details our objectives for 2014, as the Global Compact and its principles are further integrated into our business. As we move into the second year of our engagement, I would like to take this opportunity to express our continued support and commitment to the Global Compact and its ten principles. Finally, I would note that we have made this report available on our website in order to support public accountability and transparency concerning our efforts relevant to the Global Compact. Yours sincerely, Anthony Angel Global Co-Chairman anthony.angel@dlapiper.com www.dlapiper.com | 03 I. INTRODUCTION As a dynamic, innovative and leading global our social responsibilities and to deliver pro business law firm, DLA Piper is committed to bono work that furthers human rights, including the highest standards of honesty, openness access to justice, environmental sustainability and accountability. Our approach to the and the UN Millennium Development Goals. In United Nations Global Compact (UN Global 2013, DLA Piper was named one of Who’s Who Compact) is implemented throughout our Legal’s top 10 firms in the world for pro bono global business, which operates through and our pro bono work through New Perimeter two partnerships, DLA Piper International was awarded the ‘Lifetime Achievement Global LLP (‘DLA Piper International’) and Citizenship Award’ by The American Lawyer DLA Piper LLP (US) (‘DLA Piper US’). Magazine. Each of the partnerships has an appropriate The diversity within our firm, in terms of governance and executive structure, and the nationalities, cultures and expertize is at the two partnerships are bound together by a Swiss heart of our values and allows us to serve Verein with a Global Board appointed by and from as valuable partners in furthering the needs DLA Piper International and DLA Piper US. and interests of all of our clients. As part of the legal services industry, we Our formal commitment to the Global Compact view the foundation of our profession to be and its ten principles of human rights, labour, about both, service to our clients, individuals, environment and anti-corruption was made in organizations, and private and public entities, February 2013. The following report covers the and about supporting the rule of law to enable 2013 calendar year and reflects actions we took the progress of mankind. Thus, we not only during the year, as well as our objectives for 2014. strive to achieve excellence in everything we do for our fee-paying clients, but also use our legal knowledge and our resources to meet 04 | DLA Piper Un global compact: Communication on Progress 2013 II. RESPECTING AND SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING LABOUR RIGHTS) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ■■ Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect ■■ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom the protection of internationally proclaimed of association and the effective recognition of the human rights; and right to collective bargaining; ■■ Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in ■■ Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced human rights abuses. and compulsory labour; ■■ Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and ■■ Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. DLA Piper is committed to respecting and supporting DLA PIPER’S HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY IS international human rights throughout our business CONSISTENT WITH: operations and ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. DLA Piper International was one ■■ the International Bill of Human Rights of the first law firms to express these commitments in a –– Universal Declaration of Human Rights Human Rights Policy statement, which was developed –– International Covenant on Civil and during 2013. The policy also expresses our commitment to Political Rights uphold the principles outlined in the UN Global Compact and –– International Covenant on Economic, Social and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Cultural Rights During the course of 2014, we intend to review and ■■ the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration enhance our existing policies and processes to determine on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work how to further implement our commitment to respect and support international human rights throughout ■■ the UN Guiding Principles on Business and our operations. We will also continue to contribute Human Rights to sector-wide discussions on steps to encourage implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights by lawyers and law firms, as a member of the Business and Human Rights Advisory Group of the UK Law Society. www.dlapiper.com | 05 1. OUR PEOPLE arrangements designed to accommodate their interests and meet the needs of the firm and its clients. These DLA Piper is a diverse firm, with a powerful mix of include reduced-hours schedules, ramp-up schedules nationalities, cultures and expertize. Our strong commitment and full-time flexible work arrangements. to equality, diversity and inclusion is fundamental to our success as a global law firm and we believe it enables The firm’s strategy for diversity is developed by the us to hire the best talent, build the most effective teams, Executive and overseen by the governance bodies deliver the highest level of client service and be effective of DLA Piper International and DLA Piper US with contributors to our local communities. implementation carried out across global offices by local teams responsible for ensuring the firm-wide diversity As our organization of over 8,000 employees operates objectives are met. We have an Equality and Diversity across 30 countries throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific, Policy and are progressively rolling out a training module on Europe, Africa and the Middle East, our Human Equality and Diversity in the Workplace to be undertaken Resources policies in each jurisdiction are tailored to by all of our people. By the end of 2013, we had embedded the legal, regulatory and cultural requirements of each the training module in our offices in the key jurisdictions territory. We value every one of our people on their merits of the UK, Australia and the US. as individuals and their ability to carry out their work to the highest standards and strive to ensure that everyone Our unambiguous respect for diversity extends not only at DLA Piper has full access to promotion and training to gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation and background, opportunities in line with their abilities and skills. but also to the many cultures represented within our firm. In pursuit of this, we have undertaken internal initiatives We are also committed to creating a safe working to ensure the diversity of our employees. For example, environment for all employees, providing training and our Diversity Board and Leadership Alliance for Women supervision when necessary. Everyone in the firm is work to create an empowering environment and provide a expected to take reasonable care of their own safety platform for the development and support of the careers of and that of others, and co-operate fully with health our employees through networking events and an awardand safety arrangements. We were internationally winning mentoring scheme. The network now has over certified to OHSAS 18001, an internationally recognized 500 members and its mentoring scheme won an award for occupational, health and safety management system series ‘Best International Firm Mentoring Program’ at the 2012 standard, again in 2013, for the fifth straight year. Women in Business Law Awards. We actively promote a culture that is inclusive of all, Yet, we recognize that diversity in the legal profession is a where everyone has the opportunity to grow their career systemic issue, with roots that extend beyond our firm and and where pathways to career progression are transparent. reach back through university studies and even access to In recognition that our lawyers have responsibilities basic education opportunities. Therefore one of our global and interests outside the firm and that they may need or projects is ‘Break into Law’, an initiative focused on desire flexibility to better integrate life and work, we have removing barriers to the wide range of legal and non-legal implemented an Alternative Work Solutions initiative careers within the legal sector. In every region around that permits lawyers to create individually tailored 06 | DLA Piper Un global compact: Communication on Progress 2013 the world, we are using our resources and the skills of with all new material suppliers and we intend to have at our people to ensure underrepresented young people least 50% of existing strategic suppliers (approximately have the opportunity to gain access and insight into the 200) sign up to the policy and complete a self-assessment legal sector and career progression within it. questionnaire in 2014. The Break into Law initiative involves a variety of projects As a global business law firm, DLA Piper recognizes including mentoring, work experience, CV and interview that, within our supply chain, there are many different skills workshops, research, thought leadership events and national cultures, with their own laws, norms and scholarships. Improving equality, diversity and inclusion traditions. As some suppliers will face more complex issues within the legal profession is a significant global priority than others in implementing our Sustainable Procurement for DLA Piper and Break into Law enables us to achieve a Policy, we are committed to working with our suppliers to collective impact on this key issue within our sector. assist them in understanding human rights and adopting best policies and practice to ensure respect for such rights Break into Law begins with projects that improve access in practice. In doing so, we not only strengthen respect for to education for young people, moving through to human rights, but also improve the quality of life of persons initiatives that provide insight into and experience within working for entities within our supply chain. our industry, directly linking into our firm’s diversity priorities. The projects offer guidance and opportunities 3. OUR CLIENTS to talented, bright, young people who may not otherwise be able to access employment opportunities in the Our clients are at the very heart of our business, we strive to legal sector. In 2013 Break into Law was recognized achieve excellence in everything we do for them. Consistent by the Financial Times Innovative Lawyers Awards with this approach, we are taking steps to assist and support for the initiative’s approach to encouraging talent into our clients’ respect for human rights, through our advice on the profession. The initiative also received the first client matters, training and the pro bono projects we carry All About Law ‘Social Mobility Award’. out collaboratively with them. We recognize that our diversity initiatives have a long-term For example, as part of our commitment to the UN Global time horizon, but we believe that we are on a journey and Compact, we have developed a package of training while we still have some distance to travel, with strategic oppurtunities for some our core clients on Business and approaches in our geographic regions, we are already making Human Rights, encompassing a series of seminars for progress. their board and employees. During 2013, we provided Business and Human Rights Training for some of our 2. OUR SUPPLIERS clients and the broader business community, helping them to understand and respond to the expectations of DLA Piper is committed to utilizing suppliers who the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and respect human rights through, among other actions, Human Rights, which outline the responsibilities of promoting safe and fair working conditions and business in relation to upholding human rights. ensuring respect for the four key rights and principles in the International Labour Organization’s Declaration Until recently, it has not been possible for most in-house on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: freedom lawyers to provide pro bono services to the community due of association and the effective recognition of the right to the lack of professional indemnity coverage. To address to collective bargaining; elimination of all forms of this problem, we introduced a free professional indemnity forced or compulsory labour; effective abolition of child insurance scheme for the National Pro Bono Resource labour; and elimination of discrimination in respect of Centre in Australia, which has enabled in-house lawyers employment and occupation. to participate in the delivery of free legal services to the community. We also played a role in reforming regulatory In 2013, we updated our global Sustainable Procurement regimes in Australia and Singapore to allow in-house Policy and are now implementing it with our suppliers to lawyers to give pro bono advice and have amended our ensure they uphold respect for human rights, as well as own professional indemnity insurance so that we can enable pursue responsible management of environmental issues in-house counsel from any of our international clients and anti-corruption measures. The policy is being used to partner with us on pro bono work around the world. www.dlapiper.com | 07 During 2013, we also partnered with Harvard Business GLOBAL PRO BONO HOURS School and the Boston Consulting Group to develop sustainability training materials for the UN Global Compact’s LEAD Programme companies, which will 250,000 be delivered in 2014. During 2014, lawyers from several of our European offices will also be supporting the UN Global Compact to train the boards of multi-national 207,000 corporations, including many of our clients, on Business 200,000 191,000 and Human Rights and Sustainability. 170,000 Alongside the British Embassy, Unilever, Rolls Royce, Nord Anglia and the Chinese Ministry of Commerce, 150,000 we will also help to develop and run a forum in 2014 that builds upon the lessons of the 2012 forum ‘UK-China Business Dialogue: What takes a country from Good to Great’. The 2014 forum will continue to encourage a 100,000 collaborative response to implementing the UN Guiding Principles within China. The 2012 forum, organized and delivered by DLA Piper and the other organizations mentioned above, was aimed at determining how best 50,000 government, business and civil society can collaborate to implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in China. Attendees represented multinational companies operating in China, Chinese state 0 and private companies, non-government organizations, 2011 2012 2013 media, academics and government officials. The firm pursues pro bono work in a collaborative 4. OUR COMMUNITIES manner, with our lawyers cooperating with their We believe in active participation in the wider community international colleagues, clients, nonprofit organizations, as individuals and as a firm. One of the most important governments and academic institutions, to accomplish ways DLA Piper, as a global business law firm, can our collective goals. Partnering with others enhances contribute to our local communities where we work and the results that can be achieved and helps to build a pro globally, is through the provision of pro bono services. bono culture in the legal profession around the world. Our pro bono work not only furthers our relationships For example, in Russia, we work alongside partners with the communities we serve, but also supports the Verizon, White & Case, Microsoft and PILnet to design promotion and advancement of a range of human rights. and deliver a ‘Professional Responsibility and Ethics in We believe that pro bono work provides personal and the Global Legal Market’ course each year at Moscow professional development for our people and raises their State University. The course provides law students with awareness of human rights issues. practical experience and insight into the ethical issues lawyers face working in global organizations. Our firm’s policies support and encourage participation in our pro bono projects. All of our offices participate Collaboration is a key component of many of the projects in pro bono work and we expect every lawyer to make a we deliver, in particular through our unique nonprofit serious and sustained commitment to pro bono and our organization New Perimeter, which focuses on high communities. We are one of very few firms that have impact pro bono projects in developing and post-conflict dedicated pro bono partners, as well as more than a countries. Founded in 2005 as a result of our firm’s dozen pro bono counsel, managers and staff around the commitment to support legal advancement worldwide, world to fulfil this commitment. In 2013, our firm carried New Perimeter draws on the skills and talents of more out over 207,000 hours of pro bono legal work globally. than 4,200 DLA Piper lawyers globally. Since 2010, Our commitment to global issues and supporting we have partnered with firm client GE on a New Perimeter community needs through pro bono is underpinned by legal drafting teaching project at the Law School of our Pro Bono Policy. Tanzania in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The project was 08 | DLA Piper Un global compact: Communication on Progress 2013 initiated by DLA Piper at the request of the International ■■ Through our nonprofit organization New Perimeter Senior Lawyers Project (ISLP) and developed in we assisted the International Bar Association in the cooperation with ISLP and our Tanzanian affiliate partner development of a smart phone application designed to IMMMA Advocates. To date, over 980 Tanzanian law promote the identification, reporting and prosecution students have benefitted from the teaching sessions. of crimes such as genocide, torture, crimes against humanity and war crimes. We use the legal knowledge of our lawyers and the skills of all our employees to provide high quality services to ■■ We worked with organizations such as Women Win, support human rights. We do transactional and litigation the Global Fund for Women, Oxfam, Vital Voices, work on a range of legal areas including nonprofits and Room to Read, MADRE and Plan International to charities and tax. We also support human rights, with a support their efforts in economic development and particular focus on access to justice and international human rights. We also provided pro bono support to development through our pro bono work. The following Walk Free, in aide of their fight to end modern slavery. are some of the pro bono activities we carried out in 2013: ■■ We seconded a lawyer to the Australian Human Rights Law Centre (HRLC) for the sixth year in a row. i. Human Rights ■■ We developed a ‘DLA Piper Guide to the United ■■ In April 2013, we launched a three year partnership with Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous UNICEF to strengthen the protection of children around Peoples’ alongside pro bono client Indigenous the world. During the partnership we will provide Community Volunteers. pro bono assistance through the UK Committee for UNICEF to the value of US$5 million. In addition, we are ■■ We developed and delivered legal skills workshops making a donation of US$1.5 million to UNICEF’s for staff within the International Organization global child justice programme. Our pro bono work for Migration and other organizations tackling includes contributing to the development of a ‘Justice human-trafficking. for Children’ handbook in support of UNICEF’s work ■■ In November 2013 we were awarded the prestigious to help ensure that judicial and administrative systems Trust Law Collaboration Award alongside throughout the world take into account the rights of CMS Cameron McKenna for our work with the children, reviewing and analyzing national legislation Anti-Domestic Violence Network/Beijing Fanbao in Georgia to enable alignment with international child (China) supporting advocacy for anti-domestic rights standards and training on legal topics and skills for violence legislation in China. UNICEF National Committees. ii. Access to Justice UNICEF CHILD JUSTICE PARTNERSHIP Through our global pro bono practice we support numerous projects and legal advice clinics to ensure access to justice. US$1.5 ■■ Since 2010, in partnership with the Southwark Citizens million Advice Bureau, we have run a pro bono clinic in donation London that provides debt and benefits advice to people experiencing difficulty paying their council tax. ■■ In Leeds we have been supporting asylum seekers to access the legal support they require through the US$5 million Manuel Bravo Project since 2007. pro bono support ■■ We are a founding participant in the United Arab Emirates’ first pro bono clinic which was launched in 2012 and is supported by the Dubai International Financial Centre Judicial Authority, the independent judicial system of Dubai. US$5 million pro bono support ■■ In China we support a legal clinic in partnership + US$1.5 million donation with Save the Children. US$6.5 million UNICEF Child Justice Partnership ■■ In the US, we partner with client Verizon to run a monthly legal clinic for veterans. www.dlapiper.com | 09 ■■ In Melbourne we support a clinic set up to provide iii. International Development homeless clients with legal advice. ■■ We have been working with the Government of ■■ We partner with Seven Wentworth Chambers Timor-Leste since 2008 to provide pro bono support New South Wales to assist the HIV/AIDS Legal on matters relating to business, finance, human rights Service, a specialist community legal centre and foreign affairs. In addition to providing secondees funded to provide free legal services and advice to the government, through New Perimeter, we have to people with HIV-related legal matters. supported a special project to establish special economic zones for the government to enable and encourage ■■ We help prisoners and former prisoners, who often foreign trade and investment in the country to support face multiple barriers to understand and access its economic development. their rights, with legal advice and representation in partnership with Victoria Legal Aid, as part of our ■■ In Asia Pacific we are focused on enhancing the legal ‘Victims of Crime Project’. capacity of the Pacific Islands through our ‘Pacific Islands Nation Development’ signature project. ■■ We are also providing prisoners with access to Through this project we are helping to build and justice in Brisbane through the ‘Safe Way Home develop the legal skills of more than 300 lawyers Partnership,’ in which our lawyers advise prisoners in the Pacific Islands, in order to improve access to in the preparation of their parole applications and quality justice throughout the region. in Singapore through the ‘Criminal Legal Aid Scheme’ run by the Law Society of Singapore. 10 | DLA Piper Un global compact: Communication on Progress 2013 III. C  ONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As one of the world’s largest business law firms, we Given the significant human impact climate change strive to be an exemplary leader in environmental is already having in the Pacific, we have developed sustainability. We support a precautionary approach to workshops to promote an awareness and understanding environmental challenges and we undertake initiatives of the law relating to climate change adaptation for to reduce our own operational environmental impact, lawyers in the Pacific. These were carried out in which is, as a law firm, already quite small. We believe August 2013 in partnership with the Centre for that our greatest contribution to the environmental Asia Pacific Pro Bono (CAPPB) and the United Nations challenges of today is the advice and support we provide Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to our clients, including pro bono clients, in both (UNESCO). The resulting report from the workshops managing their own environmental impacts and ‘Climate Change Adaptation – Guided by the Law’ assessing and responding to climate-related legal risks. contributes to the global discussion of climate We also contribute to global discussions of approaches change and is available at www.dlapiper.com/australia/ to climate change adaptation. climate-change-adaptation. Our sustainable approach to the environment is embedded into our firm with our two joint CEOs responsible 2. WITHIN OUR FIRM for setting environmental expectations, a Global We have a global Environmental Policy that applies Sustainability Initiative and the day-to-day running of to all of our offices and requires all employees to our environmental approach implemented by two Chief take reasonable care of the Environment. In addition, Operating Officers with the support of our Procurement, all employees receive training on our environmental IT, Risk and Facilities teams. approach as part of their induction when joining the firm. From a practical standpoint, we work to reduce 1. WITHIN THE LEGAL SECTOR our environmental impact in four key areas: travel, energy, waste, and procurement. We continue to maintain a leadership role within the legal sector on addressing environmental issues. Our Global During 2013, we strengthened our strategic and integrated Co-CEO and Managing Partner, Sir Nigel Knowles, approach to managing the environmental impact of serves as Chairman of the Legal Sector Alliance (LSA), our business by restructuring our Global Sustainability an inclusive movement of over 250 law firms committed Initiative (our global committee that meets 3-4 times to working collaboratively to take action on climate a year, which we were the first law firm to introduce change, of which we were a founding firm. Through the in 2007), to ensure there were representatives from LSA, our firm has supported the establishment of the across the most relevant functions of our business Australian Legal Sector Alliance. We also are assisting for implementing change in regards to Sustainability with the extension of the LSA’s presence in the US, (i.e. Procurement, IT, Risk and Facilities, as well through the Law Firm Sustainability Network, and will as our Corporate Responsibility (CR) team). This contribute to the LSA’s future expansion in Hong Kong. reconstituted committee set new targets for minimizing www.dlapiper.com | 11 our environmental footprint, launched a revised global law firms to achieve this worldwide certification. In addition, Sustainable Procurement Policy and increased the number we continue to seek out new technologies and maximize of suppliers signed up to the revised policy. We also their use to reduce our environmental impact. Telepresence, recruited a new member for our CR team with significant the virtual meeting technology that provides an effective environmental management experience, as former alternative to travel, which we were the first law firm to Manager of the Legal Sector Alliance, to help us achieve acquire, has now been implemented in the majority of our further success in 2014. offices worldwide. Following a strategic internal initiative in 2013 to reduce travel costs, our usage of Lync (an online In 2013, we continued our efforts to reduce our communication tool that facilitates messaging through to environmental footprint. We were re-examined video conferencing), to communicate between global offices, and certified to ISO 14001, the international standard has increased by nearly 75%. for environmental management, which we have now held for seven years. We remain one of very few global OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT – KEY GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS 2013 TARGETS 2014 Travel Increased use of alternatives to travel Increase the firm’s use of IT communications (Telepresence and Lync). systems as an alternative to travel. Establish best practice materials to influence people’s behaviour towards more responsible and sustainable travel. Energy Reduced energy consumption by 4%. Reduce energy use by 5% by 2015 (baseline 2011). Increase number of offices using green energy on a year by year basis. Waste Reduced use of paper by 11% (baseline Reduce global paper use by 15% by 2015 of 2012). (baseline 2012). Rolled out cloud printing in more of our Increase the level of recycling taking place offices. across our global offices. Carried out recycling of: ■■ paper in 96% of offices; ■■ toner cartridges in 95% of offices; ■■ plastic and glass bottles in 92% of offices; and ■■ cardboard in 93% of offices. Procurement Revised global Sustainable Procurement Categorize suppliers and develop a group of Policy. strategic suppliers. Increased the number of suppliers signed up Ensure 50% of strategic suppliers are signed to the Sustainable Procurement Policy. up to the Sustainable Procurement Policy and have completed the self-assessment questionnaire by the end of 2014, as part of the longer term objective of ensuring 100% of strategic suppliers are signed up to the Sustainable Procurement Policy and have completed the self-assessment questionnaire by 2015. 12 | DLA Piper Un global compact: Communication on Progress 2013 3. IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 5. THROUGH OUR PRO BONO PROJECTS We are committed to the highest standards of sustainable DLA Piper considers its pro bono work one of the essential procurement throughout our extended supply chain. means to contribute to a more sustainable environment. As stated above in section III.2., in 2013 we updated our Thus, our pro bono clients also benefit from our legal global Sustainable Procurement Policy and intend to have knowledge on environmental matters. 50% of our strategic suppliers (approximately 200) sign up ■■ Through our nonprofit organization New Perimeter, to the policy and complete a self-assessment questionnaire we are assisting Conservation International Foundation in 2014. in conceptualizing, negotiating and drafting key We understand that some suppliers will face more legal agreements required for the implementation of complex issues than others in implementing our two forest carbon conservation, or REDD (reducing Sustainable Procurement Policy. Therefore, we are emissions from deforestation and forest degradation), committed to working with our suppliers to assist projects – one in the Democratic Republic of Congo them with the adoption of best policies and practice and the other in Peru. related to environmental sustainability. ■■ Our global pro bono team represented developing country Georgia for the second year in a row at 4. THROUGH OUR ADVICE TO CLIENTS the 2013 UN Framework Convention on Climate We advise our clients on all environmental aspects of Change (UNFCCC) conference and continues their business, from climate change, carbon trading and to provide support to the Georgian government regulation to renewable energy projects and strategic on the development and implementation of their environmental planning through our Energy sector subsequent environmental policies. and our Regulatory and Government Affairs practice. ■■ As mentioned above in III.1., in the Pacific we recently The following examples illustrate this work: ran pro bono climate change adaptation workshops ■■ Working with our partner firm in South Africa, in partnership with the Centre for Asia Pacific DLA Cliffe Decker Hofmeyr, DLA Piper’s Melbourne Pro Bono and the United Nations Educational, finance and projects team is currently acting for over Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), half of the project bidders or lenders for South Africa’s producing a summary report entitled ‘Climate multi-billion dollar ‘Independent Power Producer Change Adaptation – Guided by the Law’. Procurement Program’. On completion, this will be We also dedicate our time and legal experience to business the largest renewable energy project in the world and aims projects for environmental nonprofits and thereby assist to generate 42% of all new electricity from renewable them to effectively operate and carry out their environmental energy sources in South Africa over the next 20 years mandates. For example, our provision of pro bono legal using solar, wind, hydro, biomass and biogas projects. services to the Abu Dhabi Sustainability Group enabled ■■ We have provided the UK’s largest producer of steel them to establish their independence from the Abu Dhabi with strategic advice on the international climate Environment Agency. Some of the other organizations we change regime and the EU emissions trading scheme have helped with their organizational law issues include: and assisted with the development and review of its ■■ WaterAid, climate change policy. ■■ World Wildlife Fun, and ■■ For China Hydroelectric Corporation’s successful ■■ The Nature Conservancy. US$96 million NASDAQ initial public offering (IPO), we advised on the pre-IPO financing and the acquisition of hydropower plants in China. We also provided structuring advice for its operations, implemented a corporate reorganisation and advised on Clean Development Mechanism eligibility. ■■ In the US, we work closely with policy makers at the Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Energy and the White House Council on Environmental Quality and we have represented clients affected by all the major environmental statutes. www.dlapiper.com | 13 IV. WORKING AGAINST CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As a global business law firm we adhere to the highest Our publicly stated policy on Anti-Bribery and Corruption regulatory and professional standards in order to protect complies with international best practice (UK Bribery our business, our reputation and our clients. We have Act) and the firm’s engagement in anti-bribery and guidelines and a Compliance Handbook for our people anti-corruption is reinforced through Board sponsorship that outline our approach and policies for our legal, and commitment to the policy and related procedures. risk and compliance governance framework, inclusive When we implemented our policy on Anti-Bribery and of anti-bribery and anti-corruption, anti-money laundering Corruption, we ran mandatory training for our employees and ethics. and incorporated an evaluation of new clients and on-going monitoring into our risk management processes Everyone in our firm is personally responsible for their and procedures. ethical and professional conduct and observance of our risk and compliance policies and related procedures. We are known as thought leaders on issues of antiOur firm has a zero tolerance approach to breach of our bribery and corruption and have hosted events for our policies whether it involves private individuals or public clients and other stakeholders outlining and promoting officials. If employees have knowledge or suspicion best practice on this subject. We were one of the first of bribery or corruption, or believe that our risk and law firms to appoint a Director of Risk Management and compliance policies and related procedures have been, Insurance to oversee our extensive Risk Management or are being breached, they have an obligation to report and Compliance teams. Our Director is also currently this knowledge or belief immediately by following our President of the Federation of European Risk Management Whistleblowing Policy and procedures. Associations (FERMA). 14 | DLA Piper Un global compact: Communication on Progress 2013 V. FURTHER INFORMATION For additional information about DLA Piper’s approach Additionally, we welcome any queries or comments you and activities related to the UN Global Compact may have on this report. Please address them to: principles, please refer to the following: Nicolas Patrick Break into Law Partner, Head of Pro Bono and www.dlapiperbreakintolaw.com Corporate Responsibility – International nicolas.patrick@dlapiper.com Corporate Responsibility www.dlapiper.com/global/corporate_responsibility Diversity www.dlapiperdiversity.com Environmental Sustainability www.dlapiper.com/global/corporate_responsibility/environmental_sustainability/ New Perimeter initiative www.newperimeter.org Pro Bono www.dlapiperprobono.com UNICEF child justice partnership www.dlapiper.com/unicef www.dlapiper.com | 15 If you have finished with this document, please pass it on to other interested parties or recycle it, thank you. www.dlapiper.com DLA Piper is a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Further details of these entities can be found at www.dlapiper.com Copyright © 2014 DLA Piper. All rights reserved. | APR14 | 2727018
