SMEC Sustainability Report 2013 2014 This is SMEC’s fourth annual Sustainability Report. SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Initiative The report covers SMEC’s economic, environmental (GRI) G3.1 guidelines to a self-declared Level B. The and social performance from 1 April 2013 to GRI G3.1 guidelines are the world’s most widely used 31 March 2014. sustainability reporting guidelines. The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s The data in this report has been gathered using Australian operations and selected international standard measurement techniques which conform operations. It does not include SMEC’s joint ventures to national or international guidelines or regulatory or any other controlled entities. requirements. Specific calculations are referenced where appropriate. All monetary figures are in SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. policies and procedures have been implemented in Australia over the last year, and have been rolled out For further information, please contact: across selected pilot sites internationally. sustainabilityreport@smec.com. 2 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Contents The Chief Executive Officer 4 The Company 6 Global Network 8 Corporate Governance 10 Board of Directors 12 Executive Committee 14 Stakeholders & Objectives 16 Vision & Performance 18 Sustainability Strategy 22 People 24 Community 32 Sustainability & Environment 36 Global Reporting Initiative Index 42 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 3 The Chief Executive Officer This is SMEC’s fourth consecutive year reporting on the results will provide a clear understanding of areas for Company’s Sustainability initiatives, since joining the improvement. With this information, Action Plans will be United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in April 2010. developed (and implemented) to address these areas. Each year we have made progress in all three areas of reporting; People, Community, and Sustainability and Gender diversity remains a priority for SMEC and I’m Environment. pleased to report that SMEC is improving its gender balance. As at 1 January 2014, 19% of employees In November 2013, SMEC released its 2014-2016 globally were female. This was significantly higher in Strategic Plan. Developed with input from SMEC’s our Australia & New Zealand Division where 28% of overall employee base, the Strategic Plan outlines key employees were female (compared to 24% from the priorities for the Company over the next three years. prior corresponding period). This is very positive and With a strong focus on SMEC’s clients and people, a lot higher than the industry average, with females the Plan features a new Vision and set of Values. The comprising of only 11% of the Australian engineering Vision for SMEC is ‘to deliver outstanding infrastructure workforce. services for our clients and communities’. The Vision aligns with SMEC’s ethos of ‘Local People. Global Succession Planning continues to be a key focus. A Experience.’ SMEC’s values are: Teamwork & Trust, formal program has been implemented for the two Diversity & Delivery, Integrity & Innovation, Safety & levels of management below the CEO (‘Level One’ Sustainability. These values underpin the way we managers are Executive Committee members, whilst operate, they define the way we work. ‘Level Two’ managers are direct reports of Executive Committee members). During the reporting period, In March 2014, SMEC conducted a company-wide Talent Profiles were developed for both levels; and Employee Survey. SMEC Management initiated the over 50% of Level Two managers completed a Survey to obtain honest and open feedback from 360 degree appraisal. The Program will progressively employees on what it is like to work at SMEC in be implemented across all levels of the Company. 2014, what SMEC’s strengths are, and what areas need improving. To date, the Survey results are SMEC aims to have a work environment that is inclusive still being compiled, however I anticipate that the and promotes mutual respect. In this reporting period we continued to implement the EEO framework that was 4 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Providing a working environment where there is no risk to health and safety is a top priority for SMEC. In this reporting period, we continued to focus on proactive reporting of health and safety. SMEC is working towards a Zero Harm environment for its employees, contractors, visitors and the general public. revised in 2012. Key activities included; face-to-face EEO SMEC is committed to embedding sustainability Inclusive Management Skills training to 120 managers principles throughout the Company. SMEC’s focus on across Australia; and online EEO and bullying training to sustainable offices continued this reporting period. For over 1,100 Australian based employees. the first time, pilot offices in Hong Kong, Johannesburg, Manila and Gurgaon (Delhi) collected baseline data for Providing a working environment where there is no risk electricity and paper usage. In Australia, the majority to health and safety is a top priority for SMEC. In this of offices now have Environmental Management Plans reporting period, we continued to focus on proactive in place which outline how to reduce environmental reporting of health and safety. SMEC is working impacts and improve performance. In March 2014, towards a Zero Harm environment for its employees, SMEC’s Australia & New Zealand Division became a contractors, visitors and the general public. To assist national signatory to CitySwitch, Australia’s national in achieving this goal, SMEC has made improvements tenancy energy efficiency program. This means that all to: Reporting (encouraging international operations SMEC offices across Australia and New Zealand will to proactively report near misses, hazards, drills and work towards achieving a 4-star NABERS rating. inspections); Online forms (introducing online forms for Job Safety and Environment Analysis, and Safe Work I am pleased with the progress that SMEC has made in Method Statements); the Safety Handbook (revising the the area of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) since Handbook for 2014). joining the UNGC four years ago. I fully support SMEC’s CSR Program and will continue to drive a culture where SMEC continued its commitment to supporting sustainability is entrenched in the way we do business. people in need through the charitable work of the SMEC Foundation. In this reporting period, donations increased by 69% to (over) A$170,000. These funds were used to provide small-scale grants to 25 projects in 16 countries, primarily in the areas of Health (42%), Emergency Relief (26%), and Community Development Ross Hitt (19%). Of these funds, the majority were donated to Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer projects in Asia Pacific (54%) and Africa (28%). SMEC Holdings Limited SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 5 The Company SMEC is recognised around the world for providing high‑quality, practical solutions for social and physical infrastructure projects. SMEC aligns technical expertise with local knowledge to address the needs of its diverse client base. 5,000+ people 70+ offices 35+ countries 6 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 7 Global Network NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA North and South America Africa South Asia and Middle East • Established 2004 • Established 1974 • Established 1968 • 6 offices • 25 offices • 16 offices • 68 people • 1,365 people • 2,030 people 8 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 SOUTH ASIA & ASIA PACIFIC MIDDLE EAST AFRICA AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND Asia Pacific Australia and New Zealand • Established 1962 • Established 1949 • 10 offices • 16 offices • 665 people • 1,175 people SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 9 Corporate Governance Company Structure Board Committees The SMEC Group operates by using a divisional‑functional The Board has two permanent committees which cross‑matrix structure. The essential features of the provide direction on specific areas. Each committee structure are: a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) reporting has written terms of reference and is subject to annual to a Board of Directors; one global functional division review by the Board. These committees are: the (Mining, Oil and Gas) and four geographic divisions Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration and (Australia, Asia Pacific, South Asia and the Middle Nominations Committee. The Executive Committee is East, and Africa); and a series of functional groups not considered to be a board committee. It consists of (Transport; Water and Environment; Hydropower and senior executives appointed by the CEO. Energy; and Urban and Social Development). Audit and Risk Committee The structure also makes use of a number of subsidiary The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with companies which meet operational (mainly regional and financial reporting, managing SMEC’s material risks and functional) business needs. ensuring that financial information (provided to investors and the Board) is accurate and timely. The Audit and The Board of Directors Risk Committee must have at least three members, consist only of Non-Executive Directors, have a majority SMEC’s Board is responsible for formulating SMEC’s of independent Directors and have an independent strategic direction and maintaining good corporate Chair (who is not the Chair of the Board). governance. Acting on behalf of shareholders, the Board is accountable for SMEC’s financial and operational Remuneration and Nominations Committee performance. The Board has a written charter which The Remuneration and Nominations Committee outlines its responsibilities and governance framework. assists in establishing a Board with an effective SMEC’s Board is composed of two Executive Directors composition, diversity and size to adequately discharge and four Non-Executive Directors (three of whom are its responsibilities. The Committee aims to ensure that considered to be independent), with the Chair elected by SMEC: secures, motivates and retains highly skilled the other members of the Board. The Directors have an and diverse senior executives and employees to ensure appropriate range of skills and experience and (except SMEC’s long-term success. The Remuneration and the Managing Director) are required to retire at the fourth Nominations Committee must have at least three Annual General Meeting following their appointment. members, consist only of Non-Executive Directors, have a majority of independent Directors and have an Independence of Non-Executive Directors independent Chair. An independent Director is separate from management, Executive Committee free of relationships that could interfere with the exercise of independent judgement; and meets the criteria for The Executive Committee (EC) monitors SMEC’s independence in the ASX Standards. SMEC’s Board has operations and ensures that strategies and policies three independent Non-Executive Directors. set by the Board are implemented. The CEO is the Chair of the EC and is responsible for all matters not reserved for the Board or individual Directors; generally described as the day-to-day operations and management of the SMEC Group. The EC’s terms of reference and authority are approved by the Board. 10 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Remuneration of Directors Quality Management Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees, which SMEC is committed to implementing quality in total fall within the fixed amount approved by management principles on all projects and has shareholders (currently set at A$1,000,000). During the developed a Quality Management System (QMS). 2012–2013 financial year, remuneration of Non‑Executive SMEC’s QMS complies with the requirements of ISO Directors totalled A$456,461. Non-Executive Directors 9001:2008 and regulatory requirements. SMEC’s QMS are not eligible for SMEC’s bonus or incentive schemes provides systematic control of business activities to and only statutory retirement benefits are payable. ensure that client expectations are being met and, if possible, exceeded. With processes for planning, documenting, managing and controlling everyday Code of Conduct business needs and activities, the QMS includes review SMEC has a Code of Conduct which must be followed processes to monitor and measure performance and by all employees. Reviewed and updated in early identify improvements. 2013, the Code requires that all employees act with honesty, integrity and in compliance with the law During the reporting period, SMEC obtained and work collaboratively with their colleagues. The certification to ISO9001 (Quality Management), Code encourages employees to report any unethical ISO14001 (Environmental Management) and practices and ensure the safety of themselves and AS/NZS4801 (OHS Management) in all major Australian those around them. Managers (in addition to the above offices from a new third-party certifier, Global-Mark. responsibilities) are expected to develop a positive SMEC reviewed its Project Management process working environment and provide ongoing support and this year, simplifying the commencement procedure feedback to employees. for minor projects, to better respond to client needs. Along with the Code of Conduct, SMEC has an Equal A ‘Safety In Design’ procedure and system were Employment Opportunity Procedure (which covers launched in Australia (in response to national Work harassment and bullying) to promote an inclusive work Health and Safety Act changes) and earned a Highly environment that fosters mutual employee respect. Commended at the 2013 Consult Australia Awards. Risk Management The Board is responsible for ensuring that there are adequate organisational arrangements for designing, implementing, monitoring, reviewing and improving risk management throughout SMEC. SMEC has improved its processes for the identification of risks and better consultation in managing risks. This led to the implementation of (more) targeted risk management measures, and an overall improvement of SMEC’s risk management systems. During this reporting period, SMEC focused on fostering a risk management culture. The adoption of this culture has led to greater awareness of risks at all levels. SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 11 Board of Directors Peter Busbridge Chairman BE(Civil), AMP Harvard, FIEAust, MAICD Peter joined SMEC in 1974 and has held the positions of Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operations Officer, Executive Director Australia, Manager New South Wales and Chief Engineer Highways and Transportation. In 2009, Peter was appointed Chairman of the Board and in 2010 Peter was appointed a Director of the SMEC Foundation Board. Peter holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from Melbourne University and has completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. Peter is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers Australia and is a Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and the Road Engineering Association of Asia and Australasia (REAAA). The Vision for SMEC is to deliver outstanding infrastructure services for its clients and communities. This Vision aligns with Ross Hitt the Company’s ethos Managing Director and CEO BE(Civil), GradDip(Management), FIEAust, MAICD of ‘Local People. Global Ross joined SMEC in 1980. Ross was appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Experience.’ and supports SMEC in 2009, after serving as Managing Director International since 2005. Ross has more than 35 SMEC’s localisation model years’ experience in engineering, development and infrastructure projects in Australia and internationally. of developing local people Ross holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from Monash University and a Postgraduate Diploma in and being responsive to the Management from Deakin University. Ross is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers Australia and a Member needs of local clients. of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and the Australia India Business Council. 12 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Alastair McKendrick Kate Spargo Director and Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD BA, LLB(Hons), FAICD Alastair joined SMEC in 1999 as Financial Controller, Kate is a Non-Executive Director of SMEC (appointed was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2000 and in 2010), Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and Group Finance Director in 2009. He was elected to the a Director of the SMEC Foundation Board. Kate is Board as an Executive Director in 2001. Alastair has currently a Non-Executive Director on the Boards of over 30 years’ experience in the management of large Sonic Healthcare Ltd, Fletcher Building Ltd, Investec organisations and consulting to small-to-medium sized Bank (Australia) Ltd, Accounting Professional and Ethical organisations in Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand Standards Board, International Ethics Standards Board and the United Kingdom. Alastair holds a Bachelor of for Accountants, CoInvest Ltd and Suncorp Portfolio Business (Accounting) from Monash University, is a Services Ltd. Kate holds a Bachelor of Law (Honours) Fellow of Certified Public Accountants Australia and a and a Bachelor of Arts from Adelaide University. Kate is Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. Max Findlay Roger Bayliss Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director BEc, FAICD BSc, MRACI, FAICD Max was appointed Non-Executive Director of Roger was appointed to the Board in 2002. Roger SMEC in 2010. Max was the Managing Director of is a Non‑Executive Director of SMEC, Chair of the Programmed Maintenance Services for 18 years until Remuneration and Nominations Committee and a his retirement in 2008. Max serves on the Boards of Director of the SMEC Foundation Board. Roger’s career several organisations including the Royal Children’s has spanned 45 years and includes management and Hospital and Skilled Group Ltd (a publicly listed policy development, marketing, international trade and company). Max is Chairman of the Board of EVZ Ltd. investment. Roger was a member of the executive Max holds a Bachelor of Economics (Politics) from management team at the Australian Trade Commission Monash University and a postgraduate qualification in (Austrade). He is a Chartered Chemist, a Member of the Accounting from Swinburne University. Max is a Fellow Royal Australian Chemical Institute and a Fellow of the of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. Australian Institute of Company Directors. Roger holds a Bachelor of Science from Sydney University. SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 13 Executive Committee Ross Hitt Managing Director and CEO BE(Civil), GradDip(Management), FIEAust, MAICD Ross joined SMEC in 1980. Ross was appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of SMEC in 2009, after serving as Managing Director International since 2005. Ross has more than 35 years’ experience in engineering, development and infrastructure projects in Australia and internationally. Ross holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from Monash University and a Postgraduate Diploma in Management from Deakin University. Ross is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers Australia and a Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and the Australia India Business Council. SMEC’s values of Teamwork & Trust, Diversity & Delivery, Integrity & Innovation, and Safety & Sustainability underpin the way we Alastair McKendrick Director and Group Finance operate, they define the way we Director BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD work. By adopting these values Alastair joined SMEC in 1999, was in a meaningful way, SMEC will appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2000, elected to the Board in continue to grow as a business 2001 and appointed Group Finance Director in 2009. Alastair has over and strengthen our reputation as 30 years’ experience managing large organisations and consulting a leading provider of high quality to small-to-medium organisations in Australia, Hong Kong and the United consultancy services. Kingdom. Alastair holds a Bachelor of Business (Accounting) from Monash University, is a Fellow of Certified Public Accountants Australia and a Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. 14 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Neil Evans Angus Macpherson Hari Poologasundram Director Strategy and Director Corporate Affairs Chief Operating Officer New Business BE(Civil), CPEng, MIEAust Australia and New Zealand BSc(Eng), AMP Harvard BSc(Hons), MSc, CPEng, MIEAust, Angus joined SMEC in 1993 and MICE, MIHT Neil joined SMEC in 1993, was was appointed Director Corporate appointed Director Strategy and Affairs in 2010. Angus has more Hari joined SMEC in 1994, was Business Development in 2009 and than 15 years’ experience in appointed Managing Director Director Strategy and New Business managing design teams and in the Australia in 2009 and Chief in 2012. Prior to this, Neil was development and implementation Operating Officer Australia and Managing Director Australia, and led of business management systems. New Zealand in 2012. Hari has over acquisitions and business planning. Angus has experience in both 25 years’ experience in the delivery Neil has over 40 years’ experience the public and private sectors of large infrastructure projects using and has been a member of project in a wide range of infrastructure Design and Construct, Public‑Private boards and review groups worldwide. projects. Angus has expertise Partnership and Alliance methods. Neil holds a Bachelor of Science (Civil in scope control, risk analysis, Hari holds a Bachelor of Science Engineering) from the University of financial management and design (Civil Engineering) and a Master of New South Wales and completed the review. Angus holds a Bachelor of Science (Civil Engineering) from City Advanced Management Program at Engineering (Civil) from the University University, London. Harvard University. of Technology, Sydney. Manoli Loukas Andy Goodwin Tom Marshall Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Asia Pacific South Asia and Middle East Africa GradDip(Business), MBA BSc(Eng)Mech, BCom(Hons) PrEng, BEng, MEng, DEng, MSAICE, MIMESA, FIOD Manoli joined SMEC in 2005. In Andy joined SMEC in 2012 as Chief 2011, Manoli was appointed Acting Operating Officer South Asia and Tom joined SMEC in 2012, when Chief Operating Officer Asia Pacific Middle East. Andy has 29 years’ Vela VKE joined The SMEC Group. and in 2012 he was permanently energy and infrastructure sector Tom has over 25 years’ experience in appointed. Prior to this, Manoli experience in Asia, Europe and civil engineering design, construction held the positions of Regional South Africa. Andy has led highly supervision and management of Director Asia Pacific and Regional technical and complex projects and multi-disciplinary teams throughout Manager India. With over 25 years’ implemented business strategies southern Africa. Tom holds a engineering experience, Manoli has that have led to strong growth. Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) and a a strong background in operations Andy holds a Bachelor of Science Master of Engineering (Geotechnics management and strategy (Mechanical Engineering) from the and Transportation) from the development. Manoli holds a Master University of Witwatersrand and a University of Stellenbosch and a of Business Administration from Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) Doctor of Engineering (Engineering Swinburne University. from the University of South Africa. Management) from the University of Johannesburg. SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 15 Stakeholders & Objectives Stakeholder Engagement SMEC interacts with a wide range of stakeholders, 12 months include proposals for an upgraded file from local community members and contractors to transfer system, graduate training programs, as well as employees, clients, shareholders, industry bodies and travel discounts and special offers from suppliers. opinion leaders. Employees receive regular company updates from SMEC stays abreast of emerging trends and sensitive the CEO and other senior management via email issues through effective and regular dialogue with announcements and SMEC’s intranet. The SMEC stakeholders. This dialogue feeds directly into the News, an electronic internal monthly newsletter (edited ongoing development of SMEC’s business practices. and produced by employees for employees), provides SMEC recognises that it is important to engage with information on SMEC’s projects, people, events and local stakeholders to develop a Corporate Social achievements. Responsibility (CSR) framework that resonates with employees, clients, communities and other stakeholders. Clients Clients remain SMEC’s primary focus, with the Company The diverse nature of stakeholder groups means a continuing to proactively respond to their requirements. variety of methods are used to communicate effectively at every level. The communication method used We strive to fully understand our clients’ business depends on the situation and the stakeholder and strategy to be able to offer solutions that support their may involve one-on-one meetings, industry initiatives, business objectives. We are responsive and flexible to corporate publications, company announcements, our clients’ changing needs and build sustainable client media releases, the website (www.smec.com), the relationships through integrity and trust. intranet or a combination of these. Our Client Relationship Management (CRM) system SMEC’s policies and procedures identify and manage and dedicated CRM Managers are the platform for our issues that may impact stakeholders. SMEC’s three client-focused initiatives, which aim to drive better client major stakeholder groups are employees, clients and relationships. shareholders. Shareholders Employees SMEC has a policy of continuous disclosure and SMEC’s management has an ‘open door’ philosophy, communication to shareholders. The Board aims whereby all employees can feel comfortable to ensure that shareholders are fully informed of all approaching management to discuss any issue or price sensitive information. SMEC communicates with idea. SMEC encourages two-way communication its shareholders through a dedicated shareholder with employees through the Staff Consultative website, an Annual General Meeting, and shareholder Committee (SCC). The SCC is a recognised committee announcements. The Board is responsible for within SMEC’s management chain, comprising both ensuring compliance with the continuous disclosure employee-elected and management-appointed requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. The employees. The SCC acts in an advisory capacity Company Secretary is responsible for communicating to address employee issues and management with the Australian Securities and Investments briefs. Initiatives introduced by the SCC over the last Commission (ASIC). 16 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Sustainability Objectives In early 2013, SMEC set a number of five year • To protect and uphold internationally proclaimed objectives to help deliver on the commitments the human rights, particularly in the areas of child abuse Company has made in each of its three Corporate and forced compulsory labour Social Responsibility (CSR) categories: People; • To support and encourage employee participation in Community; and Sustainability and Environment. SMEC their local community, particularly charity work will report on progress against these objectives in future Sustainability Reports. Sustainability and Environment Our Commitment People Our Commitment Eliminate or minimise any adverse impacts that SMEC’s office activities and projects have on the environment. Create a rewarding, inclusive workplace for our people Raise employee, client and community awareness of by encouraging personal development, recognising the importance of environmental sustainability. good performance, fostering equal opportunity and ensuring employee health, safety and wellbeing. Five Year Objectives Five Year Objectives • To operate energy efficient offices and reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions generated by • To provide and maintain a satisfying and rewarding SMEC’s operations work environment for all employees • To provide long-term environmentally sustainable • To achieve and maintain cultural and gender project advice to clients balance and increase awareness of the importance • To implement an Environmental Awareness Program of diversity to educate employees, clients, partners and • To provide employees with personal and career contractors about the importance of environmental development opportunities and clear career paths sustainability • To eliminate or manage hazards and practices that could cause accidents, injuries or illness Community Our Commitment Support community and charitable programs that provide long-term solutions. Five Year Objectives • To deliver the best possible social and development outcomes for people in need through small-scale grant support through the SMEC Foundation SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 17 Vision & Performance Vision & Values Industry Awards In late 2013, SMEC released its 2014-2016 Strategic Consistently ranked amongst the world’s top Plan. Developed with input from SMEC’s Board of engineering firms, SMEC won a variety of awards in Directors, Executive Committee and overall employee the past year, from technical excellence and design base, the Strategic Plan outlines key priorities for the innovation to the management of environmental risks. Company over the next three years. The Plan has a strong focus on both SMEC’s clients and people, SMEC maintained its strong rankings in Engineering and features a new Vision and set of Values for the News Record’s (ENR) 2013 lists, ranked at number 74 Company. in the ‘Top 150 Global Design Firms’ list and ranked at number 57 in the ‘Top 2225 International Design Firms’ The Vision for SMEC is ‘to deliver outstanding list (an increase of one position). infrastructure services for our clients and communities’. This Vision aligns with the Company’s ethos of ‘Local SMEC secured strong rankings in Engineering People. Global Experience.’ and supports SMEC’s News-Records (ENR) Global Sourcebook (released in localisation model of developing local people and being December 2013), including a number two ranking for responsive to the needs of local clients. the Dams and Reservoirs sector, and number 13 for both the Hydro Plants and Water Supply sectors. In SMEC’s Values are: the Highways sector, SMEC was ranked at number 14 • Teamwork & Trust and in the Transportation sector, SMEC was ranked at number 36. • Diversity & Delivery • Integrity & Innovation Consult Australia Awards for Excellence • Safety & Sustainability • Gold Award (Client Focus category): Origin Alliance (Ipswich Motorway Upgrade: Dinmore to Goodna) These Values underpin the way SMEC operates, they • Gold Award (Development of People category): define the way SMEC works. SMEC encourages its Origin Alliance (Ipswich Motorway Upgrade: people to adopt these Values in a meaningful way. This Dinmore to Goodna) will enable SMEC to continue to grow as a business and strengthen its reputation in the global market as a Consulting Engineers South Africa (CESA) leading provider of high quality consultancy services. • Aon Engineering Excellence Awards (under R50 million): Tshelimnyama Pedestrian Bridge • Aon Engineering Excellence Awards (Best International Project category, Commendation): Okavango River Bridge Construction World Global Awards • Best Projects Award (Professional Services category): Baia de Luanda Project Engineering Excellence Awards, Engineers Australia (Queensland Division) • Engineering Excellence Award (Project Management category): Origin Alliance (Ipswich Motorway Upgrade: Dinmore to Goodna) 18 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Company Memberships Global Water Awards • Association of Consulting Engineers Malaysia • Desalination Plant of the Year Award: Victoria • Association of Consulting Surveyors (Victoria Desalination Plant Division) • Desalination Deal of the Year Award: Sydney • Association of Land Development Engineers Desalination Plant • Australasian Corrosion Association Green Project Manager (GPM) Global Awards • Australian Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong • Winner (Sustainability Project of the Year category): • Australian Green Infrastructure Council Adelaide Desalination Plant • Australian National Committee on Large Dams International Project Excellence Awards • Australian Water Association • Winner (Project Excellence in Mega-Sized Projects • Board of Engineers Malaysia category): Adelaide Desalination Plant • British Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong British Planning Institute of Australia • CitySwitch Green Office Program • Policies, Programs, Concepts (Large Scale) Award: • Consult Australia Linking Canberra City to the Lake • Engineers Registration Board Tanzania Project Management Achievement Awards • International Road Federation • Chief Judge’s Award (Queensland division): Origin • Pakistan Engineering Council Pakistan Engineering Alliance (Ipswich Motorway Upgrade: Dinmore to Council Goodna • Property Council of Australia (South Australia South African Institution of Civil Engineers Division) • Technical Excellence (Durban Branch) Award: • Property Council of Australia (Victoria Division) Tshelimnyama Pedestrian Bridge Roads Australia • Technical Excellence Award (Commendation): • United Nations Global Compact Newclare Road Underpass and Pedestrian Bridge, • Urban Development Institute of Australia Johannesburg (Queensland Division) • Community Based Projects (Bloemfontein Region) • Urban Development Institute of Australia (South Award: Residential Distributor Street in Makeleketla, Australia Division) Winnburg • Urban Development Institute of Australia (Victoria Stormwater Industry Association of Queensland Division) • Excellence in Infrastructure Award: Origin Alliance • Waste Management Association of Australia (Ipswich Motorway Upgrade: Dinmore to Goodna) • Water Industry Alliance United Nations Association of Australia • Women’s Planning Network • World Environment Day Biodiversity Award: Condamine Alliance SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 19 Vision & Performance (continued) Economic Performance SMEC has policies in place to ensure strong economic Government Financial Assistance performance, sustained long-term growth and positive The Australian Government offers a Research and returns for all stakeholders. Development (R&D) tax incentive (40% tax offset) for While the Company grew substantially in 2013, through activities which are innovative or have high levels of organic expansion and strategic acquisitions, the year technical risk. Under the R&D Tax Incentive, SMEC may was challenging. The operating environment for both claim a 40% non-refundable tax offset. At the current public infrastructure and mining services deteriorated 30% corporate tax rate, this equates to a 10% net in Australia. Internationally, SMEC’s operations had to benefit. The 40% tax offset is broadly equivalent to a contend with a high Australian dollar (exchange rate) for 133% tax concession. most of the year. During the reporting period, SMEC spent A$12 million SMEC’s management team has examined the business on R&D activities and received A$1.2 million as an after and is making the necessary changes to reshape the tax cashback benefit (as displayed in Figure 5). These Company to meet the challenging, and changing, figures are much higher than reported last year. Over the operating environment. The Board is confident that last 12 months, SMEC focused on reviewing projects SMEC is well placed for growth in the year ahead. (both retrospectively and prospectively) to ensure that all available tax incentives and offsets are claimed. Economic Value Generated and Distributed During the reporting period (1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014), revenue in Australia decreased by 19.7% to A$178.6 million. SMEC’s net operating profit after tax in Australia decreased by 49.2% to A$6.2 million. SMEC’s operating costs decreased by 30% to A$23.4 million, with employee compensation decreasing by 13.9% to A$151.9 million. The generation and distribution of SMEC’s economic value within Australia is displayed in Figures 1 and 2. In SMEC’s international operations, revenue decreased by 10% to A$194.4 million. SMEC’s net operating profit after tax decreased to A$1.4 million. SMEC’s operating costs decreased by 7% to A$193 million, with employee compensation remaining steady at A$151 million. The generation and distribution of SMEC’s economic value within its international operations is displayed in Figures 3 and 4. 20 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Figure 1: Economic Value Generated in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Generated VIC & SA NSW & ACT QLD & NT AUSTRALIA Revenue 63,430 74,598 40,611 178,639 Net Operating Profit After Tax N/A N/A N/A 6,279 Figure 2: Economic Value Distributed in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Distributed VIC & SA NSW & ACT QLD & NT AUSTRALIA Operating Costs (8,316) (9,780) (5,324) (23,420) Employee Compensation (53,954) (63,453) (34,544) (151,951) Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend N/A N/A N/A (1,082) Government (Tax) N/A N/A N/A 4,093 TOTAL (172,360) Figure 3: Economic Value Generated internationally (all figures are in A$’000) Generated SOUTH ASIA ASIA PACIFIC AFRICA INTERNATIONAL MIDDLE EAST Revenue 62,367 68,582 63,523 194,473 Net Operating Profit After Tax N/A N/A N/A 1,387 Figure 4: Economic Value Distributed Internationally (all figures are in A$’000) Distributed SOUTH ASIA ASIA PACIFIC AFRICA INTERNATIONAL MIDDLE EAST Operating Costs (12,575) (13,828) (12,808) (39,211) Employee Compensation (48,483) (53,314) (49,381) (151,178) Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend N/A N/A N/A N/A Government (Tax) N/A N/A N/A (2,697) TOTAL (193,086) Figure 5: Financial Assistance Received from the Australian Government (all figures are in A$) Claimed in 2013 Estimate Claim Tax Deduction at 133% Tax Deduction at 133% TOTAL (1/4/13–30/6/13) (1/7/13–31/3/14) (1/4/13–31/3/14) R&D Expenditure 3,017,005 9,051,014 12,068,019 Before Tax Cash Benefit 995,611 2,986,834 3,982,445 After Tax Cash Benefit 298,683 896,050 1,194,733 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 21 Sustainability Strategy People, Community, and Sustainability and Environment are the three broad focus areas of SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility framework. A$170K+ donated 41% reduction in power usage 22 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 23 People Employee Demographics Remuneration As at the end of December 2013, SMEC had a total SMEC has four levels of Engineering Professionals: of 5,303 employees across 73 global offices. Of these Principal, Senior, Experienced and Entry Level. At employees, 1,175 were based in Australia and New the Principal level, males are 93% of the industry Zealand. This is a 6% decrease in employee numbers benchmark whilst females are 90%. At the Senior from the previous reporting period. level, males are 88% whilst females are 85%. At the Experienced level, males are at 91% whilst females The majority of SMEC’s Australian employees (75%) are are 92%. At the Entry Level, males are at 93% whilst contracted on a full time basis, as displayed in Figure 6. females are at 95%. The overall figure of the four levels SMEC’s employees are spread across three regions: shows that males are at 93% of industry benchmark Southern (South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia), whilst females are at 91%. Central (the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales) and Northern (Queensland and the Northern Territory). The Central region is home to the majority of Turnover employees (39%), followed by the Southern region (36%), The average turnover for all employees in 2013 was then the Northern region (24%), and New Zealand (1%). 16%, with the majority aged between 35 and 44 (as displayed in Figure 7). This is a significant decrease Employee Survey on 2012, during which the average turnover was 25%. The decrease in turnover can be attributed to fewer SMEC launched a company-wide Employee Survey redundancies across the Company. The main reason in March 2014. SMEC conducted this Employee for turnover (see Figure 8) was resignation (64%), Survey as SMEC management genuinely want to followed by redundancy (33%). improve the Company. Through honest and open employee feedback, SMEC management will gain a clear understanding of what it is like to work at SMEC in 2014, the Company’s strengths and areas for improvement. The Survey was conducted by Aon Hewitt. The Survey results will enable SMEC to conduct internal employee engagement benchmarking, as well as benchmarking against broader industry standards. While detailed results are still being compiled, initial results indicate that employees believe that SMEC’s diversity and corporate social responsibility are strong. SMEC will develop and implement Action Plans to address areas that require improvement. 24 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Employee Benefits Flexible Working Arrangements Figure 6: Employee Numbers in Australia & New Zealand Introduced in 2011, SMEC’s Flexible Working Arrangements (FWA) procedure includes options to Region Full Part Casual Fixed TOTAL vary hours of work, work from home and job share. The Time Time Term objective of the procedure is to enable employees to SA, VIC & WA 289 28 75 27 419 balance their work and personal commitments. During NSW & ACT 372 30 54 7 463 2013, 30 new applications (67% female) for FWA were QLD & NT 213 11 47 6 277 approved, taking the total number of employees on FWA New Zealand 13 0 3 0 16 to 60 (70% female). Of the new applications received from female employees, nearly half (43%) were aged between TOTAL 887 69 179 40 1,175 25 and 34 years, with 69% citing caring for a child under school age, as the reason for applying for FWA. Figure 7: Employee Turnover by Gender & Age in Australia 30 Purchased Additional Annual Leave SMEC introduced a Purchased Additional Annual 25 MALE Leave procedure in July 2012. The procedure enables Number of Employees FEMALE employees to salary package an additional four weeks 20 of annual leave per year. In 2013, 207 employees purchased additional annual leave. 15 Parental Leave 10 SMEC employees who are the primary care giver, can apply for 52 weeks of unpaid parental leave and are 5 entitled to 18 weeks paid leave on a full time basis (comprised of the statutory paid leave and topped up to the normal salary level by SMEC), capped at A$150,000 0 15 24 25 34 35 44 45 54 55 64 65 + per annum. As of 1 January 2013, SMEC also provided Age in Years employees with one weeks’ paid paternity leave, on top of annual and long service leave. Figure 8: Reason for Employee Turnover in Australia During the reporting period, 20 female employees took 3% 1% parental leave; 25% returned from parental leave, 5% did not return and 70% are still on parental leave. Of the 25% of female employees who returned to work, 100% Resignation returned and applied for FWA. 71% of employees who 33% took parental leave during 2012 were still employed Redundancy by SMEC after 12 months. Eight male employees took Dismissal paternity leave and all returned to work. Retirement 64% SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 25 People (continued) Employee Benefits (continued) Gender Diversity Australian Defence Force Leave SMEC is committed to promoting gender diversity SMEC introduced an Australian Defence Force (ADF) and understands that improving the gender balance leave procedure in 2012. Under this procedure, SMEC throughout the Company is not only a business provides up to 10 days ADF leave annually (comprised imperative, it makes good business sense. of the Defence Reserve Service’s Payment Scheme As at 31 December 2013, 19% of SMEC’s employees and topped up to the normal salary level by SMEC). globally were female. In Australia and New Zealand, this The scheme provides a weekly payment of A$1,345 figure was higher, 28% of employees were female, a (2012-2013) based on Average Weekly Ordinary Time 2% increase since the last reporting period. In SMEC’s Earnings (AWOTE). There were no applications made international operations, 17% of all employees were for ADF leave in 2013. female. Tertiary Education Assistance As displayed in Figure 9, the majority of SMEC’s SMEC’s Tertiary Education Assistance program female employees in Australian and New Zealand were supports the professional development of employees. aged between 25 and 34 years (39%), and 68% were Continuing full time and part time employees who professional (degree qualified engineers, scientists and have successfully completed 12 months of continuous corporate services), as displayed in Figure 10. service are eligible to apply for Tertiary Education Assistance. SMEC will reimburse 50% of course fees, 46% of new starters in Australia and New Zealand were up to a maximum of A$10,000 per calendar year. During female (an increase of 14% on last year). 9% of these the reporting period, 15 employees (7% female) took new starters were graduates. Of these graduates, 86% advantage of SMEC’s Tertiary Education Assistance. were female. The majority of females who commenced work with SMEC in 2013 were degree qualified Employee Assistance Program professionals (67%) and were aged between 25 and 34 SMEC’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is years (40%). provided by Davidson Trahaire Corpsych. Through the These figures are significantly higher than the Australian EAP, employees can access short-term confidential industry standard. According to a report released counselling and financial advice. In 2013, SMEC had by Engineer’s Australia, 10.7% of the total Australian a utilisation rate of 3.31%. SMEC’s rate is marginally engineering workforce and 16% of engineering higher than the engineering and construction industry graduates are female. average of 2.98%. During the reporting period, 43% of employees that utilised the EAP were female. Within Australia, SMEC operates nine technical areas: Environment, Infrastructure, Industrial and Power, Local Corporate Health Plan Government, Social Development, Survey, Transport, SMEC offers all employees a corporate health plan Urban Development and Water. Of these areas, three through BUPA. The benefits include discounted health have a high proportion of female employees, including insurance, waived waiting periods and access to free Environment with 47%, Local Development with 38%, health checks. At the time of reporting, 183 employees and Social Development with 29%. were BUPA members (an increase of 45% on last year), 34% of these are female. 26 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Gender Diversity Steering Committee Figure 9: Employees by Gender and Age SMEC is committed to increasing the number of MALE females in senior positions. To this end, a Gender 250 FEMALE Number of Employees Diversity Steering Committee, chaired by SMEC’s 200 Chief Executive Officer was established in 2011. The Committee monitors the implementation of SMEC’s 150 Gender Action Plan to ensure that SMEC achieves its gender diversity objectives. 100 Gender Diversity Initiatives 50 As in the previous reporting period, SMEC continued 0 to implement a number of programs to increase 15 24 25 34 35 44 45 54 55 64 65 + awareness of gender diversity. SMEC is aware that to Age in Years achieve gender diversity the Company must create cultural change by aligning work practices, processes Figure 10: Employees by Gender and Employment Type and systems with diversity objectives. The first step 700 MALE in creating cultural change is raising awareness at all FEMALE about the importance of gender diversity. 600 Number of Employees 500 SMEC celebrated International Women’s Day (IWD) with events in major Australian offices during the 400 official week (4 to 8 March 2014). SMEC encouraged 300 employees to take part in a range of health and wellbeing activities including presentations on Healthy 200 Living for Professional Women. SMEC’s international 100 offices hosted a range of events to celebrate IWD. In India, SMEC screened the recently-released movie 0 Professional Technical Administration Gulab Gang. Based on real-life events, the movie tells Employment Type the story of an extraordinary women’s movement formed in 2006 in northern India. SMEC’s Tanzanian Figure 11: New Starters by Age and Gender office marked the occasion with a special lunch. 20 MALE In 2013, a bill to amend the Equal Opportunity for Number of Employees FEMALE Women in the Workplace Act 1999 was passed. A 15 new, modified regime now applies. SMEC prepared annual public reports against a set of pre-determined 10 gender equality indicators: gender composition; equal remuneration between women and men; availability 5 and uptake of flexible working arrangements; and consultation with employees on gender equality issues. 0 As a result, SMEC was compliant with the Workplace 15 24 25 34 35 44 45 54 55 64 65 + Gender Equality Act 2012. Age in Years SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 27 People (continued) Career Development Career Pathways Project Management Training SMEC provides employees with clear career pathways SMEC recognises the importance of project within its global business. SMEC is committed to management skills for the organisation and its employee development and workforce sustainability, clients. SMEC’s 2014-2016 Strategic Plan outlines the and provides a workplace with targeted learning and Company’s commitment to increasing capability in the development programs and an equitable reward and area of Project Management. recognition framework. SMEC is looking to increase its investment in training for the year ahead as part of its In 2012, SMEC commenced a program to focus on overall workforce planning and management strategy. developing Project Management skills. This Program included a range of accredited training, as well as Succession Planning Program internal workshops across the organisation. SMEC launched a formal Succession Planning Again in 2013, SMEC partnered with Engineers Program in 2012 for two management levels below Education Australia and The Moreland Group (with Chief Executive Officer. ‘Level One’ includes Executive funding from the National Workforce Development Committee members, while ‘Level Two’ includes direct Fund) to offer Certificate IV and Diploma of Project reports of Executive Committee members, including Management courses for Australian based employees. General Managers, Regional Directors and Regional Two employees from each Australian region (six in total) Managers. The program includes an objective, merit participated in the Program. The majority of employees based nomination process and initiatives such as who participated in the Program have either completed 360 degree appraisal and psychometric testing. the training, or are close to completion. During the reporting period, over 50% of Level Two managers had completed a 360 degree appraisal survey. A Talent Profile was developed which includes general information on each manager, future possible roles, development strategies, mobility and preferences to assist in succession planning. Succession planning for Level Two managers will be completed in 2014. 28 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Equal Employment Opportunity Training Professional Development Program In 2012, SMEC’s approach to Equal Employment The Professional Development Program (PDP) is Opportunity (EEO) was reviewed. As a result, an EEO one of the four pathways that Engineers Australia Framework (covering training and policy development offers to members to achieve Chartered Engineer and review) was introduced to promote an inclusive, status. During the reporting period, SMEC renewed flexible work environment that fosters mutual respect. its support for employees achieving Chartered status Implementation of the EEO Framework commenced in and introduced new application processes to better December 2012 with the roll out of briefing sessions to monitor and support employees wanting to achieve this the Board, the Executive Committee and the Australian status. SMEC also now funds the cost of the program Management Committee. registration fee and assessment fees. Implementation of the EEO framework continued in Managers play a key role in supporting employees 2013. Face-to-face Equal Employment Opportunity completing the PDP. Managers are expected to monitor Inclusive Management Skills training was delivered employees’ progress in the PDP, provide development to 120 managers throughout Australia, 20% of which opportunities, mentor and encourage the submission of were female. This face-to-face training was followed by Engineering Competency Claims. During this reporting online training about EEO and bullying, delivered to all period, 19 SMEC employees were enrolled in the PDP Australia-based employees. through Engineers Australia, 21% of these employees were female. Performance and Development Review SMEC conducts annual Performance and Development Career Recognition Reviews (PDR) for all employees using CareerTrac, an SMEC values its employee’s commitment to the in-house appraisal system. The objective of CareerTrac Company and believes it is important to acknowledge is to review employee performance and set future career milestones. SMEC’s Career Recognition objectives by aligning individual performance and procedure formalises this process. Each year, development planning with SMEC’s business plan. employees who achieve a career milestone of between five and 40 years (at five year intervals) are The training and development needs of employees are acknowledged for their commitment to the Company. reviewed annually as part of CareerTrac. This review In 2012, 112 employees achieved a career milestone. considers the needs of the employee, their manager and the needs of SMEC as a whole. The process SMEC recognises the outstanding technical excellence strives to align organisational needs with individual of employees as well as their contribution to the development needs and aspirations. Company, the wider industry and the community, through the annual SMEC Awards. There are five SMEC In 2013, 84% of SMEC’s employees participated in Award categories: SMEC Medal; SMEC Project of the CareerTrac (an increase of 4% on 2012); 74% were male Year; SMEC Young Professional of the Year; Safety and and 26% were female (this aligns with SMEC’s gender Wellbeing Award; and Community Award. workforce composition). The majority of employees (80%) received a ‘Meets Expectations’ rating in CareerTrac. The second largest rating was ‘Exceeds Expectations’, with 18% of employees receiving this rating. SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 29 People (continued) Workplace Health & Safety Health and Safety Commitment 2013 in Review – Australia & New Zealand Division SMEC is committed to promoting and maintaining a In 2013, SMEC surpassed its ‘proactive alerts’ reporting culture and working environment in which risk to health targets for the third year in a row. Proactive alerts involve and safety is unacceptable. To meet this commitment, routine, planned testing, inspection and identification of SMEC (as far as is reasonably practicable) provides possible hazards before an incident occurs. healthy and safe working conditions for all people associated with the Company including employees, SMEC’s 2013 target of 48 proactive alerts was surpassed contractors, visitors and the general public. SMEC will by 58%, with SMEC recording 76 proactive alerts. continue to promote a safe working environment with a Proactive reporting accounted for 60% of all Workplace Zero Harm culture. Health and Safety (WH&S) reporting in 2013, followed by reactive reporting (21%) and injury reporting (19%). In order to meet these responsibilities, SMEC: Overall SMEC had a total of 137 reported incidents • Works toward the aim of Zero Harm to any person in 2013. ‘Drills and Inspections’ accounted for the for whom SMEC is responsible during the delivery of greatest number of reports, with 46 reported. This was any project followed by ‘Near Misses’ with 23 reported. Figures 12 • Ensures full compliance with current Safety in and 13 display a breakdown of reported incidents by Design legislation region and activity. • Undertakes proactive reporting of Near misses, Hazards and Drills/Inspections to ensure that all Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate per million hours incidents are accurately reported, recorded and worked in 2013 decreased to 2.9 per month from lessons learnt are shared 3.3 per month in 2012. • Develops safety awareness throughout the Safety and Wellbeing Award Company through formal and informal training In 2012, SMEC introduced the Safety and Wellbeing • Minimises or eliminates hazards within the award into the annual SMEC Awards, which recognises workplace through risk identification, assessment, an initiative (that has been implemented within the control, reporting and monitoring last year) that has had the greatest positive impact on safety and wellbeing at SMEC. Safety in Design SMEC invests in its people to enhance their knowledge, There were two Safety and Wellbeing award winners and encourage the implementation of safety principles 2013. Irfan Siddique from SMEC’s Pakistan office, for his in the design and delivery of projects. SMEC works outstanding work in driving a ‘safety culture’ across the closely with clients to ensure that the safety needs of business and promoting proactive reporting. In equal their projects are well documented within Scope of first place was Alejandro Opitz from SMEC’s Chile Works and Project Management Plans. SMEC facilitates office, for his efforts in improving incident reporting at Safety in Design training and awareness programs to the Codelco Chuquicamata mine site. educate employees and clients on the importance of Safety in Design in legal terms, savings to the project and the elimination or reduction of hazards. 30 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Training Figure 12: Reported Incidents by Region: Australia and New Zealand Division In a collaborative team effort, the WH&S and Human Resources departments rolled out online and 20 face‑to‑face training on Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and bullying to all employees. The objective Number Number of Incidents of the training was to prevent workplace bullying, 15 sexual harassment and psychological injury. 83% of employees have completed the EEO training and 82% of Incidents of employees have completed the bullying training. 10 Health and Safety in 2014 In 2014, SMEC will continue to uphold its Company 5 values of which safety is one. SMEC will work to maintain a Zero Harm environment for its employees, contractors, visitors and the general public. To achieve 0 this goal SMEC has set a number of objectives and NSW & ACT QLD & NT VIC, SA & WA NZ targets for 2014. Region Region Reporting: SMEC will encourage all international Divisions to proactively report ‘Near Misses’, ‘Hazards’ Figure 13: Reported Incidents by Activity: Australia and ‘Drills and Inspections’. and New Zealand Division 30 Safe Work Method Statements: Final testing of new online forms for Job Safety and Environment Analysis 25 and Safe Work Method Statements will be released in Number NumberofofIncidents 2014. 20 Incidents Tiered Risk Approach to Safety: SMEC will work towards a goal of no harm to any person for whom 15 SMEC is responsible during project delivery. This will be aided by ongoing safety education, the introduction of a 10 new tiered risk approach to safety, and the publication of the 2014 Safety Handbook. 5 0 Office Project Site External Event Travel Activity Activity Lost Time Injury Property Damage Drill or Inspection Medical Treatment Motor Vehicle Accident Near Miss Hazard External Event First Aid SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 31 Community Human Rights Community Involvement SMEC supports and respects the protection of SMEC helps develop sustainable communities where internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures its employees live and work by supporting community that the Company is not complicit in human rights programs that provide long-term improvements. abuses through a number of policies. Community Award Corruption and Bribery In 2013 SMEC introduced a new award category SMEC’s Code of Conduct prohibits bribery and in its Annual Awards, the Community Award. The corruption by employees, consultants and third annual award recognises outstanding contributions to parties who act on SMEC’s behalf. SMEC is reviewing the improvement of local communities or the quality all standard commercial agreement templates to of life of people in the broader community, with an include anti‑corruption, anti-bribery and human rights emphasis on charity work. The Community Award was protection provisions. presented for the first time in November 2013, to two winners. Team ‘Kevin Golding and Graeme Geiger’ Child Protection Policy from Queensland in Australia were one of the winners SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance policy in relation in 2013. The two men put their passion for cycling to to child abuse. Child abuse includes unacceptable a good cause, raising approximately A$30,000 for behaviour directly involving children or observed by cancer research. The energetic duo participated in children. Child Protection Policy training is a mandatory several charity rides, including the annual Rio Tinto requirement for all employees. During this reporting Ride to Conquer Cancer, and the Santos Brisbane period, 93% of new employees completed the Child to Gold Coast Cycle Challenge. The second winner Protection Policy training within their first three months. were employees from SMEC’s Brisbane office who developed ‘Mr Bump’ for Engineers Australia’s Forced and Compulsory Labour CANstruction competition, a global design and build SMEC’s Code of Conduct (along with a variety of other competition. The competition’s objective was to build policies and procedures) seeks to ensure that ethical structures entirely out of canned food, which were employment and labour practices are implemented then donated to a local charity. Based on the Mr Men across the Company. SMEC complies with national character, the Mr Bump design used over 2,900 cans. employment legislation and is committed to the elimination of all forms of forced and child labour. Indigenous Rights SMEC works closely with clients to ensure that the rights and heritage of Australia’s indigenous population are protected. Where required, SMEC includes Indigenous Heritage Assessments and Management Plans as a component of Environmental Impact Assessments. Wherever possible, SMEC ensures active participation, skill development and increased long-term employment opportunities for indigenous people. 32 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 The SMEC Foundation The SMEC Foundation provides small-scale grant Figure 14: Expenditure by Sector support to deliver the best possible social and development outcomes for people in need. Established 80 in 2001, the SMEC Foundation addresses the causes 2012-2013 Expenditure (all figures in $’000) 70 of poverty and helps communities become more 2013-2014 self‑sufficient through small‑scale grant assistance. 60 Operating with financial support from The SMEC Group 50 and donations from employees, the SMEC Foundation focuses on Community Development, Education, 40 Emergency Relief, Health and Environment projects. 30 After more than 10 years in operation, the SMEC 20 Foundation has donated over A$800,000 to more than 200 projects in over 30 countries. 10 Improving the lives of many people, SMEC 0 Foundation projects have ranged from housing and Community Emergency Education Health Environment Development Relief financial assistance for Typhoon Haiyan victims in the Philippines, to constructing classrooms for Sector disadvantaged children in Cambodia. Since 2010, when SMEC joined the United Nations Figure 15: Expenditure by Division Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative, the SMEC 100 Expenditure (all figures in $’000) Foundation has required that all funding requests 2012-2013 align with the UNGC’s ten principles in the areas of 80 2013-2014 Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption. 60 During this reporting period, the SMEC Foundation donated over A$170,000 to 25 projects in 16 countries. 40 This is a 69% increase on funds donated in the previous reporting period. As displayed in Figure 14, 20 the majority of funds went to Health projects (42%), followed by Emergency Relief (26%), and Community 0 Development (19%) projects. Australia Asia Pacific Africa South Asia and Middle East More than half of all funds (54%) were donated to Division projects in Asia Pacific. 28% were donated to African projects, and 15% to projects in South Asia and the Middle East, as displayed in Figure 15. SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 33 Community (continued) SMEC Foundation Projects Program for Sustainable Development Khmer Soviet Friendship Hospital (Bangladesh, Education) (Cambodia, Health) A not-for-profit organisation, Program for Sustainable The Khmer Soviet Friendship Hospital is the largest Development (PSD), operates a primary school in Dhaka public hospital in Phnom Penh, caring for approximately that provides free education and basic health care for 400 HIV-positive children under the age of 18. The very poor children. PSD had received donations to cover wards had fallen into disrepair and urgently required basic operating costs but had no additional budget to cleaning, repainting and electrical and plumbing works. improve the facilities or capacity of the school’s staff. A The SMEC Foundation donated A$3,500. This was donation of A$2,000 went towards classroom furniture, used to purchase material and equipment and paid for teaching aids and computers. labourers to renovate the children’s hospital wards. CANstruction Our Rainbow House (Australia, Community Development) (Zambia, Education) SMEC entered a team of ten employees into the Comprised of a small group of volunteers, Our Rainbow inaugural CANstruction Competition hosted by Engineers House established a school for 44 orphans and Australia. The competition involved the construction of vulnerable children, in the village of Chainda (one of the large structures out of canned food, with all the cans poorest areas of Zambia) in 2011. Our Rainbow House donated to a local charity. SMEC constructed ‘Mr improved the school’s building (donated by World Vision), Bump’, using approximately 2,890 cans. The cans were although further improvements were required. The purchased through donations from employees and a SMEC Foundation donated A$5,000 which was used to donation of A$1,000 from the SMEC Foundation. purchase desks, laptops, water filters and solar lights. 34 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Figure 16: SMEC Foundation Donations in 2013–2014 Project Location Sector Amount Uniforms for 2013 South Africa Transplant Games South Africa Community Development A$5,000 Hands Across Water Thailand Community Development A$5,000 Krousar Thmey Foundation Cambodia Community Development A$600 CANstruction QLD Community Development A$1,000 Sowers Action Children’s Home Hong Kong Community Development A$5,800 Child Fund Australia, Solar Powered Dreams Project PNG Community Development A$10,000 ‘Go Get Living’ Project VIC Community Development A$5,000 Feeding Dreams Cambodia, Construction of Classrooms Cambodia Education A$5,000 Tanop Community Education Foundation Cambodia Education A$900 Vi Ha Kindergarten Vietnam Education A$2,400 Program for Sustainable Development Bangladesh Education A$2,000 So They Can, School Uniforms for Orphaned Children Kenya Education A$7,175 Lindi Children's Orphanage Tanzania Education A$5,000 Typhoon Shelter Philippines Emergency Relief A$5,000 Dhaka Building Collapse Appeal Dhaka Emergency Relief A$20,550 Philippines Typhoon Haiyan Appeal Philippines Emergency Relief A$19,484 Bali Kids Indonesia Health A$9,500 Khmer Soviet Friendship Hospital Cambodia Health A$3,500 Xuan Loc Health Station Vietnam Health A$16,750 The Hunger Project Mozambique Health A$15,500 John Fawcett Foundation, Eye Health Care Assistance Indonesia Health A$9,500 Cerebral Palsy Alliance, ABAaNA Study Funding Uganda Health A$5,000 Engineers Without Borders, Nepal Water for Health Project Nepal Health A$2,695 Our Rainbow House Zambia Health A$5,000 Miroi Junior School, School-based Health Care Project Uganda Health A$4,930 TOTAL A$172,284 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 35 Sustainability & Environment Sustainability Principles SMEC is committed to embedding sustainability • Implementing environmental management programs principles throughout the Company. Environmental to achieve environmental objectives and targets management programs and initiatives influence • Conducting all activities in an environmentally business systems, procedures and communications. responsible manner to minimise adverse environmental impacts SMEC continues to improve its understanding of the sources, scope and extent of its resource use, • Enhancing beneficial environmental impacts of including the impact of its environmental emissions. any SMEC activities to improve the quality of the SMEC’s objective for environmental management is to environment for future generations avoid or minimise impacts while contributing to lasting • Preventing pollution environmental benefits in local communities. • Providing environmentally responsible, sustainable and practical options to clients Since 1999, SMEC has had a Corporate Environmental Policy Statement and an Environmental Management • Monitoring, reviewing and auditing SMEC’s System (EMS) to formalise the Company’s commitment environmental performance to environmental responsibility. SMEC’s EMS complies Environmental Impact Assessment with the requirements of ISO 14001. SMEC has controls in place to manage and (wherever In 2013, all Australian and New Zealand offices were possible) reduce potential environmental impacts for certified to ISO 14001. This reflects the engagement environmental aspects of project and office activities. of SMEC’s offices with the Company’s broader sustainability program. Project Managers and Regional Managers are responsible for determining the potential consequences SMEC’s EMS provides a systematic and methodical of environmental impacts, using SMEC’s Environmental approach to planning, implementing and reviewing Impact Assessment Scale (as displayed in Figure 17). SMEC’s environmental performance. Effective implementation of the EMS has assisted in creating Where the environmental impact rating is above a culture that is focused on incorporating sustainable eight, SMEC employees are required to develop practices into everyday business decisions. appropriate risk treatments, objectives and targets in an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). Where risk Environmental Management Policy ratings are above 15, the hazard is assigned to executive SMEC has a detailed Environmental Management management for review, who ensure that the risk is Policy which is reviewed and reaffirmed annually by managed in a holistic manner across the Company. SMEC’s Chief Executive Officer. SMEC operates in an Project Managers must also develop and document environmentally responsible manner through: environmental objectives and targets for their project • Implementing and improving environmental during the planning stage, and measure the achievement management systems, in line with ISO 14001 of set objectives and targets annually (or upon • Complying with legal requirements completion, for short-term projects). Regional Managers must do the same for all offices in their Region. 36 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 Sustainable Offices Figure 17: Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Environmental Management Plans The majority of SMEC’s Australian offices have Impact Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) in place. 1 2 3 4 5 These EMPs outline how SMEC will reduce its Insignificant Minor Moderate Major, but Catastrophic environmental impact, improve performance and reversible report transparently. A number of initiatives have been Almost implemented via the EMPs: 5 Certain 5 10 15 20 25 Above • Installing teleconferencing equipment to reduce travel 4 Average 4 8 12 16 20 • Implementing online training Likelihood 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 • Purchasing 70% recycled paper (from post‑consumer waste) or plantation paper 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 • Purchasing green power (10% in the Melbourne office) Very 1 Rare 1 2 3 4 5 • Encouraging public transport use (by making train, bus or tram tickets available for employee use) • Participating in Earth Hour Rating Treatment • Enabling the ‘power saver’ function on printers 1–6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. • Defaulting printers to double-sided printing • Recycling printer toner cartridges 8 – 12 Process decisions and treatments or controls are • Recycling paper, glass and plastic assigned specific responsibilities within the process. Carbon Management Process decisions and treatments or controls are 15 – 16 SMEC’s business operations emit a lot of Greenhouse escalated to senior management for review. Gases (GHG), from lighting and heating to computers Process decisions and treatments or controls are and photocopiers. Through the development of a 20 – 25 escalated to executive level management for review. Carbon Management Strategy, SMEC is seeking to reduce its energy consumption. SMEC understands that the first step in managing carbon emissions is to capture baseline GHG data to measure the Company’s carbon footprint, identify major sources of GHG emissions, and manage and reduce these over time. SMEC continued data collection for electricity and paper usage across all Australian offices during the reporting period. During 2013, SMEC’s offices consumed over 1.4 million kWh of power (equivalent to 965 tonnes of CO2e or 1,191 kWh per employee) at a cost of over A$475,000. This 41% reduction on the last reporting period is a significant achievement for SMEC. SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 37 Sustainability & Environment Sustainable Offices (continued) In 2013, SMEC used 8,876 reams of paper at a cost of CitySwitch A$59,000. This equates to approximately 3,700 sheets A joint initiative between local councils and state of paper per employee per year. GHG emissions for governments, the CitySwitch Green Office Program the production of this paper are approximately 30 is Australia’s national tenancy energy efficiency tonnes of CO2e. program. CitySwitch signatories commit to achieving SMEC has set a reduction target of 10% for energy and (and maintaining) an accredited four star National paper use across Australian offices in the year ahead. Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) To achieve this target, SMEC is developing practical energy rating. NABERS is a national rating system programs to ensure its Australian offices become more that measures the environmental performance (energy energy and resource efficient. efficiency, water usage, waste management and indoor environment quality) of Australian buildings, tenancies For the first time, pilot offices in each of SMEC’s and homes. international divisions (Asia Pacific, South Asia and the Middle East, and Africa) collected baseline data for In February 2013, SMEC’s Melbourne office joined electricity and paper usage. CitySwitch. Following the success of the program in Melbourne, SMEC committed all Australian and New Electricity usage varied considerably between the four Zealand offices to CitySwitch in March 2014. All SMEC pilot offices, with annual usage of power per employee offices will work towards achieving a four star NABERS as follows: rating, developing and implementing low (or no-cost) • Hong Kong – 3,091 kWh energy efficiency improvements. • Johannesburg, South Africa – 2,060 kWh Mobile Muster • Manila, Philippines – 1,060 kWh SMEC implemented a mobile phone recycling • Gurgaon, India – 360 kWh program (Mobile Muster) in the Canberra, Gold Coast, Melbourne and Sydney offices in early 2013. Mobile Given the broad range of usage rates, tailored electricity Muster is a free mobile phone recycling program reduction targets and programs will be implemented that ensures mobile phones (and their associated (where necessary) in the year ahead. accessories) do not end up in landfill; instead they Similarly, paper usage per employee varied between the are safely, securely and ethically recycled. As a result, four pilot offices with annual paper usage as follows: SMEC recycled more than 50 mobile phones in 2013. • Hong Kong – 4,400 sheets Sustainable Procurement Procedure • Johannesburg, South Africa – 3,000 sheets SMEC continued the implementation of its Sustainable • Manila, Philippines – 1,800 sheets Procurement Procedure this year. Employees who • Gurgaon, India – 1,050 sheets undertake procurement of items valued over A$150,000 (capital works, fleet and office supplies) must assess Given the varying rates of paper usage across the whether purchases: minimise waste disposal, reduce international offices, tailored reduction programs will GHG emissions, maximise resource efficiency, also be implemented in the year ahead. conserve and improve biodiversity, incorporate ethical considerations, or have a low carbon footprint. 38 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 (continued) Sustainability Services Think Green. Take Action. Natural Resources and Environment The Think Green. Take Action. Program was launched SMEC is committed to applying the principles of in the Melbourne office in February 2013 to support Ecologically Sustainable Development (ESD) across CitySwitch. The Program includes a dedicated intranet all services in the transport, water, wastewater, (portal) site with suggestions for employees to be more infrastructure, mineral and urban development markets. environmentally sustainable at work (and at home), SMEC’s consulting services ensure delivery of the lunchtime information sessions on sustainable practices social, environmental and economic obligations and and a ‘Submit Your Green Idea’ suggestion box. objectives of clients. The Program was expanded during the reporting period SMEC’s services include environmental impact and focused on educating employees about how their assessments, permit applications in accordance with actions directly influence climate change. A ‘Switch Off’ environmental planning frameworks, strategic planning campaign was implemented in March 2014 to encourage and due diligence investigations, master planning, employees to switch off lights, computers and other ecological and heritage assessments, contamination electrical equipment. Overnight energy audits will also be and remediation studies, surface water, groundwater completed, with the results reported next year. and water quality management. Environmental Surveys Renewable Energy An Environmental Survey was distributed to all SMEC is at the forefront of the Renewable Energy Australian Office Managers. The Survey focused sector, implementing projects that work towards on sustainable procurement, waste disposal, office replacing diminishing fossil fuel resources and cutting facilities and procedures. The results will inform the carbon emissions. SMEC’s areas of specialisation Think Green. Take Action. Program and encourage include geothermal, solar photovoltaic and solar environmentally sustainable practices within offices. thermal, wind, bio-mass, bio-fuels, hydropower technologies and energy efficiency strategies. The Survey showed that the majority of offices already have recycling programs in place. As per last year’s SMEC’s services include: sustainable energy policy survey results, all offices recycle paper and cardboard planning, site identification and evaluation, feasibility and 90% of offices recycle used printer cartridges. 80% studies, detailed technical design and specifications of offices now recycle bottles and cans, an improvement for complex systems, carbon services, construction on last year, at 75%. supervision, network connection, load forecasting and long-term energy generation planning. Sustainable procurement practises have improved significantly over the last 12 months: 90% of offices Climate Change Adaption now purchase recycled paper, compared to 33% Climate change adaption involves building resilience last year; and 50% of offices now purchase recycled in landscapes so that climate changes can be tissues, compared to 25% last year. accommodated while mitigation efforts take effect. Employee education regarding environmental SMEC has extensive ecological expertise, particularly in sustainability has improved. 60% of offices display ‘Turn habitat connectivity, pest species management, water off the lights’ stickers and 30% of offices display ‘Don’t re-use, wetland and waterway rehabilitation. SMEC waste water’ stickers, compared to only 25% last year. integrates environmental innovation into designs to promote climate change adaption. SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 39 Sustainability & Environment Natural Resources & Environment Projects Lake Nyasa Integrated Water Resources Management Plan Port Abbot Point Terminal Expansion (Tanzania) (Queensland, Australia) Part of the Water Sector Development Program (2006SMEC provided an Environmental Impact Statement 2025), the Integrated Water Resources Management (EIS) and undertook coastal process investigations and Development Plan for the Lake Nyasa Basin is being for the overwater sections of the Port Abbot Point developed by SMEC. The Plan will improve the livelihood Terminal expansion, including conveyors, berthing and of people living in the basin and ensure environmentally ship loading facilities. The objective of the investigation and socially sustainable water resources development. was to define any potential adverse and beneficial SMEC is undertaking all feasibility studies, modelling and environmental impacts associated with the project, as stakeholder consultation. well as mitigation measures. Cardwell Range Realignment – Environmental Services Commonwealth Environmental Water and Carp (Queensland, Australia) (Australian Capital Territory, Australia) The project comprised the design and construction SMEC prepared a report for the Commonwealth of a 4.5 km realignment of the Bruce Highway, over Environmental Water Office (CEWO) that explored the the Cardwell Range. SMEC obtained approvals and impacts of carp in the Murray-Darling Basin and the permits for the environmentally complex project; use of commonwealth environmental water to maximise and developed fauna sensitive designs, to protect environmental benefits. The report assessed the threatened species, including crossings for Mahogany existing carp population; analysed key factors that drive Gliders and underpasses for the Southern Cassowary. carp population; evaluated the effect of natural floods; and analysed options for managing the impact of carp. 40 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 (continued) Renewable Energy Projects Kathu Solar Farm Metcoal EEO Energy Optimisation (South Africa) (New South Wales and Queensland, Australia) SMEC is designing the supporting infrastructure for Metcoal is a liable entity under the Energy Efficiency approximately 190 ha of solar panels at the Kathu Opportunities Act 2006 (EEO Act). Under the EEO Act, Photovoltaic (PV) Solar Power Farm in Northern Metcoal must undertake energy site assessments of Cape, South Africa. SMEC has designed 19 electrical each of their six entities once every five years. SMEC transformer buildings, a storage warehouse, canteens is undertaking these assessments, evaluating energy and offices, a guardhouse, 280 m of paved access usage, identifying energy efficiency opportunities and roads, 15 km of gravel access roads as well as all water facilitating workshops with key personnel to identify and sanitation requirements. energy efficiency opportunities. Ingham Sugar Mill Solar System Works (Queensland, Australia) (Victoria, Australia) North Queensland Bio-Energy Corporation plans to Solar Systems is an Australian company which designs construct a A$425 million state-of-the-art facility. The and manufactures ultra-high efficiency Concentrating first of its kind in Australia, it will produce approximately PhotoVoltaic (CPV) power generation systems, ideally 335,000 tonnes of sugar annually, have a flexible ethanol suited to large utility-scale deployment in key global distillery capacity of between 90,000 and 250,000 litres markets. Solar Systems is developing a 100 MW solar per day, and generate up to 85 MW of renewable power. farm. SMEC has provided site and risk assessments, SMEC’s services include: detailed design, construction designs, Environmental Impact Assessments, power supervision and oversight of commissioning. system study and commissioning works. SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 41 GRI Index This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B. Core Performance Indicators (PI) are in bold. GRI Page PI Description Comments Indicator Number 1.1 Statement from the CEO. 4–5 Strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and 4–5, 17 opportunities. 2.1 Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited 2.2 Primary brands, products and services. Feasibility studies, detailed design, 6–9 tender and contract management, construction supervision, operation and maintenance, training and project management. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 6–11 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. 220–226 Sharp Street Cooma NSW 2630, Australia Profile 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation 35+ 6–9 operates. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 6–9 2.7 Markets served. Transport, Hydropower and Energy, 6–9 Water and Environment, Mining, Oil and Gas, Urban and Social Development. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. 6–9, 24 2.9 Significant changes to size, structure or Nil. ownership during the reporting period. 2.10 Awards. 18 3.1 Reporting period. 1 April 2013 – 31 March 2014. 2 3.2 Date of most recent report. April 2013. 2 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual. 2 3.4 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 2 3.5 Process for defining report content. 2 Report Parameters 3.6 Boundary of the report. 2 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the 2 report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other 2 entities. 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 2 3.10 Explanation of restatements. Nil. 3.11 Significant changes in scope and boundary Nil. during the reporting period. 3.12 Table identifying location of standard GRI Table. 42–44 disclosures. 3.13 External assurance. Not used for this report. 42 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 GRI Page PI Description Comments Indicator Number 4.1 Governance structure. 10–15 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 10–15 4.3 Independent and non-executive board 10–15 members. 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to 10–15 the highest governing body. 4.5 Compensation and performance. 10–15 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 10–15 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and 10–15 expertise. 4.8 Mission, values and code of conduct. 18 Governance 4.9 Processes for management of company 10–11 performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of 10–11 the highest governing body. 4.11 Precautionary principle addressed. 4–5, 10–11 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental 4–5, 19 and social charters. 4.13 Memberships in associations. 19 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 16–17 organisation. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 16–17 stakeholders. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 16–17 4.17 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 16–17 EC1 Direct economic value generated and 20–21 distributed. EC2 Financial implications, risks and 36–41 Economic opportunities due to climate change. EC4 Financial assistance received from 20–21 government. EC5 Entry level wage compared to local minimum 24 wage. EC9 Indirect economic impacts. 33–35 EN3 Direct energy consumption. 37–39 EN4 Indirect energy consumption. 37–39 Environmental EN5 Energy savings. 37–39 EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy services. 39–41 EN7 Reductions in indirect energy consumption. 39–41 EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 36–41 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 36–41 EN16 Greenhouse Gas emissions by weight. 37-39 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 43 GRI Index (continued) GRI Page PI Description Comments Indicator Number EN18 Greenhouse Gas reduction initiatives. 36–41 Environmental EN19 Ozone depleting substances by weight. 36-41 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. EN24 Weight of transported waste. Nil. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 36–41 EN28 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. LA1 Workforce by type, contract, region and 8-9, gender. 24–27 LA2 Employee turnover. 24 Labour Practices and Decent Work LA3 Benefits provided to full time employees. The same benefits are provided 25–26 to all employees (part time on a pro‑rata basis). LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Nil. collective bargaining agreements. LA7 Rates of injury and lost days. 30–31 LA8 Programs to assist with serious diseases. 25–26 LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning 25–26 programs. LA12 Regular performance reviews. 29 LA13 Workforce diversity. 24–27 LA14 Basic salary of men to women. 24 LA15 Return to work after parental leave. 25 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. Human Rights HR5 Risks to freedom of association. All employees can join unions. HR6 Risks to child labour. 32 HR9 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. SO1 Programs that assess and manage the 33–35 impacts of operations on communities. Society SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive Nil. behaviour. SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. PR1 Health and safety impacts of services. 30–31 Product Responsibility PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. PR5 Practices related to client satisfaction. 16 PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. 44 SMEC Sustainability Report 2013–2014 www.smec.com
