GRI * / UNGC ** Index 2013 Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 1. Strategy and Analysis 1 1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of yes Sustainability Report 5, 7–9 the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1 2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. yes Annual Report 9–13, 64–65 8 Sustainability Report 5, 7–9 2. Organizational Profile 2 1 Name of the organization. yes Annual Report Cover 2 2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. yes Annual Report Cover, 21–25 2 3 Operational structure of the organization, including yes Annual Report 15–19, 50–58, 94, main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, 96–98 and joint ventures. 2 4 Location of organization’s headquarters. yes Annual Report 94, 96–98 2 5 Number of countries where the organization operates, yes Annual Report 94, 96–98 and names of countries with either major operations Sustainability Report 21–23 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2 6 Nature of ownership and legal form. yes Annual Report 50–59 2 7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, yes Annual Report 62, 93–95 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2 8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: yes Annual Report Cover – – Number of employees – – Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net ­r evenues (for public sector organizations) – – Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) – – Quantity of products or services provided 2 9 Significant changes during the reporting period yes Annual Report 68 regarding size, structure, or ownership, including: www.coop.ch/medien – – The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions – – Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) 2 10 Awards received in the reporting period. yes www.coop.ch/awards 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3 1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for yes Sustainability Report Cover information provided. 3 2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). yes Sustainability Report Cover 3 3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) yes Sustainability Report Cover 3 4 Contact point for questions regarding the report yes Annual Report Cover or its contents. * This overview shows where the Annual and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group and the Coop Websites ° Status: Information available: yes give information on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) criteria. Information partly available: (yes) ** T his overview shows where the Annual and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group and the Coop Websites Not relevant to Coop: irrelevant / none give information on the ten universally accepted UNGC (UN Global Compact) principles in the areas Information missing: no of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 1 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Report Scope and Boundary 3 5 Process for defining report content, including: yes Sustainability Report Cover, – – Determining materiality 5, 7–9, 10–13 – – Prioritizing topics within the report Priorities were also defined at – – Identifying stakeholders the organization expects the 2012 Coop Stakeholder Forum to use the report (www.coop.ch/report 2012, p. 10) 3 6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, yes Boundary of the Sustainability subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Report: See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Sustainability Report Cover; Deviations: footnotes 40–45 Boundary of the Annual Report: Annual Report 94, 96–98 3 7 State any specific limitations on the scope or yes Sustainability Report Cover boundary of the report. 3 8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, yes Annual Report 81–84 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3 9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of yes Sustainability Report 40–45 calculations, including assumptions and techniques (footnotes) underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3 10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of yes Annual Report 80–82 information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3 11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods yes Sustainability Report 40–45 in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Context Index 3 12 Table identifying the location of the Standard yes www.coop.ch/gri-ungc Disclosures in the report: – – Strategy and Analysis 1.1 – 1.2 – – Organizational Profile 2.1 – 2.10 – – Report Parameters 3.1 – 3.13 – – Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 – 4.17 – – Disclosure of Management Approach, per category – – Core Performance Indicators – – Any GRI Additional Indicators that were included – – Any GRI Sector Supplement Indicators included in the report Assurance 3 13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking yes Annual Report 54–56 external assurance for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, Engagement Governance 4 1 Governance structure of the organization, including yes Annual Report 50–59 committees under the highest governance body Sustainability Report 8 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy www.coop.ch/principles or organiza­t ional oversight. (Strategy and organization / Internal organization of sustainability) 4 2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance yes Annual Report 51, 56 body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their ­f unction within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 2 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 4 3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, yes Annual Report 51, 56 state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4 4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide yes Annual Report 51, 59 recommendations or direction to the highest goverwww.coop.ch/organe nance body. (Genossenschaft / Statuten) 4 5 Linkage between compensation for members of yes Annual Report 58 the highest governance body, senior managers, and Sustainability Report 9 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4 6 Processes in place for the highest governance body yes Annual Report 55, 59 to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4 7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise yes Annual Report 54 of the members of the highest governance body for www.coop.ch/organe guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, envi(Genossenschaft / Statuten) ronmental, and social topics. 4 8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, yes Sustainability Report 5, 7–9 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, www.coop.ch/principles environmental, and social performance and the status (Guidelines / Business principles) of their implementation. 4 9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeyes Sustainability Report 7–9 ing the organization’s identification and management of e­ conomic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4 10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance yes Annual Report 55–56 body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4 11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary yes Annual Report 55–56 7 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Sustainability Report 7–9 4 12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and yes Annual Report throughout the text social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Sustainability Report 8, 10–13, the organization subscribes or endorses. 15–19, 21–22, 25, 29, 31–33, 36–37, 40, 45 4 13 Memberships in associations (such as industry yes Sustainability Report 5, 8, 10, associations) and/or national/international advocacy 12–13, 18, 21–22, 29, 32, 36 organizations in which the organization: www.coop.ch/memberships – – Has positions in governance bodies – – Participates in projects or committees – – Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues – – Views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement 4 14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. yes Sustainability Report 8 www.coop.ch/stakeholder 4 15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders yes Sustainability Report Cover, 10 with whom to engage. 4 16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including yes www.coop.ch/stakeholder frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4 17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through yes Sustainability Report 8–10 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has www.coop.ch/stakeholder responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 3 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Performance Indicators > Economic Aspect: Economic Performance 5 EC1 C Direct economic value generated and distributed, yes Annual Report 68–69, 72, 76–77, including revenues, operating costs, employee compen79 sation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 5 EC2 C Financial implications and other risks and opportuyes Sustainability Report 9–10, 15, 7, 8 nities for the organization’s activities due to climate 23–27 change. 5 EC3 C Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan yes Annual Report 46 ­o bligations. Coop parent company, Fust, Bell Schweiz: Employees are insured with the CPV/CAP Coop Pension Fund against the financial consequences of old age, invalidity and death. Coop pays two thirds of the pension fund contributions. The Body Shop Switzerland AG: Employees are insured with Allianz Suisse. Pension fund contributions are paid half each by employees and The Body Shop. Betty Bossi: Affiliated to the Ringier Group’s staff pension fund. Pension provisions exceed the legal minimum. Fegro-Selgros Germany: EUR 219 400 employer subsidy paid to the Hamburger Pensionskasse, EUR 29 000 survivor’s pension. The following applies to the remaining companies: rules specific to the regional laws. 5 EC4 C Significant financial assistance received from yes Sustainability Report 28 government. www.coop.ch/co2-vision Subsidies received from the «Pro Kilowatt» programme amounting to CHF 500,000. No other significant funding was received during the year under review. Aspect: Market Presence 5 EC5 A Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared yes Annual Report 45–46 6 to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 5 EC6 C Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on localyes Sustainability Report 110, 16, 18–19, 23 ly-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. www.coop.ch/principles www.coop.ch/naturaplan (Philosophie / Frisch aus der Region) www.coop.ch/promontagna 5 EC7 C Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior yes Regional recruiting by the indivimanagement hired from the local community at locadual facilities. tions of significant operation. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts 5 EC8 C Development and impact of infrastructure investments yes Sustainability Report 36–38 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 5 EC9 A Understanding and describing significant indirect yes Annual Report 12, 21–23 eco­n omic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 4 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Performance Indicators > Environment Aspect: Materials 5 EN1 C Materials used by weight or volume. yes Sustainability Report 11, 16, 29, 41 8 5 EN2 C Percentage of materials used that are recycled input yes Sustainability Report 14, 16, 43 8, 9 materials. Aspect: Energy 5 EN3 C Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. yes Sustainability Report 42-43 8 www.coop.ch/gruene-energie 5 EN4 C Indirect energy consumption by primary source. yes Sustainability Report 42 5 EN5 A Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency yes Sustainability Report 26–27, 42 8, 9 improvements. 5 EN6 A Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable yes Sustainability Report 7, 10–12, 15, 8, 9 energy based products and services, and reductions in 17–18, 25–29, 42 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 5 EN7 A Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and yes Sustainability Report 25–29 8, 9 reductions achieved. Aspect: Water 5 EN8 C Total water withdrawal by source. yes Sustainability Report 42 8 As the respective municipality has jurisdiction over water supplies, Coop sources 100% of the water required directly from the municipalities. 5 EN9 A Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal irrelevant of water. 5 EN10 A Percentage and total volume of water recycled (yes) www.coop.ch/wasser and reused. Aspect: Biodiversity 5 EN11 C Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, none Not relevant for Coop because or adyescent to, protected areas and areas of high sales outlets and production bio­d iversity value outside protected areas. facilities are located only on land earmarked for this purpose in spatial planning. 5 EN12 C Description of significant impacts of activities, yes Sustainability Report 10, 15, 8 products, and services on biodiversity in protected 18–19 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 5 EN13 A Habitats protected or restored. irrelevant 5 EN14 A Strategies, current actions, and future plans for yes Sustainability Report 35-38 8 managing impacts on biodiversity. 5 EN15 A Number of IUCN Red List species and national conserirrelevant vation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste 5 EN16 C Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions yes Sustainability Report 43 8 by weight. 5 EN17 C Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions yes Sustainability Report 43 8 by weight. 5 EN18 A Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and yes Sustainability Report 7, 9, 11–12, 8, 9 reductions achieved. 17–18, 25–29, 43 5 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 5 EN19 C Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. no Reason for omission: Not material because Coop only uses modern refrigerants such as R-404A or CO 2 and these are nonozone depleting. 5 EN20 C NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type (yes) NOx emissions: 54 648 kg and weight. PM emissions: 988 kg SOx for Coop trucks is not material. 5 EN21 C Total water discharge by quality and destination. yes Sustainability Report 42 In accordance with Swiss legislation, all waste water goes into the public sewage system. 5 EN22 C Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. yes Sustainability Report 43 8 5 EN23 C Total number and volume of significant spills. yes There were no unplanned releases in the reporting period. 5 EN24 A Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated yes Sustainability Report 43 8 waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 5 EN25 A Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value none of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services 5 EN26 C Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of yes Sustainability Report 10–12, 8, 9 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 15–23, 35, 38 5 EN27 C Percentage of products sold and their packaging yes Sustainability Report 11, 16–17 8 materials that are reclaimed by category Aspect: Compliance 5 EN28 C Monetary value of significant fines and total number yes Selgros Cash & Carry SRL – of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Romania: one significant fine – environmental laws and regulations. RON 10 000 Aspect: Transport 5 EN29 A Significant environmental impacts of transporting yes Sustainability Report 28, 42 8 products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Aspect: Overall 5 EN30 A Total environmental protection expenditures and no Environmental protection meainvestments by type. sures form an integral part of Coop`s business activities and investment principles. Coop does not undertake any environmental management that does not relate to its business activities. Performance Indicators > Labor Practices & Decent Work Aspect: Employment 5 LA1 C Total workforce by employment type, employment yes Annual Report 72–75 contract, and region. Sustainability Report 44 Number of part-time workers in 2012: 23 420 5 LA2 C Total number and rate of employee turnover by age yes Annual Report 72–75 6 group, gender, and region. Sustainability Report 44–45 6 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC 5 LA3 A Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not yes Annual Report 44–45 6 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major Sustainability Report 39–41 operations. www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) Aspect: Labor / Management Relations 5 LA4 C Percentage of employees covered by collective yes Annual Report 45–46 1, 3 bargaining agreements. Sustainability Report 31 Fegro-Selgros Germany: 100 % Selgros Cash & Carry SRL – Romania: 100 % Transgourmet France: 100 % Bell Schweiz AG: 100 % Tropenhaus Frutigen AG: 30 % 5 LA5 C Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant yes www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber operational changes, including whether it is specified (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) in collective agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety 5 LA6 A Percentage of total workforce represented in formal no Coop operates in countries that joint management-worker health and safety committees have high minimum standards for that help monitor and advise on occupational health occupational health and safety. and safety programs. Employee co-determination takes place within the scope of legal regulations and covers the entire workforce. 5 LA7 C Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, yes Sustainability Report 45 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Work-related illnesses: none; by region. Work-related deaths: none; Working days lost owing to work-related accidents and illnesses: 647 633 5 LA8 C Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskyes Sustainability Report 31–33 control programs in place to assist workforce members, www.coop.ch/nachhaltigkeit their families, or community members regarding (Alle Themen / Mitarbeitende & serious diseases. Gesellschaft / Arbeitgeberin) 5 LA9 A Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements yes www.coop.ch/arbeitgeber with trade unions. (Gesamtarbeitsvertrag) Aspect: Training and Education 5 LA10 C Average hours of training per year per employee by yes Sustainability Report 45 employee category. 5 LA11 A Programs for skills management and lifelong learning yes Sustainability Report 31–33 that support the continued employability of employees www.coop.ch/report and assist them in managing career endings. (Sustainability Report 2010, 52) 5 LA12 A Percentage of employees receiving regular performance yes Annual staff appraisals for all and career development reviews. employees covered by the collective employment agreement. Performance reviews for all management-level staff. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 5 LA13 C Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of yes Annual Report 51–58 1, 6 employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 5 LA14 C Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee no Reason of omission: 1, 6 ­c ategory. proprietary business data 7 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Performance Indicators > Human Rights Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices 5 HR1 C Percentage and total number of significant investment yes In most countries in which Coop operates, agreements that include human rights clauses or that no human rights problems were identified in have undergone human rights screening. the retail sector. In the remaining countries, the employment contract governs compliance with and implementation of human rights legislation. 5 HR2 C Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors yes Sustainability Report 21–23, 41 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. 5 HR3 A Total hours of employee training on policies and no Coop operates in countries procedures concerning aspects of human rights that that have high human rights are relevant to operations, including the percentage standards. All buyers are given of employees trained. extensive training in human rights issues as part of BSCI training. Aspect: Non-discrimination 5 HR4 C Total number of incidents of discrimination and yes TG France: Infringement of equal actions taken. opportunities for men and women, and subsequent increase in wages for 17 women. Bell France: Accusations of bullying, verdict expected in 2014. Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 5 HR5 C Operations identified in which the right to exercise yes Sustainability Report 16, 21–23 1, 3 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support Continuous dialogue with the these rights. trade unions. Aspect: Child Labor 5 HR6 C Operations identified as having significant risk yes Sustainability Report 16, 21–22 1, 5 for i­ncidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor 5 HR7 C Operations identified as having significant risk for yes Sustainability Report 11, 16, 21–22 1, 4 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Aspect: Security Practices 5 HR8 A Percentage of security personnel trained in the irrelevant Coop operates in countries that organization’s policies or procedures concerning have high human rights stanaspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. dards. Aspect: Indigenous Rights 5 HR9 A Total number of incidents of violations involving rights none of indigenous people and actions taken. Performance Indicators > Society Aspect: Community 5 SO1 C Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and yes Coop does not have any such practices that assess and manage the impacts of opeprogrammes, as the relevant rations on communities, including entering, operating, areas are covered in full by Swiss and exiting. legislation. 8 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Corruption 5 SO2 C Percentage and total number of business units analyyes Most countries in which Coop operates have zed for risks related to corruption. good results in the Transparency International Corruption Index. At the facilities in the remaining countries, rules of conduct apply for all employees. These are governed by a system comprising laws and standards, and are complemented by guidelines on dealing with conflicts of interest and gifts. Compliance is checked by the internal auditors in the course of regular audits. 5 SO3 C Percentage of employees trained in organization’s yes www.coop.ch/principles anti-corruption policies and procedures. (Guidelines / Business principles) The principles apply to all Coop employees. 5 SO4 C Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. yes There were no cases of corruption 10 and therefore no measures in this regard in the reporting period. Aspect: Public Policy 5 SO5 C Public policy positions and participation in public yes Annual Report 9–11 10 policy development and lobbying. Sustainability Report 17, 25 www.coop.ch/stakeholder 5 SO6 A Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to none 10 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior 5 SO7 A Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive yes One action brought by Verband 10 behav­i or, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Sozialer Wettbewerb, settled out outcomes. of court. Aspect: Compliance 5 SO8 C Monetary value of significant fines and total number of yes No cases reported in 2013 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Performance Indicators > Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety 5 PR1 C Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of yes Annual Report 28 products and services are assessed for improvement, www.coop.ch/principles and percentage of significant products and services (Quality assurance) categories subject to such procedures. 5 PR2 A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with none regula­t ions and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Product and Service Labeling 5 PR3 C Type of product and service information required by yes Sustainability Report 7 8 procedures, and percentage of significant products and www.coop.ch/foodprofil services subject to such information requirements. www.coop.ch/principles 5 PR4 A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with reguno lations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 5 PR5 A Practices related to customer satisfaction, including yes Annual Report 27 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 9 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index | Sect. Sub-Sect. Indicator Performance Indicator Status° Page in Report / Principle No. No. C = CORE direct answer of the A = ADD UNGC Aspect: Marketing Communications 5 PR6 C Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and yes Swiss law already sets narrow limits in terms voluntary codes related to marketing communications, of what constitutes ethically impeccable and including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. «honest» advertising. Coop has nonetheless released an additional Guideline on Product Advertising and Communication Aimed at Children. Coop joined the «Swiss Pledge» initiative on 1 January 2014, thereby undertaking to restrict its advertising to children. This move replaces the aforementioned directive. 5 PR7 A Total number of incidents of non-compliance with no regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer Privacy 5 PR8 A Total number of substantiated complaints regarding no ­b reaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance 5 PR9 C Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance yes No cases reported in 2013 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 10 | Annual Report and Sustainability Report of the Coop Group 2013 | GRI / UNGC Index |
