2013 ASIANA AIRLINES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ASIANA AIRLINES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Report Overview 2013 Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report is published from the perspectives of a range of stakeholders providing information on its major sustainable management performances for the year. The report has been generated with focus on major issues identified through media research and stakeholder surveys to incorporate a wide array of opinions on the company’s sustainable management. Reporting Period & Scope This report covers the corporate sustainable initiatives and performances of the headquarters, domestic/international passenger and cargo branches, company worksites at the Incheon and Gimpo hangars from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 with some parts covering information updated until April 2013. Reporting Principles & Independent Validation To assure the credibility of the information herein, the Korean Standards Association has conducted the third-party validation primarily in accordance with the validation standards of AA1000AS 2008 along with the GRI Guideline (G3.1) and ISO 26000. Further Information Information contained in this report can also be found in the Electronic Disclosure section of the Financial Supervisory Service homepage(http://dart.fss.or.kr) and Corporate Information-Green Managememt-Sustainability Report section of the Asiana Airlines homepage(http://flyasiana.com). ※ Company information such as corporate governance and financial structure is based on statistics available as of December 2012. The information can be subject to change after the publication of this report. 02 03 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 C O N T E N T S CEO message 04 Economy Aviation Industry Overview 34 2012 Focus 06 Passenger 34 Major Issue Identification 08 Cargo 35 Value Sharing with Stakeholders 37 Disclosure 37 Overview Company Introduction 12 Risk Management 38 Global Network 14 Fair Transaction 39 Sustainability Sustainability Management 18 Customer Service 42 Management Kumho Asiana’s New Values 19 Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction System 45 Corporate Governance 19 Marketing 46 Board of Directors 20 Safety Management 48 Ethical Management 21 Operation Control 49 Stakeholder Communication 22 Safety Operation 50 Employee 23 Talent Development 25 Training & Evaluation 26 Environment Green Management 54 Human Rights 27 & Society Asiana Eco-Flight 56 Employee Safety & Health 29 Response to GHG Regulation 58 Win-Win Management 30 Environmental Control 59 Corporate Social Responsibility(CSR) 62 Appendix 70 CEO Message 04 05 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Asiana Airlines is constantly evolving to achieve sustainable growth with the highest standards of safety and service that can truly satisfy its customers. This year marks the 25th anniversary of the establishment of Asiana Airlines since it embarked on its journey to a brighter future. We are truly grateful to all stakeholders who have loved and rooted for us for the past 25 years. Thanks to your support, Asiana Airlines was able to become the 1st airline to be named as the Airline of the Year for five consecutive times. Asiana Airlines has unwavering commitment to its responsibility as Beautiful Company that creates the best corporate value in the industry, achieving customer satisfaction through the safest, superior service. Despite adverse external conditions including the economic recession triggered by the developed countries and spread to Korea, Asiana Airlines achieved positive performance by carrying more than 11million passengers for the year, generating KRW 5 trillion 638.1 billion in revenue and KRW 132.5 billion in EBIT driven in part by the growth of the Chinese market and increasing demand for leisure activities in 2012. In addition, Asiana has continued introducing the latest equipment and facilities including nine passenger jets and two cargo jets to operate a total of 80 airplanes while upgrading plane seats and facilities for two Boeing 777 airplanes. Asiana also launched a flight to Vladivostok completing the triangle route to the Far East by connecting it with the flights to Khabarovsk and Sakhalin, and increased flights to Haneda, Hong Kong, Honolulu and Paris to increase customer convenience. In parallel with this, Asiana Airlines has introduced a wide array of initiatives for a ‘Beautiful World’ to create prosperity for everyone. The company is faithfully complying with 10 principles of the UN Global Compact on various issues such as human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption while expanding the scope of Eco-Flight, the distinct green operation program of the company, and promoting a family-friendly work environment and inclusive growth. It is also making remarkable strides in social contribution, with initiatives that go beyond the national boundary such as donating books to multi-cultural families in Korea, opening ‘Beautiful Class’ to sister schools in China, and launching the ‘Love House’ initiative in Vietnam. Such strenuous endeavor has earned Asiana the recognition as no.1 airline in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for four consecutive years, the grand prize at the 1st Family Friendly Employer Award, and the no. 1 airline in the Korean Sustainability Index. Going forward, Asiana people will exert their best endeavors, building on its achievement during the past 25 years to fly beyond the competition. We hope all stakeholders to continue to give their support on our journey towards the beautiful future. Thank you. Young-doo Yoon President & CEO 2012 Sustainability Focus 5,638.1 KRW Major Business Indexes In 2012, Asiana Airlines earned KRW 3,588 billion from its passenger business, an all-time high revenue, posting 7% increase compared to 2011 by improving its flight competitiveness and implementing sales strategy to maximize profitability. Despite adverse market conditions, the air cargo revenue has also increased 5.5% from 2011 to billion reach KRW 1,386.9 billion by increasing supply and augmenting sales capability. Revenue (Unit: KRW100M) Passengers (Unit: KRW100M) Cargoes (Unit: KRW100M) 32,970 4,209 53,310 3,942 30,311 29,249 3,661 50,394 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 New Flights Passenger Incheon Vladivostok(Nov. 16) Incheon Yangon(Dec. 19) Cargo Incheon Hanoi Incheon(Mar. 2) Incheon Dallas – Los Angeles Incheon(Sep. 5) Incheon Dallas – New York – Incheon(Sep. 5) Incheon Chicago Dallas Incheon(Sep. 5) Incheon Domodedovo Vienna Oslo Incheon(Sep. 7) Incheon – St. Petersburg Vienna Oslo Incheon(Sep. 7) 06 07 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Safety Simulator Training Augmented B747-400 Simulator upgrade Quality Management for Safe Flight & Security Check Line audit introduced, internal inspection reinforced Mobile Maintenance System The 1st mobile aircraft maintenance system in the industry Service Service standardization Airport service standardization, periodic meetings on service quality improvement New service Care service for the physically challenged, Weihai Point Golf Express service Automated service My Flight App development Recognition for Customer Satisfaction Top-Ranking in All of the 3 Customer Satisfaction Surveys for 2012 No. 1 in KPC NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Survey) for international flight service No. 1 in KMAC KCSI(Korean Customer Satisfaction Index) for airline service No. 1 airline in KSA KS-SQI(Korean StandardService Quality Index) Aircraft New aircraft A321-200(6 planes), A330-300(2 planes), B747-400F(2 planes), B777-200ER(1 plane) Aircraft remodeling B777 OZ First Suite , OZ Quadra Smartium (2 planes) Marketing Brand marketing KPOP marketing, Dae Jang Geum tour Asiana Dream Wings Program Extended to cover primary/secondary school students Green Management Passion Outside recognition No. 1 in the transport sector of Green Ranking(Joongang Ilbo) Eco-Flight Company-wide fuel management committee taking on more activities, new green campaigns engaging customers EU ETS & GHG Energy Target Management System Verification and emissions quota allocation Voluntary GHG reduction Actual fuel efficiency (per basic unit) exceeding the target Carbon reduction labeling Gimpo-Haneda route reaccredited (135kg CO2/person), Asiana Airlines & Gimpo-Beijing accredited (147kg CO2/person) Social Contribution always pushes itself Entered into an MOU for World Heritage conservation with the Korean National further to offer only Tenacity Commission for UNESCO Officially recognized as company to donate education by the Ministry of Education Do Dream School at airport, contributions to the spare coin collection campaign, the best service ‘Change for Good’ exceeding KRW 7 billion and lead the global Sustainable Management aviation industry. No. 1 airliner in Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 4 consecutive years Sustainability leader in air transport green index of Korea Best-practice company in the private sector for sustainable management Major Issue Identification 08 09 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 1. Media Analysis No Issue Significance To delineate key external awareness issues about Asiana Airlines and sustainable management, a total of 6,131 articles written between 2009 and 1 Diversified customer demands 4.75 2012 were researched and analyzed. 2 Importance of talent recruitment 3.85 2. Relevant Company Analysis 3 Increased demand for product/service safety 3.84 Competitors’ reports as well as that of Asiana Airlines were analyzed along with other 37 issues based on the social responsibility standards defined 4 Efforts to redress consumer grievance and dispute 3.77 by ISO 26000 5 Increased demand for corporate transparency 3.72 3. Stakeholder Engagement 6 Support for social investment by communities 3.60 External Stakeholder Engagement 7 Increased demand for consumer information security 3.53 Asiana Airlines utilized the 2012 KSI survey conducted by KSA (Korean Standards Association) to understand external stakeholder interest per 8 More transparency in business management/ more responsibil3.37 ity of the board of directors issue. A total of 150 respondents (customers: 78%, community residents: 9.9%, investment agencies: 5%, media: 2.1%, etc) participated in the survey 9 Increased demand for fair transaction 3.28 and the results were studied to derive 78 issues of relevance. 10 Heightened competition 3.27 Internal Stakeholder Engagement 11 Fair employment, employment security 3.25 An additional survey has been conducted on the issues of relevance 12 Efforts to prevent environmental pollution 3.24 derived from media research and the KSI survey for internal and external employees to use the results as the basis for significance assessment. 13 Efforts for consumer health/safety 3.19 4. Significance Assessment 14 Social dialogue for workers, corporate social protection 3.16 Significance assessment, which consists of relevance and materiality as15 Basic rights at worksites 3.10 sessment, was conducted to finalize 28 trends and impact issues based on ‘significance to stakeholders’ and ‘significance to Asiana Airlines’. The 16 More interdependency due to globalization 3.10 screened issues of significance were then compiled into a final report. 17 Sustainable use of resources 3.08 Significance Assessment Results & Reported Issues 18 Talent development and trainings at workplaces 3.07 5.00 1 Significance to Stakeholders 19 Fair and reasonable consideration of working conditions 3.02 4.50 20 Efforts to slow down climate change 3.02 4.00 21 Increase in consumers who value health/green/community 2.99 3.50 3 2 6 4 22 Accelerated technology development 2.99 3.00 5 10 8 7 9 2.50 12 23 Fair competition 2.94 22 13 11 2.00 24 21 20 16 26 15 17 14 24 No discrimination against the underprivileged 2.93 27 23 18 1.50 28 19 25 25 Health/safety at work 2.93 1.00 26 Engagement of varied stakeholder groups 2.93 0.50 0.00 27 Easy access to corporate information (Internet, SMS, etc) 2.87 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 4.60 28 Contribution to community education & cultural development 2.84 Trend Impact Significance to Asiana * KSI (Korea Sustainability Index): An index that shows how agile a company is in understanding and responding to sustainability trend, and how proactively it manages and improves the impact corporate decisions and business activities have on society and environment. Experts are enlisted for each sector of economy, society and environment along with consumers, suppliers, community residents, and NGOs. 10 ASIANAASIANA AIRLINES 11 AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Asiana Airlines has grown to a global airline company that offers only the best services for the past 25 years, and has achieved the unprecedented feat of winning the Airlines of the Year for five years in a row. Overview Asiana Airlines, offering the world’s fastest, safest and most comfortable flight services to satisfy its customers, aspires Company to structure its organization more efficiently and create a corporate culture where all members trust each other, marching Introduction toward the shared goal. The company’s business principle for 2013 is to ‘set good examples first to lead the others’. Under such principle, Asiana people will work to act on what they pledge with sincerity and focus while taking on what has been assigned to them responsibly. In this way, Asiana Airlines wants to build an organization with strong competitive edge creating the best value in the industry with unwavering determination that cannot be shattered even in the rapidly changing global business environment. gement Vision M a na a c t ion through the safest, sup Company Name : Asiana Airlines. Inc. tis f erio r sa r se me rvic Date of Establishment : Feb. 17, 1988 sto e Cu Address Ma n (Headquarters) : Asiana Town, 47 Osoe-dong, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea ph y ent b agem oso test, satest and most conve (Gimpo Hangar) : 94-1, Gonghang-dong, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea h li Mana as nient (Incheon Hangar) : 2840-23 Unseo-dong, Jung-gu, Incheon y P in the f Business Credo gem wa y ased on social contributio en President & CEO: Young-doo Yoon n n s roug t Ph e & Philosophy t h pa im Type of Business: Air Transport m n on t h inc l i o rea Revenue : KRW 5 trillion 638.1 billion s ed io EBIT : KRW 132.5 billion eness Take custome asonabl rs y nd re t o t Employees : 9,595 persons ph ent a heir des o C so ploym tina em t 88 00 19 20 ● Asiana Footprint Dec. 1988 Inaugurated the 1st domestic flight (Seoul-Gwangju) June 2000 Launched the historic 1st flight to North Korea ( Jan. 1990 Inaugurated the 1st int’l flight (Seoul-Tokyo) Seoul-Pyeongyang non-stop route) Feb. 1994 Launched “Change for Good” with UNICEF Dec. 2001 Designated an environmentally friendly company Jan. 1995 Introduced a non-smoking policy to all flight routes May 2002 Joined IATA(International Air Transport Sep. 1996 Received the ISO 14001(green management system) Association) accreditation Mar. 2003 Joined Star Alliance Dec. 1998 Operated the presidential airplane for the 1st time 12 13 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● Aircraft Fleet Having introduced a total of 11 planes in 2012, the aircraft fleet operated by Asiana Airline as of the late 2012 consisted of 69 passenger jets and 11 cargo jets. Asiana Airlines plans to introduce a total of eight planes in 2013, six A380 planes for 2014 and 30 A350XWB planes for 2016 respectively. Aircraft Type of Passenger Planes Aircraft Type of Cargo Planes A320-200 10 B767-300F 1 A321-100 2 B747-400F 4 A321-200 20 B747-400SF 6 A330-300 12 B737-400 2 B767-300 7 B777-200ER 12 B747-400C 2 B747-400P 2 Subtotal 69 Subtotal 11 Total 80 (As of late 2012) 6 1 2 2 00 20 Feb. 2006 Introduced the new CI Apr. 2012 Ranked no. 1 at the international flight service June 2008 Received Presidential Prize at the 2008 National sector of NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Environmental Management Award Survey) Feb. 2009 Named the Airline of the Year for 2009 by ATW Jul. 2012 Introduce OZ first Suite Apr. 2009 Won grand prize for big business at the Korea Oct. 2012 7billion won collected by “Change for Good” Ethical Management Award with UNICEF May 2010 Named the Airline of the Year by Skytrax Dec. 2012 Named the Airline of the Year (Premier Traveler) July 2010 “Change for Good” fund for UNICEF exceeded KRW Jan. 2013 Named the Airline of the Year (Business Traveler) 5 Bn Dec. 2011 Airline of the Year (Global Traveler) Overview Asiana Airlines operates 327 domestic passenger flights per week on 14 routes to 12 cities, and 645 international pasGlobal Network senger flights per week on 90 routes to 70 cities in 23 countries, and 68 international cargo flights per week on 23 routes to 28 cities in 14 countries. Code sharing with the members of Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline network, also helps Asiana Airlines expand its global network and increase collaboration in various areas. Izmir Kayseri Ibaraki Jinan Tokyo (Narita, Haneda) Shizuoka Palau Seychelles 14 15 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Star Alliance Asiana Airlines officially joined Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline network, in 2003. Star Alliance connects 1,329 airports in 194 countries to establish a truly global network, operating upwards of 21,900 flights per day. Star Alliance members offer a range of high-quality customer services by sharing the frequent flier program, offering an access to about 1,000 airport lounges across the globe, priority baggage check and one-stop check-in service, and dedicating boarding counters for premium customers only. Halifax Asahikawa Huangshan Sustainability Management 16 ASIANAASIANA AIRLINES 17 AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Management Asiana Airlines strives to attain the highest standards of sustainable management through inclusive growth, ethical management, green management and social contribution in order to enhance quality of life for all stakeholders. Sustainability Management Sustainability CEO Management Economy Service Safety Environment, Society Strategic Planning OCC & Flight Operation Commercial Airport & Cabin service Maintenance & EngiCorporate Support Cargo neering ● Sustainable Management Implementation Process For Asiana Airlines, sustainable management is about enhancing life quality of its stakeholders (i.e. customers, employees, shareholders, partners and communities) under the mission of Kumho Asiana Group. The company faithfully practices sustainable management as <company that goes with its people> providing a work environment that gives satisfaction and fulfillment to its employees, <company that gives trust to its customers> offering only the best service, quality and technology to customers and delivering its pledges to earn trust from them, and <company that contributes to society> fulfilling its roles and responsibility for society. Sustainable Management Milestones for the Past 3 Years 2010 2011 2012 Signed partnership with KOICA for Signed a contract to introduce A380 with a Signed MOU with UNESCO Korea for world assistance initiatives overseas plan for next-gen passenger system heritage preservation Named as 2010 Airline of the Year (Skytrax 2011 Airline of the Year(Global Traveler of Raised KRW 7B for its spare coin collection of the UK) the US) initiative No. 1 airline in KS-SQI Included in DJSI KOREA (3 yrs in a row) Accredited to offer educational outreach No. 1 in KCSI aviation service No. 1 in KCSI aviation service initiatives (MEST) No. 1 airline in Korean Sustainability Index (Korea Management Association Consulting) Airline of the Year (Premier Traveler) (Korean Standards Association) No. 1 in int’l flight sector of NCSI -No. 1 in KCSI aviation service for 2012 Korean Green Climate Award(Climate MDG award of the UN Global Compact Value No. 1 airline in 2012 KS-SQI Change Forum under Nat’l Assembly) Award Joined DJSI KOREA (4 consecutive years) -Grand prize at the CSR Korea Award(Korea Grand Awards for Excellence in Sustainable Journalist Forum) Management (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Grand Award for Family-Friendly Management Grand Awards for Transparent Management selected by 5 major economic associations 18 19 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 The year 2012 was another turning point for Kumho Asiana Group, announcing the new corporate value scheme and preKumho Asiana’s paring for a great leap forward. Announcing a new start is not for disassociating itself from the past but marching toward New Values the shared future, joining hands with our beautiful people, enhancing our strength and improving on our weakness with passion and tenacity. Mission Improving the quality of life for all of Kumho Asiana’s stakeholders Mission A beautiful corporation creating the highest corporate value in each related industry Vision Strategy •G oing together with employees / A trustworthy company / A company that contributes to society > A beautiful Vision company Kumho Asiana’s •P eople with dedication doing their best in their assigned work with passion & tenacity > Beautiful people New Right Spirit Values people 4 Core Management Principles •Strategic Management : Mission-oriented management / Vision-oriented management / Strategic management / Tactical management Leadership Culture Strategy •Human Resources Management : People-centric management / Professional development management / Talent identification and placement-based management •Ethical management : Fundamental principle-based management / Rational management / Uncritical management •Quality Management : Trust-based management / Customer-first management / Advanced technology-based management Spirit •Passion & Tenacity •Sincere and Diligent Right people •Studious and Learned •Earnest and Driven •Taking the Initiative and Leading by Example •Judgment Leadership •Decisiveness •Drive Culture •An open community where order and freedom co-exist in harmony Shareholder Status Corporate Governance Shareholder Name Owned Shares Kumho Industrial Co., Ltd 58,688,063 Others Kumho Petrochemical Co., Ltd 24,593,400 Kumho Industrial Co., Ltd 51.06 30.08 Korea Development Bank 12,200,000 Others 99,619,902 Kumho Unit:% Petrochemical Co., Ltd 12.61 6.25 Korea Development Bank Sustainability Management ● BoD Members Board of Directors Type Name Work Objective Work Scope Recommended by Note In charge of overall business and stable Young-doo Yoon CEO operation of the company BoD Chart Chang-su Han Overall business In charge of overall business and Inside Director BoD external affairs Tae-Keun Han Appointed on BoD Mar. 29, 2013 Jae-hwan Seo In charge of external affairs External affairs Advice on aviation Outside Director Audit Committee In-taek Im Expert in aviation & transport industry Recommendation (3ppl) Committee (3ppl) Chairman(Outside Chang-young Jeong Chairman(Inside Director):Im In-taek Economy expert Advice on biz mgmt Director): Yoon Members(Outside Deok-hun Lee Outside Director Young-doo Director): Lee DeokOutside Recommendation Members(Outside hun, Kim Jong-chang Director Reappointed on Seong-geun Lee Legal expert Legal advice Committee Director) : Im In-taek, Mar. 29, 2013 Jeong Chang-young Gun-young Jeong Financial expert Financial Advice Jong-chang Kim Appointed on Mar. 29, 2013 The board of directors’ meetings were held for 23 times in 2012 with the agenda on the Tokyo branch’s air tickets receivables and an agreement on overseas asset-backed loans transaction (Feb. 21), extension of other foreign exchange payment guarantee by Korea Development Bank (May 16), approval on financing for B777-200ER introduction (July 12), and yen-denominated bond issuance (Dec. 18) ● Managerial rule of BoD Asiana Airlines has four internal directors and six outside directors for its board of directors(BoD) with Head Director or a director appointed by Head Director serving as Chair. Under the BoD, there are Outside Director Recommendation Committee and Audit Committee. Outside Director Recommendation Committee has been established to recommend candidates for outside directorship in accordance with relevant laws, articles of incorporation and the BoD provisions. Within the committee, outside directors have to take up majority seats as stated in Section 8, Article 542 of the Commercial Act. When appointing directors, inside directors have to be recommended by the BoD first whereas outside directors have to be recommended by the Outside Director Recommendation Committee and agreed unanimously by all directors. In compliance with relevant laws, information on director candidates have to be faithfully disclosed and communicated to shareholders and stakeholders before the general shareholders’ meeting is held. Audit Committee consists of three internal directors who oversee and supervise operations and accountings of the company. Executive Compensation Category Total Compensation Approved Shareholders Average Payment per Director Note Inside Director 692,937 2,700,000 230,979 4 ppl Outside Director 288,000 2,700,000 48,000 6 ppl Note) 1. The amount approved by shareholders above is the combined amount of payment for both inside and outside directors. 2. The average payment per director is calculated by dividing the total payment with the number of directors (specified in the Note section above) at the end of the period. 3. No stock option 20 21 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Asiana Airlines strives to become a trusted and respected company by practicing ethical management based on trust and Ethical social responsibility. To fully implement ethical management, the company makes a principled stand abiding by market Management orders and fulfilling its ethical responsibilities as commonly demanded by society while observing the ethics code for corporations. This means the scope of its ethical management spans financial, legal, ethical, and charitable responsibilities expected of a company as well as compliance with laws and regulations. CEO ● Organization in Charge For proactive implementation and promotion of ethical management, the Supervisory Office on Corporate Ethics has been Business Ethics & Audit established directly reporting to CEO. In addition, the company has defined detailed action plans based on the established and announced code of ethics and ethical provisions. Business Ethics Business Ethics & Audit 1 & Audit 2 ● Ethical Management – Major Works & Objectives Maximize Management Efficiency Preempt fraud/error & accident Enhance management & operation Finance Audit Boost work efficiency Protect assets Reinforce ethical commitment Work Audit Ethics Audit Secure adequacy in work procedure/ Monitor revenue/cost/expense/asset Make sure managers always show implementation management decent conduct Identify cause for fraud/violation Raise awareness on eliminating fraud/violation Introduce advanced audit system Undertake periodic audit & education Establish ongoing monitoring system ● Ethical Management Roadmap Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Introduction of ethical Stabilization of ethical/ Establishment of ‘Beautiful management transparent management Company’ culture (2009-2011) (2012-2013) (2014-2015) -Periodic/planned inspection -Risk Management -Better corporate image -Inspection module establishment/ -More rigorous inspections -More rigorous inspection on initiatives to improvement -Internal report office facilitation prevent accidents -Operation of internal report office -Heightened ethical awareness -Ethical management implementation regime -Ethical provision/regime streamlining -Ethics index evaluation in overseas worksites -Ethics index introduction -Grand prize from transparent/ ethical -Ethical management training management awards Sustainability Management ● Ethical Management Implementation Program Ethical Management Website Education on Ethical Management The company’s Ethical Management Website Asiana Airlines raises awareness and builds consensus over ethical management by providing relevant education to introduces the concept of ethical management and provides information on code of ethics, all of its employees through various modalities. Ethical management is included in a range of education curriculums for ethical management principles, necessity and employees such as cyber education and trainings for new job task or new job post after work rotation or promotion. implementation plan for ethical management and the latest news in relevant matters. In 2012, cabin crew members and lateral hires(441 ppl), veterans, licensed pilots, ground crew(104 ppl), maintenance engineers(78 ppl), office workers(213 ppl) and overseas assignees(22 ppl) received education on work ethics. Ethical Management for Partners Asiana Airlines operate the campaign that prohibits employees from receiving money or gifts from partner companies. It is part of the efforts to have ethical management take a firm root in the corporate culture. An official notice calling for cooperation was sent to clients and partners, and self-monitoring regime was implemented in worksites. (February 2013) Ethical Management Monitoring Asiana Airlines has the ombudsman office in place to root out any unethical or indecent practices and unfair work handling by executives and employees. The ombudsman office is a channel for employees to submit their opinions directly to the ethics supervision office, and guarantees confidentiality providing varied protections to whistleblowers. It also monitors the compliance status with corporate regulations while examining to detect unethical conduct, if any, made either professionally or privately through periodic or ad-hoc inspections. Gov’t/Relevant Agencies Stakeholder consultation on relevant matters, info exchange on Communication overseas trends, exchange of suggestions, operation of a joint council Partners/Suppliers Shareholders/Investors win-win conferences IR meeting, IR conference, engaging partners, the business presentation, general Communication Day, info shareholders’ meeting, public sharing via the sourcing portal, disclosure, performance anfamily tours on good-practice nouncement partners Stakeholder Communication Customers Environment/Society Voice of Customers Eco-Flight, the carbon offset management system, customer program, the green comsatisfaction surveys, the pany council, support for multiservice quality monitoring cultural families, 1 company 1 regime, the company-wide village, support for low-income council on service quality Employees families, world heritages management internal report/payment syspreservation tem, Asiana cyber webzine(In the Cabin, English Breaker for flight attendants), corporate newsletters, the labor-management council 22 23 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● Corporate Culture Program Category Description Create a corporate culture conducive for understanding and trust between different sectors and posts, and All For One pleasant to work in Passion Plus Grow true Asiana people with proactive and positive mindset by sharing the 1st-year frontline experiences (first-year employees) and keeping the passion they had upon entering the company Improve communication capability of the flight crew and instill loyalty to the company along with Flight Crew Refreshment (FCR) professionalism Help mentees settle down within the organization and grow into specialists by tapping into rich experience Mentoring and knowledge of mentors Facilitate open communication between executives and employees, and improve cultural literacy by offering OZ Cultural Journey cultural events including movie/documentary screening or special lectures Educate parents and their children on how to lead a harmonious life with family and introduce family-friendly Asiana Beautiful Family corporate culture Open various cultural classes to support hobby or leisure activities of employees after work (e.g. swimming, Other Cultural Lectures yoga, POP handwriting, acoustic guitar, Pilates) Open Communication program, executive’s special lecture, relationship class to make better working condition Positive Communication Skill-up Course through harmony with employees from various dept. ● Employee Composition Employee Asiana Airlines has a total of 9,595 employees as of late 2012. Its number of employees increased by 522 people compared to the last year with 1,126 people newly joining the workforce and 604 people leaving the company. For the past few years, the number of employees has been increasing upwards of 5% every year. Total Number of Employees Female to male ratio 9,595 persons 5,239 women 54.6 % 9,073 4,356 men persons 45.4 % 8,580 persons 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Management Breakdown by Geography (Unit: persons) Breakdown by Job Type (Unit: persons) Number of the physically 8,652 3,557 3,417 challenged employees: 65 persons 264 254 183 141 1,353 1,154 85 16 98 16 Korea China Japan SEA Americas Europe Oceania General/Sales/ Pilots Cabin Crew Maintenance Dispatchers Others Airport Staff Engineers Female Managers On the executive level, there are 5 female managers with 1 as Vice President, 1 as Managing Director and 3 as Team Leaders. Temporary Staff As of late 2012, Asiana Airlines employed a total of 830 temporary workers: 769 workers are either interns on the incubation period or outsourced retired workers (seniors). The remaining 61 workers are fixed-term workers (contract workers/parttimers). Temporary workers are split into the following categories depending on their employment/job type. By Employment Contract (Unit: persons) Non-Contract Contract Category Total Intern Outsourced Part-timer Contract worker of workers (persons) 487 282 51 10 830 By Job Type (Unit: persons) General Office Worker Pilot Cabin Maintenance Total 173 116 480 61 830 24 25 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● Vision & Strategy Vision Talent Global Leaders for Creating Value & Performance Development Strategy Globalization Change Performance Right people create an Grow global organizational Performanceexpertise culture oriented •Sincere and Diligent •Studious and Learned Main grow key talents create an organizational create values both •Earnest and Driven task with global culture that goes for employees capability and toward communication and the company expertise and unity through education ● Mid-to Long-Term Roadmap Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Reinforce global Encourage life-long Let employees leadership learning initiate HRD -Global MBA, training of regional experts -The system of learning led by employees -Study clubs organized by employees -Safety/service MBA -Life-planning consulting -Learning programs that can directly improve -Advanced English course -A framework for life-long learning performance at work -Intensive foreign language courses -Advanced educational infra -Change Agents(talents for innovation) -Ongoing foreign language training programs -Introduction of an academic credit bank development -On-line foreign language learning -Knowledge-sharing led by employees -Corporate culture where voluntary -A culture of learning and sharing language learning is encouraged ● Global Key Talent Development Program Category Preparation for Each Job Skills Corporate Competency Key Talent (invited) Foreign Language Course Shared Course Job Position Development Building Intensive Working-Level (optional) Executive Course for new Domestic/ CEO course at domestic Cyber executives overseas universities (AMP), campus seminars Executive courses offered by (leadership) outside agency (job task) (foreign General Course for General job task All for One Outsourced Domestic Foreign Business English language) Manager new K1 Passenger flight OZ Cultural courses MBA language Business Chinese (cultural Freight flight Journey (evening/ course before/ Business Japanese Deputy Course for K1 Kumho Overseas class) Airport Cultural night) after work General candidates Maintenance lectures Asiana MBA (US) (English) Manager Operation MBA (Japan) (Chinese) Cabin service (Yonsei (China) (Japanese) Univ.) Intensive Safety/ TOEIC service MBA Intensive Regional Chinese expert Intensive Course for new Japanese Manger managers Assistant Course for manager candidates Manager Course for new assistant managers Employee Course for assistant Passion manager candidates Orientation for new Plus recruits/general/job specific Sustainability Management Education activity Training Category Description & Evaluation English camp English camp for employee’s children in vacation Cyber campus Open cyber campus on each duty and management administration Employee Training Expense CYBER foreign language course On-line contents to develop employees’ language skill Total Training Expense (KRW 1Mn) Cyber culture class On-line commissioned class of language, culture class, etc Per Capita Training Expense (KRW 1,000) Parents class Class for Communication of couples, the way of bringing up children 13,729 Children class Class for Self-direct learning and vision searching for children 12,186 12,793 Family class Employees’ family tour (historic site and Psychological testing) Culture class Culture classes such (Swimming, yoga, guitar) HR & Career Development Asiana Airlines offers trainings customized to each job task to develop experts in that specific work area. It also strength1,740 1,486 1,498 ens employee competitiveness and develops key talents with its streamlined and efficient job rotation system while helping employees develop their own careers based on their assigned work for vertical career development. 2010 2011 2012 Company Demand Maximize employee capability Accumulate capability and experience required for future needs Reduce employe e attrition Develop experts and successors per work type External Demand Expected Benefit Organizational structure becoming less hierarchical • For the organization Insecurity over lay-off Efficient use of human resources, Needs for sales experts due to Secured talents required for the future diversified sales environments Increased employee loyalty to the company Career • Higher HR value for the company More mid-level managers Development • For employees • Career security for individuals leaving for other companies Change of perspective in Acquisition of expertise and stable selfHR management: Focus on development, fulfilling one’s needs Higher marketability, Fulfilling one’s needs for growth Develop capability and improve expertise, Job experience fit for career development, Feel satisfaction through accomplishment Employee Demand A career development program has been in place for optimum talent development when hiring and assigning employees to help them get accustomed to their jobs, increase expertise and secure talents based on essential corporate needs while guaranteeing career security to employees. Recognizing the necessity to develop careers for employees, the company finalizes the career development plan of each employee with concrete goals based on interviews with the employee’s superiors. Through this process, superiors and team members have the opportunity to measure and evaluate capability of team members, and confirm career development plans for them. 26 27 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Performance Evaluation In order to motivate high performers, Asiana Airlines gives extra raise in the corporate pay scale during its annual performance evaluation for star performers per job position/type. High performers are also rewarded with extra promotion points according to their grade in the annual evaluation, which would later offer them a faster track for promotion. In addition, those who have received good grades in the Asiana MBA courses also get to earn extra credit for early advancement in the company to be given a chance where they can unlock their great potential. Exemplary employees and those who have made great contributions to the company are also rewarded on a monthly basis or on the company foundation day Employee Rewards (Unit: persons) Category ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 Employee Rewards 110 128 106 Rewards for Long Service) 1,244 946 980 ● Gender Equality & Maternity Support Human Rights Asiana Airlines commits itself to female talent employment and development, work-life balance and wholesome corporate culture to fulfill its responsibilities and roles as a family-friendly company that leads gender equality employment. Category Description From the diagnosis to the day before the maternity leave Prenatal Leave Entitled to a prenatal leave(up to 2 years) for childbirth and childcare 90 days in total + 30 days upon employee request Maternity Leave Paid leave including incentives to help employees maintain their usual income level Parental Leave 78% of employees took out parental leave after childbirth (highest rate in Korea) Care for the Pregnant Pregnant employees placed at posts with less workload upon their own request Female employees suffering from morning sickness, at risk of miscarriage or premature delivery strongly Prenatal Leave Encouraged encouraged to take prenatal leave Fertility Leave Reproductively challenged employees can take a leave for fertility treatment Introduced even before the relevant law enactment in 1999 Miscarriage/Stillborn Leave 30 days of leave given in addition to the legally mandatory leave Fetus Checkup Paid 4-hour leave assured for fetus checkup Gift for Childbirth & Leaves for KRW 500,000 per childbirth Lifecycle Events 3-day paid leave for childbirth of spouses guaranteed even before the relevant law enactment in 1999 Childcare Expense Support KRW 197,000 supported per child aged 6 or lower All employees (males & females) Every Friday as Family Day (Casual Friday when employees can leave the work at 5:00 p.m.) Family Day Support for employees to have quality time with their families ● Labor-Management Cooperation Asiana Airlines operates two labor-management councils to enhance mutual interests of labor and management, and facilitate active participation of its union members with periodic labor-management council meeting held on a quarterly basis. The membership of the Occupational Safety and Health Committee is evenly split between the labor and the management with five people coming from each front following Article 19 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. The Occupational Safety and Health Committee is also held on a quarterly basis with ad-hoc meetings organized whenever needs arise, and operation of the committee is subject to the corporate operational provisions for the committee. Sustainability Management Employee Grievance Counseling Asiana Airlines has opened a channel where employees can come, frankly talk about difficulties at work and receive counseling as part of its efforts to create a Beautiful Corporate Culture. For young and Internet-savvy employees, the company operates a grievance redress website within the company intranet in combination with other various offices for lodging complaints or counseling. Category Rendered Service Process for Solution C lick ‘Grievance Redress’ under ‘Industrial Relations’ in Telepia Grievance Redress for grievance or complaint 7 grievance cases handled in 2012 (1 open case, 6 closed cases) Report of and counseling for sexual Sexual Harassment Consult with HR manager in charge harassment OZ HUE(休) Port Psychological counseling Receive counseling from professional psychologists Grievance Redress Committee Asiana Airlines has established a grievance committee to redress employee complaints. The committee has 10 members with half of them from the labor and the other half from the management. When an employee files a complaint, the grievance committee discusses the issue and notifies the result in less than 10 days. Also, the corporate legal department offers legal consultations to employees who have to take care of lawsuits or legal disputes in their private lives in order to prevent any work distraction. Matters difficult to be resolved by the Lodge a complaint committee Grievance Redress Committee Refer to the LaborWorkers Members: 10 ppl (5 from the labor and Management Council Notify the result within 5 from the management) 10 days Grievance redress website Grievance redress office Counseling office ● Retirement Annuity Scheme Asiana Airlines, as part of its efforts to guarantee old-age income after retirement to its employees and their receiving severance pension, introduced a retirement annuity scheme in November 2011. The annuity was paid initially as defined benefit but starting from 2013 and onwards, employees are given the option to shift to the defined contribution scheme. To guarantee employees’ entitlement for pension, the company has designated multiple financial entities to run the annuity program and the pension fund is accumulated in the outside account. The accumulation ratio stood at 46% as of late 2012, which is scheduled to increase gradually. 28 29 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Health Counseling & Care Employee Safety Asiana Airlines offers primary health care at worksites to give a prompt and easy access for employees’ health issues or & Health emergencies at work. The company has a collaborative network with other medical institutions to provide professional healthcare. We also keep monitoring and vaccinate employee against flu for infectious disease control. Employee can access their health information easily through an integrated health information system throughout their employment. Health Exams Moreover regular physical examination for ground staff, special health checkup service is provided with consideration of job characteristics, work environment and risk factors prior to and after new job assignment, overseas assignment or returning to job. If health problems or risk factors are identified in the medical check-up, including potential health problem, can receive appropriate health monitoring service throughout the year. We provide physical examination specially designed for aviation industry to the cockpit crew in order to help them maintain flight capacity and safety as well as promote their 2012 Health Promotion Program physical conditions Encourage physical exercise Objective using pedometer Work Environment Supervision Period Apr. 9 ~ June 1, 2012 (8 weeks) Work environment assessments and inspections are conducted, engaging health managers, occupational safety superviThose who want to have sors and safety managers to monitor and investigate work environment for workers such as aircraft, maintenance fields Designed regular exercise (3 or more and hangars. So, we identify and address risk factors through the process and improve workplaces. for times/week), or who can receive text messages Those currently participating Visiting Medical Service Exempt in other health enhancement We provide the Visiting Medical Service monthly for workers who don’t have chance to access medical services easily. programs The service scope includes not only health consultation, health education and primary care but also work environment Health education on physical exercise, a booklet for monitoring and improvement. exercise log Pedometer Program Text messages rooting for Health Promotion Program their exercise 3 times per services week to some participants For consistent and structured health management, we provide health education individually for health risks and appropriBody composition ate health management with improvement lifestyle. measurement upon the start and 4th/8th week into the In 2012, health promotion projects such as ‘+3,000 Steps’ conduct employees to improve lifestyle himself in health program promotion programs. Sustainability Management Health Service Programs Training in 2012 (Unit: persons) We provide such kind of training as in-flight emergency aid, personal hygiene, travel medicine, and prevention of musculoskeletal, cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases. We also provide other health education for employees with 15,093 specialized programs by CRM(Crew Resources Management) experts on how to deal with flight fatigue and circadian rhythm disruption. Outcome 7,274 7,018 Healthcare services of Asiana Airlines help the company to maintain the lowest level of pilot’s permanent disqualification rate and reduce health risks through consistent and systemic health improvement. We promote the health management 3,359 of workers in order to prevent occupational diseases or accidents. 1,616 To ensure a safe and comfortable flight for passengers, the company reviews documents and communicates with passenger and his physicians. We offer specialized services such as Meet & Assist service at airports by flight nurse before Health Primary Follow-up Health Care for and after flight and a 24-hour hot line call service. The official website of Asiana Airlines posted details about in-flight CheckCare Care Education the Sick ups & Infirm settings and medical services. Under the vision of “Marching toward a Beautiful Future with Partners”, which drives corporate growth inclusive of its Win-Win partner companies, Asiana Airlines aspires for win-win management by building infrastructure, developing partners with Management excellence, facilitating communication and supporting partner companies. Vision for Win-Win Management ● Win-Win Management Plan (mid to long term) 2014~ Marching toward a Beautiful Future with Partners 2012~2013 Maximize service and quality competitiveness by identifying and developing partners with Performance competitive edge and share the results 2010~2011 sharing for win-win through partnership management Win-win management facilitation Platform Higher transparency in procurement Build infra building for Introduction of performance-sharing program Grow partners Facilitate Support for win-win win-win with excellence communication partners management management Extended roll-out of good partners system Suggestion scheme development Name change of Purchase Team Win-win collaboration index Grievance Win-Win Management Program redress & idea suggestion scheme AVEPS(Asiana Value Enhancement Win-win infra building Purchasing System), ethical framework defining and roll-out Partner assessment, good partner ● Partner Evaluation & Selection Scheme Good system introduction, compensation partners development based on evaluation grades, Partner Selection support for events & education Day for Partners Communication, There are three departments in charge of procurement in Asiana Airlines: Requisition Department in charge of product Interactive grievance redress, suggestion for communication good practices, surveys on partner specification review, purchase requisition and examination, Budget Management Department in charge of reviewing satisfaction and approving purchase budget, and Procurement Department in charge of purchase and payment. A corporate purchase Support for guideline has been established to enhance transparency and fairness of the purchase process. 100% cash payment partners 30 31 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Process to Ensure Fair Procurement Purchase Purchase Partner Decision Request Selection Quotation biddings Compile requisitions for needed materials Submit purchase requests to • Competitive bid Finalize specifications and needs for • Comparison of quotations Purchase Department (AVEPS) materials based on relevant policy • Review of single quotation The process guides purchasing department to select the most optimum partners in consideration of price, quality, deadline management, follow-up measures, good practices, recommendation by relevant departments and environmental footprints of their products. Partner Evaluation Asiana Airlines evaluates its partners on an annual basis or more frequently, and leverages the evaluation results to select the right partners whenever there is modification to existing product specification or new product development. To decide partner grades, partners supplying products that can belong to the same category are grouped together for relative or absolute evaluation Evaluation Criteria & Good Partners Scheme Partner evaluation criteria consist of 30% from corporate evaluation and 70% from product/transaction evaluation, and the actual evaluation is conducted with more detailed evaluation items. Corporate assessment for partners looks at management environment and operational capability for transaction while product/transaction assessment has criteria such as price, quality and service, delivery, shipment deadline and storage in warehouse. Partners are assigned into A~D grades based on the compiled evaluation results, and Grade A partners are awarded with various benefits including excellence certificate, flight tickets to Southeast Asia, trainings and the long-term transaction contract. Grade B companies receive domestic flight tickets, a plaque of certification and the long-term contract, and Grade C partners are subject to review for improvement. Grade D companies receive written warnings and are subjected to a review for contract termination. Partner Evaluation Process Evaluation Good partners Periodic Partner selection for results compiled evaluation grading later reference into DB Special Column 2012 Win-Win Conference with Partners On April 26, 2012, Asiana Airlines held Win-Win Conference with Partners attended by 20 presidents of its partner companies where it encouraged and commended its partners with good practices supporting Asiana to deliver the best customer service even under adverse environments. At the conference, Asiana CEO announced the company’s firm commitment to communication and trust with partners for mutual interest and growth. Presidents of partner companies voiced their valued opinions, recognizing the benefits of periodic business consulting and training offered by Asiana Airlines. They all said such support from Asiana helps them enhance their own service quality. They also commended the win-win partner conference highlighting the value of partnership with Asiana Airlines. Since win-win relationship with partners is implemented by Improving the quality of life for all of Kumho Asiana's stakeholders , Asiana Airlines is proactively incorporating the opinions of partners on the transaction process and cost saving. The company leverages the idea suggestion and grievance redress schemes to have mutually beneficial communication in place, and provides online foreign language/service coordinator courses to employees of the partner companies for their career development and service quality improvement. ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Economy Asiana Airlines distributes values it has created evenly and fairly to all stakeholders, rising to both internal and external challenges with long-term investment and flexible strategy. Economy ● Internal & External Market Conditions Aviation Industry In 2012, the overall number of passengers increased 11.9% for international flights and 3.0% for domestic flights YoY Overview (year on year) but the international cargo volume declined 3.2% YoY, posting a downward trend. International flights carried 47.7 million passengers per year thanks to the growing popularity of the Korean Wave, increase in foreign tourists for cultural destinations and medical services with increasing demand for free independent travel. Other factors such as increased capacity of low-cost airlines for international flights, longer employee vacations of major companies, and increase in family traveling with the full introduction of five day per week schooling system have also contributed to the booming demand for international flight. As for domestic flights, despite some adverse factors (e.g. more frequent typhoons, erratic weather patterns, and reduction in inland flights due to the extended operation of KTX), the demand has continued its upward trend, carrying 21.6 million passengers for the year thanks to the booming tourism in Jeju Island and proactive marketing efforts of airline companies. However, unfortunately, the international air freight market didn’t show such positive trend as it was adversely impacted by the global economic recession and increased production outsourcing of the IT industry, carrying just 2.51 million tons per year. All in all, the number of outbound Korean passengers increased 8.2% YoY with inbound foreign passengers increasing 13.7%. The number of both inbound and outbound Asiana Market Share in 2012 passengers went up 10.6% from the previous year. 2012 (Unit : %) 2011 Asiana Airlines Sales Offices & Branches 25.6 Korea 5 business offices, 2 passenger service offices, 3 cargo service offices, 4 sales branches 24.6 23.5 23.5 21.4 21.1 Japan 13 business offices, 1 passenger service office, 1 cargo service office China 19 business offices, 1 passenger service office, 1 cargo service office, 1 sales branch Northeast/south Asia 15 offices, 1 passenger service office, 2 cargo service offices, 3 sales branches (135 persons), 13 off-line GSAs Americas 2 business offices, 4 passenger service offices, 6 cargo service offices, 2 cargo sales branches (188 persons), 6 off-line GSAs Europe 3 business offices, 1 passenger service office, 5 cargo service offices, 1 cargo sales branch (73 persons), 7 off-line GSAs Domestic Int’l P Int’l Oceania 7 off-line GSAs Oceania : 2 business offices, 1 s ales branch (10 persons), 1 off-line GSA Passenger assenger Cargo ● External Environment Passenger In 2012, Asiana’s passenger flight service recorded all-time high performance, carrying 47.7 million people on international flights (11.9% up) and 21.6 million on domestic flights (3.0% up). On the international passenger flights, the number of passengers to Japan, China and Southeast Asia all increased. Especially, the number of passengers to Japan went up at a double-digit rate for six months after it bottomed out in March 2011 due to the earthquakes and the subsequent nuclear accident, but after the Korea-Japan relationship went sour in October, it started to show a downward trend, putting the overall growth rate at 11.0%. Passengers to China increased 10.9% YoY thanks to the eased visa requirements while passengers to Southeast Asia went up 15.1% thanks to the increase in vacationers. Passengers on domestic flights increased 23.6% boosted by the increase in international flight transfers and increased interest in Jeju island among foreign tourists, but the number of passengers at Gimhae, Yeosu and Ulsan airports went down after the KTX operation got extended. The number of foreign tourists coming to Korea is expected to increase with consistent development of the MICE* tourism for the Pyeongchang Winter Special Olympics(Jan.) and the World Energy Congress(Oct.) along with the growing popularity of the Korean Wave. As a consequence, the international flight passengers are estimated to reach 50 million and domestic flights will also see more passengers thanks to the growing tourism in Jeju. For the mid-to long-term, a sustained growth is also projected for passenger flight demand, riding on the growth of the East Asia economic bloc including China.* * Source : Outlook report by Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport * MICE : Meeting, Incentives, Convention, Exhibition 34 35 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● Asiana’s Response To effectively respond to the changing external environment, Asiana airlines has reinforced its competitiveness for customer satisfaction by introducing new equipment and facilities and expanding its network. seven new flights per week were added into the route to Vladivostok, building the platform to strengthen its network in the Russian region, and two new flights to Yangon, Myanmar were introduced starting from December as the route is expected to see more demand thanks to the country’s sustained economic growth. In March, the flights to Chingdao, China increased seven times per week, enabling Asiana to firmly establish itself as the biggest airline with two flights between the two countries every day. Starting from September, the number of flights to Hong Kong increased seven times to operate four flights every day. In parallel with such measures, Asiana also worked to enhance its competitiveness on the long-haul flights by increasing the number of flights to Honolulu five times per week to have daily operations and adding one more flight to Paris to have four flights per week. The on-going strategic efforts to enhance profitability and flight competitiveness for short-to mid-haul routes and long-haul routes, the revenue from passenger flights increased 7% YoY to record KRW 3 trillion 588 billion. Revenue Share by Flight Route(passenger) Flight Destination 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Japan 20.8% 22.4% 21.6% 19.7% 18.5% Southeast Asia 21.1% 19.0% 19.3% 20.3% 20.3% Northeast Asia 17.8% 15.7% 17.5% 18.4% 18.2% Americas 15.7% 19.0% 19.3% 19.5% 20.3% Europe 6.6% 6.6% 7.0% 7.7% 8.4% Oceania 6.1% 6.3% 6.0% 5.8% 5.9% Korea 12.0% 11.0% 9.2% 8.5% 8.4% Asiana Airlines is actively leveraging the growing popularity of Korean cultural products in overseas markets to develop innovative marketing initiatives. The company sponsors K-Pop concerts along with other cultural events organized by National Gugak Center and National Museum of Contemporary Art to promote its corporate brand as the leader in cultural marketing. The company also contributed greatly in attracting the record-high number of foreign tourists by selling a range of tourist products (e.g. Dae Jang Geum, IT, Jeju speedboat tour programs) and reinforced its SNS marketing to have real-time communication with customers, which ultimately improved the brand value of Asiana Airlines. In 2013 and onwards, Asiana Airlines will make strategic moves by introducing latest equipment and passenger system, increasing mid-to long-haul flight routes and boosting profitability to effectively respond to external changes. ● External Environment Cargo The European fiscal crisis continued in 2012, resulting in the prolonged global economic recession and growth slowdown in many emerging markets like China that again led to decline in export to those markets. Heated competition with maritime transport also undermined the growth momentum of the air cargo market. The consequent decline in air cargo demand brought down the market price, which, in combination with cost increase due to high oil price, eroded profitability. The transport volume also decreased 3.2% from 2011 with the shipment volume recording 2.5 million tons (departing from/arriving at Korea, transshipment included). For 2013, international cargo is expected to post a slight increase YoY thanks to the gradual recovery of the global IT industry and increasing smartphone usage in emerging markets. For the long term, the growth trend is expected to be sustained with the geographical advantage of Incheon Int’l Airport and FTAs with EU and the US. Economy ● Asiana’s Response Despite adverse internal and external market conditions for air cargo transport, Asiana Airlines achieved a noteworthy performance of 740,000 tons, a 5.5% increase from 2011, by increasing supply and reinforcing its sales capability. Its air cargo revenue recorded as high as KRW 386.9 billion. This was a remarkable feat achieved while competitors all recorded negative growth in their shipment volume. As a result, the domestic market share of Asiana Airlines increased by 2.1%p. The air cargo market in 2012 can be characterized by decline in export to the US and Europe in the wake of the fiscal crisis, and the sluggish market trend in Korea. To overcome such difficulties, Asiana Airlines inaugurated a flight to Dallas, the logistics hub for the US midland, and another flight to Hanoi, the emerging production hub of Southeast Asia, to provide a logistics solution to big businesses like Samsung and LG, effectively increasing the demand for Asiana cargo transport service. And as salmon export of the Northern Europe increased, Asiana has changed its European cargo point from Gothenburg to Oslo, which is closer to the salmon fishing site, enhancing profitability and service quality. The company has also introduced efficient sales strategy to have an optimum portfolio and sales structure, which can be leveraged to replace the sluggish demand of the Korean market. Revenue Share by Flight Route (Cargo) Flight Destination 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Japan 5.7% 5.7% 6.1% 6.8% 6.1% Southeast Asia 16.6% 14.8% 15.2% 15.1% 15.4% Northeast Asia 7.6% 9.0% 9.0% 8.6% 8.9% Americas 42.4% 46.5% 48.3% 46.6% 46.2% Europe 26.2% 22.4% 20.3% 21.5% 22.2% Oceania 1.0% 1.0% 0.8% 0.9% 0.8% Korea 0.5% 0.5% 0.4% 0.4% 0.4% In 2013, the focus will be placed on increasing effectiveness and efficiency of the company’s sales policies while augmenting its market share captured in 2012. The 1st priority is increasing profitability and scale by tightening its control over external factors such as oil price or exchange rate while restructuring its cargo route structure for cost cutting. 2012 Performances in Summary (Unit :Unit: Passenger – 1M ppl KM, Cargo1MT KM, Value – KRW 1M) Business The 25th Period The 24th Period The 23th Period Category Area Volume Value Volume Value Volume Value 1. Passenger 32,970 3,671,076 30,311 3,460,548 29,249 3,211,935 Domestic 1,664 307,469 1,624 290,594 1,620 298,095 Int’l 31,206 3,383,807 28.687 3,169,954 27,629 2,925,940 Air 2. Cargo 4,209 1,450,584 3,942 1,404,101 3,561 1,409,232 Transport Domestic 16 6,094 14 5,391 15 5,253 Int’l 4,194 1,444,490 3,927 1,399,710 3,647 1,400,979 Total 5,121,660 4,964,649 4,619,167 Formula • Volume Passenger : Number of Passengers X KM = Σ(number of passengers X flight distance) Cargo : Transport Tons X KM = Σ(transport tons X flight distance) • Value Volume X Yield 36 37 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Asiana Airlines faithfully fulfills its responsibility by sharing value created through its business process. In 2012, Asiana Value Sharing Airlines spent approximately KRW 4.3 trillion as expenses, which was widely distributed to its stakeholders across the with Stakeholders value chain. 0.2 Category Expense (Unit: KRW 1K) 9.5 3.5 13.9 Personnel 593,943,979 6.2 6.2 Depreciation, amortization on intangible assets 266,774,596 Fuel 2,135,174,660 10.5 Unit : % Rental (aircraft, building, etc) 450,022,710 Maintenance (materials+contract maintenance fee) 266,745,898 Airport (ground operation, airport facilities usage, ground passenger handling) 404,262,638 49.9 Personnel Interest 149,524,390 Depreciation, amortization on intangible assets Fuel Taxes, public dues 8,426,162 Rental Maintenance Airport Interest Taxes, public dues Asiana Airlines gives all stakeholders an access to corporate information on business performance and other important Disclosure issues, and enhances its accounting transparency through disclosure. Starting from the 19th disclosure period in 2006, the company introduced a certifying system to have its *periodic reports reviewed by each team in order to be prepared against any possible lawsuits due to violation of the Capital Market & Financial Investment Law and class action lawsuits, holding each team who has generated the report accountable and generating a checklist by sector to prevent omission or errors in the periodic reports. * Periodic reports refer to business reports, semi-annual reports and quarterly reports. Category Business Report Semi-Annual/Quarterly Reports Corporate overview, business performance, financial information, Disclosed Information Business operations during the period audit opinion at the end of the business year Period In less than 60 days after the business year is over In less than 45 days after the quarterly closing date Disclosure in ‘12 1 time 3 times Note) The semi-annual/quarterly reports have to be disclosed in less than 45 days of the closing date but it can be suspended up to 60 days for two years(2011~12) upon IFRS introduction. Asiana Airlines actively utilizes its fair disclosure system to promptly deliver the business performance information to investors in an effort to enhance its accounting transparency. Any information that may materially impact its business operation is announced without any delay. Recognized for its efforts for faithful disclosure, Asiana Airlines has been selected as *Best Disclosure Practice Company by KRX Stock Market Division. This is a commendation for the company’s efforts to address information divide and prevent any errors and omission by implementing a validating system when departments generate documents to be reviewed. Going forward, Asiana Airlines will continue to create best practices to give trust to investors. * Best Disclosure Practice Company : Every year, KRX Stock Market Division selects 5 out of 1,785 listed companies that have demonstrated commitment to accurate and transparent disclosure in an effort to enhance soundness and credibility of the stock market. Economy Major Risks Risk Airline companies have to closely monitor oil price and exchange rates since they have more foreign currency-denomiManagement nated debts and spending than assets and income with continuing demand for air fuel. The high exchange rate which put a drag on the company in 2008~09 went down to KRW 1,108 per dollar in 2011 and KRW 1,071 per dollar in 2012, but airlines cannot be relieved by the temporary decline as the exchange rate always remains volatile. When the won-dollar rate declines by KRW 10, the company’s asset status is improved by KRW 12.8 billion and its income by KRW 10.4 billion. The fuel cost, which accounts for the biggest part in the corporate cost structure, took up around mid 10% in the cost of goods sold in the early 2000s, but the proportion soared to as high as 35% recently. As for the foreign exchange rate, the company employs internal management methods such as opting for a different currency for payment depending on changes in the exchange rates, and then increasing the borrowings in long-position (income>expense) currencies or using the program hedge based on the exchange rates in order to respond to fluctuations. As for protection against rapidly changing oil price, the company employs program hedge which purchases a certain portion of oil for future needs in consideration of fuel surcharge, the correlation between oil price and business performance and the oil price trend to reduce volatility in business performance. Moreover, to reduce interest rate risk, Asiana Airlines maintains the ratio between fixed and variable rate for loans and aircraft rentals to prepare itself against performance volatility that can be expanded by interest rate fluctuation. ※“Program Hedge” is a hedging technique to sustainably purchase the same amount of air transport oil and dollars needed for a defined period at the future market to average out the purchasing price of air transport oil or dollars during the specific period. Risk Management Scheme Asiana Airlines establishes and applies risk management policies for more structured and efficient risk management. A permanent risk management committee has also been established to promptly respond to external risks such as exchange rates, oil price and interest rate. The risk management committee fashions risk management strategy, defines hedging tactics and sets target hedge ratios with Strategic Planning Division Head as Chair. The risk management committee holds quarterly meetings along with ad-hoc meetings on a needs basis, passing agendas with attendance by more than two thirds of the members and support by more than half of the attending members. 38 39 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Asiana Airlines has an internal fair transaction compliance program in place to ensure voluntary compliance with compeFair Transaction tition rules for fair transaction and better competitiveness. For more rigorous compliance, the company provides information on relevant laws home and abroad, and case examples of the relevant law enforcement via the bulletin board for the program. In 2012, regular trainings were provided to employees working in relevant practices. Overseas assignees, new employees of the Group, and interns also received education, and those working at high-risk departments attended a series of trainings on the anti-trust acts and fair transaction acts of the US and Europe. The company’s fair transaction compliance guideline was revised at the end of 2012 to be distributed across all teams/branches home and abroad for reference by employees. ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Customer Satisfaction Asiana Airlines aspires to achieve 'customer satisfaction through the safest, superior service'. Under the business credo, all of its employees dedicate themselves to offering distinct and differentiated services that can truly move the hearts of customers. Customer Satisfaction Asiana Airlines, which has worked to realize ‘Customer Satisfaction through the safest, superior service’ based on the leadership’s unwavering commitment, established itself as a global service leader with the top-class safety and service in the industry. ● Reservation & Ticketing Service Asiana Club Passengers flying with Asiana Airline can join Asiana Club. Members start out as Silver and can raise their membership status to Gold, Diamond, Diamond Plus and Platinum as they amass more mileages. With higher membership status, come various and differentiated benefits such as having a separate counter for fast check-in, additional free baggage service and lounge service. Other benefits are also offered to members such as discounts and mileages for domestic/ overseas hotels, car rental and credit card companies. Advanced Reservation System Asiana Airlines has invested KRW 60 billion and upwards of 110 people to deploy the newest system at its domestic and overseas sales networks and destination airports with the plan to start operating the system from November 2013, signing a contract with Amadeus, the world-renowned IT service company for airlines, to launch Altea Customer Management Solution. Once the newest system is deployed, customers will be able to receive one-stop service from ticket to hotel and car reservation, and ticketing. Getting a refund from air tickets will be much faster, being completed in just 30 seconds, promising prompt and convenient services to customers. ● Automated Airport Service Airport services have been automated to enhance customer experience (e.g. less wait time). Service Description Domestic One-Pass Board the plane with tickets printed at home Online/Mobile Assign seats and complete the boarding process via the Internet or smart phone, Accelerate the service process at airports Check-in Self Check-in Use self check-in kiosks with no need for waiting Real Time Info for Inform domestic flight passengers of their wait numbers when they have to wait for flight ticketing Waiting Customers Asiana Airlines developed a mobile application named ‘My Flight’ in 2012 that offers various tips for traveling. My Flight delivers time-based travel information(e.g. automated services, passport or visa check, boarding closing time, baggage charge, weather at destinations, exchange rates, and airports). 42 43 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● Special Care Service Asiana Airlines offers distinct services to passengers with special needs (i.e. pregnant, physically challenged and elderly passengers). Hansarang Lounge has been opened in Incheon Int’l Airport for the convenience of physically challenged passengers. It is the 1st lounge opened only for the physically challenged where they can enjoy comfortable rest and fast boarding services. With barrier-free interior Hansarang design such as lower fixtures and no threshold along with Braille points, the lounge also offers a range of entertainment services. Since Lounge the opening date in June, 2011, about 18,000 physically challenged customers of Asiana has started their journeys at Hansarang Lounge. Experts are invited to train employees at the lounge to offer customized services to the challenged passengers, and a wheelchair tag is placed on baggage of Hansarang customers so that they can find and receive their baggage fast with no mistake. Passengers flying with their old-age parents can choose seats on their own preferences, and Hyo staff calls the passengers one Hyo (filial day before the departure to give necessary information on air travel to help them have more comfortable and enjoyable flight piety) Service experiences. Happy Mom Moms traveling with their infants can receive various supports to minimize the discomfort they might feel while breastfeeding during /PreMom flight along with priority services when boarding for flight. Pregnant women can use ‘PreMom’ service that cares for the passengers Service from the departing airport to the destination, enhancing their service experience. ● Differentiated Service MICE Support Asiana Airlines operates MICE Airport Support Center in an effort to showcase its quality airport services to VIPs home and abroad, and create synergy effects between its sales activities and services. The center, which commenced its operation on January 15, 2010, offers group passengers (more than 10 people) in the MICE industry services like choosing their preferred seats, and getting priority for baggage handling if they request for the specialized services. Their requests are reviewed prior to their boarding and shared with airports of departure, stopover, and destination to offer seamless service. Mice Center Services in 2012 • Used by : A total of 13,761 passengers from 179 entities including athletics for 2012 London Olympic Games, public officials from Shaanxi Province * MICE : Industries for Meeting, Incentives, Convention, Exhibition Frequent flyers of Asiana Airlines can use Premium Secretary Service designed for business travelers such as processing the returning flight in advance. Weihai Point Golf Express Service launched by Weihai airport was extended to Yantai airport. Weihai Point Golf Express Service is one-stop service offered in golf resort as more and more golf tourists visit the destination. It is a new type of service specifically designed for customers of Weihai Point Hotel & Golf Resort. Customer Satisfaction ● Special Onboard Service Asiana Airlines indulges its passengers with its unique and differentiated onboard services that go beyond the boundaries of the conventional services to entertain passengers during flight. The special onboard service division consisting of 13 teams at present offers services like cocktail making, the cabin crew experience, illustration drawing, tarot card, latte art, sommelier, chalk art, photogenic contest, love letter, on-the-crew chef services. Those specialty services are offered three times per month mostly on the long-haul flights to Americas, Europe and Oceania which take longer than nine hours with special offering at honeymoon flights to Sipan and Phuket majorly for newly-weds or group tourists. ● In-Flight Meal Service Having introduced new cuisines including Kimchi Stew, Bean Sprout Rice, Tofu Skin Wrap, Chogyetang(ginseng chicken soup) in 2012, Asiana Airlines works to promote Korean culinary to domestic and overseas passengers adding stories to its menu book based on advisory from the Institute of Korean Royal Cuisine. In parallel with this, the company has also developed new fusion menus such as steak with white Kimchi, Kimchi bacon wrap, and etc to make Korean food more accessible and familiar to foreign passengers. Healthy and wholesome rice snacks have also been developed to please the palate of passengers and contribute to farming communities by facilitating consumption of Korean agricultural products. Premium Wine (special selection) Wines carefully selected by Asiana wine consultant group of renowned sommeliers Asiana Dining Experience Program S emi-annual program launched in 2012. Participants experience the catering services designed to improve their understanding on in-flight meals and give their feedbacks ● Entertainment Passengers can enjoy all kinds of entertainments starting from music, games, recently released movies, documentaries, sports and news programs through the AVOD system, having all those contents at their fingertips with personal monitor screens attached at the back of every seat and handsets with various features. First-class passengers have more differentiated service such as the world’s best noise-canceling headsets to enjoy more vivid and higher-quality sound and image while business-class passengers can have the upgraded noise-blocking headsets by BOSS. Partnership Agreement with Arirang TV Asiana Airlines has become the 1st to sign a partnership agreement with Arirang TV. The agreement, signed in May 2012, is for airing Arirang TV programs during flight. Starting from June, Arirang TV programs were included in the in-flight contents to give passengers the option to watch Korean pop contents and programs with the distinct sentiment and flavor of the Korean culture. The partnership is recognized highly as a meaningful endeavor to develop K-Pop and other Korean cultural contents. 44 45 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● VOC Management System Customer Asiana Airlines has introduced a new VOC system to reinforce its VOC handling capability, preempt customer complaints, Satisfaction and have more structured management scheme in place. The new VOC system is proof of Asiana’s commitment to take System every necessary measure for service quality management and bad practices correction. Complaints or customer requests are promptly dealt with by frontline employees through ‘Customer Complaints One Stop Service’ with compensatory measures fit for customer needs, greatly enhancing loyalty of the clientele. ● Initiatives to Better Customer Satisfaction Service Quality Monitoring by All Employees Asiana Airlines places service quality officers at the customer contact points to monitor service quality. When employees go on a business trip by plane, they report their service experiences to the top management and relevant teams, which would be referenced for service quality improvement. Coupled with this, on/offline customer satisfaction survey is conducted periodically to measure customer needs and service quality. Customer satisfaction surveys on frequent flyers/ homepage visitors, service quality survey by service agencies home and abroad, and audits have been leveraged as tools for ongoing service quality analysis and service enhancement. Customer Satisfaction Improvement Committee Customer Satisfaction Improvement Committee consisting of the top management, relevant executives and department heads are held on a periodic basis to work as the top decision-making body for service strategy and policies. When there are issues requiring coordination of different opinions between departments on customer service criteria/procedure or development of service policies, the committee holds a meeting where the top management makes decisions themselves to promptly create a momentum for service improvement. * Customer Satisfaction Improvement Committee : A corporate body which holds meetings to develop, review and decide plans on how to operate service teams and prevent recurrence of customer complaints Customer Satisfaction ● K-Pop Marketing Marketing Having extended into various channels for customer communication, Asiana Airlines started supporting K-Pop marketing from 2012 to help the zeal for Korean culture spread throughout the Asian region. The company signed a business partnership with ‘M-Live’, the global concert brand of CJ E&M in February 2012 and YG Entertainment in January 2013. The partnerships offer various benefits such as reserved business class seats for artists on overseas tour concerts, discounts for relevant officials for overseas cultural performances, exemption of baggage charge, and other benefits in reservation, ticketing and boarding. ● Dae Jang Geum Tour Marking Visit Korea Year 2012, Asiana Airlines launched Dae Jang Geum Tour program that includes places featured in the famous namesake drama in partnership with Visit Korea Year Committee. It was launched in January 2012, the program offers a 3-day tour to partake in various events featuring Korean traditional cuisine and drinks, places where the drama was filmed and famous destinations in Seoul. ● SNS Communication Asiana Airlines is actively leveraging SNS as channel for interactive communication with customers and major promotions. With the most expansive networks of followers and friends in the SNS world among airlines of Korea, Asiana Airlines proactively reaches out to customers by promoting events, updating corporate information, responding to requests real-time, communicating customer complaints or compliments and notifying any changes in operation via Twitter, Facebook and me2day. ● Dream Wings Dream Wings is a global talent raising program organized by Asiana Airlines to sponsor dream and passion of college youths. They can form a team with 1~3 people and submit a plan for their ‘Dream Travel’ to anywhere in the five regions (West Europe, the US, China, Turkey, Vietnam). After on/offline screenings, 10 teams are selected as finalists in May to partake in the 2-day ‘Dream Camp’ in Korea, and travel across the five regions during their summer breaks with sponsorship coming from Asiana Airlines to help them live their dreams. In 2012, the contestants for the 2nd program of Dream Wings were recruited. The selected ‘Best Dreamers’ received support to participate in overseas camps and activities under the slogan ‘Travel Your Dreams’. The 2nd recruitment also stirred up enthusiasm from many college students with 1,276 teams (2,675 youths) submitting their applications for the program, recording the competition ratio of 130:1. And starting from 2012, preschoolers, primary/secondary students are also given an opportunity to participate in this program. 46 47 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Special Column Asiana Airlines was named 2012 Best Overall Airline in the World by the US Business Traveler, the world’s famous travel magazine, in January 2013. Business Traveler’s Airline in the World is given only to those with superb reservation, airport and in-flight services. Asiana Airlines was regarded highly for its OZ First Suite, the newest first class seat, and OZ Quadra Smartium, the premium business class seat, along with its top-notch in-flight services including chef and sommelier service. OZ Quadra Smartium is the newest brand for the business class of Asiana Airlines which has the four smart features – going fully flat, much more personal space, customized seats and a smarter seat configuration for in-flight comfort which gives every passenger a direct access to the aisle. Other distinct services by Asiana Airlines include Onboard Crew Chef & Sommelier Service offered by flight attendants who have received trainings at prestigious culinary or wine schools in France or the UK. To please the taste buds of passengers, the attendants who have completed the chef course are dressed in chef’s clothes and present a range of delicacies from appetizers to lamb rib or course dishes, and the attendants who received the sommelier education are also dressed up like sommeliers to give recommendation and information about the wine options Asiana can offer. After being recognized as the Airline of the Year by Air Transport World in 2009, Asiana Airlines achieved the honor of receiving five Airline of the Year awards from Skytrax in 2010, Global Traveler in 2011, Premier Traveler in 2012 and Business Traveler for this year. The recognition for five consecutive years clearly proves the fact Asiana Airlines offers superb service that can truly satisfy its customers. Asiana History of Airline of the Year Date (local date) Chosen by Feb. 17, 2009 Air Transport World of the US May 20, 2010 Skytrax of the UK Dec. 1, 2011 Global Traveler of the US Dec. 11, 2012 Premier Traveler of the US Jan. 10, 2013 Business Traveler of the US Customer Satisfaction Safety has always been the primary mandate and mission for Asiana Airlines. Accordingly, the company has continuously Safety improved its safety management system developed in January 2008. For safety management, personnel, environmental Management and physical factors that affect airplane operation are examined comprehensively to root out risk factors and potential hazards that may lead to an accident. Safety campaigns and safety enhancement trainings are also offered on a regular basis for Asiana employees to help them implement safety practices every day. Safety Policy ● Safety Management System Strongly committed to safety, Asiana Airlines removes risk factors at the source and provides safer air transport service • A siana Airlines’ foremost mission is to by establishing its safety system in accordance with the ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization) policy in 2008, satisfy its valuable customers by meeting their demands to provide safety exceeding one year before the mandated year (2009). With this, it became the first airline in Korea to build such an integrated global standards. safety management system through which it is providing the best safety service to customers. • Asiana Airlines operates its Safety Management System to ensure safety of the highest level while devoting relentless ent Risk F acto efforts towards continuous safety ssm r enhancement. Ass ication e entif • Asiana Airlines’ safety policy will undergo s Id Safety Report Zero unceasing scrutiny and continuous revision Target & Internal Aircraft so that it is in conformance with the Setting t Review Accident en company’s quality, security, environmental, elopm Deventation Risk A and health policies. Res /Impponse lysis • Asiana Airlines will set and meet its Safety lem na Goal to conform to those set forth in the State’s Aviation Safety programme while each and every employee will fulfill all related duties and responsibilities related Target Setting Risk Management Process Target Achievement to the Safety Management System in order to achieve safety objectives. • Asiana Airlines encourages voluntary participation and a just culture with Safety management system of Asiana Airlines has been designed with focus on prevention of safety occurrences. in regards to the collection and application of aviation safety information. a structured and comprehensive manner. Hazards in flight operation, maintenance, cabin, transport, service, cargo and • Asiana Airlines’ Safety Goal is to maintain others are controlled by risk management process so that safety goal and safety performance targets are achieved . a state of zero accident and adequate resources will be invested to achieve this. • Asiana Airlines’ highest management priority is never compromising on safety Customer Satisfaction through the safest, superior service Safety Trainings Unit : persons and employees will put forth all efforts to achieve the company’s safety policy Young-doo Yoon President & CEO 6,500 The Fastest, Safest, and Most Comfortable Safety Policy Review Flight Experience Safety Officers’ Committee Meeting 6,000 Safety Performance Safety Deliberation/ Index Management Assurance Inspection/Patrol Flight Operations Safety Training 5,500 Quality Assurance 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Asiana Airlines offers trainings to all employees on safety awareness and injury prevention in parallel with special safety training for each technical area in order to preempt any possibility of safety accidents at source. 48 49 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Collaboration with Global Organizations Asiana Airlines incorporates the IATA global standards for airlines into its frontline operations and gathers the latest trends on aviation operation and safety for review from various global seminars. Starting from April 2012, Asiana joined IATA’s STEADES(Safety Trend Evaluation, Analysis & Data Exchange System) to provide safety performance data of the company and have access to major safety topic reports based on global data and analysis results. ※ IATA(International Air Transport Association) IOSA(IATA Operational Safety Audit) The IOSA (IATA Operational Safety Audit) , a mandatory requirement for IATA members across the globe, is an internationally recognized and accepted evaluation system designed to assess an airline’s operational management and control systems. If an airline company wishes to join a code-share agreement with foreign companies, it must receive the IOSA accreditation. Asiana Airlines has successfully established itself as an airline company with world-class safety by renewing itsIOSA registry every two years since it first acquired it in 2004. ● Safe Workplace to Prevent Accidents Occupational Accident Rate Unit: % Asiana Airlines makes various efforts to prevent industrial accidents and create a pleasant and safe work environment Republic of Korea (average) that can maintain and enhance employee safety by defining industrial safety standards and assigning clear roles and Asiana Airlines responsibilities. It also conducts extensive studies to develop precautionary measures tailored to each job task character0.71 istic of the aviation industry and estimates the cost of loss when generating quarterly disaster statistics. 0.7 0.69 0.65 To help partner companies with less capacity for safety management due to constraints in their size or finance, Asiana 0.59 Airlines shares training materials and latest information with the partners and transfer its safety expertise and methodology to assist them in their safety efforts. Asiana’s support for partners includes ▲accident reduction target setting and 0.07 0.05 0.05 implementation ▲training on safety and health capabilities ▲work environment improvement and safety at worksites 0.11 0.02 ▲development of diverse safety and health initiatives. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ● Aviation Safety Control Operation Asiana Airlines has developed AFOCS(Asiana Flight Optimization and Control System) to control flight operation real-time Control leveraging its abundant experience and statistics on safe operation. The system helps Asiana remove any factors that might disrupt flight operation to ensure safety at all times. OCC(Operations Control Center), launched in 2009, monitors aircraft operation and responds to any disruption by alerting it to the frontline departments. In the OCC room, information and data from a range of systems on aircraft scheduling, operational control optimization, web-based voice communications, hardstand management, and operational statistics analysis are all integrated to be displayed on the large-scale wall screen for sharing. For seamless operation of OCC, its UPS(Uninterruptible Power Supply), auto fire alert and security system have all been upgraded to maintain tight control over potential accidents and disasters. Customer Satisfaction OCC has experts in operation, maintenance and cabin services including aircraft dispatcher stationed at all times to track airplanes in operation on a real-time basis and instantaneously control any disruption by having real-time communications with the cabin crew through satellites or web-based communication. The system is what enables Asiana Airlines to become the global airline leader in safety and service. Flight Watching Monitoring System developed by Asiana Airlines contributes greatly to fuel saving as it guides aircraft to cruise in straight flight based on its state-of-the-art flight monitoring function. After OCC was established, the number of aircraft diversion due to unexpected changes in weather has been reduced from 7~11 times to 4~6 times per every 10,000 flights. LIDO Flignt Planning System LIDO is a planning system for safe and economic operation of flights. It checks weather conditions at departing, arriving or alternate airports and identifies any operational constraints to proactively respond to issues before they arise. The system also conducts quantitative comparisons over fuel consumption, flight time and ATC(Air Traffic Control) charge based on various flight route simulations to find optimum flight routes before developing a flight plan for economic operation. Mutual Respect among Pilots Safety Operation Asiana Airlines has introduced CRM(Crew Resource Management) mechanism that ensures diversity in culture, background and gender among its pilots to build atmosphere in the cockpit where roles and responsibilities assigned to each pilot are respected and the hierarchy between captains and co-pilots doesn’t get in the way of open communication for safe flight. After introduction of the standard operation procedures and standards, all the field workers have come to recognize roles and responsibilities of one another, and a co-pilot never hesitates a second to voice his opinion if a captain violates any provision of the set standards. The open communication culture has been extended to cover dispatchers, maintenance engineers and flight attendants. CRM Training Attendees in 2012 Initial CRM for Instructor Instructor Category CRM Refresh Joint CRM Total CRM Promotion Appointment Session Attendees (ppl) 106 54 40 137 56 1434 1,827 Best Pilot Training Program The capabilities of individual pilots directly impact safe flight operation, and captains of large aircraft, especially, are required to set themselves apart with exceptional skills and expertise. Keenly aware of that, Asiana Airlines evaluates co-pilots and first officers on their knowledge and capability every year, and only those who receive higher scores can be promoted to captain. To receive trainings designed for captains, applicants must have recommendation by other captains, pass an expertise test, a simulator-based capability test, and an overall aptitude and character test before going on to the another round of simulator drills and examinations before and after actual flight trainings. Only those who pass all of these evaluations and tests can get the opportunity to become pilot in command. 50 51 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Safe Flight Training Hours & Cost Number of pilots Unit : persons Category ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 Average 1,315 Training Total(hour) 124,652 125,933 139,865 210,901 150,338 1,225 Hours 1,157 Per Capita(hour) 112.3 108.8 114.2 160.4 123.9 1,110 Training Total(million won) 10,034 10,779 8,835 8,168 9,454 Cost Per Capita(thousand won) 9,039 9,317 7,213 6,212 8,795 Note) 1. Includes only the recipients of safe flight training (pilots) 2. On/off-line trainings safety Operation Management 2009 2010 2011 2012 Even after they pass the rigorous and straining trainings, the overall capability can vary depending on pilots. Since different airport and weather conditions can hamper flight operation, Asiana Airlines assigns responsibilities based on the capability of a pilot and the airport conditions. With much experience in managing pilot capabilities, Asiana Airlines also operates a flexible flight schedule in consideration of season, time and weather patterns. Special Training Attendees in 2012 Category Summer Winter Total Attendees(ppl) 155 177 332 Seasonal Trainings : Special trainings for the rainy season in summer and winter, targeting low-ranking or little experienced pilots. Captains take on full responsibility and authority over the airplane they are in command of operation. However, as a complementary measure to prevent any errors, Asiana Airlines has installed FOQA(Flight Operational Quality Assurance) System onto aircraft since 1994. All of the data generated during flight are recorded in both FOQA and FDR(Flight Data Record, the so-called Black Box). The data goes through daily analysis to identify operation style and habit of individual captains, which can be used as guidance to improve inappropriate operation or procedures. Aircraft Improvement & Investment To ensure flight safety, Asiana Airlines has installed a ground collision alert system and mid-air collision prevention system in every aircraft, and operates EPMS(Engine Performance Monitoring System) that monitors engine performance during flight to identify causes of a defect, guiding prompt and accurate maintenance work. After introducing PMA(Portable Maintenance Aid), the work of identifying causes of a defect at the maintenance field has become much easier and efficient, enabling deployment of zero-defect aircraft for operation. The old B737 and 767 models are currently in the process of being replaced with the latest A321, A330 and B777 models, and from 2014 and onwards, A380 will be deployed followed by the introduction of A350 in 2016. ● Mobile Maintenance System Asiana Airlines introduced the mobile maintenance system for the 1st time in Korea. The mobile system has been deployed since June 2012 so that maintenance engineers have an access to the system during their work, reading the corporate maintenance manual, searching for departure and arrival information, referring to inventory or maintenance history to improve efficiency of maintenance works. 52 ASIANAASIANA AIRLINES 53 AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 Environment & Society Asiana Airlines has introduced effective initiatives for energy saving and environment protection in all areas of aircraft operation, carrying out a range of social outreach campaigns along with green initiatives as responsible corporate citizen giving back love and trust it has received from customers to wider communities. Environment & Society Green Management is a key driver and crucial element for sustainable management defined by Asiana Airlines. Under the principle of ‘Less Consumption, Less Waste’, Asiana Airlines has employed green management process for efficient use of resources and less emissions from aircraft. The principle for a greener earth has been applied to every worksite and introduced to every customer. Asiana Airlines has established a green management system involving all employees, identified major environmental issues based on media analysis, opinions from internal and external stakeholders and materiality assessment, and prioritized the issues to practice green management for the company and all of its stakeholders. Vision Green Management Eco-Friendly Airline in Harmony with Nature Consistent improvement Growth inclusive of stakeholders Green Minimum consumption of energy Voluntary proactive Policy in reducing and transparency through and resources compliance environmental impact information disclosure -Introduction of the latest high-Asiana Eco-Flight Emission less than 50% -Sustainability Report efficiency aircraft and engines -Green company of the legal limit key strategy -Green campaign engaging -Consistent implementation of -Improvement through a -Voluntary reduction in customers fuel-saving measures working-level meeting GHG emissions Asiana Airlines aspires to become a green airline which exists in harmony with nature, and clearly demonstrates its commitment to preserving the environment without hampering the self-purification cycle. To live out its commitment, the company has defined key strategy to implement its environment policies and initiatives to minimize footprints in air and water, reduce wastes, and furthermore optimize energy usage. Asiana Eco-Flight, which is being implemented with participation of customers, is one of the examples of Asiana working to develop structured and detailed efforts for green management. ● Green Management Governing Body The green management governing body has been overhauled to report directly to Corporate Support Division. The Designated relevant teams and managers in each division control green management in each working site. Environment & Facilities Team educates all managers in each division to improve their capacity through running environmental committee. 54 55 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Corporate On-site Support Management Division Corporate Governing Body Sectoral Support (Environment & managing Department Facilities Team) Governing Body Environment & Facilities Team Corporate Fuel Environment Management Green managers Committee Committee per Division ● Emissions & CO2 Reduction CO2 Reduction Initiatives in 2012 Saving energy throughout the operational procedure is the utmost imperative for an airline when considering the share of energy cost in the cost of goods sold. Asiana Eco-Flight is an initiative to promote interdepartmental collaboration 9.0 between the corporate fuel management committee, the operational training team, the control support team and others 22.9 5.8 since emissions control through eco-friendly activities has to be closely aligned with the fuel management policy. Aircraft GHG Emissions Trend 15.3 Unit : % 6.5 Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1.8 Aircraft Emission(tCO2 ) 4,806,323 4,687,567 5,020,748 5,378,575 5,612,093 9.5 11.2 Fuel Consumption (ton) 1,526,326 1,488,831 1,595,122 1,705,500 1,779,346 18.0 Consumption per Unit (ℓ/100RTK) 33.3 33.7 31.8 31.3 31.6 Optimal fuel load management Less variation in pay load Note) 1. RTK(Revenue Ton Kilometer) : A standard unit of air transport demand, defined as one ton of passengers and/or cargoes transported over one kilometer. Used as the Center of gravity placed in the aircraft rear overall sales index for airlines. Minimum APU usage 2. EU-ETS standards applied when calculating consumption per unit starting from 2011 Fuel-saving flight procedure Weight management Better operational procedure Arctic flight route Engine washing Environment & Society Asiana Eco-Flight designed is the highest-standard green flight operation which can be achieved by minimizing energy Asiana Eco-Flight consumption in every step of operation and engaging customers in its journey to green management. Asiana Eco-Flight, which practices fuel-saving in all areas, has become the distinct green brand of Asiana Airlines. ● Minimization of Energy Consumption Asiana Airlines has introduced a range of fuel-saving initiatives and integrates them for Asiana Eco-Flight to minimize fuel consumption throughout its operational procedure. Applicable fuel-saving initiatives are introduced to all flights in accordance with each operational condition and safety requirements. Asiana engages relevant departments including the Flight Operation division, Maintenance & Engineering division and the OCC in its fuel-saving initiatives for aircraft operation as well as ground transport. Fuel Saving Performance in operation In February 2012, Asiana Airlines formed a team dedicated to developing shortcut flight routes for ongoing improvement in flight efficiency, and carried out a shortcut route project. In 2012, the shortcut project produced a total of 12 economically efficient flight routes. In April~June 2012, Green Taxi Campaign which shuts down half of the aircraft engines during taxi was carried out. The campaign recommends captains to shut down one engine (two engines for B747) after landing, and captains/co-pilots who have saved much fuel and shown great performance in green taxi were rewarded with the good pilot awards. Fuel Saving Performance in Maintenance Campaigns had been waged between June and September, minimizing APU usage, lowering potable water load for cargo jets, increasing usage of GPS and PC-Air at overseas airports, and reducing the baggage weight of flight attendants by 1kg to save fuel in every possible arena including operation, maintenance and cabin. Aircraft engines are washed semiannually to remove fine particles and yellow sand that have got in the engines. The thorough washing maximizes engine efficiency and fuel efficiency of aircraft. Engine Water Wash Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 # of Washes 146 244 167 330 345 To reduce GHG emissions on the ground, some of the aircraft maintenance vehicles at the airport were replaced with CO2 reduction electric cars. As of 2013, Incheon Airport has 7 electric vehicles and Gimpo Airport has one electric vehicle. Unit : tCO2 106 thousans 90 thousans 86 thousans 72 thousans 35 thousans 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 56 57 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● Asiana Eco-Flight with Customers Asiana Airlines runs a range of programs to offset carbon emissions from aircraft and encourage passengers to practice green traveling. The company also donates some of its profits to raise a green fund that supports tree planting and renewable energy development to offset carbon emissions by individuals using air services. To spread the carbon offset initiative, trainings for employees and partners, on/off-line campaigns, public interest advertisement and on-board broadcasting, and other various tools have been leveraged to the fullest. Eco-Flight Customer Campaign In an effort to engage more customers, Asiana Airlines is conducting Asiana Green Campaign such as the Arboreal Day campaign in the 1st half of 2012 to encourage customers to plant trees at an ecology park built on a reclaimed land by giving out flowerpots to customers who have submitted applications. In the latter half of the year, the company waged a campaign at Gimpo Airport that explains its own carbon labeling on the Gimpo-Jeju route. Eco-Counter Eco-Counters were opened at Incheon and Gimpo airports in April 2011 for customers traveling only with carry-on baggage. Eco-Counter has been introduced to raise awareness about green travel which reduces aircraft weight for less GHG emissions, and green travelers using Eco-Counter are offered fast boarding services and tips for eco-friendly travel and lifestyle. 365 Eco-Life Screening on Board To promote green travel among passengers, Asiana Airlines produced 365 Eco-Life video clip in association with Eco Mom Korea in 2011, which is shown on all flights during landing. The video clip with the message of “please, protect our earth safe with green travel’ introduces to passengers the green travel tips including using the public transit service commuting to airport, packing light for travel, and leaving no food wastes from in-flight meals. Carbon Offset Program & Carbon Labeling Since the introduction of the employee carbon offset program in May 2008, Asiana Airlines has raised a carbon fund with the mandate to offset GHG generated by flights for employees’ business travel. In 2012, a total of 3,269 tons of GHG was offset, and from May 2008 to the present, 11,778 tons of GHG has been offset. The accumulated fund for carbon offset has been spent for other GHG reduction initiatives such as establishing a solar power generating facilities at the Flower Village in Gapyeong, installing solar street lamps around Angkor Wat in Cambodia. Environment & Society Category Description Apr ‘09 Solar energy generation facilities built at the Flower Village in Gapyeong Mar ‘10 Solar thermal system built at the Flower Village in Gapyeong Aug ‘10 Saekdong solar street lamps in Cambodia Apr ‘11 Tree planting ceremony for Tianjin Eco-City Nov ‘11 Asiana Eco Sloar Light around Eco Village in Cambodia Apr ‘12 Tree planting for ecology park on Sudokwon Landfill site of the metropolitan area While waging GHG reduction initiatives, the company also discloses information on GHG emissions in its production process by building GHG database. And the GHG emissions information per flight route validated by credible outside agencies is displayed through the carbon labeling scheme. The Gimpo-Haneda route was the 1st to be accredited and up until 2012, a total of 6 routes including the Gimpo-Beijing route have been accredited. EU ETS (European Union Emission Trading Scheme) Response to Since 2012, global commercial/non-commercial airlines operating flights in EU member countries all joined the GHG Regulation EU ETS. Asiana Airlines also joined this scheme to be assigned the emissions quotas for 2012~2020, and is currently going through the required process from emissions credit calculation to validation, reporting and trading. The ICAO(International Civil Aviation Organization) general assembly decided on November 9, 2012 to suspend the full introduction of international CO2 emissions standards for one year. However, regardless of the suspension, Asiana Airlines manages GHG data on all of its flight routes. GHG/Energy Target Management System Since Asiana Airlines was included into GHG/energy Target Management system in 2010, it is subjected to GHG regulations for CO2 emissions generated by domestic flights and from its worksites (the headquarters, Korean airports and sales branches in local areas) starting from 2012. GHG emissions from domestic flights and ground facilities in Korea take up just 4~5% of the total GHG emissions, but the company still works to reduce its domestic emissions through a range of fuel-saving initiatives and achieved its 2012 target successfully. Voluntary Agreement for GHG Reduction In July 2010, Asiana Airlines signed a voluntary GHG reduction agreement with the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs to set the GHG reduction target by renewing the agreement every year and works to reach the target. For 2012, the year for the 2nd voluntary agreement renewal, the company was required to improve its fuel efficiency by 2.0% and exceeded the target by increasing the efficiency as high as 4.8% to have the honor of being selected as the airline with the highest fuel efficiency. Asiana has set its target for 2013 to improve its fuel efficiency by 2.0% against the baseline year. 58 59 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● On-site Environment Control Environment To minimize environment impact unavoidably created in its business operation, Asiana Airlines has set the target of Control keeping its pollutant emissions within 50% of the legal limit. To attain the target, the company is applying optimal green technology best suited for each process, and its actual pollutant density remains lower than 25% of the legal limit. Recognized for its strenuous efforts, Gimpo and Incheon worksites have been designated as green worksites by the Ministry of Environment for strict management of the environment. To fulfill its social responsibility as green company, Asiana Airlines closely monitors and manages pollutant emissions from all of its worksites by implementing a guideline on management, monitoring and emergency response. Coupled with the effective management system firmly in place, proper measures like regular/special monitoring, issue inspections and real-time communication with frontline departments are in place to improve the work environment with well organized work structure for planning-execution-inspection-response. The inspection results are reported to the top management so that effective measures for improvement can be actually implemented and followed up. Thanks to the efforts in all relevant areas, Asiana Airlines has had no environment accidents for 13 years in a row from 2000 to 2012. ● Air Emissions and control facilities most suitable for each maintenance process have been installed to effectively remove air pollutants generated in the aircraft maintenance in combination with periodic monitoring to minimize environment impact. Any conditions that require special attention (e.g. pollutant density in the worksite control facilities, employees’ exposure to pollutants, etc) are closely tracked for monitoring, and if workers report any discomforts at work or pollutant density rises, measures to enhance the worksite environment are introduced. As pollutant density can change depending on the materials and the work process at the maintenance worksite, the company regularly conducts thorough inspections. If any hazardous materials or materials that require further observation are found through the inspection, Asiana Airlines replaces the materials with alternative eco-friendly ones. Air Pollutant Emissions Emission : kg Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Gimpo 166.17 251.07 161.76 127.31 202.78 Incheon 352.28 368.95 389.05 408.1 355.10 Note) The overall emissions went down in 2012 as the increase in maintenance for domestic flights (A320) at Gimpo was more than offset by the decline in maintenance for international flights at Incheon. 400 Incheon Worksite Gimpo Worksite 300 200 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Environment & Society ● Water Wastewater generated from washing aircraft and components contains highly concentrated suspended materials and surfactants. Asiana Airlines applies a water treatment technology optimal for its wastewater to improve the efficiency of wastewater treatment. As it fully understands the pollution load of high-concentration slurry can go higher if it is treated within the company, it commissions out the task to an outside agency. Monitoring and water quality measuring are conducted periodically to check the operation of its wastewater treatment facilities. Water Pollutants Density Incheon Hangar Density Unit: mg/l Category Legal Limit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 COD 20 3.25 3.11 2.78 2.55 3.38 SS 20 0.67 0.72 1.46 1.59 1.29 Water Flow(㎥) 1465 1490 1566 1203 1028 Legal Limit : COD-20 mg/L, SS-20 mg/L 4 COD SS 3 2 1 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ● Waste Waste Amount & Recycling Rate Wastes disposed in the worksites are sorted based on the shape by the waste management team. The waste team takes Total Waste (tons) care to reduce any unnecessary operation that may generate wastes, and other teams have to comply with the corporate Recycling (tons) Recycling Rate (%) procedure for tight waste control. Daily or weekly monitoring is conducted to remove risk factors in advance and enable a prompt response to any disruptions. Trainings are offered on a regular basis to raise the reuse and recycling rates with 5,464 5,601 the objective of reducing wastes, and work practices are also monitored to see the implementation rate. 5,010 4,913 4,621 3,644 3,819 ● Noise 3,451 3,350 3,008 To minimize aircraft noise, Asiana Airlines faithfully complies with the noise abatement standards/procedure included in the ICAO ANNEX 16 or those developed by destination countries/airports. Aircraft fleet owned by the company were all manufactured by Airbus and Boeing following the ICAO standards. Information on the aircraft fleet is included in 68.9 68.2 68.2 AFM(Airplane Flight Manual), and recent changes and latest information on country/airport standards are reviewed and 65.1 66.7 analyzed on an ongoing basis with reference to aviation information at AIP and Jeppesen. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 60 61 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● Chemical Materials AMIGOS-II System Chemical materials handled at worksites are frequently monitored by frontline departments throughout the whole Inspection Storage Usage process from import to disposal. Workers who directly handle chemicals have to receive regular trainings and inspections for accurate information on the materials and possible accidents. Inflammable and explosive chemical materials are replaced with alternatives as long as the replacement doesn’t hamper aircraft maintenance process, and risks for the handled chemical materials are managed through an annual environment impact assessment. Chemical used by Asiana MSDS Search System Airlines are in relatively small amounts, but as it handles many chemical types, the history and logistics of the chemical materials is closely tracked through the AMIGOS2 system. Departments that directly come into contact with chemical materials receive a fire drill periodically for accident preparedness, and fire extinction equipment is at all times placed at the worksites. When expired or banned chemical materials are disposed, the chemical management team inspects the whole process to preempt any environment or safety accidents. ● Green Purchase All chemical materials used by the company are integrated into AMIGOS-II where data Asiana Airlines has established the green purchase guideline which enables the company to primarily purchase ecoon their inspection, storage and usage friendly products, and applied the guideline to all areas as long as compliance with the guideline does not adversely are tracked and monitored. All chemical materials have to be registered on the MSDS affect and is compatible with aircraft operation and maintenance process. It has also devised standards to review search system without exception to be environmental practices of its partners and oversees their compliance through AVEPS. Suppliers also have to practice tracked real-time in all processes. green purchasing to be selected as partners of Asiana Airlines, and those who actively opt for green purchasing earn extra points to be reflected in the partner evaluation. 2010 2011 2012 Category Purchase Items Purchase Cost Purchase Items Purchase Cost Purchase Items Purchase Cost Eco-Friendly & Others 23 items 1,493 Mill. won 23 items 2,133 Mill. won 32 items 3,152 Mill. won Special Column Asiana Airlines launched various fuel-saving campaigns to promote the importance of cutting fuel consumption among pilots through Green Taxi Campaign and Minimum APU Use Campaign in 2012 1) Green Taxi Campaign : ‘Engine Shutdown 2) Minimum APU use : In June~September 2012, Taxi-In Campaign’ was launched thanks to the the campaign to minimize APU use was launched growing interest in fuel-saving and economical for all aircraft types to reduce fuel consumption flight operation and higher implementation rate. on the ground of Incheon and Gimpo airports. To The campaign is gaining momentum with strong attain this goal, running APU is suspended to the support from pilots. When the time for taxiing greatest extent in consideration of the time it takes is expected to take longer than five minutes at to the rated APU output after landing, and when Incheon Airport, pilots are strongly encouraged to moving to the apron, maintenance engineers check shut down one engine (up to two engines for B747). connection to the aircraft ground power supply and The campaign is actively promoted on 5th, 15th inform this to the pilot so that APU can be turned and 25th dates of every month to raise awareness off earlier. In addition, before having a departure in and pilots with higher compliance are awarded summer/winter, pilots are advised against running with small gifts through promotional events. APU except for onboard heating/cooling as long as it does not undermine customer service. One Engine Shutdown Taxi-In Campaign & Minimum APU Use Campaign Pilots with Excellent Records Environment & Society Under the slogan ‘Fly Together in this Beautiful World’, Asiana Airlines strives toward a beautiful world where our Corporate Social neighbors can live happy and satisfactory lives together. With the aim in mind, Asiana people are striving to contribute to Responsibility their communities. (CSR) Beautiful Company Fly Together in this Beautiful World Beautiful Sharing Beautiful Earth Social Responsibility Green Management Sharing + Genuine Commitment + Love Environment + Ecosystem + Future Spread Culture of Sharing Beautiful Lead Environment Preservation & People Green Management Beautiful Classroom Beautiful Journey Donation for Education Sustainable Management Dream + Knowledge + Youth Global + Aviation + New Growth Invest in Children & Youths Contribute to Society Leveraging Unique Position of Airline ● CSR Structure Asiana Airlines has organized Corporate Social Responsibility Team which champions and leads structured and specialized community outreach initiatives supported by ‘Beautiful People’, the corporate volunteering corps, and Social Contribution Fund raised by employees. Outreach Leader Social Responsibility Team Corporate Volunteering Social Contribution Fund Corps ‘Beautiful People’ Beautiful Sharing Beautiful class Beautiful Earth Beautiful Journey Salary Round-off Fund Employee Fundraising Environment Programs for protection Asiana Bazaar individuals Career lectures Tree-planting UNICEF Salary round-off donation Money box for a new year Programs for Talent sharing campaign UNESCO 1:1 matching grant families Foreign languages Emergency relief fund Ecological Emergency relief preservation 62 63 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 ● Beautiful Sharing Asiana Airlines is reaching out to the neighbors in need with warm compassion through a range of CSR initiatives such as Asiana Bazaar, Kimchi making in the winter time, 1 Company 1 Village, distributing money boxes of love, salary roundoff donation in combination with overseas contribution for the underprivileged such as support to the Aeta tribe of the Philippines, Love House project in Ben Tre Province of Vietnam. Support for Minority Tribe in the Philippines Asiana Airlines reached out a helping hand to the Aeta tribe village near Pinatubo Volcano of the Philippines suffering from poverty and disease through its 1 Company 1 Village project in 2011. In partnership with KOICA, Asiana people visited the village to build water pumping facilities, community bathrooms and playground for children, participating the remodeling project of 70 houses. Love House Project in Vietnam The corporate volunteering club for flight attendants, OZ-UNICEF, has built houses for extremely poor families in Ben Tre Province under the partnership initiated back in 2004. In 2012, the 40th Love House was completed in that region. Club members donate money to financially support the Love House Project in Vietnam and Asiana has rendered full support by giving the members flight tickets once a year and monetary donations to encourage volunteering activities of its employees. 1 Company 1 Village The senior executives and employees of Asiana Airlines visit Sanchoeul village in Hongcheon, Gangwon Province, the sister village of Asiana Airlines, twice a year with their family members for volunteering. It has also signed an agreement with the village to buy germinated brown rice produced there for the first-class in-flight meals, promoting specialty products of the community and developing its economy while granting scholarship to students of troubled families. As Asiana Airlines has brought many benefits to Sanchoeul village, the 1 Company 1 Village campaign has been recognized as the best practice with the award given by National Agricultural Cooperative Foundation. Asiana Bazaar Every May, Asiana Airlines holds a bazaar where all employees donate at least one item per person, and participate by selling food and goods collected during the campaign. The bazaar has grown to a festival for the community where every participant can be entertained enjoying their time together by inviting the underprivileged of the community. Until the 8th event in 2012, KRW 250 million was raised, all of which has been used to support multi-cultural children to read books in their mother tongues and help neighbors in need. Outreach to the Underprivileged Asiana people take good care of their neighbors so those vulnerable and neglected can spend warm winter. The Kimchi making campaign, launched in 2010, was extended into 2012 when Asiana people and the 4th social welfare center of Deungchon made Kimchi together with to share it with senior citizens living alone in that neighborhood. The company also donated 500 sacks of rice purchased from its sister city for the underprivileged in Gangseo district. Environment & Society Moneybox of Love The campaign to distribute moneyboxes commenced in 2008, distributing moneyboxes to employees at the airport service offices. The moneyboxes are designed marking the year in the Chinese zodiac: moneyboxes shaped like mouse for 2008, cow for 2009, tiger for 2010, rabbit for 2011 and black dragon for 2012. Starting from 2012, moneyboxes were distributed to all employees of Asiana Airlines to raise more funds for multi-cultural families’ trip to their home countries. Salary Round-off Donation Employees of Asiana Airlines have participated in the donation campaign called ‘Salary Round-off’ since 2006. They set aside any amounts less than KRW 1,000 (about $1) from their salaries and donated the money to the fund for neighbors in needs. The company also provides 100% matching grants to support their charity efforts. In 2012, the fund was spent for the Meal of Love project, which provides breakfasts to low-income family children, and the Food of Love project, which distribute rice and kimchi to the underprivileged in Gangseo district. Volunteering in Relay To make more contributions to communities, Asiana Airlines employees participate in volunteering campaigns twice per month in relay. Asiana people visit Yangcheon Migrant Workers’ Center to cook Korean foods with multi-cultural families and bring the foods to the underprivileged people living nearby as well as Hyerimwon, the welfare center for the intellectually challenged. The volunteering activities undertaken in relay have become a vehicle for Asiana people to contribute to society and promote harmony with others. ● Beautiful Classroom Asiana Airlines has worked to show a bright future to children who have been neglected by society. It has organized Meal of Love project for children skipping meals due to poverty while supporting multi-cultural children to read books in their mother tongues. It also has designed education donation programs to find the right career path for students interested in the aviation industry, designated as the official education donation company by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. The year 2012 was also a meaningful year for Asiana as it extended its educational drive to launch Beautiful Classroom project across China. Meal of Love(愛) Project Since 2007, Asiana people have supported a campaign setting aside any amounts less than KRW 1,000 (about $1) from their salaries and donating the money to support meals for low-income family children in Gangseo district. When the government mandated every primary school to provide free lunch to students in 2011, Asiana Airlines sponsored Meal of Love project to donate KRW 60 million. Meal of Love was organized jointly with Seoul Gangseo District Office of Education and Community Chest of Korea with the aim to provide breakfast to low-income family students. Asiana Airlines joined this drive in 2011 and remains as the only corporate sponsor ever since. 64 65 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Books for Multi-Cultural Families As multi-cultural families increase in Korea, Asiana Airlines donated a total of 10,000 books published in eight countries including China and Japan, and collected by Asiana overseas offices. In 2012, the company spent the proceeds from Asiana Bazaar to donate 3,000 books to the multi-cultural family support center in Bucheon. Books for Multi-Cultural Families Unit : books 3000 3,000 Bucheon multi-cultural family support center Gangseo/Guro multi-cultural family support center 2,575 Yangcheon migrant workers’ center 2500 Ansan center for alien residents 7 centers including Korea Migrant Human Rights Center 2,100 2000 1,840 1500 1,239 1000 500 0 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 China – Beautiful Classroom Asiana Airlines, as the airline that has the widest Korea-China flight network that includes 22 geographies of China, set off to establish a sister network of schools with its 1 Branch 1 School drive. The Beautiful Class project in China is for forming partnership with Chinese schools to support necessary equipment. Raising the fund with KOICA, Asiana Airlines donated computers, pianos and other learning equipment to schools in seven Chinese cities including Wei Hai, Yanji, Changchun, Dalian, Yantai, Nanjing, Xianyang during 2012. Asiana plans to continue its Beautiful Class project across China in 2013~14. a. 1 st roll-out: The 5th junior high school in Tumen city(圖們), 40 computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 1 beam projector, flight attendant class Yanji(延吉) b. 2 nd roll-out: School for ethnic Koreans in Jiutai city(九台市), 40 computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 1 beam projector, flight attendant class Changchun(長春) 50 computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 9 beam projectors, school bags/stationery c. 3 rd roll-out: Banyuewan(半月灣) primary school in Wei Hai(威海) items, etc d. 4 th roll-out: Laotunhuyzhen central primary school 42 educational computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 1 beam projector, 1 photocopier (老屯虎镇 中心小學) in Dalian大連) e. 5th roll-out: Mupingqu Dayao junior high school 51 educational computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano (牟平區 大窑 中學校) in Yantai city(煙臺市) f. 6 th roll-out: Yongfeng primary school(永丰小學校) in Pukouqu 36 educational computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, 15 Guzhengs(古箏, Chinese Zither) (浦口區), Nangjin city(南京市) g. 7th roll-out: Fengdong Xincheng Cheliang primary school(澧東新城 61 computers, 1,000 books, 1 piano, etc 車輛小學) in Xishensinqu(西咸新區), Shaanxi province(陜西省) Environment & Society Asiana Dream Catchers Asiana Airlines has launched a new type of educational campaign named 'Dream Catchers' for youths wishing to work in the aviation industry. The program includes lectures by Asiana people on aviation professions such as the cabin crew, pilots, and maintenance engineers along with musical performances by the employee music bands. Flying with You offered two lectures in Seoul and 1 lecture in Gwangju in 2012. More career lectures for youths are scheduled in domestic destinations going forward. Flight Attendant Class/Global Manner School The flight attendant class is offered to high school students who dream of becoming flight attendants in the future. They get to experience what it’s like to be a flight attendant through trainings in the Asiana Training Center. For high school students trying to get a job instead of going to college, Global Manner School is opened to teach good manners for job interviews and image making. Now the flight attendant class has become the most popular class designed by Asiana among high school students. Airport DoDream School Airport DoDream School is another education donation program for primary school students to teach them on the documents and boarding procedure for air travel and give them a tour around aircraft hangars. The program is attracting many children with its new and exciting curriculums. In 2012, a total of 60 students attended two sessions of DoDream School. ● Beautiful Earth To preserve ecological wetlands across the globe, Asiana Airlines designates the last week of every April as ‘Asiana Green Week’ and carries out activities to protect the environments of famous tourism destinations of Korea including Incheon, Busan, Daegu and Daejeon along with overseas destinations in Americas, Japan and China with active support from employees. Airport Wetland Preservation Airport Service Department of the company has designated the last week of every April as Asiana Green Week. During the week, Asiana’s airport service offices in Korea undertake various green activities to preserve ecological wetlands in each destination of Korea. Green Initiatives in Korea 1) Asiana people working in Incheon Int’l Airport carry out environment campaigns at Samock pier, Jangbong pier and along the coastline of Jangbong island while those working at the service office of Busan Int’l Airport visit famous tourist destinations in Busan including Haeundae, Taejongdae, Nakdong river, Geumjeong fortress to clean the area on a regular basis. Employees at the service office branch in Daegu Airport also clean Geumho river banks and Daejeon employees are assigned to clean the Gapcheon area. 66 67 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Green Initiatives Overseas 1) Americas: The company’s LA airport office workers visit Dockweiler State Beach for environment preservation while San Francisco airport crew participate in the green campaign for Coyote Point County Park. 2) Japan: Asiana people working at the Osaka airport branch clean the areas around the Ushitaki National Park, Hakotuskuri Farm and Nanba Shrine. Employees at the Nagoya office and airport service office clean Marunouchi, and Fukuoka airport office employees are in charge of cleaning Sanno park(山王公園). 3) C hina: Asiana people working in Changsha, Yentai, Wei Hai carry out green campaigns around Yuelu mountain, Yentai beach, Ta mountain, and others. ● Beautiful Journey Asiana Airlines has launched diverse CSR campaigns. They include collecting spare coins from passengers and donating the money for children in underdeveloped countries, and knitting baby hats for new-born babies in Africa to engage customers in its drive for sharing. For the safety of tourists, the company also installed eco-friendly Eco Solar Light around tourist attractions of destination countries in combination with Eco Solar Light project which has been designed to create growth momentum by investing in tourism resources. UNICEF Spare Coin Collection Asiana Airlines has been working with the Korean Committee for UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) to jointly carry out the “Change for Good” campaign. The campaign was launched based on the idea that spare notes or coins in foreign currencies travelers carry are thrown away at the end of their journey and therefore, it would be good to collect these notes or coins for a good cause. It was started on international flight in 1994 and has grown into the most representative social campaign waged by Asiana Airlines with its fund gradually growing. In October 2012, the fund exceeded KRW 7 billion, and a ceremony to celebrate the milestone was held with the attendance of UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. Fund Raised for 5 Years (Yearly/Cumulative) Unit : KRW 1M Cumulative 7,437 Yearly 6,392 5,559 4,924 4,185 833 1,044 660 739 635 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Environment & Society Onboard CSR Initiative To invite long-haul passengers to a good cause, Asiana Airlines formed Onboard Contribution Team in charge of designing onboard social contribution programs. Starting with Save the Children’s ‘Knit One, Save One’ campaign that was highly popular among passengers, Asiana Airlines has launched a series of monthly campaigns to involve more customers. World Heritage Site Protection Vietnam Asiana Airlines signed an MOU to preserve World Heritage Sites with the Korean Committee for UNESCO in February 2012, under which the company carried out various projects to build tourism infrastructure and facilitate tourism remodeling tourism information centers, installing large information signage for better visibility, and establishing Eco Solar Lights(solar-powered streetlight) around the central Vietnam(Da Nang, Hoi An). Asiana will continue its efforts to preserve UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 2013 also, by installing 40 Eco Solar Lights in Da Nang, Vietnam. Asiana Eco Solar Light Siem Reap, Cambodia Under the MOU with KOICA that pledges sustained global CSR, Asiana Airlines installed eco-friendly Eco Solar Lights around the temple of Angkor Wat to preserve the world’s cultural heritage and augment security around the area for tourists. After successfully completing the project to install 15 Eco Solar Lights along the Cambodia-Korea Friendship Road laid by KOICA in August 2010, Asiana raised a fund together with KOICA to install 35 more Eco Solar Lights as part of its public-private partnership project. Special Column Signing to Preserve World Heritage Sites with UNESCO Korean Committee Asiana Airlines signed an MOU with the Korean Committee of UNESCO in February 2012 to create a momentum for CSR drive. The MOU dictates how to design and implement initiatives to preserve World Heritage Sites across the globe. “World Heritage Sites embody tradition and value that should not be lost in time. As the cause is so compelling, I believe it requires collective support from countries across the world”, said Asiana CEO, adding “Singing the MOU will herald Asiana’s full commitment to promoting and preserving such valuable heritages of the world.” UNESCO Director General also emphasized it should be viewed meaningful for Asiana Airlines to lead the collaborative drive and raise awareness on the heritage preservation in underdeveloped economies on the 40th anniversary of the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, adding UNESCO would do its best to push the drive, benchmarking previous collaborative models implemented in the developed world. The partnership has been formed to facilitate community economy by building tourism infrastructure near the World Heritage Sites through promotional activities while protecting cultural heritages in destination places. To promote its cause, Asiana Airlines included articles on the Hue heritage in Da Nang into the Asiuana Timetable and its in-flight magazines published in four languages (Korean, English, Japanese and Chinese) whose circulations reaching up to 12,000 copies per month. 68 69 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Appendix 아시아나는 최고의 안전과 서비스를 갖춘 글로벌 리딩Financial Consolidated 항공사입니다. Statement Consolidated Comprehensive Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Statement of Financial Position Comprehensive Income Statement Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity Cash Flow Statement GRI G3.1 Index & Alignment with ISO 26000 Third-Party Assurance Report 70 71 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Consolidated Financial Statement The 25th Business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 The 24th Business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2011 The 23rd Business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2010 (Unit : KRW) 25th Period 24th Period 23rd Period Assets Current assets 1,064,537,579,653 1,094,986,290,810 1,039,860,299,835 Cash and cash equivalents 162,787,126,531 197,773,237,915 210,525,180,776 Short-term financial instruments 73,633,960,000 36,206,122,083 8,890,713,410 Trade receivables 424,959,115,021 494,212,594,713 482,878,682,614 Other receivables 27,609,992,058 34,613,681,545 23,360,557,416 Accrued income 23,036,290,392 20,614,744,251 14,312,723,212 Short-term loans receivable 22,407,504,350 17,188,483,126 14,851,000,000 Advance payments 106,317,989,043 75,336,739,695 77,799,219,017 Prepaid expenses 28,256,149,107 26,261,307,447 34,276,185,023 Prepaid taxes 2,704,401,096 2,600,438,947 3,051,848,016 Inventories 161,225,835,022 158,412,920,813 139,039,251,406 Current portion of deferred loss on disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 30,804,938,945 30,804,938,945 30,804,938,945 Other current assets 794,278,088 961,081,330 70,000,000 Non-current assets held for sale 946,545,509,019 Non-current assets 5,021,824,272,891 4,652,445,154,755 4,272,028,825,197 Long-term financial instruments 34,500,000 34,500,000 37,500,000 Available-for-sale financial assets 254,256,905,361 233,762,144,509 118,345,683,372 Investments in associates 141,855,755,959 143,443,691,630 276,576,299,514 Long-term loans receivable 53,850,079,443 48,605,442,704 43,071,936,647 Guarantee deposits 420,005,795,046 354,984,556,626 349,564,983,246 Deferred loss on disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 221,777,052,133 252,666,386,280 283,471,323,342 Deferred income tax assets 45,750,633,145 64,606,821,817 86,334,079,063 Property, aircraft and equipment 3,554,271,658,779 3,241,886,897,651 3,087,683,015,105 Investment property 130,481,669,012 108,816,520,757 Intangible assets 197,786,708,327 201,548,507,165 24,726,620,602 Other non-current assets 1,753,515,686 2,089,685,616 2,217,384,306 Total assets 6,086,361,852,544 5,747,431,445,565 6,258,434,634,051 (Unit : KRW) 25th Period 24th Period 23rd Period Liabilities Current liabilities 2,028,486,896,102 2,895,267,425,210 2,607,719,786,190 Trade accounts payable 267,036,272,591 248,163,625,550 207,185,664,568 Short-term borrowings 1,000,000,000 3,320,148,383 34,712,174,259 Advance receipts 265,260,956,577 299,688,461,794 307,653,187,265 Unearned income 2,287,731,407 3,707,368,920 3,519,324,851 Withholdings 29,603,442,295 31,082,331,967 27,928,485,427 Other payables 308,589,373,905 385,363,711,013 270,623,347,483 Accrued expenses 96,348,713,964 86,818,129,907 108,143,821,025 Income taxes payable 5,179,618,718 17,836,568,873 5,583,461,213 Taxes withheld 118,187,311,175 112,298,201,547 82,223,925,768 Current portion of debentures issued 526,379,839,295 636,295,649,278 818,108,163,557 Current portion of long-term borrowings 286,064,859,052 868,092,204,469 481,326,666,660 Current portion of obligations under financing leases 122,548,777,123 108,854,870,473 238,940,693,405 Current portion of financial derivative liabilities 93,746,153,036 21,770,870,709 Non-current liabilities 3,052,984,973,500 1,990,876,607,115 2,736,591,475,310 Debentures issued 923,550,579,485 629,281,850,129 859,164,684,553 Long-term borrowings 795,916,828,448 136,114,106,838 406,234,893,757 Obligations under financing leases 608,287,244,705 601,192,395,590 799,722,209,614 Financial derivative liabilities 75,012,311,664 Defined benefit liability 202,035,941,066 135,303,201,952 201,555,923,065 Long-term advance receipts 385,656,940,586 355,872,846,608 297,172,846,608 Long-term unearned income 3,728,487,038 8,906,864,471 2,948,673,133 Long-term other payables 18,815,340,587 33,521,103,702 39,033,840,346 Provisions 63,484,898,907 44,787,946,028 50,458,785,076 Other long-term liabilities 51,508,712,678 45,896,291,797 5,287,307,494 Total liabilities 5,081,471,869,602 4,886,144,032,325 5,344,311,261,500 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company Capital stock 975,506,825,000 916,536,240,000 892,112,895,000 Capital surplus 1,148,869,102 1,119,928,066 1,117,982,787 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 22,917,028,208 (21,560,623,107) 11,375,802,508 Other components of equity (28,488,270,487) (28,488,270,487) (28,488,270,487) Retained earnings(Accumulated deficit) 29,449,881,616 (9,806,103,131) 35,245,878,757 Non-controlling interest 4,355,649,503 3,486,241,899 2,759,083,986 Total equity 1,004,889,982,942 861,287,413,240 914,123,372,551 Total liabilities and equity 6,086,361,852,544 5,747,431,445,565 6,258,434,634,051 72 73 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Consolidated Comprehensive Income Statement The 25th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2012 The 24th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2011 The 23rd Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2010 (Unit : KRW) 25th Period 24th Period 23rd Period Sales 5,887,872,743,115 5,609,398,419,744 5,284,964,834,239 Cost of sales 5,109,055,196,392 4,624,659,881,944 4,042,968,707,292 Gross profit 778,817,546,723 984,738,537,800 1,241,996,126,947 Selling, general and administrative expenses 599,449,801,304 626,481,026,317 691,531,901,024 Operating income 179,367,745,419 358,257,511,483 550,464,225,923 Other operating income 229,230,561,023 285,068,985,741 171,191,480,878 Other operating expenses 197,053,459,542 519,474,218,114 384,472,493,709 Financial income 27,129,457,329 15,625,236,175 12,640,583,001 Financial expenses 161,600,313,360 186,036,018,314 177,271,744,583 Profit of associates accounted for using the equity method 14,004,879,773 13,440,410,787 41,567,893,712 Loss of associates accounted for using the equity method 4,545,648,302 3,643,745,283 26,130,660,217 Profit (loss) before income tax 86,533,222,340 (36,761,837,525) 187,989,285,005 Income tax expense (income) 24,059,906,513 (6,839,630,003) 101,818,031,972 Profit (loss) for the year 62,473,315,827 (29,922,207,522) 86,171,253,033 Equity holders of the Parent Company 61,382,051,563 (30,864,455,575) 85,114,743,806 Non-controlling interest 1,091,264,264 942,248,053 1,056,509,227 Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year 22,349,627,839 (47,129,092,068) (8,757,125,073) Gain on overseas operation translation (176,858,915) 100,304,288 22,560,231 Gain(Loss) on valuation of investments in associates (752,555,095) 2,236,205,476 (548,412,917) Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 45,407,065,325 (35,272,935,379) (8,231,272,387) Actuarial losses (21,961,516,810) (13,820,900,231) Actuarial losses of associates (166,506,666) (371,766,222) Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year 84,822,943,666 (77,051,299,590) 77,414,127,960 Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 83,733,636,062 (77,988,407,503) 76,374,656,061 Non-controlling interest 1,089,307,604 937,107,913 1,039,471,899 Per share data Basic earnings (loss) per share 317 (171) 484 Diluted earnings (loss) per share 316 (171) 468 Consolidated Statement of Changes in The 25th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2012 The 24th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2011 Shareholders’ Equity The 23rd Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2010 (Unit : KRW) Equity Shareholders of Parent Company Accumulated Retained Non-controlTotal Other Other ComEarnings ling Interest Equity Capital Stock Capital Surplus Components of Total prehensive (Accumulated Equity Income (loss) Deficit) Balance at January 1, 2010 875,872,115,000 1,113,243,638 20,115,890,253 (28,488,386,154) (49,868,865,049) 818,743,997,688 1,919,612,087 820,663,609,775 Profit (loss) for the year 85,114,743,806 85,114,743,806 1,056,509,227 86,171,253,033 Currency translation differences 39,597,559 39,597,559 (17,037,328) 22,560,231 Gain(Loss) on valuation of Compreinvestments in (548,412,917) (548,412,917) (548,412,917) Changes hensive associates in Equity income Loss on valuation (loss) of available-forsale financial (8,231,272,387) (8,231,272,387) (8,231,272,387) assets Actuarial losses Actuarial losses of associates TransacBond with warrants exercised 16,240,780,000 4,739,149 115,667 16,245,634,816 16,245,634,816 tions with Changes in consolidated subsidiaries equity holders Dividends (200,000,000) (200,000,000) Balance at December 31, 2010 892,112,895,000 1,117,982,787 11,375,802,508 (28,488,270,487) 35,245,878,757 911,364,288,565 2,759,083,986 914,123,372,551 Balance at January 1, 2011 892,112,895,000 1,117,982,787 11,375,802,508 (28,488,270,487) 35,245,878,757 911,364,288,565 2,759,083,986 914,123,372,551 Profit (loss) for the year (30,864,455,575) (30,864,455,575) 942,248,053 (29,922,207,522) Currency translation differences 100,304,288 100,304,288 100,304,288 Gain(Loss) on valuation of Compreinvestments in 2,236,205,476 2,236,205,476 2,236,205,476 Changes hensive associates in Equity income Loss on valuation (loss) of available-forsale financial (35,272,935,379) (35,272,935,379) (35,272,935,379) assets Actuarial losses (13,815,760,091) (13,815,760,091) (5,140,140) (13,820,900,231) Actuarial losses of associates (371,766,222) (371,766,222) (371,766,222) TransacBond with warrants exercised 24,423,345,000 1,945,279 24,425,290,279 24,425,290,279 tions with Changes in consolidated subsidiaries equity (9,950,000) (9,950,000) holders Dividends (200,000,000) (200,000,000) Balance at December 31, 2011 916,536,240,000 1,119,928,066 (21,560,623,107) (28,488,270,487) (9,806,103,131) 857,801,171,341 3,486,241,899 861,287,413,240 Balance at January 1, 2012 916,536,240,000 1,119,928,066 (21,560,623,107) (28,488,270,487) (9,806,103,131) 857,801,171,341 3,486,241,899 861,287,413,240 Profit (loss) for the year 61,382,051,563 61,382,051,563 1,091,264,264 62,473,315,827 Currency translation differences (176,858,915) (176,858,915) (176,858,915) Gain(Loss) on valuation of Compreinvestments in (752,555,095) (752,555,095) (752,555,095) Changes hensive associates in Equity income Loss on valuation (loss) of available-forsale financial 45,407,065,325 45,407,065,325 45,407,065,325 assets Actuarial losses (21,959,560,150) (21,959,560,150) (1,956,660) (21,961,516,810) Actuarial losses of associates (166,506,666) (166,506,666) (166,506,666) TransacBond with warrants exercised 58,970,585,000 28,941,036 58,999,526,036 58,999,526,036 tions with Changes in consolidated subsidiaries equity (19,900,000) (19,900,000) holders Dividends (200,000,000) (200,000,000) Balance at December 31, 2012 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 22,917,028,208 (28,488,270,487) 29,449,881,616 1,000,534,333,439 4,355,649,503 1,004,889,982,942 74 75 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement The 25th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2012 The 24th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2011 The 23rd Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2010 (Unit : KRW) 25th Period 24th Period 23rd Period Net cash generated from operating activities 345,691,616,180 641,002,502,704 750,375,258,216 Cash generated from operations 470,390,483,903 798,406,835,403 929,736,698,239 Interest received 16,074,932,653 8,244,197,154 8,745,873,885 Interest paid (125,042,358,459) (154,796,771,987) (188,805,407,318) Dividends received 10,201,019,094 9,664,399,264 5,757,722,260 Income tax paid (25,932,461,011) (20,516,157,130) (5,059,628,850) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (620,770,739,639) 208,019,395,719 (199,304,335,119) Decrease (increase) in short-term financial instruments, net (37,503,883,117) (6,114,450,141) 2,283,837,700 Decrease in long-term financial instruments 3,000,000 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (41,975,677,201) (20,207,126) (42,552,839,308) Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 51,223,008,000 10,000,000 60,489,563,876 Acquisition of investments in associates (83,161,496,090) Disposal of investments in associates 109,440,000 50,000 Short-term loans granted (9,200,000,000) (2,332,000,000) (1,850,000,000) Collection of short-term loans 3,842,532,976 2,001,000,000 67,731,990,000 Long-term loans granted (14,945,000) Collection of long-term loans 40,004,965,180 Disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 6,629,447,639 38,199,494,847 27,991,547,221 Purchases of property, aircraft and equipment (388,126,708,986) (258,633,299,029) (204,856,188,711) Disposal of intangible assets 576,000 129,760,237 9,000,000 Purchases of intangible assets (1,952,818,380) (683,249,346) (1,392,703,626) Decrease in guarantee deposits 41,653,279,576 122,337,825,676 38,124,368,915 Increase in guarantee deposits (152,929,346,182) (124,909,256,667) (85,756,640,034) Others (derivatives) (92,505,744,964) (22,169,460,771) (26,369,740,242) Changes in consolidated entity (19,900,000) Decrease in restricted cash deposits 10,000,000,000 Increase in restricted cash deposits (166,442,740) Disposal of non-current asset held for sale 820,258,128,878 Changes in consolidated subsidiaries (359,891,498,099) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 242,828,052,606 (862,402,473,286) (487,654,636,345) Increase(Decrease) in short-term borrowings, net (2,294,336,365) (33,454,859,705) (277,551,666,344) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 172,684,530,329 187,507,810,368 187,205,005,400 Repayment of long-term borrowings (68,417,037,809) (267,600,000,000) (50,697,214,080) Redemption of debentures (1,012,926,504,069) (835,927,689,808) (759,590,239,682) Issuance of debentures 1,208,110,063,760 398,373,200,000 584,505,800,000 Repayment of obligations under financing leases (112,807,448,240) (335,479,679,141) (187,311,201,639) Payment of dividends (200,000,000) (200,000,000) (200,000,000) Bond with warrants exercised 58,678,785,000 24,378,745,000 15,984,880,000 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (32,251,070,853) (13,380,574,863) 63,416,286,752 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 197,606,795,175 210,525,180,776 145,736,487,000 Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents (2,726,369,155) 462,189,262 1,372,407,024 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 162,629,355,167 197,606,795,175 210,525,180,776 Statement of Financial Position The 25th Business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2012 The 24th Business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2011 The 23rd Business Period: as of Dec. 31, 2010 (Unit : KRW) 25th Period 24th Period 23rd Period Assets Current assets 841,188,516,318 830,832,935,515 812,939,135,439 Cash and cash equivalents 109,144,616,284 113,562,499,488 124,690,885,927 Short-term financial instruments 7,218,960,000 1,500,000,000 Trade receivables 339,130,767,888 360,138,716,659 358,136,638,354 Other receivables 27,410,620,350 34,264,363,915 23,001,231,841 Accrued income 21,726,616,727 16,554,442,409 14,054,850,062 Short-term loans receivable 13,206,420,000 13,387,260,000 10,850,000,000 Advance payments 100,765,455,093 74,606,841,496 73,892,427,016 Prepaid expenses 29,039,299,668 27,237,828,077 34,209,802,645 Prepaid taxes 2,408,099,735 2,600,438,947 3,051,847,306 Inventories 160,332,721,628 157,675,605,579 138,746,513,343 Current portion of deferred loss on disposal of 30,804,938,945 30,804,938,945 30,804,938,945 property, aircraft and equipment Non-current assets held for sale 873,490,133,170 Non-current assets 4,828,299,119,140 4,440,415,685,535 4,260,634,584,678 Long-term financial instruments 22,000,000 22,000,000 22,000,000 Available-for-sale financial assets 244,958,956,611 225,899,013,249 111,139,749,252 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 531,824,358,356 531,545,102,455 277,961,376,156 Long-term loans receivable 51,628,975,739 46,468,994,862 41,752,903,927 Guarantee deposits 439,338,248,873 363,067,526,000 347,042,628,246 Deferred loss on disposal of property, aircraft 221,777,052,133 252,666,386,280 283,471,323,342 and equipment Deferred income tax assets 120,229,955,238 141,886,064,950 107,434,643,791 Property, aircraft and equipment 3,153,414,132,054 2,838,706,951,037 3,050,380,572,456 Investment property 43,938,781,210 20,788,532,093 21,124,749,032 Intangible assets 19,486,145,842 17,323,130,015 18,087,254,170 Other non-current assets 1,680,513,084 2,041,984,594 2,217,384,306 Total assets 5,669,487,635,458 5,271,248,621,050 5,947,063,853,287 76 77 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 (Unit : KRW) 25th Period 24th Period 23rd Period Liabilities Current liabilities 1,806,649,135,018 2,535,948,640,532 2,459,526,487,813 Trade accounts payable 190,478,439,584 134,523,085,438 121,664,520,693 Short-term borrowings 1,320,148,383 30,712,174,259 Advance receipts 260,801,136,613 298,993,005,720 297,857,603,013 Unearned income 2,150,394,649 2,375,910,709 3,379,283,215 Withholdings 27,490,974,773 28,748,650,107 27,422,653,557 Other payables 318,397,817,136 392,740,508,673 270,378,022,300 Accrued expenses 85,265,123,725 80,620,949,261 107,031,513,456 Income taxes payable 13,445,411,038 Taxes withheld 114,571,773,068 109,290,149,823 79,433,411,446 Current portion of debentures issued 376,575,253,388 406,936,819,605 432,661,042,747 Current portion of long-term borrowings 158,564,859,052 688,592,204,469 481,326,666,660 Current portion of obligations under financing leases 122,548,777,123 108,854,870,473 238,940,693,405 Current portion of long-term borrowings with asset-backed securitization 149,804,585,907 175,760,773,797 346,948,032,353 Current portion of financial derivative liabilities 93,746,153,036 21,770,870,709 Non-current liabilities 2,927,209,724,912 1,924,792,707,986 2,679,883,298,309 Debentures issued 685,764,564,123 554,540,965,184 564,164,684,553 Long-term borrowings 740,291,828,448 123,989,106,838 406,234,893,757 Obligations under financing leases 608,287,244,705 601,192,395,590 799,722,209,614 Long-term borrowings with asset-backed securitization 231,363,799,335 74,740,884,945 249,663,209,454 Financial derivative liabilities 75,012,311,664 Other long-term employee benefits 186,168,182,369 126,786,063,384 191,824,555,102 Long-term advance receipts 385,656,940,586 355,872,846,608 297,172,846,608 Long-term unearned income 2,342,630,269 2,645,237,171 2,948,673,133 Long-term other payables 18,777,747,174 33,476,348,405 39,033,840,346 Provisions 63,228,523,258 44,547,516,982 50,233,299,924 Other long-term liabilities 5,328,264,645 7,001,342,879 3,872,774,154 Total liabilities 4,733,858,859,930 4,460,741,348,518 5,139,409,786,122 Equity Capital stock 975,506,825,000 916,536,240,000 892,112,895,000 Capital surplus 1,148,869,102 1,119,928,066 1,117,982,787 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 17,455,256,732 (15,790,417,927) 7,206,904,928 Other components of equity (28,488,270,487) (28,488,270,487) (28,488,270,487) Accumulated deficit (29,993,904,819) (62,870,207,120) (64,295,445,063) Total equity 935,628,775,528 810,507,272,532 807,654,067,165 Total liabilities and equity 5,669,487,635,458 5,271,248,621,050 5,947,063,853,287 Comprehensive Income Statement The 25th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2012 The 24th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2011 The 23rd Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2010 (Unit : KRW) 25th Period 24th Period 23rd Period Sales 5,638,068,843,903 5,331,003,265,542 5,039,478,818,593 Cost of sales 4,963,954,409,845 4,422,544,527,389 3,811,599,489,807 Gross profit 674,114,434,058 908,458,738,153 1,227,879,328,786 Selling, general and administrative expenses 541,577,919,938 565,087,419,540 658,894,857,556 Operating income 132,536,514,120 343,371,318,613 568,984,471,230 Other operating income 238,662,962,787 417,217,513,100 175,394,114,730 Other operating expenses 175,809,287,287 567,653,082,504 210,231,651,855 Financial income 24,165,002,126 14,601,642,964 12,108,567,912 Financial expenses 149,524,390,346 192,002,800,500 227,683,344,092 Profit before income tax (benefit) 70,030,801,400 15,534,591,673 318,572,157,925 Income tax expense (benefit) 19,418,551,583 (887,379,166) 77,283,889,358 Profit for the year 50,612,249,817 16,421,970,839 241,288,268,567 Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax 15,509,727,143 (37,994,055,751) (11,374,091,887) Components of other comprehensive income (loss) after income tax Valuation income (loss) on available-for-sale financial assets 33,245,674,659 (22,997,322,855) (11,374,091,887) Actuarial losses (17,735,947,516) (14,996,732,896) Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year 66,121,976,960 (21,572,084,912) 229,914,176,680 Per share data Basic earnings per share 261 91 1,372 Diluted earnings per share 261 88 1,326 Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity The 25th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2012 The 24th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2011 The 23rd Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2010 (Unit : KRW) Equity Accumulated Other Accumulated Total Capital Stock Capital Surplus Other ComprehenComponents of Deficit Equity sive Income (loss) Equity Balance at January 1, 2010 875,872,115,000 1,113,243,638 18,580,996,815 (28,488,386,154) (305,583,713,630) 561,494,255,669 Profit for the year 241,288,268,567 241,288,268,567 Comprehensive Actuarial losses Changes income (loss) Loss on valuation of availablein Equity for-sale financial assets (11,374,091,887) (11,374,091,887) Transactions with equity holders Bond with warrants exercised 16,240,780,000 4,739,149 115,667 16,245,634,816 Balance at December 31, 2010 892,112,895,000 1,117,982,787 7,206,904,928 (28,488,270,487) (64,295,445,063) 807,654,067,165 Balance at January 1, 2011 892,112,895,000 1,117,982,787 7,206,904,928 (28,488,270,487) (64,295,445,063) 807,654,067,165 Profit for the year 16,421,970,839 16,421,970,839 Comprehensive Actuarial losses (14,996,732,896) (14,996,732,896) Changes income (loss) Loss on valuation of availablein Equity for-sale financial assets (22,997,322,855) (22,997,322,855) Transactions with equity holders Bond with warrants exercised 24,423,345,000 1,945,279 24,425,290,279 Balance at December 31, 2011 916,536,240,000 1,119,928,066 (15,790,417,927) (28,488,270,487) (62,870,207,120) 810,507,272,532 Balance at January 1, 2012 916,536,240,000 1,119,928,066 (15,790,417,927) (28,488,270,487) (62,870,207,120) 810,507,272,532 Profit for the year 50,612,249,817 50,612,249,817 Comprehensive Actuarial losses (17,735,947,516) (17,735,947,516) Changes income (loss) Loss on valuation of availablein Equity for-sale financial assets 33,245,674,659 33,245,674,659 Transactions with equity holders Bond with warrants exercised 58,970,585,000 28,941,036 58,999,526,036 Balance at December 31, 2012 975,506,825,000 1,148,869,102 17,455,256,732 (28,488,270,487) (29,993,904,819) 935,628,775,528 78 79 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Cash Flow Statement The 25th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2012 The 24th Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2011 The 23rd Business Period: Jan. 01 to Dec. 31, 2010 (Unit : KRW) 25th Period 24th Period 23rd Period Net cash generated from operating activities 287,104,452,490 629,368,993,964 741,768,024,109 Cash generated from operations 390,612,775,602 775,371,716,762 915,984,938,730 Interest received 13,826,612,796 7,367,848,976 8,442,494,374 Interest paid (114,905,884,364) (154,779,123,610) (188,800,085,765) Dividends received 14,207,619,094 10,713,699,264 7,557,722,260 Income tax paid (16,636,670,638) (9,305,147,428) (1,417,045,490) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (588,667,037,494) 192,908,849,455 (192,814,381,170) Decrease (increase) in short-term financial instruments, net (7,295,005,200) 1,500,000,000 7,231,505,710 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (41,885,677,200) (207,126) (40,152,839,308) Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 51,223,008,000 10,000,000 58,139,563,876 Acquisition of investments in associates (383,357,771) (370,556,755,499) (83,261,596,090) Disposal of investments in associates 109,590,000 50,000 Short-term loans granted (2,332,000,000) (1,850,000,000) Collection of short-term loans 67,725,990,000 Collection of long-term loans 40,004,965,180 Disposal of property, aircraft and equipment 6,059,690,747 38,194,332,246 27,750,730,308 Purchases of property, aircraft and equipment (379,655,691,308) (258,090,319,223) (204,403,026,141) Disposal of intangible assets 11,760,237 Purchases of intangible assets (1,860,281,260) (61,133,971) (106,608,542) Decrease in guarantee deposits 52,680,006,161 111,197,154,091 38,052,723,113 Increase in guarantee deposits (175,153,574,699) (124,886,256,667) (85,576,049,034) Decrease in restricted cash deposits 10,000,000,000 Increase in restricted cash deposits (166,442,740) Disposal of non-current asset held for sale 820,258,128,878 Disposal of financial derivative trade (92,505,744,964) (22,169,460,771) (26,369,740,242) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 299,703,892,454 (833,973,131,626) (517,482,643,514) Decrease in short-term borrowings, net (1,294,336,365) (29,454,859,705) (276,434,495,867) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 172,684,530,329 187,507,810,368 187,205,005,400 Repayment of long-term borrowings (59,917,037,809) (267,600,000,000) (50,697,214,080) Issuance of debentures 493,692,791,348 398,373,200,000 149,505,800,000 Redemption of debentures (408,227,790,794) (460,881,873,582) (491,041,423,849) Repayment of obligations under financing leases (112,807,448,240) (335,479,679,141) (187,311,201,639) Proceeds from long-term borrowings with assets-backed securitization 400,163,906,733 500,000,000,000 Repayment of long-term borrowings with assets-backed securitization (243,269,507,748) (350,816,474,566) (364,693,993,479) Bond with warrants exercised 58,678,785,000 24,378,745,000 15,984,880,000 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,858,692,550) (11,695,288,207) 31,470,999,425 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 113,396,056,748 124,690,885,927 91,847,908,580 Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents (2,550,519,278) 400,459,028 1,371,977,922 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 108,986,844,920 113,396,056,748 124,690,885,927 GRI G3.1 Index & Alignment with ISO 26000 Reporting Level: ● Report, ◐ partial Report, ○ No Report, N/A Reporting GRI Index Description Reporting Section Level Participation by Stakeholders ● 8, 9 Boundary Protocol ● front cover Strategy and Analysis S  tatement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior 1.1 ● 4, 5 position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 34~39 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization ● 12 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 6, 7, 12~15 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and 2.3 ● 18 joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters ● 12 2.5  umber of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or N ● 6, 14, 15 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 19 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) ● 14, 15, 34~37 2.8 S  cale of the reporting organization (number of employees, net sales/net revenues, total capitalization broken ● 6, 12, 24, Appendix down in terms of debt and equity, and quantity of products or services provided) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● 6, 7, 19, 34~37 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 7, 18, 47 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided ● front cover 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● front cover 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● front cover 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● front cover 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 8~9 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures) ● front cover 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ● front cover 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities ○ that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques 3.9 ○ underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for 3.10 such re-statement ○ 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● front cover, 37 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Explain the scope and 3.13 basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization ● 84 and the assurance provider(s) Governance, Commitments & Engagement E  conomic value generated and distributed (e.g. revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 4.1 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and ● 20 governments) 4.2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ● 20 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest ● 20 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest ● 20 governance body 80 81 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting GRI Index Description Reporting Section Level Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental ○ performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 20  rocess for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest P 4.7 ● 20 governance body and its committees (gender and other indicators of diversity Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 4.8 ● 21, 30, 48, 54, 62 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation  rocedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and P 4.9 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, ● 21, 30, 48, 54, 62 and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect ◐ 20 to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 20 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the ● 5 organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations ● 15 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 18~20, 22 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ◐ 18, 19 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 9, 22 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization ● 9, 22 has responded to those key topics and concerns Economic EC1 Economic value generated and distributed (e.g. revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations 6, 12, 34~37, ● and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments) Appendix EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ● 54~58, 61 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ● 28, Appendix EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation ○ EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation ● 30, 31, 34~36 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations ● 24 of significant operation EC8 D  evelopment and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit ● 57, 62~68 through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● 9, 34~36 Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 55 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ● 60 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 55 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ◐ 58 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 55, 56, 61 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, ● 55, 56, 61 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 55, 56, 61 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 56~58, 61 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI G3.1 Index & Alignment with ISO 26000 Reporting Level: ● Report, ◐ partial Report, ○ No Report, N/A Reporting GRI Index Description Reporting Section Level EN12  escription of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas D and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored ◐ 66 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity ◐ 66 EN15 N  umber of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 55 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ◐ 58 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 56, 61 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ○ EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ○ EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 60 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 60 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 61 EN24 W  eight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly ○ affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation ● 18, 54~61 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ○ EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with No violations environmental laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for ● 56~59 the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ○ Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender ● 23, 24 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ● 23 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by ● 23, 26~30 significant locations of operation LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ○ LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements ○ LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees ● 27 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, ● 48, 49 by region and by gender LA8 E  ducation, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, ● 29, 30 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 48, 49 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category ● 51 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of ● 25, 26 employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender ● 23 LA13 C  omposition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to ● 23, 24 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation ◐ 27 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 27 82 83 ASIANA AIRLINES Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting Reporting SecGRI Index Description Level tion Human Rights  ercentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses P HR1 ● 27 incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 P  ercentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that ● 30, 31 have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken HR3 T otal hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that ◐ 27, 28 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No discrimination HR5 O  perations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 O  perations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor HR7 O  perations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor HR8  ercentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of P ○ human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments ○ HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ● 28, 45 Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and ● 62~68 development programs SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 22 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 22 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes ○ SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws ○ and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities SO10  revention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative P ● 62~68 impacts on local communities Product & Service PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, ● 48~51 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 T otal number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products ● 7, 42~44, 46, 47 and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 T otal number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 7, 9, 42~47 PR6 P  rograms for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, ● 22, 45, 46 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning ● 45, 46 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ○ PR9 M  onetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision No violations and use of products and services Third-Party Assurance Report To the Management and Stakeholders of Asiana Airlines ■ Introduction Airlines is fully aware of the significance of key stakeholder engagement in its drive Asiana Airlines has commissioned Korean Standards Association (hereinafter “KSA”) toward sustainability management and therefore, has been making endeavors to to perform an independent assurance on its 2013 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “the establish a stakeholder engagement process. It especially recognizes highly the Report”). KSA, therefore, reviews the evidence and feasibility of data, performance results, company’s commitment to identifying issues of interest for internal and external and relevant systems to offer an independent 3rd-party opinion. This is the 3rd-year stakeholders by undertaking peers benchmarking, media research and employee assurance made by KSA on the Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report, and Asiana Airlines surveys in addition to the external survey (KSI). Going forward, KSA recommends Asiana is accountable for collecting, analyzing, and organizing information necessary to generate Airlines identify needs of varied stakeholders through open communication channels the report, and all the claims made therein. and manage the engagement process and performances in a consistent manner. ■ Independence •Materiality Has Asiana Airlines included material information necessary for the KSA does not have any kinds of commercial interest in businesses of Asiana Airlines stakeholders to make sensible decisions? KSA believes Asiana Airlines has not apart from undertaking a 3rd-party assurance on the Report. KSA also does not hold any dropped or excluded any material information significant for stakeholders. It should commercial interest that may undermine its credibility and integrity as an independent be also noted the company identified stakeholder issues through internal and external assurance agency. environment analysis and conducted relevance/significance evaluations based on the analysis results to identify major issues. KSA advises Asiana Airlines refine its ■ Standards & Credibility significance assessment process further to clarify major issues and corporate agendas, KSA has performed the assurance on the basis of AA1000AS 2008 standards while applying and establish an internal system for consistent monitoring. This will help the company the GRI G3.1 guideline and ISO 26000. In accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) assurance track and report any changes along with corporate responses to such changes. requirements, the areas subjected to the three principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness, in combination with information credibility of the 2013 report have been •Responsiveness Does Asiana Airlines provide prompt responses to the concerns confirmed. The information credibility of the Asiana Airlines Sustainability Report was and requests of stakeholders? KSA has confirmed Asiana Airlines is undertaking verified with ‘a moderate level’ of assurance. diverse activities to properly respond to sustainability issues. The company has a well structured operational regime in place for flight safety and is especially successful ■ Type & Scope in demonstrating the leadership’s strong commitment to safety while highlighting the KSA has performed an assurance that falls into Type 2 on the basis of the AA 1000 strong safety level of its services. However, just enumerating massive amount of data assurance standards (AA1000 AS). Type 2 assurance assesses accuracy and quality of in the Report makes it hard to clearly understand the underlying meaning. Therefore, statements made by Asiana Airlines and sustainable performance data in this Report in the company is well advised to establish an organization and strategy that can lead accordance with the reporting principle described in AA 1000 2008. The assurance scope sustainability management (i.e. environment protection, safety management, social spans from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 with some part updated up until April 2013. contribution, etc) systemically and present relevant data in a more easy-to-understand The assurance focuses on the system and activities of Asiana Airlines inclusive of the manner. sustainability management policy, objectives, business, targets, and performances during the reporting period. It also verified financial data in a broad sense along with data on ■ Opinion & Recommendation for Improvement environmental and social impact. As for the topic of stakeholder engagement, KSA just KSA recommends the followings to Asiana Airlines that would help the company devise reviews the materiality test process of the company. the company-wide sustainability strategy to make sustained responses to relevant issues. ■ Methodology •Economy The prolonged economic recession presented diverse challenges to Asiana KSA has collected necessary information, data, and evidence relevant to the assurance Airlines including volatile exchange rates and fuel expense risks. KSA recommends scope and performed assurance using the following methodologies: Asiana Airlines categorize risks based on more detailed criteria into market, operation, resources, environment and etc, report corporate responses to non-financial risks and •media research and analysis on sustainable business initiatives of Asiana Airlines for milestones of the Risk Management Committee, and include more information on its risk the past four years. management scheme in the Report. •a visit to the Asiana Airlines headquarters and interviews with sustainability management champions or issue managers •Environment Climate change, which accounts for a material part in the Report, is a •a review on the management system and process utilized to improve sustainability grave environmental issue across the globe. It is, therefore, noteworthy for the company performance and generate the Report to have put a priority on climate change in its Report to delineate green initiatives and •a review to confirm the financial data to be closely aligned with the audit report for 2012 performances. The room for improvement, however, is to include more relevant topics financial statements and disclosed IR information such as ‘improvements on environment policies and activities’, ‘quantitative index •a review and tracking of internal documents and raw data management’ or ‘standard operation procedure’. ■ Findings & Opinion •Society KSA believes the newly developed ‘social contribution brand strategy’ of Asiana KSA has reviewed the draft and expressed its opinion on it, and the Report was modified Airlines should be recognized highly since it connects corporate business with its social accordingly when necessary. KSA did not find any material errors, or any incorrect or contribution initiatives, actively engaging customers in the process. Going forward, the inappropriate descriptions in this Report reviewed for the assurance. KSA sets forth its company is recommended to report negative issues concerning aviation safety exposed opinion on the Report as follows: by the media and the subsequent corporate responses and improvements in order to offer a balanced perspective. KSA also recommends the company report more on its •Inclusivity Has Asiana Airlines engaged stakeholders in the process of developing diversity management such as developing and nurturing female employees who take up and introducing strategic responses to sustainability? KSA has confirmed Asiana more than half of the company’s payroll. April 15, 2013 KSA Chairman & CEO Kim, Chang-ryong Korea Standards Association is a special entity incorporated in 1962 in accordance with the Industrial Standardization Act. It is a knowledge service agency which offers and spreads services for industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management and KS·ISO accreditation. It is contributing greatly to sustainable development of Korea as the Korean agency for ISO 26000, official GRI certified training, AA1000 assurance, KSI operation, UN CDM management, and assurance on the GHG target regime. 84 This report has been printed on environment-friendly paper using soy ink. Asiana Airlines cares about the environment.
