Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 – supporting our vision and strategy Contents 1 Contents Page Page n Letter to our Stakeholders 3 n Planet Reducing our Impact 22 n Approach Reducing Customers’ Impact 24 The ISS Strategy and Corporate Responsibility 4 Governance 5 n Profit Stakeholder Engagement 8 Sharper focus has led to stronger controls 26 Materiality 8 Competition law 26 Awards and Recognitions 11 Anti-corruption and competiton law training 27 Managing Contractual Risk 27 n Our Performance and Targets 12 Whistle blower system 27 Governance 27 n People Health & Safety 14 n Independent review statement 28 Leadership 15 Diversity 18 n Reporting Principles and Compliance 30 Human Rights 18 Governance 20 n GRI and UNGC Compliance Tables 32 ZEYNEP ÖZKAN, DENMARK Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 ISS at a glance ISS at a Financial highlights 2013 glance Our vision Revenue 78,459 DKKm Operating profit1) 4,315 DKKm “We are going to be the world’s greatest service organisation.” Organic growth Operating margin 4.3% 5.5% Our business model ISS’s business model is based on creating value for our customers by taking over their non-core facility Cash conversion Number of employees service activities. 102% 533,544 1) Before other items. revenue by region Nordic 21% Western Europe 51% Our services Eastern Europe 2% We offer single-service, multi-service and Asia 10% integrated facility service solutions (IFS) Latin America 5% to public and private sector customers, North America 4% including cleaning services, property Pacific 7% services, catering services, support services, security services and facility management services. revenue by DELIVERY Our value proposition Single-services 57% “Service performance that facilitates our customers’ Multi-services 17% purpose through people empowerment.” Intergrated facility services 26% Our global presence ISS was founded in Copenhagen in 1901 and is today one of the world’s largest facility services providers present in over revenue by SERVICE 50 countries across Europe, Asia, North America, Latin America and Pacific. We Cleaning services 49% currently deliver services in countries Property services 20% responsible for more than 90% of the Catering services 11% world’s GDP. We have a strong position in Support services 8% emerging markets, where we have more Security services 8% than half of our employees and generate Facility management 4% more than 22% of our revenue. Letter to our Stakeholders 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Letter to our Stakeholders 3 Letter to our Stakeholders 2013 was an important year for ISS. We accelerated Progress in 2013 – even more focus in 2014 the implementation of our key strategic priorities, aligned and focused our business platform, reduced our In 2013, we took further significant strides on key parameters debt significantly, strengthened our Executive Group within corporate responsibility. Management team and implemented several large international IFS contracts – all while maintaining a In May 2013, for the first time ever, the International Association solid business performance throughout the year. of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) ranked ISS as the world’s best outsourcing provider ahead of many other leading global At the end of 2013, ISS had 533,544 employees, making our facility services providers, business process and IT outsourcing company one of the largest private employers in the world and brands. One of the key evaluation criteria is how we lead and one of the largest employers in many of the countries where manage our employees. we operate. Our employees are our most important asset. They add the power of the human touch to every service that we In 2013, unfortunately, six of our employees lost their lives due to deliver to our many customers around the world. Our responsiwork-related accidents. This is deeply regrettable and unacceptable. bility is momentous and so is the opportunity we have to make Each of these fatalities has an impact on families, colleagues a tangible positive difference in the job market as well as in the and friends and we extend our thoughts and sympathy to them. individual lives of hundreds of thousands of people around the world. We enable our employees to put their skills to good use, We have taken many initiatives in 2013 to improve our perforwe develop them and we provide them the opportunity to mance in corporate responsibility such as increased training and secure an income. We promote thousands of customers’ busiawareness campaigns. To mention a few, we have improved our ness by protecting their brands and allowing them to focus Lost Time Injury frequency by 45% and reduced the number on what they do best; and we go about our business in a of lost workdays by almost 35% over the past four years. Our resource-efficient manner, which benefits our bottom-line as absentee rate has decreased from 2.1% to 1.9%. well as the environment. More initiatives are being taken in 2014 to keep up the momenIn ISS, we have achieved a global leading position within the tum such as Personal Safety Action Plans, a Driver Safety facility services sector and we are striving to become the world’s Handbook and increasing our emphasis on Health, Safety and greatest service organisation. A key factor for success is to take Environment (HSE) by implementing forward-looking KPIs to the global lead in making it simple and efficient for our customers be proactive in preventing incidents at our workplaces. to run a safe, pleasant and efficient workplace. Another key driver for approaching our ambition is that we deliver our serStrong commitment to UN Global Compact vices in a responsible manner – towards employees, customers, partners and society. On human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption, we have made a strong commitment as a These elements are all core to our market leading value proposition. signatory and supporter of the United Nations Global Compact since its inception in 1999. We remain committed to aligning our Pursuing good relationships strategy and operations with the ten Global Compact principles. Furthermore, we respect, support and promote human rights and Our role and responsibility is something we take on ourselves support the ambitions stated in the United Nations Universal with pride and humility. We strive to deliver on our promises Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Conventions of the and obligations to all of our stakeholders. Our customers and International Labour Organisation. employees expect it from us and it is part of our core values as a company. We also know that in order to preserve our license to operate in countries around the world, we must be a positive contributor to society. For example, wherever we enter into business, we bring a zero-tolerance attitude towards corruption and unethical business practices. We pursue good relationships with authorities and see unions not as opponents but partners. Lord Allen of Kensington, CBE Jeff Gravenhorst ISS’s new HEAD office, Søborg, DEnmark Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Approach 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 ‘‘ Approach 5 Approach This is where leadership plays a role. Our leaders will have to transfer the vision into a shared ambition among all our employees to make the difference between good and great Corporate Responsibility is every day at every site. an integral part of our value proposition to our customers. We will know we have reached our vision when our customers This section describes how corporate responsibility at ISS Corporate responsibility contribution: Corporate responand our employees have become loyal ambassadors and active Joseph Nazareth, is fundamental to business growth and that we have a sibility already serves as a driver of aligned and standardised promoters of the ISS brand and the services we deliver. We Head of Health, Safety dedicated approach connected to our business strategy. service offerings, by applying global policies and standards for monitor our progress through a centrally governed Customer and Environment and e.g. safety, anti-corruption and supplier code of conduct across Experience survey and Employee Engagement survey. Corporate Responsibility The ISS strategy and corporate responsibility our more than 50 markets. ISS’s vision is to be the world’s greatest service organisation. We HSE and CR governance will achieve this through the ISS Way – our strategy. In 2013, Ready to deliver Integrated Facility Services (IFS) we identified five strategic themes that will help us accelerate Our IFS revenue has grown by a factor of 16 since our progress towards the next level of service performance. 2004. Our ability to run a facility as a “one stop Corporate responsibility plays a part in each of these themes shop” for customers locally, regionally and gloISS Board of Directors Reviews governance and signs off on performance – as illustrated below. bally, is at the core of our differentiated value proposition. IFS readiness is key to serving global customers and grasping new EGM and GMB Ultimate accountability for ISS CR activities local market opportunities. Empowering people through great leadership Group HSE and CR Drives CR strategy, monitoring and reporting Leadership is our key strategy enabler. We will Corporate responsibility contribution: Due to our groupcontinue to invest in leadership through developwide coordinated HSE systems we can assure consistency ment programmes – at many levels of the organiacross services and locations, contributing to our customers’ Regions Countries Group functions Drive activities and performance reporting back to Group HSE sation – and the implementation of our Leadership Principles. performance on health, safety and environment targets. and CR in accordance with the Reporting Manual Corporate responsibility contribution: Leadership fosters engagement, and engaged employees deliver services more Striving for excellence safely and efficiently. Credible and effective management of To become the world’s greatest service organisahealth, safety and environment (HSE), in compliance with local tion, excellence must permeate the entire organiand international regulation and customer demands, is a key sation from procurement to frontline delivery. To Governance In each country, a designated HSE manager is tasked with part of our value proposition to customers. ISS, excellence is about contributing to the customers’ purpose implementing the Group strategy for HSE by integrating this by providing an environment that allows them to run their busiISS is a privately held company with a two-tier management into the country business strategy. The status of the actions that ness efficiently, focussing on the essentials of their business. structure comprising by the Board of Directors and the are part of this strategy are followed up during the regional Transforming our customer base Executive Group Management Board (EGM), which has the business review. Countries report on their performance to The ISS Way continues to drive the transformaCorporate responsibility contribution: We self-deliver services Group CEO, Group CFO and two Group Chief Operating Group HSE and CR based on the HSE and CR Reporting Manual. tion of our customer base towards customers with our own employees who apply our contract life cycle proOfficers (COOs) as members. Group HSE and CR reviews the performance and works with with whom our value proposition resonates. cesses that incorporate HSE and people management. Corpocountries in achieving the Group goals. This means directing a growing share of our business towards rate Responsibility is also an important part of our Procurement The Board determines the overall Group strategy and superlarge national, regional and international customers. Excellence programme and is a key criteria for evaluating our vises the company’s activities, its management and organisation. Please refer to the Annual Report for an overview of strategic suppliers. The EGM is responsible for ISS’s day-to-day management. The Corporate Governance. Corporate responsibility contribution: Effective managetwo bodies are separate and have no overlapping members. ment of corporate responsibility is key to this transformation, Read more about our strategy and the market situation in the The Board of Directors regularly reviews the Group’s corporate Strengthened internal controls as our customers require effective and credible risk manageISS Annual Report 2013. governance in relation to activities, business environment and ment. Our internal HSE processes ensure continuous monitorstatutory requirements. As part of the strategy to achieve our new vision, ISS is ing of performance on safety and environmental factors, as Working through half a million people strengthening the internal control environment. In order to well as compliance with human rights and labour laws. The EGM is responsible for ISS corporate responsibility activities. build trust with our customers and investors that ISS adequately Our vision provides a clear purpose. Our strategic priorities chart Group HSE and CR is mandated by the EGM and the Group manages risks, performance must be documented and systems the route to get there. The challenge lies in the fact that over Management Board (please see the Annual Report for the for oversight and transparency created. Fit for purpose organisation 530,000 individuals with millions of customer interactions every composition of this Board) to work with other Group funcTransforming our customer base will require day will have to walk this route to achieve this vision. Otherwise, tions, Regional CEOs and Country Managers to implement We implemented a set of new internal audit policies in 2013. organisational changes. We are migrating from a we will not get there. We need to deliver a consistent and the Corporate Responsibility strategy in our operations and We nearly doubled the head count in the head office internal service-based to a customer-based organisation excellent service performance enabling our customers to focus countries. The head of Group HSE and CR reports to a member audit department while also increasing our use of digital data model through sharing best practises and increased implemen100% on their core business. of the GMB. analysis tools. In addition, during the year, we conducted 57 tation of group standards (balanced with local adaption). internal audit assignments across the world. 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Approach 7 SELF-ASSESSMENT CATEGORIES Supply chain management Supplier management is part of the processes in our Operational Process Framework. The process consists of two parts: ISS has a global and diversified service offering within all areas Supplier Selection and Supplier Management; and ensures that Nineteen categories for self-assessment of facility management. ISS uses a significant amount of suppliers we select the right suppliers or subcontractors in accordance New in-depth audit guidelines were implemented in 2013. These guidelines now structure the control self-assessments that of goods and services; some forming a strategic partnership with the ISS Supplier Code of Conduct; ensuring ISS receives all countries are required to complete annually. with ISS and others used more on a transactional basis. ISS is the required goods or services at the best price and quality. currently implementing a common spend taxonomy across the The assessments are based on a catalogue of 19 control categories split into three main areas: governance and compliance, Group and according to this the top 5 spend categories are The Supplier Management Process Framework business support and contract life cycle. food & beverage, cleaning supplies, tools & machines, parts and equipment, fleet and HR; together constituting around The main HSE and CR risks associated with the supply chain are 60% of the total ISS spend on goods and services. ISS is related to human rights (child labour, wages), labour practices A. Governance and B. Business Support C. Contract Lifecycle committed to developing strategic partnerships with selected (health and safety, work time/overtime, freedom of association) Compliance top-tier suppliers of goods and services to further strengthen and environment (water, chemicals and waste). We manage the operational capabilities of ISS and our value proposition. and mitigate HSE and CR risks through two parallel tracks. In Financial reporting the supplier selection process, potential suppliers are evaluated A.01. Code of Conduct A.02. Leadership A.03. Corporate Governance A.04. Competition A.05. Anti-corruption B.05. Tax B.06. Treasury B.07. Procurement B.08. IT B.09. HSE and CR C.01. Sales C.02. Solution C.03. Negotiation C.04. Transition C.05. Operation In addition to the spend on goods and services, ISS utilises several on a range of issues including labour, human rights and sub-contractors performing customer-facing activities on behalf environmental criteria using a Self-Assessment questionnaire. B.01. Systems, interfaces and configuration B.02. Month-end procedures and accounting B.03. Payroll B.04. Invoicing and accounts receivables of ISS. ISS predominantly utilises sub-contractors within cleaning, In 2013, all new strategic suppliers have been screened using security, property service, waste management and catering the Self-Assessment questionnaire as part of the supplier where special local and/or commercial reasons deem it relevant. selection process. In line with our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact In November 2012, we sent out our Self-Assessment questionand its principles, ISS in 2013 adopted a Supplier Code of Connaire to Strategic Group Suppliers (Group agreements) and duct. New and existing suppliers were made aware of these new the largest suppliers in our 10 largest markets. The first and formalised requirements with which they need to comply with foremost objective to assess existing or potential suppliers is in order to do business with ISS. They also need to make themfor them to understand our values and operating principles. selves available for audits from ISS if requested. When entering In total, 85 existing suppliers completed the assessment. into a new contract, ISS makes the Code of Conduct part of The most common issues were workplace health and safety the Request for Proposal and the terms of engagements. and conditions of employment and work. In addition to the Self-Assessments, we carry out audits based on their risks in The ISS Supplier Code of Conduct covers the areas of workthis area. For example, we audited a clothing manufacturer in After assigning responsibility to relevant managers for each category, Group Internal Audit (GIA) sends an online survey to place standards, health and safety, compensation and working Ningbo, China. The main audit findings were safety (fire proeach manager. When answered, GIA collects and analyses the data and improvement possibilities. hours, freedom of association and collective bargaining, forced tection control, slip and tripping hazards, and manual handling) and compulsory labour, child labour, non-discrimination and and environmental (outdoor fuel storage tank) related. The harassment, and environment. supplier has taken corrective actions to address these findings. Self-assessments and internal audits in place requirements to address, among others, safety issues. We Supplier Management is essential for any account regardless Supplier Management is not as simple as getting the right are now in the second phase of being proactive and carrying of size because it ensures that ISS is able to fulfil all customer quality at the right price. It is also about managing associated Controls are based on self-assessments covering both financial out audits in countries to ensure that the global policies and requirements through a sound risk based sourcing strategy. risks, negotiating the right conditions, fulfilling requirements at and non-financial subjects, including governance and compliance. standards are being implemented. ISS uses these self-assessments to determine risk but also to embed a culture of risk awareness that we believe includes a In 15 of the audits performed by Group Internal Audit in 2013, The supplier management process framework greater focus on fast implementation of mitigating actions. corporate responsibility issues such as the Code of Conduct, the ISS Safety Rules, child labour and working hours were part Countries representing more than 95% of Group turnover subof the audit scope. With this activity level, we exceeded our mit the self-assessments that form the basis of internal audit target of carrying out audits of at least 20% of countries in Supplier Management activities. Smaller countries respond to a scaled-down version of which we operate regarding Corporate Responsibility issues. the self-assessment document. Results of the self-assessments Supplier Selection Supplier Management and audits are reported to Group Internal Audit who analyses and Furthermore, Group HSE and CR performs audits against the communicates results to Country, Regional and Group ManageISS International HR standards, the HSE Manual, the ISS Safety Identify Required Supplier Manage and Control Supplier ment and the Audit Committee. The global assessment score Rules and the ISS Code of Conduct when visiting countries. in 2013 indicates that key controls are generally implemented; however, additional formalisation is needed in parts of the business. From 2014, there will be a greater focus on carrying out local Evaluate Potential Suppliers internal audits. This process is also facilitated by training to Evaluate Supplier Performance HSE and CR weighs in ensure consistency of the expectations and process of these Select Supplier audits. The first such training was conducted during the Latin In the last three years, ISS has worked on developing the American region seminar in December of 2013. foundation in terms of developing policies, standards and 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Approach 9 the right time, and ensuring the on-going and overall manageOur main take-away from this process was a confirmation of STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ment of performance, assessments and controls applicable to employees and customers, investors and the financial commusuppliers and sub-contractors. nity as our main stakeholders. Stakeholder Engagement 2013 examples Stakeholder engagement The exercise also provided us with a consensus of which issues Employees Employees are invited to share thoughts and opinions Our fourth corporate Employee Engagement survey are most important to us, i.e. most material to business continuity through daily contacts with their immediate manage(EES), was carried out in 2013, and 63% of our more We base our engagement with ISS stakeholders on dialogue and reputation in the future of the ISS Group. ment, as well as through a corporate Employee than 335,000 employees in 45 countries who were and open communication. We aspire to speak with one voice Engagement survey. invited responded to the survey. The survey was regardless of geography and culture; a voice that is open and The result is a materiality matrix as seen below. The 2013 reporting offered in 49 different languages. honest in good and bad times and reflects fairness and respect reflects this knowledge in its focus and priority of issues. toward our stakeholders. Customers We have regular contacts with all customers. 2013 was the 3rd consecutive year with a global Customer The fact that health and safety and fair business practices stand Furthermore, we carry out a Customer Experience Experience survey within ISS. 8,000 customers in 46 The ISS Group functions are dominant in some of the stakeabove and beyond all other issues, however, is a given. It is part survey to gauge how we are perceived. markets were asked to evaluate their relationship with ISS. holder engagements, while locally ISS countries engage with of our value proposition to our customers and an integral part The lead indicator for the status of the customer the stakeholders they have determined to be important in their of who we are as a company. experience is the Net Promoter Score and we improved community. The table on the next page shows stakeholder this score for the third year in a row. engagement types and examples from 2013. As a process of validation, the conclusions of the stakeholder Four factors are highly influential in order for customers review were presented at three regional meetings for HSE to recommend ISS: Materiality managers during 2013, a process that confirmed the original Meeting the contract terms, delivering services to conconclusions. It is most likely, however, that individual ISS counsistently high standards, effectively managing customers’ As a result of our 2012 stakeholder mapping and review that tries experience a variation. We will continue to validate this risks and focus on improving the way ISS works. A was based on input from Group functions, we hold an overmapping (and make any relevant adjustments) with different number of initiatives on regional and country level were view of the company’s most important stakeholders at Group stakeholders in 2014 to ensure that our view of risks and our launched to focus our effort within these key behaviours. level, as well as their interest in and influence on our business. stakeholders’ expectations are up-to-date and accurate. Investors At present, ISS has a limited number of owners: two priOwners, management and the Board of Directors vate equity companies, a pension fund and a private holdmet seven times in 2013. MATERIALITY MATRIX ing investment company indirectly own ISS. Regular meetings between EGM and investor representatives are held. Unions We engage in dialogue locally, regionally and globally to Our annual European Works Council conference was Significance to ISS Stakeholders resolve possible issues. We have constructive interactions held in June 2013 with participants from 20 countries, •Health & Safety (customers) with works councils, unions and employee representarepresenting over 40% of our employees. Agenda High •Utilities consumption •Job creation •Health & Safety (ISS) tives. In case of operational changes that could subtopics were the employee engagement survey, and •Labour rights •Anti-corruption stantially affect employees, for example in a divestment the 2013 renewal of the agreement between ISS and •Civil and •Handling of incidents •Terms of employment and competition law or during any transfer of employees (ISS takes over an the EWC. This renewed agreement reflects both the political human rights •Income generation •Social dialogue •Diversity and inclusion operation or hands over an operation), ISS follows the EU directive (EWC directive 2009/38/EC) and our conlegislative framework governing the operation such tinued commitment to cooperating with the workers’ as European Union directives, national legislation on councils around Europe. Medium Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) We renewed our global agreement on human rights •Access to education Regulations (TUPE) and Acquired Rights Directive (ARD) and working conditions with UNI Global Union in •Supply chain management as well as collective agreements in the specific industry. 2013. Read more on page 18. •Community involvement This also means ISS does not have a globally mandated notice period for the change but follows the timeline •Climate change as legally required and with due consultation with the bodies representing the employees (Union, workers •Personal development opportunities •Greener cleaning councils or representatives). •Advocacy and lobbyism Suppliers We engage with suppliers both to manage risks in the We have implemented our Supplier Code of Conduct Low ISS supply chain management and to develop partnerand received 85 self-assessment questionnaires in Low Medium High ISS business impact ships with special focus on ergonomics and reduction the last 14 months. Impact to ISS business of environmental impacts. Media and NGOs We have regular contact and open lines of communiWe answered more than 1,250 media requests at cation, particularly in Denmark. head office in 2013 driven by an increasing amount of inquiries from international media. 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Approach 11 Guiding documents for CR in ISS • The ISS Corporate Responsibility Policyc; A number of documents provides the framework for • The ISS International Human Resource Standards; corporate responsibility in ISS: • The ISS Safety Rulese; • The ISS values: Honesty, Entrepreneurship, Responsibility and Qualitya; • The ISS Group HSE Management Manual; • The ISS Code of Conductb,c; • The ISS HSE and CR Reporting Manual; • The ISS Leadership Principlesa,c; • The ISS HSE and CR Action Plan. • The ISS Strategy: The ISS Wayd; AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Every year our countries receive awards from peers and • ISS Estonia won Estonian Unemployment Insurance stakeholders for their performance and initiatives within Fund’s recognition award “The Best Employer in 2013 in the areas of health, safety and environment and corporate Harju County”. responsibility. In the list below are some examples from 2013. • ISS Spain received the prize INCORPORA AWARDS in • ISS UK and PwC received an award from the British the category, Big Company, in recognition of their good Institute of Cleaning Science (BICSc) for working in partbusiness performance in integrating people experiencing nership to provide accredited training to ISS employees, or at risk of social exclusion. on the safety of cleaners and the users of the building, and on building sustainability. • ISS Belgium received the Green Jersey as subcontractor who delivered the biggest effort for a safe and healthy • ISS Norway won HR Norway’s Competence award for environment by MONSANTO. among others its massive investment in apprentices and outstanding integration of employees from 120 different • ISS Taiwan was awarded Best Employer Enterprise Honour cultures/nations. by the government for the hiring of vulnerable and disabled people. • ISS UK won the Green Award from the Educating Excellence Awards for integrating economic, environ• ISS Australia won a record-breaking eight awards at the mental and sustainability factors in the delivery of school annual Customer Service Institute of Australia (CSIA) menus to 278 UK schools. Service Excellence Awards. • ISS Taiwan received the highest recognition from the • ISS Spain was awarded the 2013 Queen Sofia Prize for Labour Standards Inspection Office with a Labour the integration of disabled employees. Safety Award. • ISS Hong Kong won two awards from the Employee Retraining Board as well as a Caring Company award from the Hong Kong Council of Social Services. a) http://www.issworld.com/en/about-iss/strategy/our-values d) http://www.issworld.com/en/about-iss/strategy b) http://www.issworld.com/en/career/iss-as-employer/code-of-conduct e) http://www.issworld.com/en/corporate-responsibility/initiatives/safety-rules Cansu Demircan and Özen Karadaş, TURKEY c) http://inv.issworld.com/policies.cfm Our Performance and Targets 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Our Performance and Targets 13 Our Performance and Targets Performance against objectives and targets for 2013 Targets 2013 Performance 2013 Trend This section presents our Key Performance Indicators and results objectives and targets for 2014. We report on our performance In accordance with the HSE Vision, our first priority is to We experienced six fatalities. See page 14. against objectives and targets for 2013. We have also established within three areas: People, Planet, and Profit prevent fatalities at our work places. Our Group target is 0. In terms of Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF), the Group LTIF decreased by 45% from the baseline value of 13, people planet target for 2013 is to reduce LTIF by 45% to below 7. to 7 in 2013. 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Related to the LTIF are Lost Work Days (LWD) as a result The number of Lost Work Days per 1000 exposure hours of lost time incidents. The Group target for 2013 is a was 0.182, a reduction of 34%. Number of employees 533,544 534,273 534,519 Electricity consumption (Mwh) 4) 85,744 93,723 100,734 reduction of 35% per 1,000 exposure hours from the – Full time % 74 73 73 baseline in 2010. – Part time% 1) 26 27 27 Electricity emissions 22,818 28,121 39,341 (tonnes Co2 eq.) 4) In terms of Total Reportable Cases Frequency (TRCF), the TRCF decreased by 56% from the baseline value of 23, Total workforce Group target for 2013 is to reduce our TRCF by at least to 10 in 2013. Front line 503,300 503,304 505,265 Electricity costs (million DKK) 4) 74.0 86.2 88.4 45% from the baseline in 2010. – % Front line 94 94 94 – % Male 51 51 49 Fuel usage (million litres) 5) 55.72 52.97 57.74 At least one yearly Management Review by Country 95% of countries have carried out at least one – % Female 49 49 51 management of the suitability, adequacy and effectivemanagement review for 2013. Vehicle emissions 128,806 122,449 133,489 ness of the Country’s HSE Management System. White collar 30,244 30,969 29,254 (tonnes CO2 eq.) 5) – % White collar 6 6 6 Systematically measure the carbon emissions across the Began measuring consumption of electricity at our own – % Male 58 57 54 Business Travel emissions 12,328 14,782 16,367 Group from electricity in 2013. sites, enabling us to establish baseline data for these – % Female 42 43 46 (tonnes CO2 eq.) 6) consumptions. We can start to establish baseline data for improvement targets. Turnover Water consumption (m3) 549,256 586,849 702,690 % All employees 52 50 45 Reduce the emissions from our leased cars (g/km) from In 2013, we have reduced emissions from our leased 2011 over the leasing period of 4 years by 15%. cars (g/km) by 13.3% compared to the baseline figure % Front line 53 51 46 in 2010. – Male 58 n/a n/a – Female 48 n/a n/a profit To conduct an annual employee engagement survey with We offered 335,000 employees, nearly two-thirds of our a target to have offered 400,000 of our employees to workforce , the opportunity to express their opinion of % White collar 23 23 23 2013 2012 2011 respond to the questionnaire by the end of 2013. working for ISS. 63% chose to make use of this option. – Male 24 n/a n/a – Female 22 n/a n/a Revenue (million DKK) 78,459 79,454 77,644 To carry out audits in at least 20% of countries we In 2013, the scope of internal audits in 15 countries operate with regard to issues within Corporate (greater than 30% of countries) included the Code of ConHours of training 7,454,016 4,819,716 2,609,132 EBITA (million DKK) 4,315 4,411 4,388 Responsibility. duct, the ISS Safety Rules, child labour and working hours. – Front line 6,896,410 4,377,634 2,212,730 – White collar 557,606 442,082 396,402 Net Finance costs (million DKK) 2,276 2,718 2,807 Absentee rate 1.9% 2.1% 2.3% Taxes paid (million DKK) 933 885 749 Incidents of discrimination 11 10 29 Staff costs (million DKK) 51,234 52,071 50,089 Objectives and targets for 2014 3. Related to the LTIF are Lost Work Days (LWD) as a result of lost time incidents. The Group target for 2014 is a reduction of 45% Fatalities 6 7 7 Other taxes Income taxes paid by over 530,000 The focus of our objectives and targets are related to health per 1,000 exposure hours relative to the baseline figure in 2010. employees. and safety as our business is based on our employees. We Lost time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 2) 7 8 10 have also included objectives and targets on environment 4. Reduce the emissions from our leased cars (gm/km) from as well as audits to show that we are being proactive in 2011 over the leasing period of 4 years by 15%. Exposure hours (million hours) 3) 1,011.7 970.2 930.7 1) Defined as employees working an average of less than 30 hours per week for ISS. addressing these issues. 2) A LTI is defined as any work related injury or occupational illness which results in 5. To carry out audits in at least 20% of countries we operate Number of vehicles 21,909 22,741 22,589 a person being unfit for his/her normal duties for more than 24 hours any day 1. In accordance with the HSE Vision, our first priority is to in regarding to issues within Corporate Responsibility. after the injury. The LTIF is based on 1 million exposure hours. This includes prevent fatalities at our work places. Our Group target is 0. contractors under ISS operational control. Number of Vehicle Accidents 4,476 5,685 6,453 6. To conduct an annual employee engagement survey with a 3) Exposure hours include contractors working under ISS operational control. 4) Electricity consumption, emissions and costs corrected for 2012. 2. In terms of Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF), the Group target to have offered 400,000 of our employees in 50 coun5) Fuel usage and vehicle emissions corrected for 2012. target for 2014 is to reduce LTIF by 50% relative to our tries the opportunity to respond to the questionnaire by the 6) Covers emissions from Business travel from Group and 34 countries. baseline figure in 2010. end of 2014. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 People 15 People People Five of the fatalities in 2013 were vehicle related. As a result, VISION AND POLICY we issued a Global Safety Flash in August to create awareness. Furthermore, we will be running a special focus campaign in – a safe and respectful employer February 2014 as part of the Global Safety Campaign on driver Our HSE vision is called ‘100’: safety where we will launch the ISS Driver Safety handbook. 1: we aim to be number 1 in our industry and recognised as an industry leader in the way we deliver health, safety This section describes how providing jobs, safety and Campaigning for awareness Improved injury performance and environmental performance; training for more than half a million employees is a In support of the countries’ safety work, Group HSE and CR The total lost time injury frequency (LTIF) for ISS fell to 7 from 8 0: we operate with 0 fatalities in our workplaces; and responsibility ISS takes seriously. provides a number of tools to raise safety awareness and in 2012. This was in line with our target of a 45% reduction in 0: we incur 0 serious incidents and occupational injuries disseminate knowledge on how to create a zero-incident LTIF from our 2010 baseline of 13. at our workplaces. ISS has over 530,000 people working for us. This makes us not environment. One example is how the ISS Safety Rules, that only one of the largest private employers in the world but also are a mandatory part of our training of front line employees, In the case of the number of lost workdays (LWDs) due to lost Our HSE Policy is to: an important factor in the lives of millions of people. have been communicated. To address the challenge of the time injuries, we reduced the number of lost workdays by 34% • Have a systematic approach to HSE management many languages our employees speak across the world, in compared to our target of 35% reduction. While it is unrealistic designed to ensure compliance with the law and On average, each time we hire someone it impacts the life of 2013, we have made a speechless animation film covering to reduce lost workdays to zero, even a modest decrease has achieve continuous improvement; three other persons by providing income and in some countries each of the ten safety rules. The film was sent to every country material positive operational and financial impact. • Measure, review and report performance and set targets access to health and education. We are able to facilitate the to use for their training. Each clip covers a specific rule embedfor improvement; right to work in a way only a few other global companies can. ding the key messages we want our employees to understand. To illustrate the size of these costs, in Australia, a reduction in • Investigate incidents to determine their root causes and We do this by offering employment and opportunities to people The animations are widely used across the countries and at the LTIF from ~21 to ~11 from 2011 to 2013 drove a decrease in take appropriate corrective actions; with few documented skills and qualifications and limited 17th annual Videographer Awards in the USA, won the Award LWDs and generated savings representing an improvement of • Require our suppliers to manage their HSE in line with options for establishing themselves in the labour market. of Excellence in the safety category. ~15 basis points on the country operating margin. this policy; • Include HSE performance in the appraisal of staff and A defining factor of ISS is the huge diversity in our people. Similarly to previous years, we conducted three ‘Me and You’ The Total Reportable Cases Frequency (TRCF) registered a reward accordingly. Our global employee engagement survey is available in 49 campaigns in 2013, to create awareness and sustain focus on reduction of 56%, compared to the 2010 baseline. We believe languages. For example in our Danish organisation, our 8,000 particularly relevant health and safety risks. The campaigns we are able to continue our drive to zero at this rate due to employees come from more than 130 countries and span the focused on manual lifting, personal protective equipment, stronger leadership and governance in the area of health and ages of 18 to 87*. healthy lifestyles, working alone, driver safety, working at heights safety. The fact that our 2010 HSE Management Manual and and ‘slips, trips and falls’. Posters produced by Group HSE are the ISS Safety Rules are now being implemented in our operarelated human resources initiatives in the ISS Group: engaged ISS must keep our employees safe, our customers free of the translated into more than 20 languages. tions is a main contributor to this. employees drive performance better than anything else. impacts of health and safety risks and our company growing. There is a direct correlation between employee engagement, Achieving this depends on the skills and enthusiasm of our It should also be noted that in line with the implementation customer satisfaction and financial performance. In 2013, 2013 2013 2013 2013 Me Me Me Me & & & & You You You You people, facilitated by quality leadership. of company strategy – ‘The ISS Way’ – the link between safety we strengthened our focus on metrics, providing indications ‘Drive to 100’ Safety Campaign ‘Drive to 100’ Safety Campaign ‘Drive to 100’ Safety Campaign ‘Drive to 100’ Safety Campaign ! and value has become increasingly clear prompting a new perabout the future performance of ISS. We continued the focus STOP Min Max SPEED Health and Safety 2 sec. spective for managers and leaders across the ISS Group. Safety on both customer and employee engagement as well as HSE, is now part of the performance scorecard and business reviews which have led to improved leadership scores, customer and Stronger health and safety leadership and part of the performance bonus scheme. employee ratings, essential to our retention strategies for both Each year, we send out a Group HSE and CR Action Plan with Slips, trips and falls... – remember your actions can protect you! Driving safely let us put the brakes on road accidents... Working at heights... – Take the right steps to reduce risks! If you cannot do it safely – do not do it! employees and customers. actions for each country to implement as part of their country In our operations, there are no work categories or specific action plan. These actions address the challenges we have jobs where there is a high risk or incidence of communicable Consequently, we focus on measuring leadership performance faced in the previous 12 months. Most fatalities are vehicle related diseases. In special cases where for example there is a potential through an annual leadership survey, the employee engagement In 2013, six people were involved in accidents with fatal for asbestos or an outbreak of the H1N1 virus, risk assessments survey, health and safety performance and sickness rates. We In 2013, we asked the countries to develop a Personal Safety outcomes while performing a job for ISS. While this was one and special control measures are taken. link this to leadership performance evaluation and remuneraAction Plan (PSAP) with objectives and targets for each less compared to 2012, we can never be satisfied until such tion. At the same time, we have a talent performance managemember of a country management team. We believe that in accidents never occur at our operations. We will continue to Leadership ment system rolled out in 10 countries and in the Global Corporate line with our Leadership Principles, our management teams work toward this goal. This is the HSE Vision. Clients division that now encompasses almost 9,500 leaders in should demonstrate their commitment in this area through Driving engagement through leadership ISS. What we have also learned is that two main factors in visible actions. Progress and performance on these plans and Of the six incidents, two occurred in Spain, one each in India, One truth has been repeatedly proven in ISS surveys of employees driving employee engagement are leadership quality and targets are reviewed twice a year by a newly established HSE Chile, USA and Brazil respectively. Two of the incidents were in and customers and therefore forms the basis of performance length of employment. leadership team in the country. Cleaning, two in Sales management, and one each in Support services and Security respectively. The PSAPs followed the requirement in 2012 for countries to DRIVING ENGAGEMENT develop a ‘Drive to Zero’ action plan as an integral part of their Each fatality and serious injury is reported to Group HSE within country’s strategy. 24 hours of occurrence and local management carries out an investigation determining the root cause of the incident and * At 87, after 55 years of employment with ISS, our employee, Mrs Madsen, the corrective actions to be taken to prevent similar incidents Engaged employees Customer satisfaction and loyalty Sustainable and profitable business now works 1.5 hours a day at an ISS office. in the future. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 People 17 Leadership at all levels The engagement to profit ratio Securing the right governance is about relentless communication and training ISS is a people company. We depend on engaging all employees as part of our business strategy and in the future of the company. Leadership is paramount and we are investing heavily in equipMain programmes Selected examples Level in the organisation Customer net promoter score ping our management teams for this: engage with people to High get people engaged. • Top management conference 400 senior leaders addressing the Leadership in ISS is defined through our Leadership Principles. Higher • Leadership mastery programme strategic objectives and direction of Top Management Besides their inclusion in management training, we also work operating • Advantage programme the company margin • Performance Appraisals to embed these in employee appraisal meetings. This implies • Mandatory governance translation of business targets into individual targets, conversae-learning programmes tions about each employee’s role and purpose in relation to each of the nine principles. • Advantage programme More than 150 participants • Performance Appraisals annually to the Advantage Middle Management Training at the very top • Apple Awards programme for managers In January 2013, 19 ISS managers embarked on the first of our Leadership Mastery programmes. Through five modules they Lower build intimate knowledge of the ISS Way, i.e. our company operating strategy as well as their own strengths and development areas. • Local management programmes Country training in service excellence, margin The second group of 18 people began in August of the same year. • Performance Appraisals processes and leadership to Supervisors • Apple Awards enhance employee skills and encourage staff mobility Participants are country managers, country CFOs, and key leaders from head office and regions, and in line with the premise of engaging to engage. The programme is run almost High • Local training programmes Employee recognition programmes exclusively by Executive Group Management, supported by Employee net promoter score • Performance Appraisals driving motivation and sense Front line external speakers. • Service with a Human Touch of purpose This level of understanding of company goals and priorities Based on September 2013 YTD numbers. furthers leadership and the ability to implement and communicate the strategy – to employees and to customers. Higher level management Training facts Getting employees to stay with ISS SUPERVISOR TRAINING The ISS University runs a selection of programmes for the Front line employees received 6,896,410 hours of class room The status in 2013 is that 74% of employees were employed nearly 400 people in higher management in ISS to strengthen training in 2013, compared to 4,377,634 hours in 2012. This is full-time (working 30 hours or more a week), up from 73% leadership competencies. In 2013, 212 managers participated equal to over 13.5 hours per person in 2013. Subjects included in 2012. Employees with more than one year of service conOverview of a leadership programme in these programmes. health and safety, technical training, management, language stituted 68%, a decrease from 69% in 2012. 26% of our in Indonesia training, leadership and supervisory, IT, security and fire prevention. employees have more than five years of service. The ISS Academy was established in 2009 and was designed • The Advantage programme, where members of Group manageto accommodate the needs of having new Team Leaders and ment present and discuss ‘The ISS Way’, the Group strategy. White collar employees had 557,606 hours of training in 2013, We work on reducing turnover and absenteeism by offering Service Supervisors. Participants have been prepared and and 442,082 hours of training in 2012 – equal to over 18 more full-time and daytime work, jobs with greater variation selected through a process called “Cadetship Programme”. • The Value Proposition programme, a hands-on workshop hours per person. in tasks, offering career development opportunities and The programme runs for 12 consecutive days consisting focussed on creating the most effective pattern for programmes to promote teamwork and skills development. of 40% theory and 60% practical, both inside and outside presenting value and motivating buyers. However, our turnover rate in 2013 increased to 52%, driven the classroom. THE 9 LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES by a tight labour market in emerging markets where our busiAt the same time, the ISS University will train and certify ness is growing. The programme includes: regional and country managers to run programmes in local 1 Quality control and monitoring; languages, providing further leadership training. 1. in ISS we put the customer first; ISS expects each of our employees working for us to under2. Health, Safety and Environment; 2. in ISS we have passion for performance; stand their purpose and the importance of his or her contri3. Operational processes; 3. in ISS we encourage innovation; bution. We do that through training, and through personal 4. Leadership skills; 4. in ISS we treat people with respect; appraisal meetings which are conducted once annually for 5. Communication skills (oral and written). 5. in ISS we lead by example; employees (except temporary staff). 6. in ISS we lead by empowerment; There are 600 cadets that graduate from the Academy 7. in ISS we develop ourselves and others; Service with a human touch training annually and they are deployed as Supervisors. The pro8. in ISS teamwork is at the heart of our performance; In 2013, we developed and are now running a new front line gramme builds on-site performance by providing a clear 9. in ISS we are one Company with shared values, one employee-training programme called “Service with a human driver to people career within ISS. The average turnover brand and one strategy. touch”. It aims to increase motivation through recognition and for Supervisors completing this programme is significantly rewards for excellence in the day-to-day work of providing our reduced to less than 5% per year. customers with the services we offer. 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 People 19 Long term we aim to create global consistency in the way ing a culture of diversity and inclusion in its broadest terms, ISS MANAGES TRADE UNIONS AND EMPLOYEE WORKS COUNCILS ON BEHALF OF THE CUSTOMER frontline employees are trained in recognising customer needs including age, gender, ethnicity, nationality, culture, language, and signals, as well as in the way employees are trained, religion, physical ability, education and skills. coached and recognised. In line with Danish legislation, in 2013 the Board of Directors Risk mitigation for our customers is a UNI Group 2013 employee engagement results of ISS World Services A/S adopted a diversity policy stating the Global Union key part of our value proposition Every year for the past three years, we have provided the opporcompany’s commitment to diversity and to zero-tolerance of tunity for employees to express their opinion of what they discriminatory actions and behaviour. It creates a baseline and think about working for ISS. In 2013, our original target was presents objectives for women in management, defined as top European Having contacts on all levels enables Europe Region to include 400,000 employees in this our 3rd annual survey. management levels, managers and specialists. Works Council us to efficiently communicate with the However, in the process of aligning the customer survey with relevant stakeholders the employee engagement survey, this target was reduced. In The tools employed to increase this share will be: the end, more than 335,000 employees across 45 countries Local Union and Recognised by employee stakeholders Country were invited to participate in the survey. 1. At least one female candidate must be identified for Workers Council vacant management positions; 1) Law governing the employment aspect of This makes our survey the largest global employee survey conmergers and acquisitions known as ‘TUPE’ ducted by a private employer in the world. 63% of all eligible 2. Succession planning with the aim of identifying Collective Bargaining Agreements and Contracts standing for the Transfer Undertakings employees responded to the survey providing useful insights to female successors; Individual agreements ARD/TUPE 1) Legal Framework (Protection of Employment) Regulations. managers across the globe. For 2014, we aim at reaching out to 75% of our employees. 3. Appropriate level of female participants at ISS’s Leadership development programmes; The 2013 survey consisted of 2 parts. The first part consists of leading indicators for leadership performance in ISS: the 4. Partnership/membership with external body promoting employee net promoter score (eNPS) and four measures for women in leadership; UNI’s 12 fundamental principles based on the international • Employers’ obligations are respected; employee engagement. The second part is a diagnostic toolbox labour organisations’ (ILO) conventions, and it constitutes for improving the engagement of ISS employees. 5. Establish a diversity award where gender diversity may an important part of our commitment to human rights. • Respect for the environment. also be recognised; The eNPS showed a positive development compared to 2012. A set of shared goals is agreed: Moreover, the agreement deals with support for measures to The score was above 30 and more than 50% of our employees 6. Women in leadership on the agenda of Executive Group create a level playing field and UNI’s obligation to disclose and are now promoters of ISS. Our aim is to increase our promoter Management Board and Group Management Board at • Fair competition and the highest possible standards work against companies evading tax payments and social secubase in the coming years. The four measures of employee least once annually. in the service industry; rity contributions or in other ways disregarding basic standards engagement show a steadily high level well above 4 (on a 1 to in the service industry. This has led to the piloting of a UNI-run 5 point scale). ISS employees are motivated to deliver and feel Human Rights • Foundations for financial growth and strengthening project in Mexico, supported by ISS with Euro 100,000 per year, capable to fulfil their roles. of the ISS service delivery; to improve tender processes in the service industry. Working with unions on human rights Diversity Established in 2003 and renewed again in 2013, ISS holds an • A balanced achievement of financial success on one Management-employee relations are formally governed agreement with the international network of national labour hand, and secure and adequately paid jobs on the other. through frameworks for dialogue and collaboration at all levels Formalising diversity commitments organisations – UNI Global Union. The agreement covers all of the organisation, as seen in the figure above. Health and With more than 130 nationalities represented among our more our employees where UNI has a cooperation with a local union. The agreement states that: safety are on the agenda at all levels. than 530,000 employees, ISS is a diverse company almost by default. But we want to go further than this. Diversity makes It commits both UNI and ISS to work to secure fundamental • Employment is freely chosen; ISS creative, productive and more attractive to its workforce, human rights and working conditions – at the workplace, in CASE and we are committed to fostering, cultivating and preservour industry and in the community. It secures ISS support of • Child labour is not used; • Freedom of association and the right to collective It is better when workers are union members Employee engagement bargaining are respected; ISS Norway has just over 13,000 employees from 120 countries and a CEO who would very much like to see more • The right to represent workers; employees join the union. 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.4 • Living wages; “Strong unions create a good relationship between management and employees. They establish order and predictability”, • Hours of work are not excessive; says Hans John Øiestad, CEO of ISS Norway. 3 3 3 3 2 4 2 4 2 4 2 4 • Working conditions are decent; He is supported by trade union representative Brede Edvardsen, 1 Capability 5 1 Motivation 5 1 Pride 5 1 Retention 5 who mentions the ability to solve disagreements outside of I feel able to do my job well I am motivated to do my job well I feel proud to work for ISS I would like to continue working for ISS • Respect for others at work; the courts, through internal relationships and procedures established by unions and management in collaboration. • Education and Training; 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 People 21 Our employee relations for our European operations are No substantiated discrimination cases according to an established model of the European Works Council. This consists of quarterly meetings between management and union representatives and an annual meeting for all The number of incidents of discrimination increased from union members and a number of management representatives. 10 in 2012 to 11 incidents in 2013. In line with the ISS Code of Conduct and the International HR standards, ISS takes all In 2013, the annual meeting continued its discussion of ways claims of discrimination seriously. All incidents of discriminato improve ‘Social Dialogue’, i.e. the communication between tion that were filed were investigated and followed up with employer representatives and employees. The meeting included the appropriate local legal authorities in the country. Each a session on Health, Safety, and Corporate Responsibility. During time an employee filed a claim with the local legal authority, this session, there was training on incident investigation and an ISS responded with a position paper on ISS’s understanding exercise on hazard identification was carried out. In addition, of the facts. Most of the incidents filed were dismissed by there was training on the ISS Safety Rules including stopping the country’s legal authority as being without cause. unsafe work. The results of the stakeholder assessment and the materiality assessment carried out in 2013 were also presented. Human rights embedded The commitment to respect human rights is part of the ISS PEOPLE Code of Conduct which in turn is part of the terms of employment for all employees. Training in human rights issues and related risks are part of the Advantage programme which What is the issue? targets top and middle management. The relationship with employees is multi-facetted in ISS. Governance The primary responsibility is to respect the basic human right to a safe and secure work environment as well as to treat ISS HSE vision and policy governs our health and safety work, employees in compliance with labour laws and conventions. while the ISS Group Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Manual, that is based on four international standards (OHSAS Moreover, by offering engaged leadership and training we 18001, ISO14001, ISO 22000 and ISO 9001) and supporting help not only our business but also further our people’s documents guide implementation in the countries. labour market value and options. Our human resources work is guided by our International Why it matters to ISS Human Resources Standards which covers the following A core element in our value proposition is that we take over areas: recruitment, compulsory and forced labour, child the risks related to the running of a business environment. labour, working hours, discrimination, harassment and abuse, It is our promise to customers that these risks will be mitiremuneration, benefits and incentives, employee appraisals gated and there will be no surprises related to the manageand reviews, training and development, health and safety, ment of their facilities. succession planning, motivation and loyalty, employee relations and managing sickness and absenteeism. We are The financial opportunity from improved health and safety also obligated by our agreement with UNI – Global Union to performance is substantial, both in terms of additional adhere to a set of relevant ILO conventions. evidence of credible and effective risk management as well as cost savings by reducing e.g. lost work days. As such, high performance on health and safety matters is important to customers, owners and potential investors. The way we manage our relationship with employees is by no means all business. We want to keep our people safe and they have every right to expect this of us. MARDIA, MALAYSIA 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Planet 23 Planet Planet dual flush toilets, automatic actuator water taps (hygiene and PLANET water efficient) and hand dryers. The installation of the LED lights will result in energy savings of 57,000 kWh/yr. – our ambition is to limit our environmental footprint What is the issue? As climate partner with DONG, a Danish energy company, we Environmental degradation and climate change due to greenare reducing our energy consumption and promoting the use of house gas emissions constitute one of the most important This section highlights initiatives we are undertaking to CASE renewable energy. We have offset our electricity consumption by global challenges. Public, private, collectively and individually – all increase our operational efficiency and thus reduce our purchasing Renewable energy certificates (RECS) from the wind must contribute to reducing the impact of our behaviours. environmental impact. farm at Horns Rev2. In 2013, ISS purchased 150 MW RECS NEW HEAD OFFICE IS OUR INNOVATION LAB and in 2014, our electricity consumption at our headquarters Why it matters to ISS Since our first materiality review in 2009, we have focussed In addition to our new head office building being a showwill be fully offset making the CO2 emissions from our electrical As a global company, we too have a role to play in reducing mainly on reducing our impact from transport and the chemicase for the new ways of working, the building will be our consumption zero. Through the purchase of renewable energy the environmental impact of human activities. We have cals we use for cleaning. This did not change in the 2013 review. living ‘Lab’. The ISS Lab is a new and innovative initiative certificates, ISS is contri-buting to the promotion of renewable committed to this as signatories to the UN Global Compact. among our employees, customers and our strategic energy in Denmark. Managing our impact on climate change is part of our overall suppliers fostering improvements in our service delivery. Environmental consciousness in our service offerings also commitment to reducing adverse environmental effects of our The ISS Lab is an incubator for creativity, collaboration and Since our first year of measuring water consumption in 2011, has a commercial upside, particularly in relation to the large operations, as stated in our Code of Conduct. The commitment hands-on execution. we have lowered our consumption, from 586,849 m3 in 2012 global customers, that our strategy emphasises. Not only is carried out through our environment management systems to 549,256 m3 in 2013. Driving this improvement is the can they prove that their supply chain management is and we measure, monitor and take initiatives to reduce our The first round of items tested are robot vacuum cleaners, a combination of our improved quality in data collection, Global efficient in terms of HSE, there are also financial savings to emissions and the impact on our climate. new mop design, hygienic hand rubs, efficient glass cleaner awareness campaigns and the implementation of the ISS Green be found in lower consumption of water and electricity. and a project called ‘usage based work order’. Each project Offices Programme. We are working on ways to resolve the The aspects, the indicators and our initiatives to reduce our is determined by a steering group, based on suggestions challenge of reliable data for water usage in leased offices, In a risk perspective, the main impact to ISS would come impact are shown in the table below. received, including success criteria. If the idea lives up to where water is included in the lease rather than paid separately. from non-prudent handling of chemicals used to provide these criteria, we will share it and embed it in other parts our services. This would lead to both environmental and Reducing our impact of the organisation. We are still on track towards reaching our target for reducing health and safety risks. emissions from leased cars by 15% in four years beginning in The running of ISS’s business impacts the environment through 2011. Compared to the baseline figure of 172 g/km in 2010, use of chemicals and consumption of water and energy, this figure was 149 g/km in 2013, a decrease of 13.3%. Safe primarily when we clean. Cleaning services constitutes 50% driving training, global awareness campaigns and implementof our business. Our secondary impact is created by the use of at our new headquarters. The system enables us to monitor the ing environmental criteria for the selection of our leased cars primarily due to changing our work culture towards higher use of cars and air transport. consumption of power, heat and water. The system consists of are the main factors in this improvement. online meetings rather than physical meetings requiring air travel. a number of wireless meters that monitor consumption 24/7 In 2013, we consumed 85,744 Mwh of electricity, a decrease from for specified consumption sources such as the ventilation and Emissions from business travel decreased from 14,782 tonnes in We did not identify any significant non-compliance with environ2012 when we reported 93,723 Mwh. We achieved this through cooling systems. The Smart Flex web portal gives an intuitive 2012 to 12,328 tonnes in 2013. The reason for the decrease is mental laws and regulations in 2013. targeted efforts to reduce consumption, e.g. more efficient overview of the resource consumption, providing reports and offices and the ISS Green Offices Programme. alarms when consumption exceeds pre-set limits. This allows us to detect inconsistencies and take actions to improve our conRESOURCE COnsUMPTION MONITORING AT OUR NEW HEAD OFFICE ISS has a strong focus on resource management and is consumption. Prior to moving into our new HQ, we implemented tinuously looking for ways to reduce our consumption. We initiatives such as LED lighting, lighting sensors optimising the therefore installed an energy surveillance system, Smart Flex use of natural lighting, water faucet sensors, high efficiency Main Meter 132.0 kW Environmental performance Water 6 m3 Heating 540.0 kW Offices Vent. 33.8 kW Aspect Indicator Initiatives Cooling 0.6 kW Transport CO2 emissions from leased cars and business travel Leasing of more environmentally friendly cars; 2. Floor 14.1 kW Driver Safety Handbook; Driver training; more web meetings 1. Floor 12.4 kW Chemicals Consumption Supplier cooperation Ground Floor 14.4 kW Kitchen 36.6 kW Electricity (own) Consumption ISS Green Offices Programme, Internal campaigning Kitchen Vent. 2.0 kW Water (own) Consumption ISS Green Offices Programme, Internal campaigning 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Planet 25 Finally, we contributed to the Carbon Disclosure Project for CASE the second time in 2013. The CDP is an annual survey of how well the world’s largest companies manage and report on risks and opportunities related to climate change. For our 2013 CDP Barclays and ISS collaboration to minimise response, ISS received a score of 79, where the CDP Supply energy consumption Chain Average was 49. In 2012, ISS commenced the roll out of facilities management services to Barclays Real Estate Teams in the UK, Mandatory greening of offices in 2014 Europe, the Americas, Asia Pacific and the Middle East. This involved provision of support across a spectrum of services The ISS Green Offices Programme (GOP) – a voluntary programme including energy and environmental management. designed to reduce the environmental impact of our own offices and daily work practices – continued in 2013 with three addiUsing a collaborative approach, setting up engagement tional countries joining the programme. In 2014, the Green forums, industrialising best practice and improving data Offices Programme will become mandatory for all countries in capture, there has been a renewed focus on energy managethe ISS Group. ment. The ISS team have utilised their experience and knowledge in the industry to expand and improve data collection Certification is available at three progressive levels. The core and evaluation to aid the sharing of best practice across content of the programme focuses on behavioural change to each region. By the adoption of key performance indicators, use resources efficiently and dispose of waste responsibly, and a best in class approach for the selection of environmental engages employees and creates awareness. projects has ensured delivery of energy, carbon and cost savings to meet the bank’s targets. Reducing customers’ impact ISS delivers cleaning services according to documented processes and a management approach called ‘Cleaning Excellence’. It comof water and electricity, reduce emissions, waste and storage bines tried-and-tested working methods and tools with procureand can extend the life of the surfaces. The solutions also offer ment processes and cost optimisation based on worldwide best improved cost in use and productivity. practice to optimise quality, planning, efficiency and workflows. Through co-operation with leading suppliers of environmentally Our specialists map out our clients’ current solution and then friendly products and using the latest processes we are able to identify areas for improvement, including the environmental reduce the use of chemical detergents by 75%. Nearly 15% of the impact of facilities management. The actual delivery is docuproducts we use for our daily cleaning needs are eco label certimented and monitored through a defined Service Level fied according to the European Union requirements. We also Agreement (SLA) and Key Performance Indicators (KPI). adhere to other officially approved eco labels around the world. Analyses have shown that customers with Cleaning Excellence Governance contracts can achieve reductions in the use of detergents by 75%, water consumption and disposal can be reduced by up to 70%. Included in the ISS Code of Conduct is the commitment to continuously reduce the adverse environmental effects of Environmental management in our supply chain our operations. The ISS Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers and Through our HSE Manual, which was introduced in 2011, we sub-suppliers to always ensure compliance with all applicable are able to systematically manage the impacts from our activienvironmental laws and regulations. It also states our own ties. This manual is integrated in other environmental manageintent to minimise environmental impacts from our activities, ment systems applied and certified by some of our countries. and our intention to seek out and favour suppliers that do the same. ISS has worked with cleaning materials supplier Diversey in developing an IT tool to provide a cleaning methodology using products and materials in alignment with our Green Cleaning practices. This simple and user friendly tool allows our operational employees to recommend alternate solutions to our customers that incorporate environmentally friendly products and materials that are recyclable, ergonomic, reduce the usage Thomas Hochmeister, AUSTRIA 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Profit 27 Profit Profit Our goal is to create awareness of the danger zones of compePROFIT tition law. Steering clear of all potential hazards requires a fair amount of attention, and we need ISS’s people equipped to – integrity and stronger controls understand the layout of this field. What is the issue? Whenever there are business transactions there is the risk of Anti-corruption and competition law training corruption and fraud. Business practices in these areas have In this section, we present an overview of our financial months from end of calendar year; reviewing reconciliations increasingly come into the spotlight over the last 20 years, performance, highlight our principles related to economic between local books and our HFM reporting systems on sample We have robust compliance training programmes in anti-corrupand today instances of low business integrity are highly detrisustainability and report on related activities in 2013. basis as part of monthly controlling process and rolling out tion and corruption laws based on two e-learning modules. These mental to a business’ reputation and performance. automated interfaces between local ERP systems and our compliance training modules have been in place since 2011. The Being a responsible business goes hand in hand with being a HFM reporting system. anti-corruption training programme is currently available in six Why it matters to ISS profitable business. This link is also demonstrated by how risks languages, English, German, French, Spanish, simple Chinese Engaging in any form of fraud, corruption and bribery goes and focus areas within corporate responsibility change when a Competition law and Brazilian Portuguese, with the latter being added in 2013. against everything ISS stands for. company’s market context and customer portfolio change. Compliance with competition law is another area of risk for Additionally, in 2013 we focussed on training of new hires as ISS must be a compliant business. If not, we cannot succeed ISS has, in spite of overall challenging macroeconomic condiglobal companies. To emphasise the importance of this subject, well as re-training of relevant employees in what we define as with our strategy and build a flourishing, sustainable business. tions, seen robust organic growth in 2013. Group revenue we have updated our guidelines from 2008 and elevated these high-risk countries and regions: India, China, Eastern Europe amounted to DKK 78.46 billion, compared with DKK 79.45 to policy status and we will roll this policy out in 2014. and Latin America. We want to be the world’s greatest service organisation, billion in 2012. offering our clients peace of mind as we take over and The policy is specific on the risks relevant to ISS such as sharing A total of 361 managers completed training in anti-corruption manage their risks. This requires trust, which in turn requires The organic growth was driven by growth in both developed and of information with competitors or other types of market and 181 training in competition law in 2013. This brings up the integrity and transparency. emerging markets, particularly in Asia that continues to report behaviour that could be seen as price fixing, and further prototal number of people trained in these two subjects to 2,995 double-digit growth. Another very important growth driver was vide guidelines on how to act in industry and branch associaand 1,780 respectively since June 2011. It is simple: no one trusts a company that cheats or our Global Corporate Clients (GCC) department and in partions in order to avoid unintentional violation of competition laws. deploys unfair practices. ticular the start-up of the Barclays, Citibank in the Asia Pacific Compliance training is also an integrated part of the ISS AdvanRegion and Novartis contracts. We expect GCC to continue tage programme as well as the Negotiation Process Framework their growth in the years to come. The implementation of GCC CASE training programmes in contract management. Operations are contracts acts as an incubator of Group policies and processes, assessed for risks of fraud and corruption as part of the finanfacilitating the implementation of our HSE and CR policies and cial controlling processes. (See ISS’s Annual Report 2013 for managers for further consideration. In two cases, investigations processes at our operating sites across the world. Taking a stand for our values more information on risk management, including corruption.) were carried out but did not lead to grounds for action. Our In 2007-2008, the Damage Control activities of ISS Denmark target for the coming year is to increase communication and With a growing share of business from corporate clients suffered a severe loss of key employees and customers to a Managing contractual risk awareness of this reporting option. (now at 8%), integrated facilities services (now at 26%) and competitor, SSG A/S. emerging markets (now over 22%), our risk profile and busiIn line with the ISS value proposition and inherent focus on risk Governance ness needs have changed too. With larger clients, demands on Six years later, the Danish Maritime & Commercial Court management for both ISS and our customers, we have continued compliance with supplier requirements have increased, and (“Søog Handelsretten”) passed its judgement on 7th the training in our Negotiation and Contract Process Framework We are obligated as signatories to the UN Global Compact to effective management of risks within safety and labour has January 2014 in the matter of ISS vs. SSG A/S. ISS had decided with further roll-out in 2013 to UK, Turkey, India, Hong Kong combat the use of corruption, extortion and bribery wherever become more prominent in our value proposition. With more to pursue the matter in Court to draw a clear “line in the sand” and Finland. Furthermore, we are continuing the roll-out of our we do business. business and employees in emerging markets, our exposure to and defend the Values and Leadership Principles of ISS. web based contract risks assessment tool named CRAM@ISS. human rights related risks are growing as is our opportunity to The court established in its ruling that SSG A/S in soliciting The tool allows us to map key risks such as the transfer of employee Business integrity is guided by our values and implemented positively impact developments within e.g. working time, fair the key employees and certain customers had grossly and rules and HSE before entering into customer contracts of an through our Code of Conduct and Anti-corruption policy. It is wages and anti-corruption. intentionally violated the good marketing practices of the increasingly complex business environment. In 2013, we coma central element in the terms on which we hire and potentially Danish Marketing Practices Act and that the ISS manager menced roll-out of CRAM@ISS to India, Sweden and Hong Kong sanction our employees. In 2013, we reviewed our Code of Sharper focus has led to stronger controls of the Damage Control activities at that time had grossly in addition to the previously commenced deployment of eight Conduct, adding conflict of interest as a separate subject. and intentionally violated his obligations under the Salaried CRAM@ISS country and ISS Group sites. CRAM@ISS is a supSince 2008, ISS has changed from an acquisitive growth Employees Act including his duty of loyalty towards ISS by porting tool in our governance and contract approval processes. There are cultural variances and different business practices in strategy to a strategy of growth through focussed market colluding with the competitor. the countries we operate across the world. We are aware of segmentation and integrated services. Today, ISS is a comWhistle blower system the topics and issues unethical business practices potentially pany measured on organic growth; a focussed enterprise with Due to the severity of the violation, the major disruption in create for our customers and ISS. We, however, require all almost primarily onsite delivery of services. During this process the Damage Control business and the uncertainty among The ISS whistle blower system launched in 2012 continues to operating business units to live the ISS values and to comply of transformation, our internal controls have uncovered a employees caused by the coordinated solicitation of the key serve as a reporting channel for raising serious and sensitive with local and global regulations. We have a ‘zero’ tolerance number of areas for improvement. employees, ISS was awarded DKK 15 million in damages concerns guaranteeing all persons making complaints in good policy in this area and as a consequence, we have decided (in total DKK 21 million together with interest and cost). faith protection from reprisals or retaliation. The system is open not to work with certain customers or customer segments if As an outcome, we have strengthened our control processes to all our stakeholders and available on our corporate website. it would compromise our business principles. and systems, which include relocating global financial talents to The judgement marks an important victory for ISS and the In 2013, we had 55 reports posted in the system. The vast certain hotspot areas; implementing automated cash balance employees who suffered the consequences of the violation. majority of these are outside the scope of the Whistle Blower reporting from our local banks; filing of statutory accounts Policy, e.g. local human resources issues, where we have referred audited by local auditors (the Big Four audit firms) within 6 the complainant to for example the local human resources Independent review statement 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Independent review statement 29 Independent review statement To the management and broader stakeholders Methodology Observations of ISS A/S Considering the risk of material error, we planned and performed Materiality and sustainability context Accuracy and reliability In accordance with the agreement dated 31 October 2013, our work so as to obtain all information and explanations we have reviewed the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report necessary to support our conclusion. We used the ISS Group The report content reflects the company’s ongoing monitoring Overall, ISS continues to strengthen its internal data collection (‘the report’) to provide limited assurance on the text and data HSE and CR Data Reporting Manual and other internal reportof its material economic, social and environmental impacts, and control procedures. Environmental data continues to pretherein. The report covers ISS’s global activities from 1 January ing manuals together with GRI reporting criteria as an appronot only in light of immediate operational needs or customer sent a challenge in terms of quality, and without comprehento 31 December 2013. The management of ISS A/S is responpriate basis for our engagement. Our procedures included expectations, but also in the context of global and industry sive verification of data input, we are unable to conclude on sible for collecting, analysing, aggregating and presenting the the following: megatrends, for example related to labour market structures the extent of error in the environmental data. ISS management information in the report. Our responsibility is to express a and natural resource scarcity. The report clearly explains the is highly aware of this and committed to improving data quality conclusion based on our engagement and in accordance with • Reviewing ISS’s processes for determining material issues to strategic relevance of corporate responsibility to the business. in the future. agreed terms of reference. be included in the report and challenging the material text It contains significantly expanded reporting on supply chain statements in the report; management, highlighting the company’s commitment to Scope of work • Reviewing the processes, tools, systems and controls for transparent and responsible conduct across the value chain. Opportunities for Improvement gathering, consolidating and aggregating data at group level We have conducted our work in accordance with the Interand performing analytical review procedures and obtaining We have submitted a number of observations and recommennational Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, additional explanations of data performance from both group Completeness and timeliness dations to the management of ISS, which include: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of functions and from selected country sites; Historical Financial Information and additional requirements • Interviewing management staff across various Group The boundary and publication date of the report is the same as • Increasing the frequency of environmental data collection by under Danish audit regulation. Our task was to obtain limited functions, including internal audit and accounting; the Annual Report, providing timely disclosure to stakeholders requiring quarterly or bi-annual reporting from countries, to assurance that the group level data and text in the report are • Inspecting internal and external documentation (including of the company’s corporate responsibility performance. Within strengthen input and control processes and ensure greater presented in accordance with the reporting practice described policies, action plans, and media coverage), to verify the the reporting boundary and scope defined by the report, we have accuracy and reliability in the future. and the information reported by countries and group funcextent to which they support the information included in not found any significant omissions of important information. tions. Compared to a reasonable assurance engagement, our the report; • Drawing up a roadmap for future reporting of both quanwork has been limited primarily to inquiries of group personnel • Evaluating the overall presentation of the report, including titative and qualitative performance indicators, based on a as well as analytical procedures to ascertain the quality of underconsistency of information; Clarity and balance review of which indicators are relevant and appropriate for lying processes for data collection, analysis and consolidation. • Reviewing the report for adherence to the GRI principles for the business and its stakeholders. defining report content and ensuring report quality and the The report provides a transparent and balanced presentation Our scope of work also included a review of the report against G4 disclosure requirements. of the company’s results, highlighting challenges and dilemmas the requirements of the UN Global Compact Policy on Communiwithin its performance. cating Progress, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) SustainConclusion ability Reporting Guidelines Version 4 (In Accordance – Core), Copenhagen, 27 February 2014 and the Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) §99a. Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that Stakeholder inclusiveness and responsiveness causes us to believe that the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Deloitte We performed our on-site review at the ISS Head Office in Report, in all material respects, has not been prepared in The report shows the ongoing group-level stakeholder engageDenmark between November 2013 and February 2014. We accordance with the stated reporting criteria. However, the ment activities and the company’s responses. The results of Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab have not performed site visits or interviewed external stakeinput of certain environmental data from country sites needs extensive employee and customer engagement surveys are holders. We have not performed any assurance procedures on improvement to ensure greater quality and reliability. We confirm actively used in management to understand and improve perbaseline data, economic or financial data (including GRI Indicator that the report complies with the Danish FSA §99a, and it formance and retention. G4-EC1) or forward-looking statements, such as targets and conforms to the requirements for a UN Global Compact expectations, or individual case stories disclosed in the Report. Communication on Progress as well as the GRI’s G4 ‘In Anders Dons Helena Barton Consequently, we draw no conclusion on these statements. Accordance – Core’ level. State Authorised Public Accountant Lead Reviewer Reporting Principles and Compliance 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 31 Reporting Principles and Compliance This report, the fourth comprehensive corporate responsibility Internal guidelines report prepared by ISS, covers activities in the calendar year 2013. As a basis for our reporting, ISS developed a Group HSE and In 2013, we have not added new data parameters. We have CR Reporting Manual in 2010 to provide reporting principles focused on improving the quality of our data. To improve the and rules to ensure a consistent basis for reporting. quality of data, we are implementing a global reporting IT system in countries to report and investigate incidents in a The principles are derived from generally accepted accountsystematic approach. ing and reporting policies and include Relevance, Consistency, Transparency, Accuracy and Completeness. External principles and guidelines They are intended to guide data gathering and reporting to We have designed our reporting to be in line with G4 Sustainensure that the reported information fairly presents our HSE and ability Reporting Guidelines by the Global Reporting Initiative CR performance. The Group HSE Manual requires that countries (GRI), the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting and other entities collecting data manage their HSE and CR framework. We have chosen to be in accordance with ‘Core’ data quality systematically as part of their management system. option. An overview of the GRI standard disclosures included in this report can be found in the table on the following pages. In order to facilitate control and review of HSE and CR data, each reported parameter shall have an audit trail. An audit We have also used the ISO Standard ISO 26000 Guidance on trail is a clear (documented) record of definitions, assumptions, Social Responsibility and the Danish Standard DS 49001 ‘Social aggregation, calculations and references that result in the final responsibility management system – Requirements’ as a basis reported data. of our analysis and reporting. ISO 26000 provides guidance on the underlying principles of social responsibility, recognising The manual specifies the data that shall be available for monisocial responsibility and engaging stakeholders, the core subtoring performance and for reporting on corporate responsijects and issues pertaining to social responsibility and on ways bility issues at Group level. to integrate socially responsible behaviour into the organisation. The standard emphasises the importance of results and Changes and future outlook improvements in performance on social responsibility. The Danish Standard DS 49001 is a management system standard We have corrected the data for 2012 for water and electricity based on the principles, subjects and issues, stakeholder consumption, electricity costs and electricity emissions. There engagement described in ISO 26000. are no changes to data reported in 2013. In 2014, we will begin capturing lost time due to occupational injuries in hours This report is the statutory report on corporate social responsi(currently in days). As we have done in 2013, we will focus on bility cf.§99 a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. improving the quality of our data in 2014. The reporting furthermore serves to fulfil our obligation to communicate on progress (COP) as required by the UNGC. Wayne Chang Kula, New Zealand GRI and UNGC Compliance Tables 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 GRI and UNGC Compliance Tables 33 GRI and UNGC Compliance Tables Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Page External Assurance G4-17 List of company entities and exclusions Annual Report Yes G4-18 Process for defining the report content 8 Yes and implementation GRI Content Index G4-19 List of material aspects 8 Yes General Standard Disclosures G4-20 Report aspect boundary internally 9 Yes Strategy and Analysis Page External Assurance G4-21 Report aspect boundary externally 9 Yes G41 Letter to our Stakeholders 3 Yes G4-22 Effect of and reason for restatements 12 Yes G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting in 30 Yes Organisational Profile terms of scope and aspect boundaries G4-3 Organisation’s name Inside cover Yes Stakeholder Engagement G4-4 Primary products and services Inside cover Yes G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 9 Yes G4-5 Headquarter location Inside cover Yes G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of 9 Yes G4-6 Number of countries where ISS operates and countries Inside cover Yes stakeholders engaged with significant operations G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 9 Yes G4-7 Ownership nature and legal form Annual Report Yes G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement and 9 Yes G4-8 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors, types Inside cover Yes company response of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of organisation Inside cover Yes Report Profile G4-10 Employee numbers Inside cover Yes G4-28 Reporting period 30 Yes G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 9 Yes G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2012 Yes bargaining agreements G430 Reporting cycle 30 Yes G4-12 Supply chain description 7 Yes G4-31 Contact point Back cover Yes G4-13 Significant changes in operations, capital structure Annual Report Yes or suppliers during the reporting period G4-32 GRI reporting option, content index and external 30 Yes assurance reporting G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle 24 Yes G4-15 External commitments Annual Report Yes Governance G4-16 Memberships of associations Annual Report Yes G4-34 Governance structure and responsibilities 5 Yes Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 11 Yes such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 GRI and UNGC Compliance Tables 35 SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures SPECIFIC Standard Disclosures Aspects in G4 Short description of Indicator G4 Page External Aspects in G4 Short description of Indicator G4 Page External (see G4 documents for precise title) Indicator Assurance (see G4 documents for precise title) Indicator Assurance Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed G4-EC1 12 Yes Supplier Assessment for New suppliers screened G4-LA14 7 Yes Labour Practices Energy Energy consumption within organisation G4-EN3 12 Yes Negative impacts identified G4-LA15 7 Yes Reduction in energy requirements G4-EN7 22 Yes Labour/Management Relations Notice periods for operational changes G4-LA4 9 Yes Water Water withdrawal G4-EN8 12 Yes Diversity Diversity of employees and governance bodies G4-LA12 18 Yes Emissions Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) G4-EN15 12 Yes Non-discrimination Incidents and corrective actions G4-HR3 20 Yes Energy indirect GHG Emissions (scope 2) G4-EN16 12 Yes Freedom of Association & Violations of rights G4-HR4 19 Yes Collective Bargaining Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) G4-EN17 12 Yes Child Labour Risk and measures taken G4-HR5 6 Yes Reductions of GHG emissions G4-EN19 12 Yes Forced Labour Risk and measures taken G4-HR6 6 Yes Mitigation of environmental impacts G4-EN27 22 Yes Security Practices Security personnel trained G4-HR7 6 Yes Supplier Environmental Assessment New suppliers screened G4-EN32 7 Yes Assessment Operations assessed for human rights G4-HR9 6 Yes Negative impacts identified G4-EN33 7 Yes Supplier Human Rights New suppliers screened G4-HR10 7 Yes Compliance Significant fines and sanctions G4-EN29 23 Yes Assessment Negative impacts identified G4-HR11 7 Yes Transport Impacts of transportation G4-EN30 23 Yes Human Rights Grievance Register of grievances G4-HR12 27 Yes Occupational Health and Safety Work-related injuries, fatalities, etc. G4-LA6 14 Yes Mechanisms Risk of occupational diseases G4-LA7 15 Yes Anti-corruption Operations assessed for risks G4-SO3 26 Yes Health & Safety in formal union agreements G4-LA8 18 Yes Communication and training G4-SO4 27 Yes Training and Education Hours of training G4-LA9 16 Yes Incidents and actions taken G4-SO5 26 Yes Longterm skills management G4-LA10 16 Yes Product Responsibility Customer satisfaction G4-PR5 9 Yes Career development reviews G4-LA11 It is mandatory for all Yes employees; however, we cannot report on all completed data as some are completed on hard copies and registered in files and we are still working on collecting the data. 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Read more on page Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection 3, 18 of internationally proclaimed human rights; and; Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human 6, 18 rights abuses. Labour Standards Read more on page Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 18, 19, 20 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 6, 7, 8, 20 compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 6, 7, 8, 20 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of 20 employment and occupation. Environment Read more on page Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach 22 to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 22 responsibility; and Share your opinion Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 22 We welcome your feedback as it is an environmentally-friendly technologies. important part of our dialogue with our stakeholders. Anti-corruption Read more on page You are welcome to contact Joseph Nazareth, Head of Group HSE and CR Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 27 at +45 3817 0000 or write to us at: including extortion and bribery. Head of Group HSE and CR ISS A/S, Buddingevej 197 2860 Søborg, Denmark Design: almaco Production and print: almaco Copy-writer: Eva Harpøth Skjoldborg Printed in March 2014. ISS A/S www.issworld.com
