2012 Sustainability Report For the year ended December 31, 2012 Table of Contents 1 CORPORATE PROFILE 1 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 9 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 12 REPORT PARAMETERS 15 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 24 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 24 ECONOMIC 29 ENVIRONMENTAL 39 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 44 HUMAN RIGHTS 47 SOCIETY 52 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 54 KEMESS 57 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX CORPORATE PROFILE 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Message from the Chief Executive Officer 2012 Health, Safety, Environmental and Social Performance At AuRico, our underlying philosophy that guides our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy is based on the principles of sustainable prosperity. We consider operational excellence to include more than return to our shareholders, it also considers our employees and their families, the communities where we work and the impact on our environment. 2012 was a year of significant transformation, which included the divestment of several non-core assets, including the Ocampo mine. As we operated the Ocampo mine for the majority of 2012, we have included our CSR results from Ocampo in this report. In August 2012, the Sustainability Committee approved the AuRico Sustainability Management System (SMS) and accompanying Sustainability Charter, Environmental Policy, Health and Safety Policy, and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. The SMS Framework was designed and implemented to ensure we not only meet our objectives, but achieve continuous improvement in each of these areas year over year. During the year both of the Company’s core operations achieved key safety milestones, with Young-Davidson reaching over 2 million man hours without a Lost Time Injury, while El Chanate reported over 1 million man hours without a Lost Time Injury. Though the Company is encouraged by the progress we have made in 2012, we are disheartened by three fatalities that occurred at our operations during the year. These incidents are unacceptable to both the Company and its contractors and we have taken additional measures to ensure we continually reinforce a culture where zero incidents is possible. Our over-arching goal is to provide a safe and healthy work environment for all our employees to ensure each and every person returns home safely each and every day. The Company’s investments in community development are built around a core philosophy of contributing towards economic self-sufficiency in local communities. Providing support for microbusiness is a means of stimulating self-sustaining economic activity for local communities where we operate. One such initiative undertaken in 2012 has been the establishment of a melon farm near the El Chanate mine, which is currently producing and exporting melons to Japan, a positive indicator of the program’s success to date. Further community investment at El Chanate and Ocampo focused on providing better access to educational resources for employees, their families, and people in the local community. AuRico provided the necessary support to improve services, infrastructure, and technology at local schools. The Company also launched a university scholarship program where we awarded over 24 university scholarships to selected employees and local students seeking greater education and skill development outside the community. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 1 In August 2012, we celebrated commercial production at Young-Davidson by inviting members of surrounding communities to a grand opening event at the mine site. We felt it was important to commemorate the significant milestone with the community. AuRico will continue to maintain a positive and mutually beneficial relationship with all our community stakeholders, and will continue to work with local communities in order to actively seek new opportunities to support a sustainable means of growth and development. The Sustainability Report continues to follow the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and outlines our sustainability objectives for 2013. To closely track our CSR progress, we appointed a Director of Corporate Sustainability responsible for overseeing the implementation of the AuRico Sustainability Management System, and to provide support and guidance to the sites on health, safety, the environment, and the community to ensure we are successfully meeting objectives and continually developing in each of these areas. I would like to thank all of AuRico employees and associated stakeholders for their contributions to the Company’s 2012 CSR program. Scott G. Perry President and CEO, AuRico Gold Inc. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 2 Report Scope The scope of the AuRico Gold (“AuRico” or the “Company”) 2012 Sustainability Report (the “Report”) includes data from the Company’s El Chanate and Young-Davidson mines prepared in accordance to the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) guidelines. Data from the recently divested Ocampo asset is also included in this report in accordance with GRI guidelines and represents the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) campaign for that operation up to and including the point of sale on December 14, 2012. Data collected for the Company’s exploration and development properties is not applied to GRI guidelines, however, an overview of the sustainability initiatives for the Kemess Underground Project and the reclamation, care and maintenance of the Kemess South Mine (collectively, “Kemess”) is included at the end of this Report. 1.2 Description of Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities The 2012 Sustainability Report summarizes the Company’s environmental, health, safety, and social programs and performance at its operations. Development of this Report and the Company’s related polices (available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com) are guided by the principles of transparency, inclusiveness, clarity and timeliness as outlined in the GRI guidelines. The financial information included in the Sustainability Report represents only the assets discussed in this Report and was taken from the Company’s audited 2012 Consolidated Financial Statements. All amounts are in U.S. Dollars unless otherwise indicated. The Company’s compliance with GRI guidelines is provided in the GRI Indicator Table on page 57. The Company maintains a CSR framework, which is reviewed on an annual basis. Understanding the Company’s Impact Environmental As a gold mining company, the activities involved in the mining process can impact the local environment adjacent to its operations. In accordance with government legislation and international best practice, the Company strives to carefully monitor, evaluate, and improve its environmental performance and identify ways to reduce the environmental impact of its operations. Social The Company can have a significant social impact on the communities adjacent to its operations. The Company strives to be a good neighbor and corporate citizen by both actively contributing to local community life and by ensuring that local stakeholders have an opportunity for input and dialogue. This is achieved through the presence of Community Relations personnel on site who are responsible for engaging with local stakeholders, identifying areas of concern, and relaying those concerns to management. Economic As a publicly traded company with over 1,200 employees and contractors, AuRico and its subsidiaries play an important role in the economic life of its stakeholders. Wages, taxes and royalties have a positive impact on the lives of the Company’s employees and in the communities where the Company operates. AuRico sources goods and services used in operations from the local, regional and national business communities in Mexico and Canada, which provides significant economic benefit to the region. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 3 Sustainability Management System AuRico’s integrated Corporate Sustainability Management System Framework (SMS) provides a consistent approach to sustainability management at its operations, and a performance standard for managing Health & Safety, Environmental Sustainability, and Corporate Social Responsibility. The SMS Framework was designed and implemented to meet the Company’s objective of achieving continuous improvement in these areas year over year. The SMS Framework is based on the following international standards:  ISO 14001 Environmental Management System;  OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System;  ISO 26000:2010: Guidance on Social Responsibility; and  Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1). AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 4 2012 KEY SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS Environment Young-Davidson Mine El Chanate Mine Ocampo Mine  Reclamation of the Matarrow  Relocated and replanted  Established an on-site Tailings by planting 3,000 over 21,000 cactus greenhouse and Danthonia plants along with plants native to the produced 20,000 new other seeds native to region in and around the plants Northern Ontario mining lease  On site Government  Reviewed re-vegetation  Received the GEI1 inspections for programs with First Nation Award for Transparency environmental communities and Leadership in assessment and clean Greenhouse Gas industry audit  Established programs and Emissions Reporting procedures that satisfy  Completed a cyanide permitting terms management audit  Submitted several approvals  Received certification and permit applications from the Federal relative to the continued Attorney for growth of the YoungEnvironmental Protection Davidson mine site (PROFEPA) for Mining Unit Clean Industry The Ocampo tree nursery produced over 20,000 trees to be harvested and planted around the mine site AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 5 Health and Safety Young-Davidson Mine El Chanate Mine Ocampo Mine  Achieved over 2 million  Achieved over 1 million  Health awareness man hours Lost Time man hours Lost Time Injury campaigns included; Injury Free Free Respiratory illness prevention, Tetanus  Education and training  Commenced an internal vaccine, and Hygiene completed for review of the site’s safety (through kitchen audits underground supervisory, management system and a proper hand mill, and surface common  Completed over 6,000 washing campaign) core modules along with hours of safety and confined space training for  Achieved over 21,000 emergency response mill employees hours of safety training training  Completed a safety &  Received external training systems gap coaching in safety and risk analysis in the recently recognition techniques constructed and and application with new commissioned processing or inexperienced plant underground shift supervisors 2012 Young-Davidson Mine Rescue Team AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 6 Partnerships with Local Communities Young-Davidson Mine El Chanate Mine Ocampo Mine  Hosted a grand opening  Launched a University  Completed over 1,200 celebration in August scholarship program where 24 medical consultations inviting community university scholarships were  Supported the Quality members, First Nations, and awarded to selected Schools Program improving Company Board members employees and community schools services and members from: Pitiquito; Altar;  Continued meeting the infrastructure Ejido 16 de Septiembre; Santa Temagami First Nations, Ana; Magdalena and Caborca  Invested in the technology Matachewan First Nations, to make internet accessible and Métis Nation of Ontario  Supported local emergency at all local schools response institutions and  Good neighbour activities opened a community medical  Awarded scholarships to consisted of sponsorships clinic local students seeking a to: higher education outside  Organized a safety camp and  Fireman of Sesekinika the community environmental education  The local Christmas Wish program  Invested in cell phone Foundation communication antennas  Micro-business CBTA and a connection to the  Area schools (Centre of Bachelor national power grid  Kirkland Lake Festivals Technology & Agriculture) Farming Project: Successfully  Micro-business Chicken Committee planting melons exported to Farm Project: Provided  Matachewan Fish Derby Japan, and experimenting funding and support for  Kirkland Lake and District with alfalfa, corn and cucurbit local chicken farm and Hospital Fundraising greenhouse projects  Micro-business El Chanate Committee (chicken farm commenced Sewing Project: Received production in the end of Ejido approval for building 2012) surface and business group formation Community recipients of the Company’s university scholarship program alongside employees. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 7 Awards, Acknowledgements & Certifications Young-Davidson Mine El Chanate Mine Ocampo Mine  Achieved over 2 million  For the third successive  Approved clean industry man hours Lost Time year, received a Socially audit plan completion Injury Free Responsible Company certification issued by the Institute CEMEFI (Centre of Mexican Philanthropy)  Retained a certification by the Women Institute for Gender Equity  Achieved over 1 million worked hours Lost Time Injury Free  Received GEI1 Award for Transparency and Leadership in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting  Received the Clean Industry recertification (PROFEPA) El Chanate employees receive the Socially Responsible Company certification from Institute CEMEFI (Centre of Mexican Philanthropy) El Chanate employees receive the Clean Industry recertification (PROFEPA) in June 2012 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 8 2013 KEY SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES  Foster a culture among employees and contractors that zero incidents are possible  Reduce our Lost Time Injury rate with a goal of 20% improvement on the 2012 Ontario mining industry average of 0.5  Complete a compliance review in accordance with the AuRico SMS at each mine site  Establish Key Performance Indicators for managing sustainability at each mine site  Continue to provide support for local community initiatives within the areas in which we operate through in kind donations and initiatives to build socio-economic sustainability  Complete an Internal Regulatory Compliance Audit for key environmental areas at YoungDavidson  Review the El Chanate Environment Management Plan to ensure compliance with Mexican legislation  Ensure testing of emergency response plan is conducted at each site  Complete leadership training at operations 2. Organizational Profile AuRico Gold is a leading Canadian gold producer with mines and projects in North America that have solid production growth and exploration potential. The Company is focused on its core operations including the Young-Davidson gold mine in northern Ontario, Canada and the El Chanate mine in Sonora State, Mexico. AuRico’s project pipeline also includes advanced development opportunities in Canada and Mexico. AuRico’s executive office is located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 2.1 Name of Reporting Organization & 2.2 Primary Products and Services AuRico Gold Inc. is a Canadian gold producer with operations, development projects and exploration properties in Canada and Mexico. As of December 31, 2012, AuRico’s assets included the El Chanate gold mine located in Sonora State, Mexico and the Young-Davidson gold mine located in Matachewan, Ontario, Canada. At the end of 2012, the Company also had exploration and development properties, which included the Kemess Underground Project in British Columbia, Canada and the Orion development project, a 50% joint venture agreement with Minera Frisco S.A.B. de C.V. (“Minera Frisco”), located in Nayarit, Mexico. 2.3 Operational Structure The table below provides details with respect to the Company’s subsidiaries(1), as at December 31, 2012. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 9 AuRico Gold Inc. Ontario, Canada Young-Davidson Mine Kemess Mine (Kirkland Lake, Ontario) (British Columbia) 100% AuRico Gold Holdings Inc. Nova Scotia, Canada 100% 100% 100% AuRico Gold Luxembourg S.à r.l. Capital Gold Corporation AuRico Gold (USA) Inc. Luxembourg, Grand-Duchy de Luxembourg Delaware, USA Arizona, USA 100% Leadville Mining & Milling Holding Caborca Industrial, S.A. de C.V. Corp. Payroll company owned equally by T. Mell and S. Perry Nevada, USA Sonora, México 100% 51% 100% AuRico Gold Chihuahua, S.A. de Minera Santa Rita, S. de R.L. de Oro de Altar, S.A. de C.V. Nayarit Gold Inc. C.V. C.V. 32.67% 67.33% Sonora, México Ontario, Canada Chihuahua, México Sonora, México 0.005% 49% 50% Nayarit Gold de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. El Chanate Mine (other 50% Minera Frisco, S.A.B de C.V.) (Sonora, México) Chihuahua, México Orion Project (Nayarit, México) (1) AuRico Gold and all of its subsidiaries are sometimes referred to collectively in this document as the “Company”. 2.4 Location of Headquarters The Company’s executive office is located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada and the Company’s corporate finance office is located in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. Executive Office Halifax Office 110 Yonge Street, Suite 1601 1701 Hollis Street, Suite 400 Toronto, ON Canada M5C 1T4 Founders Square, PO Box 2067 Halifax, NS Canada B3J 2Z1 2.5 Countries of Operation The Company has mines and exploration and development projects in Canada and Mexico. The Company’s core assets are the Young-Davidson mine in Ontario, Canada and the El Chanate mine in Sonora, Mexico. 2.6 Nature of Ownership AuRico Gold is a publicly traded company that trades on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AUQ. At December 31, 2012, the Company had 282,311,947 common shares outstanding held by approximately 56,000 shareholders. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 10 2.7 Markets Served The Company primarily produces gold, and produces silver as a secondary product. Gold and silver can be sold through numerous commodity markets worldwide, so the Company is not dependent on any one market or buyer. 2.8 Scale of Reporting Organization The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, effective for the year ended December 31, 2012. An overview of the Company’s financial performance is shown in the following table. (in thousands, except ounces, average realized prices, total cash costs, and number of employees and contractors) (1) (1) 2012 2011 (6) Gold ounces produced 166,634 187,423 Silver ounces produced 2,559,370 4,728,151 Revenue from mining operations $340,487 $375,048 (Loss) / earnings from operations ($50,330) $151,656 Net earnings $3,879 $138,826 Operating cash flow $50,438 $171,362 (5) Net free cash flow ($423,931) ($45,821) Total cash $603,401 $147,882 Total assets $2,897,199 $2,831,112 Total long-term financial liabilities $183,532 $246,401 Total cash costs per gold equivalent ounce (2),(3),(4),(5) $633 $422 (realized) (3),(4),(5) Total cash costs per gold ounce $353 ($297) Average realized gold price per ounce $1,678 $1,574 Average realized silver price per ounce $31.19 $35.10 Number of employees & contractors 1,200 4,251 (1) Operational data and financial information excludes the results of the El Cubo mine and Guadalupe y Calvo exploration property and the Fosterville and Stawell mines (“Australian operations”). (2) Gold equivalent ounces include silver ounces produced / sold converted to a gold equivalent, based on the ratio of the realized sales prices of the commodities. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 11 (3) Cash costs for the Ocampo mine and on a consolidated basis are calculated on a per gold equivalent ounce basis. Cash costs for the El Chanate and Young-Davidson mines are calculated on a per gold ounce basis, using by-product revenues as a cost credit. (4) Gold ounces and gold equivalent ounces used to calculate cash costs include ounces sold at the El Chanate and Ocampo mines, and ounces produced at the Young-Davidson mine for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. (5) See the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 30 of the Company’s 2012 Management’s Discussion and Analysis. (6) Pre-production ounces produced and sold at the Young-Davidson mine are excluded from consolidated ounces produced and sold. 2.9 Significant Changes During the Reporting Period Significant changes in the state of affairs of the Company that have occurred during 2012 can be found in the 2012 Management’s Discussion and Analysis, which is available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com and on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 2.10 Awards Awards related to Young-Davidson, El Chanate, and Ocampo are listed on page 8 of this Report. 3. Report Parameters The scope of this Report includes data from the Company’s El Chanate and Young-Davidson mines. Data from the recently divested Ocampo asset is also included in this Report, and represents the Company’s CSR campaign for that operation up to and including the point of sale on December 14, 2012. An overview of the sustainability initiatives for Kemess is included at the end of this Report. 3.1 Reporting Period Information in this Report covers the year ended December 31, 2012, unless otherwise stated. 3.2 Most Recent Report This is the fifth Sustainability Report issued by the Company. Sustainability Reports for the years 2008 to 2011, inclusive, are posted on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com. 3.3 Reporting Cycle The Company reports on its sustainability performance on an annual basis. 3.4 Contact Point Further information on this Report can be obtained by contacting the Director of Corporate Sustainability through one of the following methods: In writing to: Director, Corporate Sustainability AuRico Gold Inc. 110 Yonge Street, Suite 1601 Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5C 1T4 By telephone: (647) 260-8880 By email: info@auricogold.com Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for Defining Report Content The Company prepared this Report using the GRI Reporting Framework 3.1, which provides the Reporting Principles and Reporting Guidance to help define the Report content, ensure the quality of reported information, and set the Report parameters. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 12 Industry The Company operates in the mining industry with a focus on gold. The Company has endeavored to report on all GRI Reporting Framework as well as on all industry specific requirements for the mining sector. Economic Performance As a publicly traded company, the Company’s financial results are audited annually and reported on a quarterly basis. The Consolidated Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis are made available to all shareholders on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com and on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2012 cover the same reporting period as this Sustainability Report. Those readers who wish to have access to a detailed review of the Company’s financial performance are encouraged to review these documents. As a result, less emphasis has been placed on the Company’s economic performance in this Report. Audience The Company has identified its stakeholders in Section 4.14 – Stakeholder Groups. 3.6 Boundary of the Report This Report contains information on the Company’s operations for the year ended December 31, 2012. This Report includes within its boundaries Young-Davidson, El Chanate and Ocampo. These operations generate significant sustainability impacts and influences financial and operating policies. See sections 2 & 2.1 of this Report for further details. 3.7 Limitations The Company continues to identify, develop and implement programs with a focus on positively impacting the communities where it operates, by promoting regional development and providing social and economic benefits for all stakeholders. The Company reports on all relevant GRI Indicators. The Company has and will continue to make efforts to further enhance the quality and scope of this Report. 3.8 Joint Ventures On December 14, 2012, Minera Frisco S.A.B. de C.V. (“Minera Frisco”) acquired a 50% interest in the Orion development project (“Orion”), located in Nayarit, Mexico. In accordance with the purchase and sale agreement, the Company issued shares representing a 50% ownership interest of Nayarit Gold de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., a subsidiary with ownership of this project, to Minera Frisco in exchange for cash of $27 million. Both the Company and Minera Frisco have 50% ownership in the entity and equal representation on the Board of Directors of the joint venture company. As a result, it was determined that the Company and Minera Frisco have joint control over the joint venture company. 3.9 Data Measurement All data included in the Report is collected from different databases and tracking reports. The reported data is presented in metric units used internationally and calculated according to standard conversion factors. An abbreviated list of sources and indicators is as follows: AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 13 Key Performance Indicator Database The Company collects details on the following: production numbers, manpower and incidents. Information from each site is consolidated on a monthly basis. Information obtained from these databases includes:  Safety statistics: number of lost time injuries*200,000/Total man hours worked  Gold/silver production (measured by ounces produced)  Material moved: ore milled and stacked and rock waste produced (volume surveyed and weighed, measured in tonnes)  Manpower: total number of employees and contractors  On-Site Assay Lab determines gold/silver contents in ore and doré; external lab assures contents in doré  Gold/silver ratio is estimated according to market price of gold and silver when the product is sold Accounting System Database Materials used and money spent  List of suppliers and payments Employee Database Lists employee’s number, name, place of origin and gender  Payroll supervisor collects and reports monthly man worked hours (calculated by the payroll sheet and clocks – method used dependent on mine operation)  Place of residence  Compensation Cubic Metres & MM  Water use  Rain Water Balance  Evaporation estimation (formula considers rain, surface, evaporation rate for the area, ore moisture, pad volume, etc.)  Water trapped in tailings estimation (percentage of tonnes discharged)  Discharge estimated according to flow, pipe size and time  Dust suppression estimated according to water trucks used for this purpose Calculation Tools CO2 emissions calculated using the method provided by the Greenhouse Emission protocol in Mexico and the Western Climate Initiative in Canada. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 14 Surveying  Land owned, occupied, and rehabilitated  Ore and waste extracted Safety Database  Place, date, hour, name of person injured, supervisor, incident brief description, type of injury, medication, and category of incident Environmental Database  Incidents: place, date, area, brief description, remediation action, and category Compliance and Government Relations Database  Provides a description of inspections, audits, verifications and visits by government agencies and consultants and includes location, date, purpose, results, causes, measures and responsible parties. Also captures internal audits, inspections and verifications. 3.10 Re-Statements of Information No material information provided in the 2011 Sustainability Report has been restated in this Report. 3.11 Significant Reporting Changes There are no significant reporting changes from previous years reporting. 3.12 GRI Reporting & Content Index This Report has been prepared based on the GRI Framework and the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement, with the reporting areas relating to the Framework clearly identified. A full list of disclosures can be found in a GRI Index, provided in Appendix A of this report. All Framework documents are publicly available through the GRI web site at www.globalreporting.org. 3.13 Independent Assurance The Company has not sought formal external assurance for this Report. This is the Company’s fifth GRI-based report. Declaring an Application Level The GRI Framework requires participating companies to self-declare an ‘application level’. The application level is derived from the Application Level Grid, which can be found on the GRI web site at www.globalreporting.org. By self-declaration, this Report meets the criteria for application Level B. 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Management and the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) recognize the importance of good corporate governance for the effective management of the Company, in order to ensure that the Company properly considers and protects the interests of all stakeholders including its employees, contractors, and shareholders. The Company and the Board continuously assess their AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 15 governance practices and modify these practices as required. Approval by the Board is required for all material corporate items. Governance Guidelines The Company’s corporate governance guidelines are summarized in its Board and Committee mandates, which can be accessed from the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com, and are further implemented through management’s policies and practices. 4.1 Governance Structure of the Organization The duties of the Board are to guide the direction of the business and affairs of the Company with the view of always acting in the best interest of its shareholders. In discharging its responsibilities to shareholders, the Board is required to review and approve such items as:  The strategic planning process of the Company;  Succession planning, particularly for senior management;  Risk identification and ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in place;  Ensuring the integrity of internal controls and management systems; and  Material disclosures issued by the Company. The management team is responsible for the Company’s operations, for executing its strategic business model, and presenting budgets and business plans to the Board for approval. Board The Board has the mandate to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the contribution of each individual director. The Board discharges its responsibilities through the following committees: Audit Committee The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its financial reporting and internal control responsibilities. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors. Compensation Committee The primary function of the Compensation Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to human resources and compensation issues. The Committee also strives to ensure that a succession plan for senior executives is in place and that the Company’s compensation plan is adequate in attracting and retaining senior management and key employees. The Compensation Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors. Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee The primary function of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is to assist the Board in providing a focus on corporate governance that will enhance the Company’s performance. Additionally, the Committee assesses and makes recommendations regarding the Board’s effectiveness and develops processes to identify and recruit qualified directors that will enhance the Board’s effectiveness. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 16 Sustainability Committee The primary function of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to review and monitor the sustainability, environmental, health and safety policies and activities of the Company. The mandates for the Board and its Committees are available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com. 4.2 Chairman of the Board The primary role of the Chairman is to chair all meetings of the Board (and shareholders) and to manage the affairs of the Board in order to ensure the Board functions effectively and discharges its responsibilities. In 2012, Mr. Colin K. Benner served as Executive Chairman of the Board and a director until his resignation effective July 1, 2013. The Company appointed Mr. Alan Edwards as non-executive Chairman effective July 1, 2013. 4.3 Board Independence The Board has determined that in the calendar year of 2013, six of the Company’s eight directors are “independent” as defined by NI 58-101 and two are not independent. The Board considers that Scott Perry and Luis Chavez are not independent directors because of their respective positions as President and CEO, and Senior Vice President, Mexico. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for determining whether or not each director is an independent director. In discharging this responsibility, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee analyzes all the relationships of the directors with the Company and its subsidiaries. “Independence” means that a director is independent of Management, does not have a material relationship with the Company and, except for director fees and share ownership, does not financially benefit from it. A material relationship is any relationship that could interfere with a director’s ability to exercise independent judgment or inhibit their ability to make difficult decisions about Management and the business. For example, employees of a company, its service providers and relatives or close friends of a senior executive all have a material relationship with the Company. The Board also recognizes that, as much as possible, directors should also be independent of each other. To this end the Board has adopted a policy pursuant to which no director shall accept an invitation to join an outside board on which a director of AuRico already sits without previously obtaining the approval of the Chairman or the President and CEO. In addition, no more than two of the Company’s directors should generally serve on the same outside board or outside board committee. Any such board and/or committee interlocks shall be reported by the Board to Shareholders. During 2012, no members of the AuRico Gold Board served together on the boards (or board committees) of other public companies. 4.4 Stakeholder and Employee Communication with the Board Shareholders, employees and other interested parties are able to communicate directly with the Board through the following methods: In writing to: Chair of the Audit Committee AuRico Gold Inc. 110 Yonge Street, Suite 1601 Toronto, Ontario Canada M5C 1T4 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 17 By telephone: (647) 260-8880 By email: directors@auricogold.com The Company also holds Annual General and Special Meetings of shareholders at which time shareholders may direct questions to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 4.5 Executive Compensation The objective of the Company’s executive compensation strategy is to attract, retain and motivate high performing executives to create sustainable Shareholder value over the long term. To achieve this objective, the executive compensation program is designed based on the following principles:  Align with strategy align with the Company’s business strategy and link executive compensation with the achievement of specific strategic business objectives and the Company’s performance as a whole;  Align to Shareholder interests align the interests of executives with those of Shareholders through the use of equity awards which reward increases in Shareholder value, and decrease in value when the share price falls;  Corporate governance strive to comply with governance issues and continually review and, as appropriate for the Company, adopt executive compensation practices that align with those of peers;  Pay for performance align with the Company’s desire to create a performance and development culture, and create clear relationships between pay and performance;  Pay competitively set overall target compensation to ensure it remains relevant to the markets in which the Company competes; and  A flexible, simple program provide a flexible, simple program that is easy to understand and assess. The Compensation Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its mandate relating to human resources and compensation issues and in establishing a succession plan for executive officers and senior management. The Compensation Committee assists the Board in establishing compensation packages that attract, maintain and motivate senior management performance. Additional details on compensation for directors and senior executives can be found in the Company’s Management Information Circular, which is available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com and via SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 4.6 Conflicts of Interest The Board and management promote and encourage an overall culture of ethical business conduct throughout its operations that is set out in the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“Code of Conduct”), which includes the Whistleblower Policy. The Code of Conduct outlines obligations to prevent conflicts of interest, to maintain confidentiality, to protect company assets and to deal fairly with suppliers and competitors. A copy of the Company’s Code of Conduct is available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com. Associated policies to the Code of Conduct include:  Disclosure Policy; and AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 18  Insider Trading Policy. An annual certification process requires all Company personnel, in a supervisory level or higher, to review and confirm their compliance with the Code of Conduct. The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standards of business conduct and ethics, as well as full compliance with all applicable government laws, rules and regulations, corporate reporting and disclosure, accounting practices, accounting controls, auditing practices and other matters and has established a confidential Ethics & Compliance Hotline where employees can report violations, or raise concerns and ask questions regarding ethical issues. 4.7 Board Qualifications The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors and is responsible for identifying and attracting new candidates for nomination to the Board that takes into consideration a number of factors including:  The independence of each director;  The competencies and skills of the Board and the ability to work as a team;  The competencies and skills of each director; and  The strategic business plan of the Company. 4.8 Vision and Mission Vision To be a leading low cost gold producer focused on growth in North America. Mission Statement Our mission is to deliver superior shareholder value by building a culture of excellence in every aspect of what we do, through organic growth, accretive industry consolidation, and commitment to socially responsible practices within the communities in which we work. Sustainability Charter The Company is committed to sustainable development and the goal of zero harm to people, the environment and our host communities. This commitment means that we strive to act consistently in all of our operations in relation to health & safety, the environment, community relations and social development. Wherever we operate, we implement and maintain a management system that drives continuous improvement. We operate in a socially responsible manner and meet or exceed all applicable legal requirements. Code of Conduct The Board has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for its directors, officers and employees that outlines the principles of conduct and ethics followed by the Company. (See Section 4.6 for a more detailed description of the Code of Conduct.) Policies In 2012, the Company developed an AuRico Sustainability Management System which included the following corporate policies: Sustainability Charter, Corporate Social Responsibility, AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 19 Environment and Health & Safety Policies. These policies provide sustainability guidelines for each of the Company’s mine sites. 4.9 Board Overview and Sustainability The purpose of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for sustainability, environmental, health and safety matters and the proper implementation of applicable policies and practices. The Committee is responsible for reviewing sustainability, environmental, and health and safety policies and programs of the Company and overseeing the Company’s performance in such areas. The Committee’s responsibilities include:  Reviewing and monitoring the environmental, sustainability and health and safety policies, systems and activities of the Company on behalf of the Board to ensure that the Company is in compliance with applicable laws;  Reviewing quarterly environmental, health and safety reports;  Reviewing, overseeing and approving the annual Sustainability Report;  Periodically reviewing environmental and health and safety response compliance issues and incidents to determine, on behalf of the Board, whether the Company is taking all necessary action in respect of those matters and whether the Company has been duly diligent in carrying out its responsibilities and activities in that regard;  Reviewing results of operational environment, health and safety audits and management’s activities to maintain appropriate internal and external environmental and safety audits;  Undertaking a process to review all non-financial risks within the Company’s areas of focus and ensuring appropriate risk management measures are in place. This will involve enquiry of management regarding how such risks are managed as well as opinions from management and others regarding the degree of integrity of such risk mitigation strategies;  Ensuring that principal areas of environmental, sustainability and health and safety risk and potential impacts are identified and assessed and that sufficient resources are allocated to manage such risks;  Reviewing community development and micro-business initiatives;  Reviewing aboriginal, First Nations and other local stakeholder relations including reviewing the competence and organizational structure established by management for, and key resources committed to, developing a positive relationship with aboriginal, First Nations and other communities impacted by the Company’s operations, and how these activities drive economic development and community well-being;  Ensuring that the Company’s directors are kept abreast of their duties and responsibilities related to the areas of focus of the Committee;  Making visits, as a Committee or individually if necessary, to mine sites in order to become familiar with the nature of the operations, and to review relevant objectives, procedures and performance with respect to sustainability, environment and health and safety; AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 20  If any management or third party report in the areas of focus of the Committee contain issues that may be considered by Management as major concerns, material noncompliance or which may pose a material risk to the operations, Management will provide such reports to the Committee for review and the Committee shall assess the adequacy of the Company’s response to such situations, make recommendations to the Board where appropriate and receive follow-up reports from management which demonstrate that such issues have been properly addressed or resolved;  Satisfying itself that management of the Company monitors trends and reviews current and emerging issues in the areas of focus of the Committee;  Reviewing the scope of potential liabilities in the areas of focus of the Committee and the adequacy of the systems that are in place to manage those liabilities;  Encourage, assist and counsel management in developing short and long term policies and standards to ensure that the principles set out in the health, safety, environment and CSR policies of the Company are being adhered to and achieved;  The Committee Chair shall make periodic reports to the Board, as requested, on environmental, health, safety and community development matters relative to the Company; and  Reporting the Committee’s discussions to the Board by maintaining minutes of its meetings and providing an oral report at the next Board meeting. In 2012, the Company completed internal reviews of the health, safety and environmental practices at its operations. The Sustainability Committee completed a tour of the Ocampo, El Chanate and Young-Davidson mines. In addition, various aspects of the Company’s operations are audited by third parties as required by financing, license, or permit conditions. 4.10 Performance Review The Board is committed to assessing the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and each individual director on an annual basis. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee annually reviews assessments submitted by each individual director and makes recommendations to the Board. 4.11 Precautionary Principle The Company adopts a risk-based approach to operations and business development. Any modifications or expansions to its operations undergo an assessment of potential environmental and social impacts prior to the implementation of the modification or expansion. At such time when the Company develops a new property, provisions will be made for public consultation during the assessment period to consider the impact on the environment and the host communities. 4.12 Codes and External Instruments The Company is supportive of several global initiatives that consider a number of economic, environmental and social elements. In 2012, the Company continued to comply with several key initiatives, principles, and charters that will assist the Company as it strives to achieve a balance of economic prosperity, environmental stewardship and social responsibility at all of its operations. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 21 The Company will continue to apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainable Reporting Guidelines to all its practices. AuRico has registered with the Mexico Greenhouse Gas Program, a public-private initiative that works towards reducing emissions and effective emission management for Mexican industry. In 2012, the Company continued to work with the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent not-forprofit organization that holds the largest database of corporate climate change information in the world (see Section 6 Environment for more information). In 2012, the Company continued its membership with the UN Global Compact, and will continue to formalize its sustainable practices through adherence to charters such as the UN Global Compact Principles and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles), a forum for engagement among governments, non-governmental organizations (NGO), and extractive companies, with the goal of respecting human rights while maintaining the safety and security of company operations. 4.13 Memberships and Associations The Company strives to work with mining and industry organizations to promote responsible business practices. Currently, the Company’s operations are members of the following mining and industry associations:  Mexican Chamber of Mines (CAMIMEX)  The Canadian Chamber of Mines  Ontario Mining Association (OMA)  Mining Association of British Columbia  Association of Mineral Exploration, British Columbia (AMEBC)  Association of Mining Engineers, Metallurgists and Geologists of Mexico (AIMMGM)  United Nations Global Compact  North American Metals Council 4.14 Stakeholder Groups Responsibility requires open and on-going communications with the Company’s stakeholders. Communications are varied and tailored to meet the needs of its diverse stakeholder groups, and include meetings, press releases, web-based reporting and public reporting. The Company’s major stakeholders include:  Host communities and individuals located near operations: The Company understands the importance of supporting and collaborating with the communities where it operates. The Company will continue to work with local communities and First Nations to improve infrastructure, services and educational and employment opportunities.  Employees and their families: The Company’s employees are among its most valuable assets. The Company remains committed to fostering a safe working environment and opportunities for ongoing education and training.  Capital markets: Capital market participants impact our business and include the following participants: AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 22 o Banks and lending institutions; o Equity analysts; o Investment groups; and o Mutual and pension funds.  Suppliers: Mutually beneficial relationships with the Company’s suppliers are of fundamental importance to the Company’s operations. Through these relationships, the Company can ensure it receives critical products and services that are of optimal quality and price.  Governments – Local, Regional, State, Provincial & National: Governments provide the legal framework in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Working closely with all levels of government is of primary importance in operating its business. The Company always deals fairly and openly with all levels of government.  Shareholders: Shareholders are integral to the financial health of the Company. As such, shareholders benefit from and concern themselves with the responsible operations of the Company and its vision of balancing profitability with the needs of all stakeholders. 4.15 Stakeholder Identification The Company identifies its stakeholders through consultations with individuals, and small groups at each location, as would be appropriate. Local Stakeholder Identification: The Company’s employees who work at its operations are the individuals best suited to develop relationships and interact with local stakeholders. The individuals and groups continually identify stakeholder groups and meet with local communities, governments and suppliers. Corporate Stakeholder Identification: At a corporate level, the Company is focused on fostering positive relationships with its shareholders, capital market participants, national, provincial and state levels of government. 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement The Company is committed to fostering positive relationships with all stakeholders and meets with stakeholder groups as often as is required to discuss the Company’s obligations and commitment to open and fair business practices. During 2012, a number of meetings were held with local employees, suppliers, community members, First Nations, aboriginal groups, and regional government and non-government organizations. These meetings continue to help the Company’s operations personnel better understand local issues in order to develop an appropriate course of action. The Company recognizes the importance of keeping all stakeholders informed of the Company’s activities and regularly communicates with shareholders and other capital market participants as well as all stakeholders through the issuance of press releases, individual meetings, and conference calls and through the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com. The Company has a formal Disclosure Policy, which is available upon request. 4.17 Stakeholder Topics of Concerns During 2012, the Company’s local stakeholder groups raised a number of topics of concern that included: AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 23  Employment and training opportunities  Educational scholarships  Improvements to local infrastructure  Impact from mining activities  Livestock affected by operations  Requests for support on health, infrastructure and education initiatives  Emergency response procedures  Agreements with local landowners A formal reporting process is in place with local communities that allows local stakeholders to put forth concerns with the mine’s activities, request information or otherwise communicate with company officials. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach This Report does not include all the information and financial data that would normally be included within the Company’s annual audited financial statements and therefore should not be relied upon to provide the reader with a full understanding of the financial performance of the Company. This report should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and related Management’s Discussion and Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2012. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, and are reported in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise indicated. These documents are available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com and on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. The Audit Committee ensures compliance with all accounting and financial reporting obligations and reviews internal financial controls and the role of the internal and external auditors, including the independence of the external auditors and the Company’s risk management activities. 2012 financial highlights(1) include:  Total production of 166,634 gold ounces and 2,559,370 silver ounces, at an annual cash cost per gold equivalent ounce of $633 using the gold equivalency ratio realized during the year  Revenues from mining operations of $340 million, reflecting an average annual gold selling price of $1,678 per ounce and silver selling price of $31.19 per ounce  Cash flow from operations of $50.4 million  Net earnings of $0.01 per share (1) 2012 financial highlights exclude the operational and financial results of the El Cubo mine and Guadalupe y Calvo exploration property and the Australian operations. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 24 Indirect Economic Impact The Company has created employment opportunities in all of the regions where it operates. The Company is a substantial economic contributor both directly and indirectly through employment, which results in direct and indirect employment opportunities. In 2012, local procurement represented 19% of the total goods and services expenditures, as compared to 9% in 2011. The Company’s operations contribute to the direct and indirect economic benefit of the local communities in a number of ways including:  Salaries and wages paid to employees and contractors;  Training provided to the local workforce that provides jobs in the Company’s mining operations and teaches skills that are transferable to other jobs;  Job creation through the commissioning and expansion of existing projects;  Taxes paid to all levels of government;  Indirect job creation and small business development;  Payment to suppliers and local contractors;  Upgrading of infrastructure in local communities; and  Financial support for community development. EC1 – Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. Direct Economic Value Revenues Exploration $5,792 -$291,584 $503,401 Operations $103,608 Employee Wages and $10,961.00 Benefits $65,578 Payments to Providers and Services Payments to Government – gross taxes $37,099 Royalty Payments $571,947 Retained Earnings (deficit) EC2 – Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. The Company acknowledges that water availability is a key risk to the operations. This is far more pertinent within the Mexican operations where water storage levels can vary greatly depending on the time of year. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 25 AuRico will continue to monitor water use at all its operations and will endeavor to continue to recycle as much water as possible in the future years. Young-Davidson is permitted to discharge water back into the Montreal River. AuRico intends to continue with this release, thus returning some of the water back into the environment. All returned water meets the strict water discharge criteria, limits and parameters. EC3 – Pension Plans The Company offers retirement programs covering a substantial number of employees throughout its operations. The programs are voluntary, whereby the Company will match a percentage of its employees’ contributions up to a defined maximum amount. The Company’s employees are able to direct these contributions into a variety of investment funds offered by the plans. EC4 – Government and Financial Assistance In 2012, the Company received no significant financial assistance from any levels of government in the areas in which it operates. Market Presence EC5 – Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation (all amounts are represented in U.S. dollars) Young-Davidson El Chanate Ocampo Average EC5A) What was the starting entry level wage ($/day) at this mine $170.00 $17.70 $9.40 $66 in 2012? EC5B) What was the local minimum wage in the jurisdiction in $82.00 $4.66 $4.50 $30 which the mine is located? The ratio of the mine’s entry level wage to the local minimum 2.07 3.80 2.09 2.65 wage = EC5A/EC5B EC6 – Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Young-Davidson El Chanate Ocampo Total Proportion of mine spending (%) on supplies that goes to local suppliers – where local is defined as the geographic or 47% 38% 2% 19% economic region in which the mine is located Total purchases for operations $127,510,104 $47,808,875 $253,956,063 $429,275,042 Total purchases for operations in Local $59,929,749 $18,442,191 $5,121,507 $83,493,447 region Note: Local suppliers are defined as from the mine surrounding communities, not the state or the region. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 26 The Company has adopted a practice of procuring local goods and services wherever possible assuming that the costs of procurement meet cost and quality requirements. Additionally, the Company works closely with local communities and suppliers to educate them with regards to its purchasing requirements. EC7 – Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operations. YoungEl Ocampo Average Davidson Chanate Proportion of the mine workforce (%) that is hired from the local region in which the mine is located, such as Sonora for El Chanate, 96% 100% 78.1% 91.3% Kirkland Lake, Elk Lake for Young-Davidson and Chihuahua for Ocampo. Proportion of the mine management team (%) that is hired from the local region in which the mine is located, such as Sonora for El 79% 84% 67% 77% Chanate, Kirkland lake, Elk Lake for Young-Davidson and Chihuahua for Ocampo. While AuRico aims to hire locally whenever possible, in certain circumstances personnel are required to be brought in from outside the region. This is especially relevant where the required skill sets and experience cannot be sourced from the local, state, provincial or national workforce, expatriate employees are then hired. Additionally, training is provided to local unskilled recruits in a variety of mine related activities to support the Company’s operations and the improve employment opportunities for the local worker. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 – Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement. El Chanate  Road maintenance undertaken for Ejido 16 de Septiembre ($3,411)  Production Project with Centre of Bachelor Technology & Agriculture which facilitated and equipped farm irrigation systems, perimeter fencing, administrative facilities and water for agricultural production (80% complete, $26,972)  Donated 10 bikes with an approximate value of $350 to Caborca Public Safety  Conducted numerous sewing training courses for a group of 15 women from Ejido 16 de Septiembre ($580). Their training will be applied to make uniforms, vests and clothing for El Chanate personnel, and to make clothing for the local communities.  One tank of fuel donated per month for Pitiquito Red Cross and the fire department in Caborca.  Launched a university scholarship program where 24 university scholarships were awarded to selected employees and community members from: Pitiquito; Altar; Ejido 16 de Septiembre; Santa Ana; Magdalena and Caborca AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 27 Ocampo  Supported the Quality Schools program to improve services and infrastructure in local community schools.  Investment to bring internet to all local schools  Scholarships were awarded to local students seeking a college degree outside the community.  Continuous maintenance of a 25km gravel road that connects Ocampo to the state paved road.  On site medical facilities open to the local community for consultation, medicines and x-ray diagnosis.  Launched a house improvement project for local community for low income residents.  Investment for cell phone communication antennas and connection to the national power grid for the local community. Young-Davidson In 2012, the Young-Davidson operation supported the following groups though funding or in-kind volunteering.  Historical Museum Society;  Good neighbour activities consisted of sponsorships to: o Local volunteer associations, such as the Fireman of Sesekinika o The Christmas Wish Foundation benefiting children and families in the area o Area schools in the form of bursaries for students o Kirkland Lake Festivals Committee consisting of volunteers that organize large community events such as a Canada Day celebration and the Winter Carnival o Matachewan Fish Derby o Kirkland Lake and District Hospital Fundraising Committee for new medical equipment EC9 – Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts AuRico has not estimated the indirect impact that its operations have on local and regional communities; however it expects that the potential impact is significantly positive, principally through the creation of employment opportunities where very few other industries have been established. Other indirect economic impacts include:  Job training provided to the local workforce  Special training programs for local community members (truck operators and young apprenticeships)  Business training courses to local entrepreneurs AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 28  Taxes paid to all levels of government  Small business development ENVIRONMENTAL DMA – EN Disclosure on Management Approach The Company is committed to operating in a responsible and sustainable manner and is committed to environmental protection and stewardship at all of its properties. AuRico seeks to achieve economic prosperity without compromising the environment. As a mining company, AuRico’s main emissions correspond to the use of fuels for mining equipment and the electricity consumption of our processing plants. In 2012, AuRico spent a total of $1,384,067 on environmental management expenses, this total represents an increase in spending of 48% over 2011. This increase can be primarily attributed to the acquisition of Young-Davidson in late 2011. Environmental Costs $1,384,067 $729,577 2011 2012 Since 2009, the Company has been registered with the Mexico Greenhouse Gas Program, a public-private initiative that brings together government agencies, non-governmental organizations, and private sector companies with the goal of reducing emissions and identifying opportunities for effective emission management. More information can be found on the program’s web site at www.geimexico.org/english.html. Materials EN1 – Materials used by weight and volume In 2012, the Company mined ore from both open pits and underground mines. The ore is then processed through a mill facility or placed on a heap leach to extract the minerals. Associated materials include fuel and consumables such as reagents. The Company utilizes a significant amount of reagents and other consumables in the extraction of gold and silver. Associated materials used at Young-Davidson, Ocampo and El Chanate are provided below: AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 29 Materials used by weight and volume Young-Davidson El Chanate Ocampo Total Tonnes of ore milled 1,483,280 0 1,075,441 2,558,721 Tonnes of ore placed 0 10,806,068 2,735,503 13,541,571 Tonnes of waste rock mined 8,351,138 24,382,795 31,569,132 64,303,065 Cyanide tonnes 1,006 3,190 2,496 6,692 Lime tonnes 2,128 13,402 6,686 22,216 Ammonium Nitrate tonnes 30 4,728 4,742 9,500 Mexamon / Emulsion tonnes 4,565 543 2,113 7,221 Mill balls tonnes 2,205 0 629 2,834 Mill bars tonnes 0 0 191 191 Grease kilograms 3,682 4,050 51,380 59,112 Oil litres 76,866 28,300 893,894 999,060 Zinc tonnes 0 0 297 297 Lead Nitrate tonnes 0 0 17 17 Cement tonnes Not Tracked 25,114 396 25,510 EN2 – Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials In 2012, approximately 1,365,381m3 or 30% of water utilized at our operations was re-circulated in the Company’s processing facilities. Waste oil was utilized as a heating source at the underground change house facility at Ocampo. Energy EN3 – Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Direct energy is defined as energy consumed by the Company’s operations within the mine sites. Responsible energy use benefits the Company’s profitability, the environment and the communities where it operates; and involves a consistent focus on the efficiency of operations. The Company uses diesel fuel, propane, gasoline and electricity at its operations and is committed to energy efficiency initiatives to reduce costs and reduce greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 30 Significant Fuels Used (Litres) 1,349,869 1,942,704 Gasoline Propane Diesel 45,392,280 AuRico will continually seek to improve efficiencies regarding energy use at all of its operations. The Company went through significant changes in 2012. While some assets in the Company’s portfolio of properties were divested, others experienced increases in production and infrastructure development, which resulted in an overall increase in energy use. Fuel use alone rose by nearly 15 million litres at Young-Davidson. Energy saving measures will continually be evaluated and optimized. EN4 – Indirect consumption by primary source Indirect energy is energy that is produced outside the operation’s boundaries but is consumed onsite. Purchased electricity rose by nearly 100 million kilowatts per hour (kWh) in 2012. This can be primarily attributed to the construction and development of the Young-Davidson processing facility and the continued development of the underground operations. On site electricity generation increased from 22,730kWh in 2011 to 3,641,750kWh in 2012. Young-Davidson El Chanate Ocampo Total Purchased Electricity (kWh) 106,312,417 19,667,283 96,086,274 222,065,974 Electricity generated on site (kWh) 3,641,750 0 779,348 4,421,098 EN5 – Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Initiatives implemented in 2012 There were no material energy improvement initiatives in 2012. Crushing times are continually monitored to ensure optimal crushing activities are completed during non-peak hours whenever possible. Haulage routes are also continuously reviewed to ensure that the most efficient route is being used. It is anticipated that power requirements at Young-Davidson will increase in 2013 following the commissioning of a paste fill plant and the Northgate shaft system in the third quarter of 2013. EN6 – Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives The Company has not yet completed any renewable energy initiatives. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 31 EN7 – Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved No specific indirect energy conservation improvements have been identified at any of the Company’s operations. AuRico will continue to look at methods of reducing direct energy consumption, whilst improving efficiencies with the aim of significant energy savings. Water EN8 – Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Water is used in the processing of ore and for dust suppression, both on surface roads and in the underground operations. The Company is committed to the sustainable use of water resources, and water conservation is practiced at all operations. The Young-Davidson operation has a water discharge permit which allows the operations to place water back into the Montreal River so long as permit conditions are continually met. The Company’s 2012 total water use and extraction volume increased from the total amount of water used and extracted at its operations in 2011. This can primarily be attributed to the acquisition of the Young-Davidson operation. Young-Davidson accounts for approximately 54% of all water used or extracted by AuRico. The water extracted at Young-Davidson includes the removal of water from the open pit and the underground operations. Water Used by Year (m3) Water Extracted for Use by Source (m3) 4,642,155 827,710 1,988,392 647,500 3,814,445 2012 2011 2010 Lake/Dam Groundwater The Company monitors any water released from the sites to ensure that it complies with the relevant regulations or permit conditions, regarding water discharge quality and quantity. EN9 – Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water In 2012, there was no significant detrimental impact on any water source or related downstream habitat due to the extraction of water. EN10 – Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Where possible, water is reused or recycled throughout mining and processing operations. Some of the water that is removed from the underground operation is pumped back underground for use AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 32 in the mining process. Water is also recycled through the processing and heap leach facilities, or taken back from the tailings dam impoundment at Young-Davidson. YoungEl Ocampo Total Davidson Chanate Total volume of water recycled & reused at this mine site (cubic metres) 1,014,544 3,098 347,739 1,365,381 Biodiversity EN11 – Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity values outside protected areas Land that is owned or leased by the Company is not located in, or adjacent to, protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value outside of protected areas. EN12 – Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Our mining activities have a direct impact on vegetation (deforestation). At El Chanate and Ocampo, this affects some species of plants that are listed as protected status. However, these operations have conservation management plans for these plant species, and all of our operations have permits/plans which have been approved by the government. AuRico continues to ensure that the impact on biodiversity is as minimal as possible. MM1 – Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated During 2012, the Company managed approximately 10,928 hectares (“ha”) of land in Mexico and Canada. During the year, Young-Davidson rehabilitated a 7 hectare historical tailings facility, while El Chanate completed around 3.5 hectares of reforestation. Total Total land area owned or leased that makes up the mine site (Ha) 10,928 Total of this land area that is physically disturbed by mine activity (Ha) 920 Total of this land that has been reclaimed (Ha) 16.9 EN13 – Habitats protected or restored A protected area is defined as an area that is designated, regulated or managed to achieve specific conservation objectives. Reconciling economic and social development opportunities with the need for biodiversity conservation objectives and environmental protection requires innovative approaches to land management. El Chanate has a restoration plan and budget approved by National Forestry Commission of Mexico (CONAFOR) to restore an impacted site near the mine, which was affected by activities other than mining. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 33 The Company will make every effort to partner with stakeholder groups and organizations to implement programs that promote and protect the environment including the development of native species nurseries to reclaim areas that have been disturbed by our operations. EN14 – Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Biodiversity baseline studies were integrated into the environmental impact assessment and land use change technical studies for each Mexican operation. Young-Davidson completed baseline studies to provide information through the permitting stage. These studies measured the possible impacts on biodiversity and selected the correct protection, mitigation actions or measures to be implemented during the construction, operation and closure stages. Current actions taken to manage impacts on biodiversity include: collection of seeds, construction of plant nurseries, relocation of species, reforestation campaigns, abandoned sites reclamation, fencing and soil recovery. In some cases these actions are documented and presented to the government on an annual basis. All of the Company’s operations have closure cost estimations completed and updated until December 2012. The estimations consider the mitigation or elimination of any risks that could affect biodiversity, including reclamation, recontouring and reforestation of all the possible areas. MM2 – The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place There is no area within the Company’s operations where a biodiversity management plan is required. EN15 – Number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk The Company is not aware of any instances where its operations have had a significant impact on any sensitive listed species. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 – Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tonnes) The Company’s primary greenhouse gas emissions in 2012 were sourced primarily from on-site transportation and the use of explosives. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 34 Total Direct & Indirect GHG Emissions By Weight (Tonnes) 65,388 Total Direct GHG Emissions Total Indirect GHG Emissions 129,042 EN17 – Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight The Company considers purchased electricity as an indirect source of GHG as provided in EN16. EN18 – Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved The Company has registered with the Mexico Greenhouse Gas Program, a public-private initiative that aims to reduce emissions and identify opportunities for effective emission management. The Company will continue to review opportunities to reduce GHG emissions. EN19 – Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight No ozone depleting emissions were reported in 2012. EN20 – NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight These items were not measured during the reporting period at the Mexican operations. However, the Young-Davidson operation does have criteria established and is required to report any instance when these emissions exceed the established to the Regulator. In 2012, Young-Davidson operated within the set criteria. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 35 EN21 – Total water discharge by quality and destination YoungEl Ocampo Total Davidson Chanate a) Volume of final effluent discharged to the receiving environment 1,308,340 0 0 1,308,340 at this mine site (m3) Mine What type of effluent Dewatering b) Volume of sewage (black & grey water) discharged by the mine 0 0 0 into a municipal sewage treatment system (m3) c) Volume of sewage (black & grey water) and then held treated at 3,098 59,130 62,228 the mine and discharged (m3) to the receiving environment Anaerobic Activated d) What type of sewage treatment system is used at this mine site? Septic Tanks Treatment Sludge Irrigation The Company monitors the discharge regularly at all sites, as required by permits, to ensure that it complies with the regulations/permits regarding water discharge quality/quantity. EN22 – Total weight of waste by type and disposal method There are a number of non-process materials generated at our operations considered to be waste. This would include items such as tires, scrap steel and batteries. These items are recycled wherever possible. A formalized program for recycling non-process waste was implemented in 2009 and continues to be monitored. Hazardous waste is removed from our properties by licensed waste handlers and either recycled or disposed of in accordance with local regulations. YoungEl Ocampo Total Davidson Chanate Paper and cardboard (tonnes) 0 1 0 1 Plastics (tonnes) 6 1 14 21 Metals (tonnes) 168 3 1,131 1,302 Wood (tonnes) 408 1 0 409 Used oil sent off site for treatment/disposal or used on site as fuel 76,235 3,700 339,908 419,843 (litres) Waste stored or disposed of on site Contaminated soil stored on site in 2012 0 0 0 0 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 36 Contaminated soil treated on site at a land farm in 2012 0 0 0 0 Domestic garbage sent to an on-site landfill facility (tonnes) 0 16.05 0 16 Domestic garbage sent to an on-site incinerator (tonnes) 0 0 0 0 Waste stored or disposed of off site Domestic garbage sent to off-site municipal landfill (tonnes) 787 0 730 1,517 Contaminated soil shipped off site for disposal at a licensed facility 2 7.4 42 51 (tonnes) Total domestic waste generated in 2012 1,369 16.05 730 2,115 Hazardous wastes shipped by the mine to a licensed off-site 0.4 40.81 129 170 disposal/recycle facility (tonnes) % of total waste recycled at each site 12.7% 5% 61% 36% MM3 – Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings and sludge and their associated risks 2 Total Material Mined (Tonnes) 2,421,544 2,421,544 13,636,787 Ore loaded onto heap leach pad Waste rock (total) 38,626,291 Returned UG as backfill Used in tailings dam construction Used in construction 169,500 Placed on surface waste rock 111,624 piles Mill tailings (total) 1,012,855 64,303,065 Placed in surface tailings containment The material being mined is non-acid generating. Therefore, the potential of hazards such as Acid Rock Drainage (ARD) are insignificant. During operations, waste rock produced from the underground mines is either returned to the underground as rock fill or placed in specified piles on the surface along with mined waste material from the open pit operations. Rock fill refills the voids where ore has been previously extracted. When the mine ceases to operate, the surface waste dumps will be re-contoured and re-vegetated to provide stable containment of the material. Tailings are the by-product of processing extracted ore. It is the residual material remaining after the mineral portion has been extracted. Tailings dams are of specific design and have operational AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 37 requirements regarding the location, water management, maintenance and control and monitoring of these requirements is strictly enforced. Tailings dams are reclaimed at the end of the mine life. Young-Davidson is currently undertaking a permitting process which will see material placed underground to fill voids left by the mining process. EN23 – Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental protection design and operational controls are in place at all of the Company’s operations. There were no significant environmental incidents reported in 2012. Young-Davidson recorded 1 small spill (0.5lt) of a vegetable oil product that made its way into a water source. Ongoing monitoring and inspection practices are in place that allows the Company to evaluate and ensure the effectiveness of environmental management systems and controls to maintain compliance and standards. These practices continued in 2012. In 2012, the Company provided environmental training to employees and contractors at its operations. This training provides workers with the knowledge required to recognize and immediately respond to environmental issues/incidents at their site. EN24 – Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Terms of the Basel Convention Appendix I, II, III and IV, and transported waste internationally The Company does not transport, import or export any treated waste. EN25 – Identify size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff In 2012, no bodies of water or related aquatic habitats were significantly affected by discharge from operations. The Company’s Mexican operations are zero discharge, using all of the water collected on the site in their internal operations. Young-Davidson returns water that meets strict requirements to the Montreal River. The average flow of the Montreal River is 24,500 litres per second. Products and Services EN26 – Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation The Company has not reported data against this Performance Indicator as it is not perceived to be a relevant indicator to the Company’s specific business case because it does not sell the final product. EN27 – Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Company product, doré and concentrate, is not packaged therefore this indicator is not applicable. Compliance EN28 – Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No significant fines were incurred in 2012, though nine minor environmental penalties were paid. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 38 Transport EN29 – Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce The Company uses a fleet of heavy equipment in its operations to transport ore throughout the mine sites. Additionally, the Company transports equipment and materials via public roads to and from the mine sites. The Company also has a fleet of light trucks and buses for employee transportation on site. Direct impacts from transportation primarily relates to the emission of greenhouse gases. The Company makes every effort to promote more efficient use of light vehicles in order to reduce costs and GHG emissions. An example is the car-pooling program that is in place for the senior management group at Young-Davidson. Overall EN30 – Total Environmental Protection Expenditures and investments by type (excluding capital) (US$) How much did this mine spend on environmental protection and YoungEl Chanate Ocampo Total management in 2012? Davidson Environment expenses $679,277 $133,421 $239,858 $1,052,556 How much did this mine spend on waste disposal, water treatment and remediation in 2012? $189,359 $24,615 $117,537 $331,511 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA – LA Disclosure on Management Approach The health and safety of its employees and contractors are integral to the success of the business. The Company will continue to promote safe practices and safe work environments, while fostering a culture among employees and contractors that zero incidents are possible. It will also continue to improve and enhance its safety practices to achieve a further reduction in key safety performance indicators. Professional health and safety staff lead employee committees at all of AuRico’s operations. These committees perform safety inspections and oversee site health and safety programs. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 39 In 2012, the Company appointed a Director of Corporate Sustainability whose role is to oversee the implementation of the AuRico Sustainability Management System and provide support and guidance to the sites in matters related to health, safety, environment and the community. The Company strives to attract and retain exceptional employees and works with these employees to help them fulfill their potential. AuRico does this by providing opportunities for personal advancement and skills development, competitive salaries, bonuses, stock options, benefits and promoting a healthy work-life balance. Employment LA1 – Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region As of December 31, 2012, the Company had over 1,200 employees and contractors working at the operations. The reduction in number from 2011 (4,200) can be mostly attributed to the sale of El Cubo and Ocampo. The 2012 number includes 469 full-time employees, 44 part-time employees, and the balance being site contractors. LA2 – Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region The Company’s ongoing training programs target women for non-traditional mining roles such as operating heavy mobile equipment. YoungEl Chanate Ocampo Total Davidson Total number of employees leaving employment at this mine in all of 2012 49 43 396 488 Breakdown of this number by gender (employees leaving employment) Female 8 5 N/A(1) 13 Male 41 38 N/A(1) 79 Breakdown of this number by age group (employees leaving) < 30 years old 22 N/A(1) N/A(1) 22 30 to 50 years old 19 N/A(1) N/A(1) 19 > 50 years old 8 N/A(1) N/A(1) 8 Breakdown of this number by region (employees leaving employment) Number who are local employees (economic region in which the mine is located) 0 50 3 53 (1) Data not available AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 40 LA3 – Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by major operations The Company’s workforce consists of skilled employees whose wages, salaries and benefits are competitive with those of other companies and industries. Salary and wage structures are developed regionally and are very competitive in order to attract and retain the best people. The Company provides a core group of benefits for employees pertaining to health care. Additional benefits are regional and are determined by local competitive practices. These may include annual bonuses and other types of incentive programs. Labour/Management Relations LA4 – Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements At the end of 2012, the El Chanate mine had 70% of its workforce covered by a collective bargaining agreement (CBA). At Young-Davidson, employees under the company contracted for the open pit are covered by a CBA. The Company is committed to equal opportunity and freedom from discrimination for all of its employees and contractors. The Company is also committed to the fundamental rights of its employees and to freedom of association, and works closely with employees to develop effective labor relations programs. LA5 – Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements The Company does not have an agreed minimum period for giving notice regarding operational changes. In circumstances where the provision of this information is deemed necessary, it will provide this information to employees as expediently as possible. MM4 – Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration, by country There were no strikes or lock-outs during 2012. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 – Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs The Company has established Health and Safety committees throughout its operations that are comprised of both management and workers representatives. These committees were created to establish and maintain a safe working environment for all workers. These committees represent 100% of the Company’s employees. LA7 – Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region The Company suffered three fatalities at its operations in 2012. This result was disheartening and unacceptable to all Company personnel and contractors. The Company’s commitment to realizing zero incidents remains a key objective and it will continue to enhance and improve safety in the workplace at all mine sites. In 2012, Young-Davidson reached the milestone of over 2 million man hours Lost Time Injury free. El Chanate reached a milestone of over 1 million man hours with no Lost Time Injuries recorded. The Company finished the year with a Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate of 1.13, a reduction over AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 41 the 2011 figure of 1.4. In 2013, the Company has set the Lost Time Injury free rate target at 0.40. This target rate represents a 20% improvement over the Ontario mining industry average of 0.5 that was achieved in 2012. The following table provides key safety statistics for the Company’s operations in 2012: YoungEl Ocampo Total Davidson Chanate Number of fatalities in 2012 0 2 1 3 Number of lost time accidents in 2012 1 5 44 50 Number of restricted duty and medical aid accidents in 2012 54 26 116 196 Person days lost in 2012 due to accident 1 12,423 10,606 23,030 Person days lost in 2012 due to occupational illness 0 0 0 0 Lost-time accident frequency rate (per 200,000 person hours) 0.12 0.59 1.57 1.13 LA8 – Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Personal development opportunities are an important employee benefit. Skill development programs are being completed throughout our operations. Training is provided through internally delivered training and skills development programs. YoungEl Chanate Ocampo Davidson In 2012 did the mine provide training to assist workforce members prevent/ Yes Yes Yes manage serious disease – yes or no? Was this training given to: Employees Yes Yes Yes Employees’ families Yes Yes No Other members of the community No Yes Yes The Company also supports the educational development of its employees’ children, by providing scholarships and by supporting primary and secondary schools in the area. LA9 – Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions There were no formal agreements relating to health and safety during 2012. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 42 Training and Education LA10 – Average hours of training per year per employee During 2012, the Company continued to invest in the training of employees, and contractors including both internally delivered programs and externally delivered professional development programs for some employees. This training includes training the on-site emergency response teams. Professional development of personnel will continue in 2013. It is Company policy that all new employees and contractors receive induction and core safety training, as well as specific on-the-job training relating to their areas of operation. YoungEl Chanate Ocampo Total Davidson Total person hours devoted to training personnel at the mine in 2012 5,381 9,974 23,932 39,287 Average hours of training = Total hours devoted to training/Total 7.50 31.76 13.83 17.70 number of employees (in hrs.) LA11 – Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings YoungEl Ocampo Total Davidson Chanate Did the mine offer internal skills training programs at the mine in 2012? Yes Yes Yes Did the mine have any apprentices training programs in place in 2012? Yes Yes Yes If yes – how many apprenticeships were in place in 2012? 2 1 3 6 Did the mine offer any programs to help employees prepare for retirement in 2012yes or not? No No No LA12 – Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Performance reviews are undertaken at Young-Davidson. This review process is completed with salaried employees only. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 – Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender and other indicators of diversity As an equal opportunity employer, the Company is committed to employing as many local residents as possible at its operations. AuRico considers employees to be local residents if they live in a community that is directly influenced by operations. As per employment policies, the Company hires the most qualified individuals for each position, regardless of age, disability, gender, sexual orientation, nationality, race, religion, and colour. At the end of 2012, female employees attributed to 11% of the workforce. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 43 YoungEl Chanate Ocampo Davidson % of workforce at this mine who are male 82% 91% 93% % of workforce at this mine who are female 18% 9% 7% % of workforce at this mine in each of the following age groups (total should be 100%) < 30 years old N/A(1) 35% 31% 30 to 50 years old N/A(1) 61.5% 61% > 50 years old N/A(1) 3.5% 8% (1) Data not available LA14 – Equal remuneration for women and men It is Company policy for employees to be paid based on their position held, not based on gender. For instance, female and male haulage truck operators receive the same pay. The Company’s Code of Business Conduct & Ethics is available through the Company’s web site at www.auricogold.com. HUMAN RIGHTS DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy affirms its commitment to observe the fundamental tenets of human rights. These obligations are core to the Company’s culture and operations and are aligned with the principles outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2012, the Company was a member of the United Nations Global Compact. In 2012, the Company produced a Sustainability Management System, Sustainability Charter and released a Corporate Social Sustainability policy. The Company ensures compliance with its current anti-discrimination policy in the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics throughout its AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 44 operations with the whistleblower hotline. Each quarter, a report is submitted to the Audit Committee outlining the number of complaints received since the previous report. The Company’s Code of Conduct declares its commitment to fair employment practices in which all individuals are treated with dignity and respect. The Company will not tolerate any type of illegal discrimination or harassment, and expects that all relationships among persons in the workplace will be professional and free of bias and harassment. The Company strives to ensure that its operations are in full compliance with local and international laws and that the Company upholds human rights in the workplace and, more broadly, within the communities in which it operates. Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 – Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening The Company does not conduct business in places where there are high cases of human rights abuses. As such, has not the need to apply any human rights clauses or screening to significant investments agreements. However, it will take such measures if needed. HR2 – Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken The Company does not have a formal process in place that screens suppliers and contractors on human rights. The Company expects all contractors and suppliers to adhere to the same set of values that the Company holds itself to and included in its Code of Business Conduct. All contractors must understand and agree to the terms established in the Code of Conduct and an informal process is in place to ensure contractors and suppliers comply with the Company’s performance standards at all times. HR3 – Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for all its employees, which addresses, among other things, human rights. Acknowledgement of the Company’s Code of Conduct is required from all employees when they join the Company, and copies of the Code are displayed in prominent locations for easy reference. Key management and supervisory personnel at all sites and corporate offices are trained annually on the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and a confirmation acknowledging their understanding and adherence is obtained on an annual basis. Employees are requested to selfdisclose any observed deviations from the policy and are provided with details of the Anonymous Feedback Tool that allows them to disclose any potential issues without fear of reprisal. Non-Discrimination HR4 – Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken There were no incidents of discrimination reported in 2012. The Company is committed to ensuring that all employees work in an environment that is free from discrimination of any kind. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 45 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 – Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights No incidents of violations of freedom of association or collective bargaining were reported during 2012. The Company does not operate in any jurisdictions where our employees right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining is at significant risk. Employees have a right to belong to a union of their choice. Child Labour HR6 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour No incidents of child labour were reported during the year. The Company currently operates in countries where child labour is prohibited under its labour laws. The Company does not condone, nor tolerate any form of child labour. Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced labour or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour No incidents of forced or compulsory labour were reported in 2012. The Company will not engage in, or condone, any form of forced or compulsory labour. Security Practices HR8 – Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Security personnel at the Company’s Mexican operations received training in aspects concerning human rights. In addition, all employees are made aware of the Company’s Code of Conduct. In 2013, Young-Davison will employ security personnel at the operation. These personnel will undertake the required training in the Company’s Code of Conduct. Indigenous Rights MM5 – Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities The Company’s operations do not impinge upon any indigenous communities. Young-Davidson has an Impact Benefit Agreement (“IBA”) in place with the Matachewan and Temagami First Nation communities. Young-Davidson regularly engages in community meetings and operational updates with all relevant parties. HR9 – Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken There were no recorded incidents of violations of indigenous rights in 2012. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 46 SOCIETY DMA – SO Disclosure on Management Approach The Company is committed to making a positive difference in the communities in which it operates. It recognizes that responsible mining creates opportunities to generate greater value for shareholders, while at the same time fostering sustainable development in the communities and countries where it operates. Some of the micro-business initiatives in 2012 where the Company provided funding and support include:  Chicken Farm Project o Early stage production produced 200kg/day of meat o Commenced production at the end of 2012 along with official handover to Ejido  Vegetable Greenhouse o Green chilies and tomatoes o Official handover to local community occurred in December 2012  Centre of Bachelor Technology & Agriculture (CBTA) Farming Project o Successfully planting melons exported to Japan o Experimenting small areas with alfalfa, corn and cucurbit  El Chanate Sewing Project o Received Ejido approval for building surface and business group formation o Training process completed mid-December 2012 Community engagement is of significant importance to the Company and is viewed as a continuous process. The Company believes that effective community engagement facilitates cooperative relations with local stakeholders, provides a mechanism for monitoring public perception and enables the adaptation of project plans in response to community concerns. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 47 Partnerships The Company works in partnership with local governmental and regulatory authorities at all levels. This type of multi-faceted collaboration helps to ensure that the Company’s support and programs are well targeted and complementary to existing initiatives. Local Economic Development The Company provides socio-economic benefits to the communities where it operates in a variety of ways, depending on the context and local priorities. The Company’s goal is to employ local people at its operations whenever possible, and to encourage local and regional procurement. Salaries, wages, capital expenditures, purchases of goods and services, and payment of taxes and royalties all provide economic value to the regions in which the Company operates. Community Infrastructure Development Mine development often occurs in remote areas where basic infrastructural development is required. The Company has been involved in developing these communities in several ways, including the installation of cell phone communication antennas and connection to the national power grid for local houses. Community Initiatives and Charitable Support The Company’s investments in community development are built around a core philosophy of contributing towards community self-sufficiency and helping communities be self-sufficient. With this overarching goal in mind, the Company continued to support many projects in 2012, including:  Supply of material for various infrastructures in the surrounding communities  Local community farming – melon and chicken farms  Reforestation campaigns  Health & Safety week for local communities and miners  Year-round maintenance of roads  Community sewing program  University scholarship program  Medical examination facilities  Business training for local small scale projects  Emergency attendance for local incidents & ambulance maintenance  Support for continued town beautification projects  Support for family events, sports programs reading promotion, cooking classes, school meal programs, sports and graduation events, and town cultural events. Closure Planning Each operation of the Company has established guidelines/plans for mine closure. These are also known as Asset Retirement Obligations or mine closure plans. The Company’s goal is to minimize the impact and to restore the land in which we operate to as close to its original state as possible. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 48 Corruption The Company addresses and defines corruption through its corporate governance standards as well as through an adherence to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), with which the Company complies. The US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, 15 USC. §§ 78dd-1, et seq., defines corrupt intent as follows: “The person making or authorizing the payment must have a corrupt intent, and the payment must be intended to induce the recipient to misuse his official position to direct business wrongfully to the payer or to any other person. You should note that the FCPA does not require that a corrupt act succeed in its purpose. The offer or promise of a corrupt payment can constitute a violation of the statute. The FCPA prohibits any corrupt payment intended to influence any act or decision of a foreign official in his or her official capacity, to induce the official to do or omit to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, to obtain any improper advantage, or to induce a foreign official to use his or her influence improperly to affect or influence any act or decision.” The Company believes that good corporate governance is an essential element in a well-managed company. The corporate governance practices of the Company meet the standards for corporate governance practices recommended by Canadian Securities Administrators’ Multilateral Instrument 52-109, Canadian Securities Administrators’ Multilateral Instrument 52-110 and the corporate governance standards and disclosure requirements in Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Policy 58-201 and National Instrument 58-101. The Company’s corporate governance practices also comply with applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, including and US Securities and Exchange Commission rules under SOX, as well as issuer standards of the Toronto Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Rules. Public Policy The Company participates in influencing public policy through its membership in the Mining Association of Mexico, the Ontario Mining Association and the Canadian Chamber of Mines. AuRico Gold is a participant of the UN Global Compact and GHG Program in Mexico. SO1 – Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting The Company sees engagement as a key factor for good community relations. The CSR program in Mexico is based on a social-economic baseline study that was performed in 2005 and is updated every five years (first update in 2010). The Company’s engagement process is through a formalized and established interdisciplinary group which meets on a regular basis. This interdisciplinary group is comprised of Company employees, a local NGO, local community members, school and business representatives, and local government. The main functions of the group are:  To report local issues and find a solution through group discussions  To review potential micro-business opportunities and search for resources (government, community, company)  To determine the infrastructure needs of the community, rank each need’s level of importance and search for resources (government, community, company). AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 49 The standard engagement practices at Young-Davidson include regular points of contact with local members of the community and First Nations Groups. In some cases, these contact points are designed to provide updates on the operational and environmental performance. These meetings also give members of the local communities an opportunity to engage with senior site personnel. Local community members and First Nations are encouraged to raise any concerns at these meetings. The types of contact points include:  Open houses – site visits and tours of the operation  Community information sessions  Newsletters  Joint Management Committee with local First Nations Groups focused on business and training opportunities  Environmental Committee – Representatives from both site and local First Nations groups  Regular town meetings – monthly, held with site and town representatives. MM6 – Significant Disputes Relating to Land Use or Customary Rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples There were no significant disputes relating to land use or the infringement of customary rights of the local communities in 2012. MM7 – The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes During 2009, the Company launched a formalized grievance process that documents any grievances relating to land use on customary rights of local communities. Any grievance that is received by the Company is reviewed and an appropriate course of action is developed. The process continued to be a valuable mechanism in 2012. MM8 – Number (and percentage) of company operating sites where artisanal and smallscale mining takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks There is no artisanal mining or small-scale illegal mining on, or adjacent to, any of the Company’s properties. Security programs are in place at all of the operations that significantly reduces the likelihood of illegal artisanal mining taking place. MM9 – Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process The Company has adopted a policy of promoting voluntary resettlement wherever possible. The timing and location of the resettlement is negotiated with the families that are affected. In 2012, one household was required to be resettled near Ocampo. Consultation processes were not required. In 2012, there were no significant disputes related to resettlement. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 50 MM10 – Mine Closure The Company is committed to operating and closing mines in a sustainable manner throughout the life of the mine. A key focus of the Company will be to re-establish a healthy ecosystem and productive land use after reclamation is complete. Present Estimated Mine Life Ocampo: 10 years from 2012 El Chanate: 8 years from 2012 Young-Davidson: 18 years from 2012 The Company has established closure plans for all of its operations. These are reviewed annually and are amended and updated as required. SO2 – Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption The Company’s Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Compliance Program Policy (“ACP”) establishes the standards and expectations for directors, officers and employees of the Company relating to conflict of interest, dealing with suppliers and dealing with public officials. All employees, agents of the Company, joint-venture partners, or anyone else doing business in the Company’s name, are required to comply strictly with the FCPA, all other applicable antibribery and anti-corruption treaties, and all national laws, as set forth in the ACP. The ACP Policy states that: “No employee shall make or promise to make, directly or indirectly, any payment of money or provide anything of value to any foreign official of a government or a political party, or a candidate for political office, which is for the purpose of inducing or influencing such person to act in any way to assist AuRico Gold in obtaining, facilitating, or retaining business, or securing any improper business advantage”. In 2012 all operations were analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 – Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Corporate employees, officers and directors operating within and outside of Canada have a special responsibility to know and obey the laws and regulations of countries where they act on behalf of the Company. Customs vary throughout the world, but all employees, officers and directors must diligently uphold the integrity of the Company in other nations. These personnel are all trained in the AuRico anti-corruption policy’s annually. SO4 – Actions in Response to Corruption During 2012, no actions were taken in response to Corruption in all the operations. The Company fully expects that all employees will conduct themselves in such a manner as to comply with the Company’s Code of Conduct and ACP at all times. Any violations are grounds for disciplinary action. All employees are required to certify their compliance with the Code of Conduct and ACP on an annual basis or when revisions are made to the document. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 51 SO5 – Public policy decisions and participation in public policy development and lobbying The Company participates in influencing public policy through its membership in the Mining Association of Mexico and the Canadian Chamber of Mines in Mexico. AuRico is also a member of the Ontario Mining Association, and is also a participant of the UN Global Compact and GHG Program in Mexico. SO6 – Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by country The Company does not donate to political parties or related entities. However should the Company make any contributions to local political campaigns, the Company will make matching donations to all major political parties. The Company’s directors, officers and employees are precluded from using the Company’s funds, facilities or any other asset to support directly or indirectly any political candidate or political party. SO7 – Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes The Company does not allow any director, officer or employee to enter into any arrangement that would result in unfair business practices. There were no legal actions for anti-competitive behavior reported in 2012. SO8 – Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations There were no fines or sanctions of any kind imposed in 2012 that were related to social or community issues. For reference, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, 15 USC. §§ 78dd-1, et seq. can be found on the US Department of Justice web site at http://www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa/. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA – PR Disclosure on Management Approach The Company’s main product is gold, with silver as a secondary product. The Company mines gold and silver bearing ore and processes the ore so that doré bars are produced. The doré bars are then shipped to a refinery for further processing. Gold and silver can be readily sold on numerous commodity markets throughout the world and it is not difficult to ascertain its market price at any particular time. Since there are a large number of available customers, the Company is not dependent upon the sale of gold or silver to any one customer or group of customers. MM11 – Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship Materials stewardship includes a range of activities required to ensure the optimal and appropriate use of minerals and metals in society. Minerals stewardship includes both process related activities as well as product related activities throughout the life cycle of the metal, including recycling. Recycling of process-related materials has been addressed elsewhere in this report and the section below focuses on product-related recycling. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 52 PR1 – Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Gold Product fabrication and bullion investment are two principal uses of gold. The introduction of more readily accessible and more liquid gold investment vehicles (such as gold exchange traded funds) may further facilitate investment in gold. Within the fabrication category, there are a wide variety of end uses, the largest of which is the manufacture of jewelry. Other fabrication purposes include official coins, electronics, miscellaneous industrial and decorative uses, dentistry, medals and medallions. Silver Silver is produced as a secondary product at all the Company’s operations. Silver has a number of unique properties including its strength, malleability and ductility, its electrical and thermal conductivity and the ability to endure extreme temperature ranges. These properties make it a valuable element in our modern lives. Demand for silver comes from industrial uses, photography, jewelry and silverware. Together, these categories represent more than 95 percent of global annual silver consumption. Industrial and photographic silver are the most important sources of silver recycling. The Company is a primary producer of gold and silver, and does not sell its product directly to the public; the gold and silver produced is sold to a third party (financial institutions). Consequently, the Company does not generate a final consumer product, so cannot assess the health and safety impacts of the product life cycle stages. PR2 – Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes There were no instances of non-compliance with regulations concerning the health and safety effects of the Company’s products. PR3 – Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements The Company does not sell gold or silver directly to the public and therefore, there is no typical commercial labeling. The doré bars are labeled for identification purposes. PR4 – Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes There were no incidents of non-compliance labeling reported in 2012. PR5 – Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction The Company’s principal customers are the financial institutions to which doré bars are sold. Any issues that may arise are addressed according to the terms of the Company’s mutual contractual obligations. The Company is not aware of any outstanding issues with customers. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 53 PR6 – Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship There is a worldwide market where the Company sells its gold and silver, and therefore, has no particular purchaser with regards to these sales. The Company does not sell directly to the public but sells its products directly to financial institutions, and therefore, marketing is not an important aspect in the sales process. PR7 – Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes There were no instances of breaches of advertising and marketing regulations during the year. PR8 – Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data The Company is committed to ensuring the appropriate and lawful collection, use, disclosure, correction and storage of personal information. This commitment to privacy extends to all employees, prospective employees, contractors, customers and suppliers. The Company strictly adheres to all legal requirements regarding privacy. During 2012, there were no incidents of breaches of personal information. PR9 – Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services In 2012, there were no fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the use of the Company’s products. KEMESS Sustainability data collected for Kemess is not applied to the GRI guidelines that shape this Report. The CSR work performed at Kemess is included in a separate overview below. The Kemess property includes the Kemess Underground Project, a copper gold project, and the past producing Kemess South mine in north-central British Columbia, approximately 430 kilometres northwest of Prince George. During its mine-life, the Kemess South mine produced close to 3 million ounces of gold and over 300 million pounds of copper. In 2012, the Company advanced a Feasibility Study focused on the Kemess Underground Project. The results of the study were subsequently released in March 2013. Community Relations Subsequent to acquiring Kemess through the Northgate Minerals acquisition in October 2011, the Company maintained its commitment to sound corporate citizenship by actively contributing to Kemess’ neighboring communities and by working with Tse Keh Nay First Nations, governments, and regulators. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 54 Community contributions in 2012 involved the surrounding communities of Smithers, Houston, Burns Lake, Hazelton, Takla Landing, Tsay Keh Dene, Kwadacha, and Prince George through good neighbour activities consisting of sponsorships and in-kind donations to:  local area schools o monetary prize donations for educational contests promoting mining o science fairs o donated retired pieces of equipment to a trades school in Prince George for use in apprenticeship mine training programs  Salvation Army  Mining for Miracles fundraising campaign for BC Children’s Hospital  sports teams  fishing derbies  Canada Day events  theatre programs Recognizing the importance of facilitating meaningful dialogue with key stakeholders, AuRico participated in a number of meetings throughout the year. Working closely with these groups helps the Company identify key matters of interest to successfully advance CSR activities that are important to both the area and the material development of Kemess. The result of ongoing consultations with First Nations Groups included the establishment and signing of an Interim Measures Agreement (the “IMA” or the “Agreement”) with Tse Keh Nay First Nations in June 2012. This marks a significant step in advancing the relationship with key partners at Kemess. A Senior Implementation Committee comprised of representatives from AuRico and the Tse Keh Nay First Nations were selected with the responsibility of executing the initiatives outlined in the IMA. The initiatives pledged in the Agreement center on community development, generating economic opportunities through employment and business, and a high regard for the surrounding environment. Some of the items in the Agreement include: • Establishing an Environmental Management Committee to identify specific studies and issues related to environmental regulation and areas of interest to Tse Keh Nay First Nations. A caribou tracking study and an archeological overview assessment of the land have been completed to date. • Providing employment opportunities and skills training, while also generating local business opportunities for the community. • Instituting a new agreement with trap line holders. Caring for the Environment AuRico continues to work to mitigate the impacts of mining through the progressive rehabilitation of previously mined areas. In 2012, environmental management spending for Kemess totaled approximately $9 million in reclamation projects. As part of the reclamation efforts the Company AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 55 employed a local business from the First Nations community to assist with care and maintenance work conducted on site. The Company aims to generate work for local business whenever possible. Reclamation work undertaken at Kemess in 2012 included the following:  Partnering with First Nations and student field crews for the 11th successful year to assist with reclamation, prescription implementation, and seed collection;  Planting over 180,000 plants propagated by a nursery in the community that used locally collected seed where available, were planted on site covering a total of 43 hectares;  Broadcast seeding of non-agronomic native species mixtures, conducted by members of the Takla Lake First Nations;  Contouring and overburden placement on 47 hectares of land; and  Completed construction of the Tailings Storage Facility spillway approximately 12 months in advance of the projected discharge of water. Health and Safety Across all of our assets, the health and safety of our employees and contractors is a key priority. Kemess received the Stewart O’Brian Safety Award from the Government of British Columbia for its low Lost Time Injury Frequency rate for care, maintenance, and reclamation work completed on site in 2012. Employees on site participate in ongoing health and safety training to ensure everyone is working according to the best safety practices. AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 56 APPENDIX A: GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Section Disclosure Page 1.1 Statement from the Chief Executive Officer 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 3 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Section Disclosure Page 2.1 Name of the Reporting Organization 9 2.3 Operational Structure of the Operation 9 2.4 Location of the Company’s Headquarters 10 2.5 Number of Countries where the Company Operates 10 2.6 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form 10 2.7 Markets Served 10 2.8 Scale of the Reporting Organization 11 2.9 Significant Change During the Reporting Period 12 2.10 Awards Received in the Reporting Period 12 REPORT PARAMETERS Section Disclosure Page 3.1 Report Profile See Report Parameters 12 3.2 Date of Previous Report 12 3.3 Reporting Cycle See Report Parameters 12 3.4 Contact for Questions Regarding the Report 12 3.5 Process for defining Report Content 12 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 57 3.6 Boundary of the Report 13 3.7 Specific Limitations on the Scope of the Report 13 3.8 Joint Ventures 13 3.9 Data Measurement 13 3.10 Explanation of any Restatement of Previous Reports 15 3.11 Significant Changes from Previous Reporting Periods 15 3.12 GRI Reporting & Content Index 15 3.13 Assurances 15 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Section Disclosure Page 4.1 Governance Structure of the Organization 16 4.2 Indication of whether Chairman of the Board is also an 17 executive officer 4.3 Number of Independent Directors 17 4.4 Shareowner or associate mechanism to provide 17 recommendations or direction to the Board 4.5 Executive Compensation 18 4.6 Conflicts of Interest 18 4.7 Board Qualifications 19 4.8 Vision and Mission 19 4.9 Board Overview and Sustainability 20 4.10 Performance Review 21 4.11 Precautionary Principle 21 4.12 Codes and External Instruments 21 4.13 Industry Memberships 22 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 58 4.14 List of Stakeholder Groups Engaged by the Organization 22 4.15 Basis for Identification and Selection of Stakeholders 23 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement 23 4.17 Stakeholder Topics of Concern 23 ECONOMIC Section Disclosure Page DMA-EC Disclosures on Management Approach 24 EC1 Economic Performance 25 EC2 Impact of Climate Change 25 EC3 Corporate Benefit Plans 26 EC4 Financial Assistance Received From Government 26 EC5 Wages 26 EC6 Purchase of Local Goods and Services 26 EC7 Local Employment 27 EC8 Infrastructure Investment 27 EC9 Indirect Economic Impacts 28 ENVIRONMENTAL Section Disclosure Page DMA-EN Disclosures on Management Approach 29 EN1 Materials Used 29 EN2 Percentage of Recycled Materials Used 30 EN3 Direct Energy Consumption 30 EN4 Indirect Energy Consumption 31 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 59 EN5 Energy Efficiency 31 EN6 Renewable Resources 31 EN7 Indirect Energy Reduction Initiatives 32 EN8 Water Use 32 EN9 Water Sources Affected by Water Withdrawal 32 EN10 Water Recycling and Reuse 32 EN11 Land Management 33 EN12 Impact on Protected Areas 33 EN13 Habitats Protected or Restored 33 EN14 Managing Impacts on Biodiversity 34 EN15 Species Conservation 34 EN16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34 EN17 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 35 EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Initiatives 35 EN19 Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances 35 EN20 Significant Air Emissions 35 EN21 Water Discharge 36 EN22 Non-Process Waste Disposal 36 EN23 Significant Environmental Incidents 38 EN24 Hazardous Waste 38 EN25 Water Discharge and Runoff 38 EN26 Environmental Impact of Products 38 EN27 Product Recycling 38 EN28 Non-Compliance Fines 38 EN29 Impact of Transport 39 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 60 EN30 Environmental Expenditures 39 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Section Disclosure Page DMA-LA Disclosures on Management Approach 39 LA1 Total Workforce (partial response) 40 LA2 Employee Diversity See Labour Practices and Decent Work 40 (partial response) LA3 Benefits See Labour Practices and Decent Work 40 LA4 Trade Union Representation 41 LA5 Notice Periods 41 LA6 Joint Manager-Worker Committee 41 LA7 Workplace Safety Statistics 41 LA8 Education and Training 42 LA9 Trade Union Health and Safety Agreements 42 LA10 Average Training Hours 42 LA11 Lifelong Learning 43 LA12 Performance Reviews 43 LA13 Governance Bodies 43 LA14 Gender Based Compensation 44 HUMAN RIGHTS Section Disclosure Page DMA-HR Disclosures on Management Approach 44 HR1 Human Rights Clauses 45 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 61 HR2 Screening for Human Rights 45 HR3 Human Rights Training 45 HR4 Discrimination Incident Reports 45 HR5 Freedom of Association 46 HR6 Child Labour Risks 46 HR7 Forced or Compulsory Labour 46 HR8 Security Personnel Training 46 HR9 Indigenous Rights 46 SOCIETY Section Disclosure Page DMA-SO Disclosures on Management Approach 47 SO1 Community Development 49 SO2 Corruption Analysis 51 SO3 Corruption Prevention 51 SO4 Actions in Response to Corruption 51 SO5 Public Policy Development 52 SO6 Contributions to Political Parties 52 SO7 Anti-Competitive Behavior 52 SO8 Fines for Non-Compliance 52 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Section Disclosure Page DMA-PR Disclosures on Management Approach 52 PR1 Product Life Cycle Analysis 53 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 62 PR2 Non-Compliance Incidents 53 PR3 Labeling 53 PR4 Non-Compliance Incidents Labeling 53 PR5 Customer Satisfaction 53 PR6 Marketing 54 PR7 Non-Compliance Incidents – Marketing 54 PR8 Privacy Complaints 54 PR9 Fines for Non-Compliance 54 GRI METALS AND MINING SECTOR Section Disclosure Page MM1 Amount of Land Owned or Leased 33 MM2 Biodiversity Management Plans 34 MM3 Total Amounts of Overburden, Rock, Tailings and Sludge 37 MM4 Number of Strikes and Lockouts 41 MM5 Operations Adjacent to Indigenous Peoples 46 MM6 Significant Disputes Relating to Land Use or Customary 50 Rights MM7 Grievance Mechanisms Relating to Land Use or Customary 50 Rights Disputes MM8 Artisanal Mining 50 MM9 Resettlement 50 MM10 Mine Closure 50 MM11 Materials Stewardship 52 AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 63 APPENDIX B: GLOSSARY Injury Severity Rate All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) A number representing injuries resulting in AIFR includes all work-related injuries. AIFR is restricted duty and lost time. Injury severity the number of incidents for each 200,000 rate is the number of lost-time days plus the hours worked. number of restricted duty days for each 200,000 hours worked. Cyanide The chemical reagent used in the liberation of Intensity precious metals (gold and silver) from mined The rate of consumption of some material rock. (water, energy, etc.) per each ounce of gold produced. Direct and Indirect energy Use/GHG Emissions Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Direct energy use/emissions are from sources LTIFR includes any work-related injury that owned or operated on our properties. Indirect results in workdays away from work. LTIFR is energy use/emissions are from sources not calculated as the number of lost time injuries owned or operated by us, but occur as a result times 200,000 divided by actual hours worked. of our activities (e.g. purchased electricity). Medical Aid and Restricted Duty Rate Excursion or Exceedence Work-related injuries that require treatment but A short-term breach of one or more permitted no time away from work. The rate is calculated water discharge or air emission limits. using the same method as the LTIFR. Hazardous Waste Megajoule Waste material that is defined as hazardous by 1,000,000 joules. A unit of energy having the the host country. Government regulations following equivalents: usually define disposal options for hazardous 1 kilowatt hour 3.60 megajoules waste. 1 British thermal unit (Btu) 0.001055 megajoules Human Rights Includes civil and political freedoms and Reclamation liberties, and also those economic, social and The process of converting lands disturbed by cultural rights necessary for survival, human mining activities to other productive land uses. development and dignity. These latter include This process typically involves reshaping areas the rights to adequate food, housing, health to a stable configuration, establishment of and education, and the rights and freedoms drainage systems, placement of topsoil or associated with participating in cultural and plant growth media and re-vegetation through religious life. planting or seeding. Infrastructure Secondary Products The basic facilities and systems serving a Other metal or metal-bearing materials (e.g. country, city, or area, including transportation, copper) recovered as a result of the production communication, sanitation, medical and school of the primary target metals (e.g. gold and systems. silver). AuRico Gold 2012 Sustainability Report 64 Sensitive Habitats future generations to meet their own needs In some jurisdictions the term sensitive habitat (Bruntland Commission, 1987). has a legal definition. However, used in general terms, a sensitive habitat is any area Unrelated Director in which plant or animal life or their habitats Has the meaning attributed to that term in the are either rare or especially valuable. Sensitive Toronto Stock Exchange Company Manual, habitat areas include, but are not limited to, being a director who is independent of riparian corridors, wetlands, marine habitats, management and is free from any interest and sand dunes, sea cliffs, and other habitats any business or other relationship which could supporting rare and unique species. reasonably be perceived to materially interfere with the director’s ability to act with a view to Spill Containment Structures the best interests of the Company, other than The curbing, tanks, collection areas and interests and relationships arising solely from berming designed to collect and contain shareholdings. In assessing the status of each solution spills. The Company’s operations are director, the independent criteria set out in the typically designed with redundant spill NYSE Standards and all relevant facts and containment to ensure that spillage does not circumstances have also been applied and escape the site. considered, meaning each “unrelated director” would be considered independent under the Stakeholders NYSE Standards. Peoples or groups of people that have an interest in the activities of the Company, Unit Conversion Table including shareholders, employees and their Metric measures are used in this report. To families, contractors, the communities near convert to non-metric units, the following mining operations, legislative representatives, factors apply: regulatory personnel and interested nongovernment organizations. Metric Imperial 1 tonne 1.1025 tons (short) Sustainable Development 1 litre 0.2642 gallons (US) Development that meets the needs of today’s 1 hectare 2.4691 acres generation without compromising the ability of 1 kilometre 0.6215 miles 1 kilogram 2.2046 pounds 110 Yonge Street, Suite 1601 Toronto, ON Canada M5C 1T4 T. +1.647.260.8880 info@auricogold.com www.auricogold.com TSX: AUQ / NYSE: AUQ
