Commitment/ Policies, Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Global Compact Principle for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and Commitment/ Policies :HR manual is being made in accordance to state government respect the protection of laws and the Hr manual draft will be approved by partner. internationally proclaimed human Action Taken: -HR manual is made and is being approved. rights; Outcomes :-Yet to be judged. Plans for the Upcoming Year:Implementation of HR manual and amend the same whenever there is change in the requirement. Audits will be conducted to evaluate effectiveness of the process. 2: and make sure that they are not Commitment/ Policies :Grievance handling system as well as harassment issues are complicit in human rights abuses. addressed in the HR manual. Enclosed the portion of HR manual draft. HR manual is being made in accordance to state government laws and the Hr manual draft will be approved by partner. Action Taken :HR manual is made and is being approved. Outcomes :Yet to be judged. Plans for the Upcoming Year :-Implementation of HR manual and amend the same whenever there is change in the requirement. Audits will be conducted to evaluate effectiveness of the process. 3: Businesses should uphold the Commitment/ Policies: Workforce has liberty to form association and collective bargain. freedom of association and the Action Taken: Union agreement is signed by both parties for three years. effective recognition of the right to Outcomes:Amicable settlement and healthy IR. collective bargaining; Plans for the Upcoming Year: Fulfilment of agreement clauses. 4:the elimination of all forms of Commitment/ Policies :HR manual is being made in accordance to state government laws forced and compulsory labour; and the Hr manual draft will be approved by partner. Action Taken: Work force can refuse all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Outcomes :Yet to be judged. Plans for the Upcoming Year :Fulfilment of agreement clauses. 5: the effective abolition of child Commitment/ Policies :HR manual is being made in accordance to state government laws labour; and the HR manual draft will be approved by partner. Action Taken :At the time of interviews and at the time of joining organisation all age related authentic documents are checked. Outcomes:No child labour in the organisation at any cadre of employment. Plans for the Upcoming Year:-Implementation of HR manual and amend the same whenever there is change in the requirement. Audits will be conducted to evaluate effectiveness of the process. 6: and the elimination of Commitment/ Policies :HR manual is being made in accordance to state government laws discrimination in respect of and the HR manual draft will be approved by partner. The selection of the candidate is employment and occupation. based on suitability regardless of gender and all the work force is compensated in lieu of their efforts. Action Taken: HR manual is made and is being approved. Outcomes:-Yet to be judged. Plans for the Upcoming Year:-Implementation of HR manual and amend the same whenever there is change in the requirement. Audits will be conducted to evaluate effectiveness of the process. 7: Businesses should support a Commitment/ Policies:-:There is no process in the unit which will deterioration the precautionary approach to environment. environmental challenges; Action Taken:No additional action taken. Outcomes :No deterioration of environment. Plans for the Upcoming Year: Make sure that in future development plans will also not deteriorate the environment. 8: undertake initiatives to promote Commitment/ Policies :-Organization takes initiative in tree plantation every year. greater environmental Action Taken:Tree saplings are planted in surrounding area. responsibility; Outcomes:To small extent deforestation reduced. Plans for the Upcoming Year:Continue the efforts every year. 9: and encourage the development Commitment/ Policies and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Action Taken Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year 10: Businesses should work Commitment/ Policies:We have one parameter in our KPI to comply the mandatory against all forms of corruption, requirement. including extortion and bribery. Action Taken:Compliance of mandatory requirement. External audits are conducted to see the effectiveness and reported to the managing partner. Outcomes:No legal actions are enforced. Attached the declaration. Plans for the Upcoming Year:Continue to comply mandatory requirements.
