U N G C C O P R E P O R T Reporting period: July 2011-June 2012 MANAGING ABOUT FUTUREYE SOCIAL LICENCE RIO TINTO WATER SANTOS HUMAN DIRECTORS REPORT 6 STRATEGY FOR THE 10 RIGHTS AUDIT 4 BANKING INDUSTRY 12 8 CONT ENTS FOLLOWING RIO+20 EARTH EVENTS FUTUREYE OUR GOALS FOR THE SOCIAL SUMMIT 18 REAFFIRMS OUR 2012-2013 MATURATION OF 16 COMMITMENT TO 38 AN ISSUE THE 10 PRINCIPLES 14 OF THE UNGC 26 2 Photographed by: Justin McManus justinmcmanus.com.au Reporting period: July 2011 – June 2012 A signatory to the Global Compact since 2002, we have continued an unwavering commitment to the pursuit of The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact whilst promoting The Principles to our associates, clients, partners and vendors. As a management consulting firm specialising in sustainable development and Social Licence to Operate, we recognise our broad responsibility to the people with whom we work and live as well as our broader communities locally, nationally and internationally. In the last year, Futureye has had a positive impact on a number of social issues that are impacted by environmental and human rights issues. Whilst internally, we have made changes to our procurement practices that will have an effect on our environmental impact. I am personally delighted to have contributed to a number of webinars held by the UNGC, including Managing Human Rights Risks in the Global Supply Chain. I participated in the Rio+20 Earth Summit last June and we partnered with stakeholders from the UN to engage people in sustainable development goals using out WikiCurve collaboration platform. As an organisation, we continue to progress The Ten Principles at every opportunity in the relationships we hold as an organisation and our personal interactions. Katherine Teh-White Managing Director Futureye Pty Ltd 4 A B O U T F U T U R E Y E Enabling sustainability in companies, governments and communities to deliver net positive social, environmental and economic outcomes. Futureye continues to support sustainable development endeavours in business, with a firm belief that businesses can only succeed in the long-term by operating within a sustainable framework. Futureye continued to work towards this vision with a number of clients throughout 2011-2012, helping companies achieve goals which align with the Global Compact principles in various ways. 6 S O C I A L L I C E N C E S T R A T E G Y F O R T H E B A N K I N G Futureye worked closely with the Australian Banking Association to I N D U S T R Y create a strategy that the banking industry in Australia can use to remove concerns that stakeholders and communities have with banking. The process for improvement undertaken by the industry is now underway. 8 R I O T I N T O WAT E R Futureye worked with Rio Tinto to assess its approach to water against global best practice, and develop a forward-looking policy and strategy for water. Futureye conducted a literature workshop and stakeholder interviews with water policy, standards and systems experts as well as global leaders in water strategy. The interviews covered a range of geographic locations and sectors, including public policy, finance, reporting, NGO, activist, and community. As a result, Rio Tinto gained a stronger understanding of the gaps between its current approach to water management and current and emerging bestpractices. 10 SANTOS HUMAN RIGHTS A U D I T Futureye was engaged by Santos to perform a review of its company policies against international human rights standards, evaluating the evolving scope of human rights responsibility for corporations and the expectations placed on them. Futureye developed a Human Rights Policy Audit Model, combining the latest global standards, and rating Santos’ performance, and providing recommendations for Santos to follow in order to align with current international standards for human rights policy. 12 F O L L O W I N G MATURATION OF In partnership with the Australian national media company, Fairfax Media, Futureye worked with publishers of its digital and traditional newspapers to launch WikiCurve, an online tool to measure social maturation of issue. Focusing on the War on Drugs, the WikiCurve hosted on all Fairfax websites reached more than 2.5 million readers and 30,000 unique users that posted or responded to A SOCIAL ISSUE specific arguments on the debate. Futureye is now developing the next iteration of WikiCurve to track social maturation on issues such as climate change and biodiversity. 14 R I O + 2 0 E A R T H SUMMIT In June 2012, Futureye’s WikiCurve was used in partnership between the Stakeholder Forum and the UN as a tool for people to contribute their voices to the discussion by participating online, providing the opportunity for event participants to understand the way in which people from across the globe view current issues. Futureye was also involved in campaigns and publicity events to promote the Summit. 16 E V E N T S 18 A C F P A U L In 2011, Futureye was by approached the Australian Conservation Foundation to provide funding for Paul Hawken to visit Australia. The ACF wanted to invite Paul, a renowned environmentalist, entrepreneur, journalist and author, to discuss his work and views in order to promote and foster H A W K E N engagement on new economic ideas towards creating sustainable societies. Paul’s visit to Australia inspired community members, leaders and activists, and increased awareness of important environmental issues. His ideas about how to bring theories about sustainability and social awareness to life by taking them off the page and into action impacted a growing number of leaders and activists working to embed sustainable practices. ‘Everyone on earth will be an environmentalist in the not too distant future, driven there by necessity and experience’ Paul Hawken, Blessed Unrest, 194 20 R E S P O N S I B L E MINERAL SECTOR I N I T I A T I V E ’ S G L O B A L E X P L O R A T I O N , MINING & MINERALS 2 0 / 2 0 In April 2012, Katherine spoke at the Responsible Minerals Sector Initiative’s Global Exploration, Mining and Minerals 20/20 Invitational Dialogue in Vancouver, which collaborated with individuals from a spectrum of sectors and industries in I N V I T A T I O N A L order to shape and inform a sustainable way forward for the mineral sector. The key finding was that the first 10 years of sustainable development used a top down approach, whilst looking forward there will be a bottom up approach. The new approach will focus on engagement with communities about what they wantm in order to trade off the negatives and maximse the positives. The key to this new approach is better community involvement. D I A L O G U E The RMSI Dialogue series endeavours to create ongoing discussion and engagement to confront issues facing the industry and deepen networks across all sectors. 22 G L O B A L S U P P L Y C H A I N B U S I N E S S S U M M I T , In June 2012, Katherine sat as an expert on the panel discussing “The ‘new normal’ operating environment” at The Global Supply Chain Business Summit, the brainchild of Dr. John Gattorna, which brought together individuals from across the world identified as great thinkers and practitioners in the area of enterprise supply S I N G A P O R E chains. Katherine’s panel discussed how to manage associated risk in the face of volatility and disruption in the operating environment of 21st century companies, highlighting that outrage, climate change, labor rights and health and safety issues in the supply chain are no longer ignored, but are increasingly in focus. 24 Human Rights F U T U R E Y E • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. R E A F F I R M S Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; O U R • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. COMMITMENT Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and T O T H E • Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10 PRINCIPLES • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. These principles are implemented throughout our business and we strive to OF THE UNGC continuously improve our performance in all of these areas. In its eleventh year, Futureye continues to realise the benefits of continued development of its intellectual capital by investing in training, personal performance measures and fostering an entrepreneurial culture, where clear thinking and ideas are encouraged and evolved. 26 O U R P E R F O R M A N C E IN 2010 AND F U T U R E Y E ’ S RESPONSE TO THE Futureye has reviewed performance against the targets we set ourselves for this reporting period. We have largely achieved our goals and provided a good base for further improvements in 201110 PRINCIPLES 12. As intended, we sponsored the Castan Centre for Human Rights Law, attended the Rio+20 Summit, and further developed our WikiCurve platform, as well as reducing paper waste, and switching to a higher percentage of green energy. Some highlights: • Environment: Paper use is down by 41% OF THE UNGC: • Human impact : Attended Rio Earth 20 summit, appointed to the board of the Castan Centre for Human Rights • Green procurement: Use of recycled paper and fair trade coffee 28 PRACTICAL ACTIONS EVIDENCE / MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES H U M A N Futureye applies the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to all applicable business practices, and also consults client organisations on their human rights policies and practices. Katherine sits on the board of the Castan Centre for Futureye pledges its full Human Rights Law, advising support for The UN’s on and learning about Universal Declaration of issues domestically and Human Rights. internationally. Principle 1: Businesses We continue to refine our Katherine attended Rio Earth should support and Code of Conduct statement Summit 2012 respect the protection of regarding behavioural and Futureye launched WikiCurve, internationally proclaimed ethical standards that all a crowd sourcing technology human rights employees of Futureye must to measure social maturation adhere to. of topical issues, which Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in provides greater insight than Whenever possible, we standard polling. human rights abuses R I G H T S source Fairtrade products for For example, whilst polling use in the office. revealed that more than 70% of people were supportive Our client work regularly of the decriminalisation of seeks to support and respect drugs, the WikiCurve showed internationally proclaimed the added dimension that human rights. society was more supportive of funding being used for rehabilitation and safety programs than for policing and prosecution. We continue our endeavour to purchase Fairtrade products whenever possible, and be on the lookout for new products and materials that adheres to Fairtrade guidelines. 30 L A PRACTICAL ACTIONS EVIDENCE / MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Futureye recognises all employees’ rights to associate freely and All staff members are free to participate in collective bargaining. bargain collectively and Futureye This is also a requirement of does not impinge on freedom of Australian Industrial Relations Law. association. While forced and child labour are Futureye is committed to not identified as issues within our uphold its opposition to all Principle 3: Businesses business sector, we fully support forms of forced and child labour should uphold the freedom Principle 4 and 5’s commitment to and will only deal with other of association and the eliminate forced and child labour. businesses that, to the best of effective recognition of Futureye abides by all relevant our knowledge, hold themselves the right to collective minimum age laws and regulations to the same standard. bargaining in Australia and overseas. Futureye continues an Futureye is an Equal Opportunity unblemished record on providing Principle 4: The elimination Employer, and abides by the a safe and secure working B O of all forms of forced and Victorian Equal Opportunity Act of environment, with no noteworthy compulsory labour 2010, which makes it unlawful to accidents or incidents involving discriminate against a person on the our staff members having basis of such things as disability, occurred in 11 years. Principle 5: The effective sex, sexual orientation, religion, abolition of child labour race, political orientation, marital Futureye has employed two status, amongst other criteria. We flexible staff members with have in place an Equal Opportunity primary commitment for their and Harassment Policy which families and recognises the needs Principle 6: The elimination applies to all business activities and of the employees to work flexible of discrimination in outlines our commitment to creating hours and often from outside respect of employment a diverse and harassment-free work the office and has established and occupation environment. IT facilities to accommodate a changing paradigm in the We have a comprehensive workforce. Occupational Health & Safety Policy that sets up systems to ensure we Futureye will continue to be provide a safe and secure work an equal opportunity employer environment for all staff. and we will make constant Our People Policy details general improvements to our policies U R staff employment conditions that related to this area. take into account Principle 3-6 of the UNGC. 32 PRACTICAL ACTIONS EVIDENCE / MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES E N V I Futureye has in place All paper used in office equipment is Green office, clean desk 100% recycled. and IT policies that provide purchasing, recycling and waste minimisation guidelines. All waste paper, plastics and aluminium is recycled in designated recycle bins. In addition, procedures to retain a higher proportion of records in electronic format, Computers are switched off each rather than paper copies, night, along with all lighting. facilitate the reduction of Principle 7: Businesses consumption of paper and We are committed to reducing our should support a other materials. Double sided energy consumptionbut are unable precautionary approach to printing is set as default to demonstrate a downward trend in environmental challenges whenever possible on our energy usage over the last few years: office printers. 2006-07: 19,810 kWh 2007-08: 27,140 kWh The majority of our staff 2008-09: 24,580 kWh walk, cycle and catch public 2009-10: 23,440 kWh R O N Principle 8: Undertake transport during their daily initiatives to promote commutes. 2010-11: 18,447 kWh greater environmental 2011-12: 26,608 kWh responsibility We purchase carbon offsets for our company cars and air The increase was due mostly to a travel at the end of each year. change in location to a larger space Our electricity contract takes However, with a 25% mix of wind advantage of the GreenEarth energy being purchased through carbon offset programme now a green energy programme, the available from our supplier. Principle 9: Encourage the approximate savings of 2 tonnes of development and diffusion carbon a month were made. of environmentally friendly Futureye has Board level technologies representation at Eco-Buy and Futureye is steadily reducing its is also an associate member annual paper waste, despite a of the initiative, which has a temporary increase in 2009 and 2010: policy of sourcing products and services from suppliers 2006: 0.35 tonnes who share our commitment to 2007: 0.32 tonnes sustainable development. This 2008: 0.30 tonnes includes specifying products that are biodegradable, 2009: 0.44 tonnes M E N T recyclable and environmentally 2010: 0.43 tonnes friendly. 2011: 0.175 tonnes Our client work is heavily A 41% decrease in paper use was focussed on all areas of the result of newly established filing sustainability – which practices and a downturn in staff includes sustainability of the numbers. environment. 34 PRACTICAL ACTIONS EVIDENCE / MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Principle 10: Businesses Due to the nature of the Futureye has a no tolerance policy A N T I should work against industry in which we operate, in regards to corruption, bribery and corruption in all its forms, Futureye’s exposure to extortion. All employees are required including extortion and corruption is low. However, to report gifts, entertainment and bribery our employees are guided services offered by clients, vendors by our ‘code of conduct’, or proposed stakeholders prior to which outlines boundaries acceptance and all such opportunities of expected and accepted are recorded in accordance with behaviour. Futureye’s Code of Conduct. Through our client work, Futureye’s purchase order system Futureye focuses on ensures that all company funds are assisting organisations on being used for legitimate purposes minimising their impacts in this only. contentious area, via services such as ethics and human CORRUPTION rights audits. 36 O U R G O A L S 1 Promote a post-2015 development flagship project F O R 2 Build greater transparency and engagement opportunities in the WikiCurve platform 2012-2013 3 Sponsor the Castan Centre f o r H u m a n R i g h t s L a w 38 Melbourne | Brisbane | Canberra | Hobart | Adelaide | Sydney | New York | London www.futureye.com info@futureye.com 40 +613 8636 1111
