Sustainbility report 2013 contents A Word from the CEO 3 This is Folksam 4 Organisation and Governance 9 Customers 15 Corporate Governance 19 Employees 27 Road Safety Research 32 Environmental Protection 38 Folksam´s Research Foundation 43 Prizes and awards 44 Partnership and sponsorship 45 Förenade Liv’s social engagement 46 KPA Pension – a leader among ethical investments 47 Our figures and calculation methods 49 GRI Index 54 Audit report 61 2 A Word from the CEO Our responsibilities towards our customers I am not alone in thinking that the heart and also include developing products they want mind are important in the choice of employer. and which help them feel secure; selling Over and above profitability, commitment to products in an ethical manner, maintaining the community and sound values are increasgood service levels and delivering what we ingly important in attracting labour. We also promised if damage does occur. Our surveys practice what we preach internally, and we show that our customers are more satisfied will focus on e.g. modernising our IT system, than ever. Most satisfied of all are those who including improved technology for digital conhave submitted claims. At the same time, we ferencing. At the same time we are tightening Folksam’s vision is for people to feel secure in a sustainable world. have an accessibility problem; it’s difficult for up our company travel policy with the aim of our customers to reach us within a reasonable reducing travel. The company has a long tradition of ‘good works’ stretching back period of time, and our digital presence is too long before the sustainability report concept was was around. This is weak. We are giving full attention to solving Folksam is a well-run company – customer these issues. owned, profitable and committed to the comFolksam’s eleventh sustainability report, but my first as Group CEO. munity. A company that cares, in other words. Folksam is a great company. We’re about to get even better. It’s important for me that work appeals to But sustainability is more than this. Almost both heart and mind. Folksam does both, and every other Swedish citizen has a Folksam that was one of the reason’s I accepted the poinsurance policy, and a great many Swedish sition. Of course, my heart is in sustainability, pensions depend on what we do, or do not do. but for me it’s more a matter of the mind. SusWe are talking major sums and major respontainability is – and needs to be – good business sibility. And because of this I would like to and something which creates long-term value highlight what sustainability work regarding for our owners, our customers. In the same our customers entails. way owners of joint-stock companies receive dividends, our customers share our profits in Ensuring good governance, good order, clear the form of bonuses. strategies and operational goals means we are acting sustainably towards our customers. Many think of the ecology when they hear Among other things, it means keeping a good the word sustainability. The environment is eye on risks and incidents. Incidents and errors an important issue for many businesses – not are things we must avoid as far as possible, least for insurance companies not just because but if they occur it’s important that they be we pay out money for damage resulting from reported and remedied. Then we can take climate change, but also because we are major measures to reduce the risk of its happenpurchasers of materials when we repair daming again. Good work with incident reports aged houses and vehicles. contributes to better operations and greater customer satisfaction. Jens Henriksson Stockholm, January 2014 3 This is Folksam Figures Premium volume in SEK billions 40,4 Total managed assets in SEK billions 304 Market share, property and casualty insurance 15.9% Market share, life insurance 14.4% Solvency ratio, Folksam General 149.3% Solvency, Folksam Life 161% Average rates of return, Folksam Life, five years 8% Folksam was founded in 1908 and is a customerOur goal Financial value creation owned company. This means our customers The most satisfied customers in the insurance Folksam creates value for its stakeholders in various ways. By being a profitare also our owners and our surplus goes back and savings industry. able company, we can also create value from a societal perspective. The table to them as policyholders. In commercial terms Every time we meet a customer, we also meet an shows Folksam General and Folksam Life this means Folksam is a mutual insurance owner. Everything we say and everything we do company. affects how our customers perceive us. Financial value generated, SEK million Folksam does business in both liability and life insurance under a number of brands with a Our vision Revenues* 32,501 focus on the Swedish market. The offer can be People should feel secure in a sustainable world. divided into pension savings, personal risk, and This is our vision, and it applies to every brand Financial value distributed general insurance. within Folksam, and as a significant investor, Operating expenses** -12,076 Folksam insures every other home and every we are able to exert influence to realise it. Salaries and remuneration -2,577 fifth vehicle in Sweden, and takes care of penPayments to capital providers -291 sions for more than two million people. Our promise Payments to central government -493 All of our SEK 304 billion managed assets We are committed to you so that you and your Financial value retained 17,064 are subject to criteria concerning the environnearest and dearest are secure today and ment, human rights and anti-corruption. tomorrow. Our job is to create security for you and everything you care about. When creating our * This item also covers unrealised gains and losses. offers, we base them on your needs. ** This item also covers changes in the value of investment assets and actuarial provisions. 4 Sustainability means cheaper insurance Folksam does things that are not always associated with insurance companies. Our commitment concerns such things as the environment, road safety and We make sure sufficient wind power We offset all of our carbon! is produced to cover our electricity Why? responsible investment – all with Read more on page 39 consumption. the aim of influencing development Read more on page 41 towards sustainable world. Money that our A house catches Reduced environSEK 100 customers pay us fire. We renovate mental damage to invest in good, using good materials. leads to fewer respectable companies... Read more on page 42 natural disasters, Read more on page 20 which means fewer insurance claims. ... and climatesmart properties. Read more on page 40 SEK 100 Why? We have our own A car crashes. The customer gets a department for e.g. SEK 100 We buy it and hire car. We place road traffic claims. recycle the demands on the model. SEK 100 Read more on page 33 spare parts. Read more on page 35 Read more on page 42 We have no shareholders. Our profits are returned to our owners – our customers. Fewer insurance claims means lower costs, which means cheaper policies. Why? 5 Folksam – a great choice for the environment In November 2011, Folksam became the first insurance company approved to bear the Good Environmental Choice eco-label – proof that Folksam takes environmental issues seriously and takes responsibility for its own climate impact. The Swedish Society for Nature Conservation awards the Good Environmental Choice; the eco-label covers car, home and holiday home insurance. International agreements and frameworks To live up to its eco-label • Folksam sets strict requirements for the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) • Folksam helps its contractors and cuspurchase of goods and services, such as tomers choose sustainable materials in coffee, electronics, paper, cleaning mateUN Global Compact construction and vehicle repairs. rials, energy, transport and travel. UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative, UNEP FI • Folksam manages its insurance capital • Folksam is switching to organic produce based on criteria concerning the environin its staff restaurant, one of the largest in Global Reporting Initiative, GRI, version G3 ment, human rights and anti-corruption. Sweden. ISO 260000:2012 Folksam works pro-actively to persuade the companies it invests in to take responsiCertifications bility for these issues. ISO 14001 • Folksam conducts research into safety and better environmental performance for the Good Environmental Choice Swedish vehicle fleet. • Folksam uses renewable electricity of specified origin in all of its properties. • Folksam plants trees to offset its carbon footprint. 6 About the 2013 sustainability report Folksam has published sustainability reports Read more and help us get better on annually since 2002; this is its eleventh report. Worldfavor The report is based on the Global Reporting We invested a great deal in making our sustainaInitiative (GRI) G3 guidelines for sustainability work accessible to all of our stakeholders bility reporting and is audited externally by during the year. We continue to work on being the public accounting firm KPMG. Folksam’s open and transparent in our sustainability understanding is that the report meets the efforts through the interactive Worldfavor B+ GRI application level, and this has also sustainability platform. There’s a profile at been confirmed by the external auditors. worldfavor.com/folksam where we openly Folksam’s sustainability report describes discuss how we work in various sustainability events during the 2013 financial year and suppleareas. This interactive sustainability profile has ments the information in the annual report. It also been available at folksam.se since 2013. applies to Folksam in its entirety, including subAll of our visitors are able to explore the profile sidiaries but excluding Folksam’s operations in to see how we work with various sustainaFinland – Folksam Skadeförsäkring. It includes bility issues and how we measure our results significant changes during the reporting period in figures. What’s more, our visitors also have in regard to size, structure or ownership. the opportunity to tell us about the areas they The sustainability report is available at feel it’s important for us to work on. In this folksam.se, kpa.se and forenadeliv.se. way we gain new insights into what our stakeIn-depth sustainability information and the holders prioritise and the issues that are closest GRI index for the subsidiary KPA is available to their hearts. We make use of this when at kpa.se. This does not cover the external prioritising our areas for development for auditor’s review. We welcome comments and the years ahead. questions regarding the report. Please contact Helena Hjeltström at helena.hjeltstrom@folksam.se or +46 8-772 83 61. 7 Ethical rules reflect our responsibility towards our customers Risk and compliance is responsible for ensuring that Folksam maintain good internal control – i.e. that the company keeps a sharp eye on risks and follows legislation, and internal regulations and good practice. “Strict requirements apply to the governance Common sense goes a long way and control of licensable operations,” says Ylva “We usually follow ethical rules without even Wessén, head of risk and compliance in the thinking – they come naturally in many cases and Folksam General Group. Naturally, failure to common sense goes a long way,” says Ylva. comply would entail the loss of our license, but But just because they come naturally doesn’t we are also convinced that keeping everything mean they’re not important. Ylva is careful to under strict control leads to a better, more busipoint out that our ethical rules are not public-renesslike operation. We insure half of Sweden’s lations material but constitute one of Folksam’s population and manage their pensions. So, do we most important sets of rules. We receive around need oversight? Yes; it’s all about responsibility 500 incident reports every year, which is too few actowards our customers and our employees. cording to Ylva. There ought to be more if we look at the number of employees, the number of claims Incidents – a good way to discover risks we handle and the type of operation we have. In order to monitor shortcomings, all of our employees must report incidents that occur. Rather too much than too little Examples of incidents are theft, fire, threats, Are you encouraging employees to report more? We insure half of Sweden’s shortcomings, personal injury, near accidents Where not looking to create a ‘system of inpopulation and manage their and irregularities. Circumstances where rules formants’, rather it’s a matter of enjoying an pensions. So, do we need overand regulations are not complied with are also inatmosphere in which the company learns not to sight? cidents. An example would be Folksam’s ethical repeat the same mistakes. Our approach is the Yes; it’s all about responsibility towards rules, which address how we should be perceived more incidents reported, the better – and that our customers and our employees. and how we would like to be. everything should be reported so as not to escape attention. It’s not until we’re aware of a risk that Ylva Wessén we can do anything about it. So yes, in one way I Head of Risk and Compliance at am encouraging that. Folksam General Group 8 Folksam’s organisation and governance Folksam is organised into three business areas: Private, Partner and President and CEO Collectively Agreed Business In addition, there are subsidiaries and seven central units. Functions for internal The Private business area is responsible for Business area governance and control Folksam’s business in the private market for Central unit individual insurance and pension savings. Asset management This responsibility relates to both life and non-life insurance under the Folksam brand and all activity related to sales and customer service for private individuals. The Partner business area is responsible for Product Folksam’s dealings with partner and organisational customers. It includes the group insurance business and commercial insurance. The Claims Collectively agreed business comprises non-life insurance, personal business BA insurance and savings. Economic and Collectively Agreed Business is responsifinancial services ble for Folksam’s business with the parties to Partner business BA collective bargaining agreements in the Swedish labour market. This includes both insurance and CEO’s staff Private business BA pension savings, such as occupational group life insurance and health insurance, as well as servicCommunication es such as administrative service for employers. The Group’s legal structure is described in the IT Annual Report. Subsidiaries HR IT 9 Corporate governance The illustration on the next page shows the Good corporate governance is concerned with structure of the overarching bodies in Folksam. ensuring that a company is run as effectively Because Folksam is customer-owned, it has no as possible for the owners. An overall objective shareholders. Policyholders exercise their influwith Folksam’s corporate governance – apart ence via their votes and rights of free speech and from conforming to the company’s vision and petition through specially elected delegates. The ethical principles – is to ensure good returns for delegates are appointed in part by organisations its customers. Corporate governance in Folksam that represent policyholders, and partly through is based on legislation, principally the Insurance direct elections carried out by specially appointBusiness Act and the regulations and general ed election organisers. guidelines of the Swedish Folksam applies the During 2013, a corporate governance review Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. led to a clearer communication of roles and Folksam consists of one corporate group for responsibilities in subsidiary organisations, and life insurance and pension savings, and one for clarified which individuals had which roles. non-life insurance and has two mutual parent companies; Folksam ömsesidig livförsäkring (Folksam Life) and Folksam ömsesidig sakförsäkring (Folksam General). Both Folksam Life and Folksam General also operate through subsidiaries. Each of the companies has around 80 internal regulatory codes (such as ethical rules, guidelines for external corporate governance, actuarial guidelines, internal governance and control policy, environmental policy and security policy) that are classified as comprehensive. The rules are examined annually and revised if necessary. They are approved by the AGMs, the boards and the president. 10 How our boards operate Policyholders The boards of the parent companies are made up of customer representatives from the Swedish Represented by popular movements (the cooperative movement, delegates at the AGM. the trade union movements, the sports movement 80 people in Folksam and the senior citizens movement). It is the NomGeneral and 75 in ination Committee that proposes to the general Folksam Life.* meetings who should sit on the boards and strives to ensure that the boards are given an appropriate composition with regard to competence, age and gender. The parent company boards held nine board meetings each during the year. Ahead of each meeting, the boards received a written report from the CEO on major events in Folksam, The Customer and also in the industry in general. Nomination Committee General Ombudsman The boards followed up the strategic goals in accordance with Folksam’s strategic agenda. Meeting They also reviewed the subsidiaries’ operaExternal auditors tions, finances, surrounding world analyses and internal audit reports, and approved the 2012 sustainability report. In order to discuss strategic Audit committee and future issues in greater depth, the boards Internal audit held a joint two-day seminar during the year. The Board Remuneration themes discussed at the seminar were surroundCommittee ing world analysis, pricing, skills provisioning, challenges and critical activities, reviewing financial targets and a review of the Medium Term Plan. For more detailed information, refer to the corporate governance reports at folksam.se. No significant changes have taken place Group Management during the year in regard to size, structure or CEO Functions for ownership. internal governance Finance Committee and control * Policyholders in Folksam Life and Folksam General are represented at their AGMs by 75 and 80 delegates respectively. 11 Our sustainability efforts ness of the work in these issues has grown, there All work that takes place at Folksam must be taris a ways to go to achieve the set goals. However, geted towards the vision that ‘people should feel in the area of road safety research, responsible secure in a sustainable world and the overarching influence is measured by the proportion of safe, goal of ‘having the most satisfied customers in newly insured cars Folksam has – cars that meet the insurance and savings industry’. Working for the safety requirements in the ‘Green-and-safe a sustainable world creates security. Sustainadiscount’. The logic is that if the customers travel bility is also important for us with regard to our more safely, it leads to a reduction in claims and claims activity and our investments. In addition claims costs. Lower claims costs in turn lead to to human suffering, an insecure, unsustainable less expensive insurance. Here, measurements world leads to high claims costs and high premishow that Folksam has a significantly larger ums, which are not compatible with customer percentage increase compared with the rest of benefit. This is extra important to us as a customthe market (see page 16). er-owned company. A seminar is held in conjunction with the Folksam’s responsibility as an insurance AGMs for Folksam Life and Folksam General. company and our sustainability work have long The topic in 2013 was ‘Folksam – more than been an integrated part of the business. The insurance and savings’ with the subheadings boards of Folksam Life and Folksam General World-Famous Road Safety Research, Reeach adopt strategic plans that convey the focus nowned Corporate Governance and Pro-Active and requirements the board concerned has for Environmental Protection. Folksam’s added these companies. The plans cover operations, value managers focus on forecasting and the organisational culture, financial targets, ownmain trends prevailing in each field. ership governance of subsidiaries and internal governance and control. Group-wide sustainability committee The strategic plan also establishes areas that At the end of 2013, a group-white sustainability both boards want Folksam to work towards and committee was formed with the objective of: focus on: perceived customer benefit, organic • adopting common goals and bases for sustaingrowth, better than the competition, attractive ability efforts to achieve our vision; employer and responsible influence. “Respon• consolidating sustainability work links to sible influence” comprises Folksam’s financial, business operations, social and environmental responsibilities and • coordinating each company’s sustainability establishes that Folksam must differentiate its efforts, and operations from that of competitors by taking • strengthening customer choice in connection more active responsibility for the world around with sustainability issues. us and our future, and by formulating offerings with responsible influence in mind. The sustainability committee is a preparatory The boards adopt targets for all focal areas body that provides decision support data for the every year. The goals for responsible influence individual company managements and coordiseek to ensure our customers are aware that nates, streamlines and follows up Folksam’s susFolksam works to conserve the environment and tainability efforts based on an overarching policy. pursues responsible ownership. Although awareThe committee is chaired by the Group CEO and 12 the members are representatives from each adaptation of processes and system support of being bribed or becoming involved in corEthical rules – always a topical issue company’s business and sustainability departfor governance and reporting of the business. ruption. Work will be under way during 2014 Its ethical rules constitute one of Folksam’s ments and the public-relations unit. Otherwise, efforts have primarily concerned a on consolidating knowledge about measures most important regulatory codes. They adstrengthening of the qualitative characteristics to counteract bribery and corruption, and in dress how we should be perceived and how we in the companies’ organisation and regulaconnection with this a new bribery policy will would like to be – an insurance company that How do we ensure compliance? tions. Solvency II constitutes an important also be prepared for Folksam. is committed to what its customers care about. part in the modernisation of Folksam and the We are personal, committed, and responsible. • Laws and regulations; Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority regulations rest of the industry, a development that is good Supervision of changes affecting us Folksam’s values reflect an ethical approach • Rules and regulations (policy, guidelines, for both the customers and Folksam. It is of the utmost importance for Folksam and shall permeate everything we do. Safeinstructions) According to the new timetable, Solvency as a customer-owned company to monitor guarding human rights and rejecting all forms • Compliance checks • Incident management II will come into force on January 1, 2016. and pursue issues that affect our customers. of discrimination are two examples. They • Training During the autumn of 2013, EIOPA adopted Folksam’s business operations are often apply to our entire operation and lay down • Monitoring future changes e.g. proposed guidelines for phasing in Solvency II regulaaffected by changes in legislation, regulations the rights and responsibilities that employees bills • Reporting tions. These guidelines will begin to be applied and trends in the world around us. In order to must abide by in different situations. The ethfrom January 1, 2014. The Swedish Financial exert an influence on such changes, we involve ical rules are distributed to all employees and Supervisory Authority has decided that ourselves in a number of key issues through form a regular part of the internal training in Swedish insurance companies must follow the the Executive Network (ExNet) forum. Folkregulatory codes that employees receive every Solvency 2 EIOPA guidelines during the phase-in period. sam puts forward its opinion in each strategic year. Employees are encouraged to contact Solvency II is the umbrella term for the new Folksam has therefore sharpened its focus on key issue in a specific order. Initially, a judicial their manager or any of Folksam’s lawyers solvency rules which will apply to at HOK all completing methods and processes for corpoanalysis of a key issue is carried out and its when they feel uncertain. In basic manageinsurance companies in the EU. Solvency II is rate governance and reporting in order to be effect on the legal entities within Folksam is ment training, new Folksam managers also a part of a broader effort to create a uniform prepared when Solvency II comes into force. assessed. The effect the key issue will have on receive training in the ethical rules concerning European financial market with enhanced the national economy is also analysed, and e.g. gifts, conference travel and participation protection for policyholders and improved Bribery and money laundering above all the effect it will have on the customer. in events. This is important so that they can in competitive strength for European insurAll financial companies in the EU are obliged The issues vary over time depending on the turn guide their employees in what is permitance companies. Solvency II strengthens the to work against or take steps to prevent money relevance and intensity of the change process. ted to give or receive, for instance. connection between solvency requirements laundering and the financing of terrorism. Some of the key issues taken up by ExNet and risks for insurance companies and entails Folksam follows the sanctions that have been during 2013 were the Life Insurance Inquiry more stringent requirements for insurance issued against persons suspected of criminal including the retroactive right of transfer, companies to hold capital sufficient to meet activities and also takes action to prevent bribSolvency II, IFRS 4, insurance standards and their obligations toward policyholders. ery and corruption. The work on preventing consumer protection. Through greater risk control, the companies bribery and corruption is linked to Folksam’s will be governed in a more sound and suitable work to prevent money laundering, in which manner. we investigate whether our customers are indiFolksam began the adaptation to the Solviduals in politically at-risk positions, that is to vency 2 regulations as early as 2009. The work say persons who hold high political office and has since mainly focused on coordinating the who through their positions are at greater risk 13 Risk management in Folksam Incident reporting in Folksam Incident management is taken care of by The ratio 25 incidents to 500 is considered Folksam is exposed to different risks that may Folksam has an incident-reporting system in operations and followed up by the compliance reasonable and a sign that employees feel affect the company’s financial position and which all employees may report undesirable organisation. There are local compliance ofcomfortable with reporting incidents in this its ability to achieve its goals. By taking active, events. The definition of an incident is an ficers deployed throughout the operation who manner, even though reports may not be controlled and businesslike decisions about undesired event – that can be intentional or follow up and ensure incidents are actioned submitted anonymously. However, the need risks, we create the conditions for offering unintentional – that has caused or could have and closed out within the system. The boards for a conventional whistle-blower system will customers insurance and savings solutions caused Folksam harm. then receive reports about incidents through be analysed in 2014. that provide them with security. As a support score cards (dashboard), which the Group Folksam’s existing incident reporting in this work, Folksam as a risk management Number of reported incidents in the last three CEO reports to the board at every board system has certain shortcomings regarding the years process that includes identifying, evaluating, meeting, and also through compliance reports ability to follow-up incidents and disseminate managing, monitoring and reporting all 2011 2012 2013 submitted half yearly. The compliance reports information to concerned parties. We also feel substantial risks. To clarify governance and 573 503 465 provide a brief description of the most serious that the number of incidents per year is too responsibility, operations are divided into incidents that occurred during a period. low in respect of the extent of Folksam’s operthree lines of responsibility. Folksam’s approach is that the more incidents What distinguishes Folksam’s incident ations. The Group CEO has therefore decided The first line of responsibility is made up of are reported, the more things will improve. reporting system from a whistle-blower system that the old system must be replaced with a business areas and units, parent companies, It may sound strange, but our standpoint is is that in the latter reporting may take place new one. Evaluations of different systems are subsidiaries and outsourced business. They that when incidents are reported, the root anonymously. Folksam’s incident reporting in progress and the intention is to have a new are responsible for directing operations so that causes are also discovered, and this provides system requires the reporter to reveal his or system in place during 2014. targets established by the respective boards an opportunity to take measures to avoid her identity. However, all employees also able are achieved. They own and manage risks, that a recurrence. By reporting incidents we to report incidents directly to Group Security is to say, they are responsible for risk managedemonstrate openness within the operation, without their immediate superior or the local ment, monitoring and compliance. and a desire to be a learning organisation This compliance officer’s being made aware of the The second line of responsibility consists is why Folksam has such a broad definition of report. Such incidents might, for example, of the risk and compliance departments and what constitutes an incident, and no monetary concern irregularities, and around 25 incidents the Group’s chief actuaries. The risk and limit for what may be reported. Folksam has are reported in this manner every year. When compliance departments support and follow an annual premium volume of more than SEK an incident report of this nature is received, up the first line of responsibility on the basis 35 billion, but even low-value incidents can be an investigation is begun by Group security to of frameworks for risk management, and is worth finding out about. An employee willing decide whether various actions must be taken responsible for having an overall picture of the to report an incident should not have to judge during the investigation. risk situation in the company and report this whether or not it is sufficiently serious from a to the board and the CEO. financial perspective. The third line of responsibility consists of the internal audit. which reviews and evaluates internal management and controls, including risk management, on behalf of the board. 14 What do our customers think of us? No one knows the answer better than Jacqueline Sejersen, head of research at Folksam. Our customers are for the most part satisfied. why Folksam is not only making its products “No less than 94 per cent of the customers who simpler and clearer, but also the information were in contact with us say it was easy to reach us, about them. You’ve been working with surveys that they enjoyed friendly service, and that they at Folksam for ten years; what were the biggest are satisfied.” changes during that period? “Back then we looked more at what our What makes them satisfied? existing customers thought about the products “Customers want to be recognised; we see clearly we had. These days we involve our customers that those whom we’ve been in contact with are – mostly existing, but also potential custommuch more satisfied. It doesn’t matter if the ers – right from the beginning when we develop contact is about service, sales or a claim that has products and offers. For example, our customers been made. took part in the development of how bonuses Customers with many policies and who’ve been should be structured. It was important to them with us a long while without filing claims and who that the bonuses were felt to be fair and justified. take preventive measures say that they want us to They even helped make sure our information was recognise this and show our appreciation for it.” easy to understand. How have we done that? Looking ahead, what do you think will “Bundling discounts and bonuses are examples of happen in your field? measures we’ve taken in the last few years. What “We will get a better ‘feel’ for our customers. customers think and the initiatives we take go For example, right now, if customers have “No less than 94 per cent of the hand-in-hand, and surveys show that customers several policies with us, they get a document customers who were in contact have never been more satisfied than they are now. for every policy – it’s a bit like shaking hands with us say it was easy to reach Insurance policies are often associated with with the same person over and again. I also us, that they enjoyed friendly service, and red tape and their being uninteresting products. think it will be easier for our customers to that they are satisfied.” Jacqueline feels that ‘complex products’ better migrate between different channels, e.g. describes customer perception – the interest is surfing our mobile website and receiving Jacqueline Sejersen there, but is too difficult to understand. This is personal advice via video chat. Head of Research at Folksam 15 Every time we meet a Perceived Customer Benefit Folksam has increased the proportion of ‘safe The Folksam Customer Index (FCI) is used to cars’ in its customer base at a rate of increase measure customer satisfaction. Customer satthat is higher than that of the nation’s vehicle customer, we meet an isfaction trended well and exceeded the goal fleet. While the goal was exceeded, we have not for 2013. The goal for 2013 was lower than the yet overtaken the market’s proportion of safe 2012 outcome because some customer groups cars. Safe cars refers to cars that are max seven owner had customer satisfaction indices as high as 96 years old and which meet the safety require– 100 per cent, and a somewhat more cautious ments of the green-and-safe discount. Cars on overall goal was selected. the list of green and safe cars receive a 10 per cent discount on car insurance. The ambiResponsible Influence tion is to continue these efforts. If customers Approximately one in eight Swedish citizens travel more safely, it should over time lead to Folksam is a mutual company – this means our customers are also our and one in four of Folksam’s customers are a reduction in claims, claims expenses and owners. The fundamental purpose of Folksam being customer-owned aware that we offer eco-labelled policies. environmental impact. is to create long-term profit and provide services that our customers, as owners, are pleased with. Folksam, which insures one out of two homes and one out of two people in Sweden, is also a well-run company. With the surplus Folksam now has, we can distribute a bonus from 2013 onward to Folksam General customers – something they welcome. Increased market approval Target 2013 Result 2013 2012 2011 2010 Power of attraction, Folksam 18.0 19.9 19.7 17.1 16.5 What our customers – and others – investments companies, and top when it comes Increased customer satisTarget 2013 Result 2013 2012 2011 2010 think about Folksam. to general insurance. The brand’s power of faction Folksam carries out surveys on an ongoing baattraction is expressed as a weighted average FCI/Folksam 76 78 77 74 74 sis to measure market approval and what cusof those who responded that they accept, tomers think about Folksam. Folksam keeps prefer, or love Folksam Given that the market strategic score for the areas ‘Better than our has a total of 100 points to share, Folksam had Awareness of our responsible Competitors’, ‘Perceived Customer Benefit’ 19.9 at the beginning of 2013. The goal for 2013 influence efforts Target Result 2013 2013 and ‘Responsible Influence’ which the boards was lower than the outcome in 2012, the reason Market awareness of Folksam's and Group management follow quarterly. being that the outcome in the fourth quarter eco-labelled policies 20% 13% of 2012 was extremely high in relation to the Folksam's employee awareness Better than our Competitors three previous quarters, where the average about responsible investments 51% Q1 2014* Brand attractiveness is built up by the feeling was 17.7. Many insurance companies have a KPA Pension customer awareness people have of Folksam and the perception large proportion of customers who are aware about ethical investments 50% 44% they have of its products. The survey is carried of the company but who could not contem* The activities were not completed according to plan because of sickness absence. Follow-up is therefore postponed until March, 2014 out on customers and non-customers. Folkplate choosing it. In the case of Folksam, this sam is ranked as number two of the most reproportion has fallen significantly for several nowned and approved insurance and pension years. 16 Focus areas for satisfied customers Bonuses Customers want to contact us by and Folksam is confident that customised Accessibility Folksam’s financial surplus has always been phone or internet claims settlement leads to more satisfied Customer satisfaction was excellent in the runreturned to its customers, but for many years The response to the question regarding how customers and employees alike. up to 2014, in fact the highest ever. However, it the surplus has been in the form of product customers would like to handle insurance would have been even better had we had good developments. We have finally achieved such business in the future was very clear: If customers are dissatisfied accessibility. We had a larger portfolio, which a strong financial position that we are able to They want it to be by phone or online, while Unfortunately, misunderstandings, dissatismeans more clients and greater demands on pay bonuses in the form of deductions from a dwindling number of customers wishes to faction or problems are sometimes impossible both accessibility and a good customer recepcustomer bills, and the first such deducvisit our offices. In recent years, Folksam has to avoid. For example, it can happen that tion. We recruited 14 new claims adjusters to tion was made in 2013. Our customers were adapted its organisation to meet customer customers feel they received too little comhandle the inflow of customers and improve involved in shaping the bonuses from the very wishes by investing in telephone services and pensation or that a claim was not handled accessibility. Accessibility is a fundamental beginning, for example by creating a clear and reducing the number of offices. Customer according to expectations. We describe how satisfaction factor and a condition for providsimple bonus statement. During the spring, service handles around three million incoming to lodge an appeal or who to turn to, to have ing security, and it will improve during 2014. Folksam General issued bonus statements to calls every year. a claim reconsidered at folksam.se. Good 1.2 million customers. The response was that The pressure on folksam.se is increasing, complaints management provides us with the PR campaign about bundling discounts the statements created a positive impression and in general terms its visitors give it good opportunity to spot problems and do someCustomers feel they should be rewarded if of ‘Folksam as a successful company’ and the marks. Folksam’s visitors are still a tad more thing about them they place all their insurance policies with discount was perceived as ‘fair and justified’. satisfied than the industry in general, but one New Swedish Financial Supervisory us. We need to increase awareness about our During 2014, Folksam life will also pay out area crying out for improvement is My Pages. Authority and EIOPA (the EU equivalent) discounts – more than one in four customers is bonuses from the surplus that arises within Almost one in three visitors reaches folksam. standards have clarified insurance company unaware that Folksam has bundling discounts. group life policies. se via their mobile phones. The demands requirements for handling customer comthat new technology and changed customer plaints, and Folksam’s management prioritisBundling offers behaviour place on us will be areas for focus es issues that concern customer complaints. Customers expect to be treated like customduring 2014. A central complaints group is charged with ers whether our approach to them be from arranging group-wide coordination of custFolksam General or Folksam Life. Work will Value-driven claims settlement omer complaints. Complaints will be regisbe carried out during 2014 on the creation Whether the customer is satisfied or not often tered with more information than previously of an overall offer for both General and Life depends on the expectations he or she has, and and the the cause of dissatisfaction will be customers. such expectations vary depending on the type described more clearly. The intention is to of claim in question. In the case of a burglary, continually follow up issues and to find a an empathetic approach is most important, structured method of working with comwhereas with different minor claims such as plaints and remedying their causes. the theft of mobile telephones, speed ranks highest. These days Folksam works with value-driven claims settlement in general claims. The method places higher demands on our employees. Rules-driven claims settlement is easier, but also means simple, limited responses. A bias toward value-driven settlements will become increasingly important in the future, 17 Impartial review with the Customer This shows that Folksam maintains high qualiCustomer ombudsmen work pro-actively to Folksam Amanah fund approved by Ombudsman ty in its claims settlements. Of the 118 cases put the message across to Folksam that terms the Muslim Council of Sweden The principal task of the Customer Ombudsthat were resolved in court, Folksam won the and conditions must clearly show what the Folksam is busy creating more products to man is to offer those customers who are not majority of the cases or reached an amicable customer is entitled to. It’s not enough for the attract Sweden’s Muslims. There are an estisatisfied with Folksam’s decisions an imparsettlement. company to apply a generous policy. Terms mated 500,000 Muslims in Sweden today, and tial review of their cases. Ombudsmen have and conditions have a more restrictive view there will be around 1 million within 15 years. been in Folksam for almost 50 years and have Experience leads to improved operaof what may be compensated. In other words, Folksam’s Amanah fund is included among a well-established working method. They tions customers must be able to read what they are collective agreement occupational pensions, are independent from Folksam’s company An example of a common complaint to the entitled to in the terms and conditions. If this and work is also in progress to have it included management and answerable only to FolkCustomer Ombudsman concerns a customer’s is not the case, there is a risk that the customer as an alternative in the 60+ burial insurance, sam’s AGMs. Their overarching goal is to help ability to prove that he or she owns the jeweldoes not turn to the company with his or her which consists of group life policies and savFolksam achieve the most satisfied customers lery compensation is sought for. In such cases demands for compensation. During 2013, the ings insurance in the Amanah fund. Folksam in the insurance and savings industry. customers must be able to verify ownership customer ombudsmen were instrumental in is alone in this within the industry. The ability to contact an independent auto the company. If the jewellery is expensive the clarification of a number of conditions to thority, ask questions and reconcile uncertainand recently purchased, higher standards of show customers more clearly the compensaLow pension for Swedes born abroad ties is much appreciated by customers. During proof are generally demanded. In such cases tion they are entitled to in reality. The publication ‘Warning, Low Pension’ 2013, around 9,000 customers consulted the the customer ombudsman makes a general serves as continued information in the major ombudsmen, and of these the ombudsmen assessment of all the facts. A number of cases Diversity – an increasingly important effort to inform and educate foreign-born processed around 1,300 cases, of which 21 per of this type have led to our recommending a business issue Swedes about pensions and savings opportucent led to some form of change to in favour of change to Folksam’s decision. They have also Folksam continues along the path of multi-linnities. During the year, Folksam – in collabthe customer – a fairly high rate. led to feedback and constructive proposals gual customer service and today has customer oration with the Swedish Pension Agency – to improve Folksam’s method of processing service in 18 languages. Multilingual customer trained the 20 immigration associations it has Small number of disputes similar cases. service receives around 100,000 telephone cooperation agreements with The idea is for During 2013, Folksam took decisions on An important part of the ombudsman’s calls per year and communicates with people the immigration associations to turn pass on around 870,000 claims. Because the company work is feeding back experiences from its from around 100 nations. Around 12 people in the importance of planning for one’s pension. works pro-actively on solving problems at an activities to Folksam. During 2013, the omMalmö work with multilingual customer serearly stage, relatively few cases led to disputes. budsmen took part in Folksam’s internal work vice, and there are also people located around During 2013, 115 cases were resolved by the in different ways e.g. through policy work the country as backup to the Malmö team. National Board for Consumer Disputes and participation in internal supplementary The biggest foreign language is Arabic. Owing (ARN), and only 3 per cent of these were training. to technical difficulties, we have not yet added changed in favour of the customer. the 19th language, signing. However, people have been engaged for the assignment. 2013 2012 2011 2010 Number of claims 870,000 730,000 710,000 650,000 Number of cases to the Customer Ombudsman 1,300 1,140 1,107 1,117 Percentage of changes in the customer's favour 21 22 20 22 Number of cases to ARN 115 91 94 106 Percentage of changes in the customer's favour 3 4 4 5 Number of cases to court 114 139 152 141 18 Twelve years of responsible corporate governance She’s been called troublesome and grandiose, but she’s also won a Super Communicator award. Carina Lundberg Markow, Head of Responsible Ownership, was the person who began the work with ethical investment criteria at Folksam. “When I came to Folksam in 2001 I looked on media, something which has made her a bit of a road safety researchers as people to emulate. household name in Sweden. Their tests and reports were a good way of influencing the automotive industry and our customPerceived as troublesome ers while also building the brand. My goal was “If we want these issues out in the open someone for us to work with Folksam’s ethical investment has to discuss them But even though that person criteria in the same way – with the primary objeccan very easily get all the attention rather than the tive of influencing companies. organisation, I still feel most people associate me Today Folksam is among the ten biggest with Folksam. Talking about ethics in business, owners on the stock exchange, but back then we the environment and equality means I’m regardranked perhaps 18 or 19. ed as troublesome – an epithet I gladly accept if that’s what it takes to get our message across. At Few wanted to listen the same time, the perception of sustainability “It was difficult to get people in business to listen issues has become more modern; I’m probably – not many business executives had even reflected not seen as being quite such a troublemaker as I over sustainability issues. They would get angry. was a few years ago. The biggest group of supporters were environment and sustainability managers who felt they How does your work look today? finally had someone from the outside world to “A great deal has happened incredibly quickly. help them spotlight their efforts. Business executives today have a better underTalking about ethics in business, standing of the risks their companies run from the environment and equality a sustainability standpoint. Some have even Reaching listed companies via the media means I’m regarded as troublerealised that there’s a potential for increasing The chief strategy has been to reach out to listed some – an epithet I gladly accept if that’s sales, reducing costs and thus increasing their companies via the media, so the business press what it takes to get our message across. profits. As for us, we’re working strategically to was our main focus. Carina has been successful Carina Lundberg Markow with her strategy and is seen frequently in the spread Folksam’s central message, and this is an Head of Responsible Ownership excellent opportunity to do just that. 19 Renowned Corporate Governance Our customers care how listed companies manage sustainability issues. Here at Folksam we are convinced that companies which take responsibility for the environment and human rights are more profitable in the long term. of note Folksam is able to influence the companies it invests in through its criteria regarding the environment, human rights and anti-corruption. However, we’ve taken a conscious decision not to invest in some companies regardless of how little impact they have on the environment or how good their working environment is, on the grounds of the board’s disqualifying criteria. The disqualifying criteria are tobacco and illegal Folksam has around SEK 304 billion of assets arms such as cluster weapons, anti-personnel under management on behalf of just over four mines and nuclear weapons. These criteria apply million customers. This gives us the ability to to all Folksam companies, with two exceptions influence and change society in the long term. – the subsidiary KPA Pension has adopted Folksam’s objective of persuading companies to even tougher criteria and does not invest in the assume their social responsibility is very much for alcohol industry or commercial gambling. And the public good, as we believe knowledge helps at Folksam General – which is certified by Good bring about positive change. Folksam regularly Environmental Choice – coal-fired generators, publishes reports and indices in which we present nuclear power and uranium are excluded in addiinformation on the companies’ performance in tion to tobacco and illegal weapons. areas such as the environment, human rights and gender equality. 20 UN principles guide Principle 2 questions posed by Folksam’s department for responsible ownership were compiled in a special report. We asked questions of the managing Folksam Folksam will be an active owner and directors of the companies, and we noted their incorporate ESG issues into its corporate responses as we understood them to mean. governance policy and practices. Further information regarding Folksam’s presence at the 2013 AGMs is available on Folksam’s Boards of Directors have set forth the blog ‘En katt bland hermelinerna’ (A cat a corporate governance policy and ethical inThe UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) are a UN initiative launched in Principle 1 among the pigeons; in Swedish) and on Twitter, where the group reports directly from the vestment criteria for the companies’ holdings. These activities are followed up by an internal 2006 and aimed at introducing sustainability AGMs under the name @etikkatten. corporate governance committee. The result is issues into the investment process for instiFolksam will incorporate ESG issues into reported to the boards. tutional investors and pension managers. investment analysis and decision-making Dialogue helps companies to see the Folksam was the only Swedish investor to take processes. business potential in sustainability Folksam in dialogue with listed compapart in drawing up the guidelines, which apply issues nies regarding incidents to the environment, social issues and corpoFolksam engages Swedbank Robur as asset Folksam’s work on influencing companies in At Folksam, we try as far as possible to influrate governance (ESG issues). Folksam was manager for large parts of the assets under sustainability issues is partly aimed at reducence the companies we invest in, in e.g. corpoalso one of the first investors to endorse the management and for the ethical screening ing the risks associated with environmental rate governance or on issues concerning the principles. In this year’s sustainability report, of all investments. Folksam also engages crime, human rights abuse and corruption, environment or human rights. Some examples: we have chosen for the fourth consecutive independent consultancies for various analyst and partly to make more people see and utilise year to report the year’s events based on these services. This analysis forms the basis for dethe business potential of socially responsiScania principles to clarify how Folksam fulfils its cisions on which companies Folksam invests bility commerce. This is done in part through Scania was in the spotlight throughout the commitment as a signatory to PRI. in and which companies Folksam chooses to active corporate governance. In 2013, the year owing to a decision at its 2013 AGM not conduct a more in-depth dialogue with. activities of 1,847 companies were audited with to appoint a nomination committee. Because Folksam votes both for and against sharea focus on corporate performance regarding of this, there is a risk that conflicts of interest related reward schemes. We report when we the environment and human rights. Folksam’s may arise that would disadvantage Scania’s vote against, otherwise we vote in favour. 20 largest Swedish holdings were contacted other shareholders as there are strong links During the 2013 AGM season, Folksam took and meetings were held during the year with between the company’s board and its principart in 43 AGMs and one extraordinary meetsix of them. In addition to these, 20 Swedish pal owner’s German truck manufacturing. ing, and was represented at two nomination companies were identified as being at greatest Folksam voted no to the proposal and has meetings. In addition, Folksam was involved risk of involvement in incidents relating to the contacted the company on this matter. Scania in a number of dialogues with corporate environment and human rights. Four comannounced via a press release that its auditors boards with regard to sustainability work and panies were selected and their risk situations would review the issue and report to the 2014 incentive schemes. In cases where companies were reviewed in meetings and telephone AGM. Folksam considers it to be important have disregarded Folksam’s views we chose to conferences. The review has resulted in several that the board also comments on the decivote against the bonus system. companies restructuring and improving sion-making process at Scania regarding In the run-up to the AGMs we used their environmental activities or the way in issues that concern conflicts of interest and Facebook to ask what questions our followers which they work on human rights following a similar circumstances. wanted us to pose most of all. Questions regarddialogue with Folksam. More companies than ing corruption came top, and this also characusual contacted Folksam in 2013 to discuss terised the questions asked at the AGMs. The sustainability issues. 21 Boliden and its shareholders, but above all towards the their activities. The prosecutor at the nationAs a result of the review, Folksam has decided During the 1980s, the Swedish mining compapeople who have been harmed. al unit against corruption began a pretrial to divest its holdings in several companies ny Boliden had a large amount of environmeninvestigation. linked to West Sahara as the reported events tally hazardous waste. They took contact with TeliaSonera None of the reviews and investigations had are in breach of Principles 1 and 2 of the UN the Chilean company Promel, which informed As early as 2011, TeliaSonera was linked to been concluded by the end of the year, and Global Compact regarding human rights Boliden they could take care of the waste by questions about human rights violations in Folksam will remain in close talks with the comand the equivalent chapter (IV) in the OECD processing it in their smelting furnaces and connection with regimes that had bought pany to satisfy itself that the issues stay in focus. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. then disposing of it in a responsible manner. equipment from the Swedish companies Because TeliaSonera has a history of problems The book Tyst Territorium (Silent TerritoAt that time, Chile was the world’s biggest having used it for phone-tapping, monitorlinked to corruption, Folksam maintains close ry; in Swedish) by Fredrik Laurin and Lars producer of copper and enjoyed competence ing and tracking down political dissidents. contact with the company. Among other things, Schmidt was published in the autumn of 2013. fully comparable to that of Sweden regarding Folksam therefore prepared a proposal to the this involved a thorough study of TeliaSonera’s The book contains seven journalistic reports waste management. Boliden visited Promel in 2012 AGM to task the company’s board with internal training in respect of bribery. from West Sahara. Carina Lundberg Markow, Chile before the transaction was concluded, amending TeliaSonera’s then code of ethics to head of Folksam’s department for responsible and subsequently 20,000 tonnes of waste were comply with the UN Universal Declaration of West Sahara ownership contributed to the book, and in it shipped to Arica. Unfortunately, Promel went Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for West Sahara has been occupied by Morocco she explains why Folksam has chosen to sell bankrupt before the waste was fully processed. Multinational Enterprises in 2011. since the 1970s, and large numbers of the its holdings in certain companies with links to The local authorities then took the decision to TeliaSonera’s took a positive view of FolkWest Saharan population live in refugee West Sahara. build housing on the site, which in turn led to sam’s proposal, and had already decided to camps. West Sahara is one of the world’s most widespread injury because of the environmenamend the company’s code of ethics before the sparsely populated areas; it has a few hunBribery and corruption tally hazardous waste. Today, processing waste AGM. The board also proposed that its aims dred thousand inhabitants in largely infertile Folksam’s Boards of Directors have set forth in this manner is prohibited. and direction be clearly defined in the minutes sand and stony desert areas. Around half of ethical investment criteria for all of Folksam’s In 2013, Boliden was sued by a number of from the AGM. the West Saharan population lives in refugee capital. Thus we do our best to influence the the Chilean villagers affected. An application Folksam has since begun an intensive camps in southern Algeria, and around half companies we invest in through our criteria for for a summons was submitted to the Swedish dialogue with the company. Folksam also met lives in occupied West Sahara. the environment, human rights and anti-corcourts. Folksam contacted Boliden regarding TeliaSonera’s principal owner, the Swedish Many companies have operations in West ruption. We base our efforts in part on UN this matter and the company’s management state, to discuss how the company could Sahara despite the fact that, according to UN Global Compact principles. Principle 10 reads: of environmentally hazardous waste. We conimprove its operations. TeliaSonera then legal expertise, they are in contravention of Businesses should work against corruption in sider Boliden’s hazardous waste management decided to implement an external audit of its international agreements on civil and politall its forms, including extortion and bribery. to be satisfactory today and that there is no sustainability work with particular focus on ical rights and the International Covenant Through its corporate governance work, risk of what happened 30 years ago happening the freedom of speech and integrity issues. In on Economic, Political and Cultural Rights. Folksam works to ensure its companies have again as far as Boliden is concerned. The entire parallel, internal efforts were begun to develop During recent years Folksam has reviewed the clear policies and well-documented work. The episode is extremely regrettable and demonrisk analysis, strengthen reporting, increase companies with operations in West Sahara law should be seen as the lowest level, but comstrates the need for clear, internal regulations transparency and train the employees in and been in contact with the West Sahara panies that operate within risk zones should regarding environmentally hazardous waste, human rights. Association, part of the Afrikagrupp and the have a more restrictive stance, their own interespecially in countries where the authorities In the autumn, the media’s scrutiny Olof Palme International Center (OPIC), to nal rules and regular checks to ensure guidedo not protect citizens from environmental of TeliaSonera’s activities in Uzbekistan gain further information on the subject. The lines are followed and that personnel training risk, and in some cases even build housing on continued. In a number of media reports, the two organisations are in full agreement that is centrally led. polluted land. If the court finds Boliden to be company was alleged to have used bribes to the situation for the West Saharan population Corruption is one of the greatest challenges at fault, Boliden must naturally abide by that conduct business in the country. The company is extremely problematic and that companies to the global economy. It’s a major obstacle to finding. The fact that the issue is still not solved has categorically denied all accusations, but at extracting natural resources there contribute sustainable development and has a great effect after 30 years is a failure for both the company the same time initiated an external review of without a doubt to the status quo. on poor societies, and corrupt behaviour un22 dermines democratic progress. Its effect on the telecommunication companies are ultimately invested in personnel training and is currently Folksam votes at AGMs abroad private sector is also substantial – it prevents responsible to their owners, the media and civintroducing a whistle-blower system to combat Folksam has also used its influence to vote at economic growth and distorts competition. il society in their home countries. Companies irregularities and corruption. AGMs abroad since 2005. This takes place Corruption is extremely costly for individual in countries with ambiguous legislation and through postal voting. During 2013, Folksam companies as it adds extra expenditures of 10 weak supervisory mechanisms should adopt Folksam in dialogue with foreign voted in a total of 251 foreign AGMs. Among per cent or more just to get business done in and follow clear processes when dealing with companies other things, votes were cast for a proposal for certain parts of the world. requests from authorities. It’s preferable for If Folksam becomes aware of a holding that Statoil to stop the extraction of oil from tar Corruption in poor societies has a devtelecom providers to maintain operational and violates any of our investment criteria, we sands in Canada, and another on increased astating effect by actually undermining the technical control over their networks instead initiate a dialogue with the company to bring representation by women board members at social structure. Economic resources that of providing direct access to the authorities. about a change. Sometimes, our efforts do not BCE Inc. were intended for local development can, Companies can take practical measures such succeed and we are forced to divest the holdDuring 2013, Folksam also joined Trillium as a result of corruption, end up in foreign as publishing how many requests the authoriing. This occurred in two instances in 2013, of Asset Management, New York State Pension bank accounts instead of being used for ties and police make regarding the disclosure which Agrium was one. Fund, Boston Trust, and Unitarian Univerlocal procurement and as a stimulus for local or blocking of information. Recurrent blockAgrium imports phosphates from the part salists in submitting a proposal to Chevron’s economies. Companies have a self-interest in ing of websites may be an indication that the of West Sahara occupied by Morocco. The AGM concerning a board member with social stability and economic growth in local authorities are abusing their powers. company signed a contract in September, environmental expertise and splitting the CEO communities. Money-laundering and illegal During the year Folksam has been in fre2011 with the Moroccan state company Office and Chairman position. The proposal was folinternational monetary transfers are used as quent talks with TeliaSonera and several other Chérifien des Phosphates (OCP), and the first lowed by a telephone conference with Chevron support mechanisms for international terrortelecom companies. In recent years, Folkdelivery of phosphates arrived in Canada on in which Folksam explained why these issues ism. Global companies must be constantly on sam’s department for responsible ownership October 24, 2013. The exploitation of natuwere important. However, Chevron chose not the alert to avoid association with these major has worked to increase TeliaSonera’s awareral resources from colonised territories was to take up the proposal at the AGM. international challenges. ness of the impact it has on freedom of speech deemed illegal in 2002 by the UN Under SecDuring the year, Folksam posed questions and integrity, and also to encourage it to shoulretary for Legal Affairs. Folksam has previousClass actions concerning e.g. companies’ efforts to combat der responsibility for the risks its presence in ly divested holdings in other companies with In 2008, the Department of Responsible Ownbribery. problematic countries entails. similar business transactions in West Sahara. ership took over work on Folksam’s U.S. class TeliaSonera’s new board has focused on In 2013, a positive decision was also taken action suits. In 2013, Folksam received a total Internet freedom forms an important solving the problematic issues surround its concerning reinvestment in one of the previof nearly SEK 1.2 million. Enron and Shell are part of human rights Eurasian operations. An international law ously excluded foreign companies. This was examples of companies that have now had to Business plays a prominent part in protecting firm was engaged to carry out a thorough the Japanese company Bridgestone, whose agree to pay their shareholders compensation its customers’ rights. It can also collaborate review of the past few years’ transactions, subsidiary in Liberia had earlier allegedly after having published incorrect and misleadwith a civil society’s organisations to work for contracts and partners within the business employed child labour in its rubber plantaing financial information. political reform in countries with problemarea. The objective was to provide TeliaSontions. Bridgestone was excluded from Folksam atic legislation. Many countries around the era’s new board with as clear a picture as during the spring of 2007. Following several world censor or try to control information on possible of the Group’s transactions and to years’ continued dialogue, a policy regardthe internet in a number of ways, while other carry out a risk evaluation of said transactions ing working conditions is now in place and countries want to see tougher regulation of the from a business ethics perspective. The review there are independent reports that say child web. showed that procedures concerning the execulabour has ceased. Folksam therefore took the Folksam’s position is that companies tion of certain transactions were not carried decision to once again allow investments in the should be able to remain in difficult markets out in accordance with good business praccompany. as they have a positive affect on democratic tice. As a result of this, four senior executives progress. However, the fact remains that had to leave the company. TeliaSonera has also 23 Principle 3 The Folksam Corporate Social Folksam takes part in the debate Responsibility Index, 2013 Folksam’s department for responsible ownerFolksam will seek appropriate disclosure on ship had an eventful 2013. It was represented ESG issues by the entities in which it invests. Number of companies reviewed 250 at many seminars and panel discussions durAverage rating, human rights (on a scale of ing the year. Carina Lundberg Markow was Corporate Social Responsibility 0.00-7.00) 2.13 keynote speaker when the Nordic embassies in During 2013, Folksam presented its Corporate Average environmental rating (on a scale of Berlin arranged a seminar on equality in trade Social Responsibility Index for the sixth time. 0.00-7.00) 2.00 and industry. Carina also took part in a meetEricsson the received highest ratings for its Highest rating, human rights Ericsson ing on the same topic together with Minister work with human rights, and Volvo received for Gender Equality Maria Arnholm, a panel Highest rating, environment Volvo the highest ratings for its environmental efdiscussion regarding energy efficient societies forts. Ericsson the received highest aggregate arranged by the Royal Swedish Academy of marks for both human rights and the environEngineering Sciences, and a panel discussion ment. They were closely followed by SKF. The on integrity and freedom of speech organised materials industry came top regarding enviSustainable value creation by the Global Network Initiative. ronmental rankings, as did the media industry Since 2009, Folksam has been one of 13 Folksam was also active during the sofor human rights. The software industry came Swedish investors to take part in the Sustaincalled political week in Almedalen where last regarding environmental rankings, as did able Value Creation project, with a view to Carina took part in a number of panel debates the energy industry for human rights. putting pressure on Swedish listed companies and seminars. Carina came in second when It’s clear that the more demands increase to achieve sustainable development and create the periodical Resumé listed 150 of Sweden’s regarding market capitalisation, spread of long-term value. In 2013, Sustainable Value super communicators. ownership and sales, the better companies are Creation, together with the OMX Stockholm at work with human rights and the environstock exchange, invited board chairmen, Negative experiences in 2013 ment; businesses on the Large Cap enjoy CEOs and other representatives from the The department for responsible ownership better ratings than those on the Mid and Small 100 largest listed companies, to a seminar aims to improve awareness among our cusCap. on corruption. The seminar was followed by tomers about our work, but despite an increase Folksam’s Corporate Social Responsibility round table discussions in small groups aimed we have not achieved as great an awareness Index is the first to map out the publicly reat sharing experiences and learning from each as we would like. We are also aware that it’s ported environmental and human rights work other. For the third year running, a survey was not always easy for customers to distinguish by Swedish publicly listed companies. The conducted among the 100 companies with between the different investment criteria preobjective is to inspire more companies to take the highest market value on the Stockholm vailing within the various Folksam companies, greater responsibility and work more actively stock exchange. The results are expected to be and we should try to communicate this better. with the environment and human rights. presented in 2014. 24 Principle 4 Principle 5 labour organisation’s have also confirmed that Toyota’s subsidiary abides by international Principle 6 labour legislation. Folksam will promote acceptance and Folksam will work together with other Folksam will report on its activities and implementation of the Principles for investors to promote use of the Principles. progress towards implementing the Freedom of speech and internet integResponsible Investment within the Principles for Responsible Investment. rity investment industry. Nordic cooperation for corporate soIn 2011, Folksam was accepted as a member cial responsibility A cat among the pigeons – a blog on of the Global Network Initiative (GNI), an Folksam provides information to exterFolksam has collaborated with det Norska Liv, corporate governance international organisation whose purpose nal funds the life insurance company KLP and the FinnFolksam’s department for responsible is to work to safeguard human rights in IT Folksam spreads funds for many different ish pensions company Ilmarinen, in Nordic ownership has had a presence on the blog and telecommunications. GNI was founded fund management companies. Folksam Engagement Cooperation (NEC) since 2008. ‘A cat among the pigeons’ since 2009 (www. by the IT companies Google, Microsoft and informs customers about which fund manThe purpose of NEC is to coordinate corpoagarstyrning.folksamblogg.se). The blog conYahoo after they had been heavily criticised agement companies in its offer have adopted rate governance activities for the environment, tinued during 2013 and was supplemented by a for their operations in China. Folksam’s aim the UN Principles for Responsible Investment human rights and anti-corruption. The focus Twitter account – @etikkatten – where topics in becoming a member of GNI, as an investor (PRI). In 2010, Folksam’s Group manageis on companies where contraventions of are updated and published up-to-the-minute. in IT and telecom companies, is to be able to ment set forth a policy for externally managed international guidelines and conventions have draw the attention of these companies to what funds. In the case of all funds, the fund manbeen observed. In 2013, NEC held dialogues Sharing information impact they have on freedom of expression agement companies engaged by Folksam must with eleven different companies, all based Both internal and external presentations on and internet privacy and what responsibility be encouraged to adopt the UN Principles for outside the Nordic region. how we work on Responsible Ownership were they should take. Responsible Investment (PRI). Folksam will During the year, great advances were made in 2013. As in previous years, we were In November, Folksam participated in a inform external companies on an ongoing made with two of the companies – Exxon and also interviewed by students and researchers conference in Brussels organised by GNI and basis about exclusions made on the grounds Toyota – which were thus removed from the for academic essays and dissertations. the telecommunications industry. The subject of Folksam’s ethical investment criteria and dialogue lists. of the conference was freedom of speech and ask for information on how the company acts The Exxon Mobile subsidiary Exxon Swedbank internet integrity issues. Folksam’s position from the standpoint of this information. An Neftegas runs the oil and gas project Sakhalin Folksam owns just over 9 per cent of the shares is that companies should be able to remain in additional requirement in the case of ethical 1 in waters known to be one of the few places in Swedbank. Its objective as a shareholder is challenging markets as they have a positive affunds is that they meet the conditions laid where the endangered grey whale periodically for Swedbank to be an independent Swedish fect on democratic progress. However, the fact down by the ‘EBF’ (the Ethical Board for the lives. Exxon has entered into close dialogue bank built on the values that have contribremains that telecommunication companies Marketing of Funds). Ethical funds must have with the International Union for Conservation uted to building the economic values that are ultimately responsible to their owners, the a well-defined selection process and clearly of Nature regarding continued operations in exist today in Swedbank and Swedish savings media and civil society in their home counpresented ethical criteria. Folksam shows the area, and improved communications with banks, namely healthy everyday economics tries. Companies in countries with ambiguous which external fund management companies the Western Gray Whale Inter-agency Work for private individuals and companies, along legislation and weak supervisory mechanisms have signed PRI in its fund brochure and on its Group, which facilitates relevant measures for with local endorsement. Folksam’s view is that should adopt and follow clear processes when website. the area. these values should continue to be reflected dealing with requests from authorities. It’s For many years, Toyota Motors’ Philipin the bank’s operations. Eleven savings bank preferable for telecom providers to maintain pines subsidiary was accused of not allowing foundations own just over 2 per cent and indeoperational and technical control over their its employees to engage in trade union activpendent savings banks own around 9 per cent. networks instead of providing the authorities ities, and employees wishing to do so stated A joint declaration on ownership issues has with direct access. that they were harassed or fired. Toyota has been drawn up between these shareholders, now given financial compensation to those which together hold more than 20 per cent of fired. International and national Philippine the shares in Swedbank. 25 Important milestones 2009 Folksam is one of 15 Swedish investors to take part in the Sustainable Value Creation 2002 Folksam becomes a signatory of the project, aimed at enjoining Swedish listed UN Global Compact. companies to adopt sustainable development 2003 Folksam begins voting at Swedish and long-term value creation. AGMs. 2010 Folksam decides to divest holdings in 2004 Folksam includes corruption as an companies that produce nuclear weapons influencing criterion. 2011 Folksam is accepted as a member of the 2005 Folksam participates in the drafting of Global Network Initiative (GNI), an internathe UN initiative, Principles for Responsible tional organisation whose purpose is to work Investments. to safeguard human rights in IT and telecommunications 2006 The Folksam Index of Corporate Social Responsibility is presented for the first time 2012 Folksam speaks at Rio +20 about the importance of reporting on sustainability 2007 Folksam co-finances a Scandinavian work secretariat for the Carbon Disclosure Project, CDP 2013 Folksam and KPA Pension are the only Swedish companies to make it into the Hall of 2008 Folksam establishes the Nordic EnFame category when the International Camgagement Cooperation, NEC, together with paign to Abolish Nuclear Weapon (ICAN) Norwegian KLP and Finnish Ilmarinen draws up a list of bankers and asset managers who do not invest in nuclear weapons. Folksam's work with Corporate Governance 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Number of companies with which Folksam held an active 31 45 57 77 45 38 41 7 14 dialogue Number of Swedish general meetings in which Folksam 43 39 42 39 35 28 21 18 15 participated Nomination committees in which Folksam is a member 2 3 2 3 4 2 1 Includes one extraordinary shareholders’ meeting 26 So, what does an actuary do, actually? What kind of backgrounds do people who work at insurance companies have? All sorts, is the answer. Folksam’s employees have many different career paths. Mathematical and analytical – it’s great to see companies with good values. I “I have an MSc in engineering from KTH Royal also have a few relatives who worked for Folksam Institute of Technology. In fact I didn’t know and they gave me the impression that it’s a good what an actuary was until I came for an interview employer. at Folksam,” says Mårten Marcus. His introduction comprised two parts, which Actuaries often have degrees in mathematMartin describes as micro and macro perspecics or mathematical statistics. Mårten works tives One part was aimed more at what he would primarily with unit-linked insurance and his work with and was held in-house at Aktuarie Liv. assignments include analysing profitability and In addition, Mårten took part in the induction creating models to describe how operations will programme common to all new employees, develop. where they learn about Folksam as a whole. When he’d been awarded his degree, Mårten took a position as an industrial research student Three years have passed; what is your in finance, where he came in contact with the picture of Folksam now? world of banking. After two years in research he “I think Folksam is a good employer. There’s a chose to move on to new challenges and the step great atmosphere where I work, and I feel people from banking to insurance was not a giant one. listen when we have something to say. In fact, Mårten posted his CV on folksam.se/jobba. I’ve recommended Folksam to both my brother and one of my best buddies. However, neither I’ve recommended Folksam to The appeal of good values of them have started work here. In contrast to both my brother and one of my “I knew of Folksam and it had a positive image. working at the bank, I find it easier to ‘justify best buddies. I’d been to a seminar on Folksam’s work with my employment’ since the company is customer responsible ownership and I was impressed owned. Mårten Marcus Actuary at Folksam 27 Appropriate skills and Folksam in figures sustainable employees Number of employees 3,641 Employee turnover 9.8% Sustainable employees with appropriate skills are essential for offering Average age, overall, Sickness absence rate 4.2% insurance and pension investments that create security and appeal to 44.8 years many. Rapid changes in such things as IT development, new legal requirements and changes in the labour market affect both customer expectaGender distribution, overall Gender distribution, managers 53% women 47% women tions and Folksam’s ability to meet them. An important focus area when 47% men 53% men moving from good to better is in the development of employees, managers and the organisation to keep pace with Folksam’s customer offer. Gender distribution in Gender distribution in boards, 50% women company management, 50% men 45% women, 55% men Folksam has just over 3600 employees who Being an attractive employer is one of work in many different places and in sevFolksam’s selected focus areas eral different companies. They work with As Sweden’s largest insurance company with everything from claims settlement and advice many subsidiaries, Folksam is able to offer Age distribution in 2013 in per cent to IT, the law and risk assessments, etc. In this many interesting career paths within several year’s employee survey, our overall index1 business operations. Many employees also reached 762 per cent. This is four percentage appreciate working in a company that shoulEmployees 2013 2012 2011 2010 points higher than last year and the best overall ders responsibility and which has the financial Number of employees 3641 3497 3400 3637 index measured at Folksam. muscle to make a difference. At the same time, women (%) 53 52 51 50 insurance policies are infrequent purchases men (%) 47 48 49 50 and the industry has long been invisible among Average age 44.8 45.3 45.2 45.5 educational possibilities compared to banks, Number of managers 380 356 334 360 women (%) 47 47 47 43 2013 2012 2011 2010 53 53 53 57 men (%) Overall index employee survey (per cent) 2 76 72 72 72 -29 13.2 Employee turnover (%) 9.8 12.0 8.0 4.7 30-39 20.5 Have individual performance goals (per cent) 2 92 93 91 40-49 30.0 Feel great commitment to their work (per cent) 2 84 85 82 87 50-59 27.6 Overall index leadership, immediate superior (per cent) 2 79 76 75 77 60 8.7 1 Overall index is based on the average value of the employee surveys following 11 areas: dedication, skills enhancement, work environment and health, diversity, citizenship, work organisation, internal relations and deliveries, development and change, customer contact, leadership and Folksam overall. 28 2 Number of employees who responded in agreement with the question or rated it with four or five points on a five-point scale. for example. To increase knowledge about insurbetween the procedures for employing or engagance in society and to safeguard Folksam’s future ing consultants was also clarified. skills supply, the company pursues strategic educational collaborations with universities and All employees get a well-planned introvocational training schools. During 2013, 25 studuction dents from these courses received internships at To get everyone off to a good start all new emFolksam, and 99 students with training linked to ployees are given an introduction. This includes Folksam’s skills requirement enjoyed extra work a local introduction, online training and an through an internal student pool. During the year introductory day at the head office together with Folksam also participated in 12 labour market other new employees and parts of senior mandays and to career events. To raise their profiles, agement. During 2013, 394 new employees took career opportunities and roles are presented in part in one of the year’s 11 introductory days, and a special career section on Folksam’s website. evaluations gave them top marks. The training The website’s career section has around 10,000 is obligatory, but there is an overlap between the visitors per month. Folksam as a workplace has years that explains the difference in the number also been accessible on Facebook and LinkedIn of new employees. Employees who were taken since 2013. on or changed positions in the past year were asked in the employee survey how well their new Staffing is based on an overall job met expectations; 722 per cent felt there was a perspective good correlation between the promises and deEvery employee appointment is a significant scriptions provided on being taken on/switching investment – both for Folksam and for the applijobs and the work they have today, while 152 per cant. Managers are therefore trained to look at cent were negatively surprised and 132 per cent Folksam’s skills supply from a long-term standwere positively surprised. point and always recruit and train employees with the next stage of progress in mind. During Support during organisational changes 2013, 529 employees were recruited externally. Work carried out in recent years on changing the Almost as many changed jobs internally, either sales and claims organisation continued. The through applying for new positions on their own changes were based on customer wishes, market initiative of because of restructuring. With a few conditions and the need to remain competitive exceptions, all vacant positions were advertised in the future. The change entailed major internal internally before being made available externally. reshuffles for employees in different parts of For the main part, recruiting was within sales, Sweden, and a cooperation forum worked to claims settlement and IT. The recruiting forecast find the best possible solutions for the employees for the years ahead is roughly the same. During affected. Special workshops were arranged for 2013, procedures and support within the staffing those affected in Stockholm in order to inspire process were updated, among other reasons to employees on their way to new jobs inside or meet future requirements in the EU Solvency II outside Folksam. Because the Sundsvall office’s Directive – especially the role fitness assessments operations are expanding, an internal career day for managerial and key persons. The interplay was held there during the spring. For employees 2 Andel medarbetare som har svarat instämmande på frågan eller markerat betyget 4 eller 5 på en femgradig skala. 29 pondering the next development stage, there the operation that have worked according to from the programmes Basic Management show that Folksam has well prepared proceis an opportunity for career planning with an the concept for more than six months have Development, Middle Management Develdures for workplace environment protection, external coach. The total number of employimproved their results despite major changes opment, and Senior Management Developand the Swedish Work Environment Authority ees in Folksam increased during the year The to the organisation and IT systems. ment. Company Management Development only had a few minor remarks, which have biggest reason was the 130 new employees has been initiated as the next step for senior now been addressed. Sickness absence in 2013 who took up positions in different parts of the Skills enhancement programmes and executives. Three management groups have stood at 4.2 per cent. The increase is visible operation during September in connection online training mean greater compebegun this during the year, and the remainder in both Folksam’s and Statistics Sweden’s with the acquisition of the insurance compatence are planned for 2014. The initiative will be national statistics in general, and this is ny, SalusAnsvar. The employees received a At customer service a new, uniform skills monitored in a research project. Leadership probably due to several factors. Three strains special introduction day in connection with enhancement programme has also been is evaluated in the employee survey, which of influenza were endemic during the spring, the transition and career dialogues linked to created in insurance and needs-based sales. shows that 832 per cent of employees agree while the categories head/neurological, confithe receiving operations. The programme consists of a mix of online with the statement ‘On the whole, I have great dential and other also increased during 2013. training, self-study, discussion material and confidence in my immediate superior’s way of Stress and strain arising from the increasing Further developed working methods instructor-led elements. The goal is for all of leading operations.’ A group’s and its managrate of change in Folksam and the world at for performance and development Folksam’s 300 customer advisers to qualify by er’s results in the employee survey are used as large may have been among many possible In order to create conditions that allow the end of 2014. There new skills enhancement support data for development, and in espefactors In order to buck this trend, analyses employees to perform well and continue to concept has also been initiated in the claims cially challenging situations focused support and action plans are among the things aimed develop in a way that helps Folksam achieve its operation and will continue development initiatives are implemented. A good example at groups with the highest sickness rates Work goals, we make use of a PD (performance and during 2014. In all, 11 new online training of communicative leadership would be CEO on promoting success factors for a good workdevelopment) process. Folksam’s business courses were created during the year. One Jens Henriksson’s intranet blogs about his ing environment, good health and a review goals are broken down in the PD process into online training course aimed at all employees day-to-day work. of the rehabilitation procedures are planned tangible individual goals for each employee. is ‘Leva kundägt’ (Living Customer Owned) for 2014. The purchase of new occupational Long-term employee development is ensured which is intended to provide knowledge of Modern premises and initiatives to health services is also planned for 2014. through individual development plans that are what working in a customer-owned company reduce sickness rates followed up regularly. The working method is and living up to Folksam’s values – personal, Folksam seeks a working environment that Diversity, gender equality and market based on clear responsibility in each position, committed and responsible –entails. By year promotes good health, motivation and pay rates ongoing training in successful working methend 2013, 70 per cent of Folksam’s employees productivity. This means a workplace where Because Folksam feels that diversity contribods, evaluation and coaching leadership. In had attended. ‘Leva kundägt’. employees feel secure, are stimulated and utes to customer benefit, improved profitabilthe employee survey, 922 per cent of employwhere consideration is given to physical and ity and a more attractive workplace, focused ees stated they had individual goals for their Internal management programme psychosocial needs. A change project that work is under way to create an inclusive work and 822 per cent say they have regular focuses on customer benefits and deconcerns the office workstations is under climate of collaboration where employee skills follow-ups with their manager regarding their velops communicative managers way. The project is focused on activity-based are put to good use and where differences goal and development plans. Customer service Because Folksam needs communicative workplaces and the objective is to obtain a are celebrated. Diversity is supported and took this working method one step further in managers who create customer benefit by more efficient work organisation, increase discrimination minimised through a clear, 2013. By means of a special system, support providing conditions for learning and proper learning and to lower premises costs. Folksam skills-based recruiting process. An example employees have access to their own perforperformance, the company provides its manalso encourages virtual meetings, which have a of the results of focused diversity efforts is mance results, direct feedback from customers agers with internal leadership programmes at positive impact on both the environment and the fact that today Folksam has almost as and clear support in successful ways to act. several levels. The programmes combine trainour finances. many women managers as men. In the year’s They have since systematically practised the ing in course form with coaching in groups In 2012 and 2013 the Swedish Work Enviemployee survey, 902 per cent of employees successful actions and managers practised and commercially relevant project work. ronment Authority carried out six work enviagreed with the statement ‘It’s okay to be taking a coaching approach. Those parts of During 2013, a total of 62 managers qualified ronment inspections at Folksam. The results different in our work group,’ and 992 per cent 2 Andel medarbetare som har svarat instämmande på frågan eller markerat betyget 4 eller 5 på en femgradig skala. 30 answered No when asked if they had been the Benefits for good health and security in victims of abusive discrimination at work during everyday life the past year. A revised diversity plan for 2014 All employees are provided with a wellness allow– 2016 was prepared during 2013. One of many acance to promote good health. Employees enjoy tivities requires all heads of department to have advantageous prices on memberships at a large conducted discussions in 2014 regarding diversity number of health and fitness centres nationwide. and abusive discrimination based on their own Beginning in the autumn of 2014, good fitness faresults in the employee surveys A review of the cilities will be available in premises at the head ofrecruiting process from a diversity perspective fice through a new agreement signed with an exmust also be carried out and documented. ternal party in 2013. All employees are offered an While Folksam has come a long way toward advantageous personnel insurance package and equal pay, it still has a little way to go. In a comsubsidised lunch at our own personnel canteen parison of average pay between women and men or a meal allowance for employees outside the with equivalent jobs, the pay difference in 2013 head office. Support, free of charge, is possible was around 4 per cent. In order to achieve full for legal, private finance and psychosocial issues. equality of pay, Folksam surveys and analyses For healthcare such as IVF or eye operations, we any non-objective pay differences in annual offer deductions from gross income and there is pay reviews instead of surveys only every three the possibility of free eyesight tests and computer years as required by legislation. During parental monitor spectacles. leave, Folksam provides a supplement so that employees receive 90 per cent of their monthly salary regardless of their income during the first 210 days. Folksam’s work with equal pay received good marks during the Equality Ombudsman’s review. Pay is set individually, is differentiated and should be based on the level of difficulty and responsibility in the position together with the Meet some of Folksam’s employees at Folksam. employee’s skills, experience and performance. se/jobba and follow Folksam on Linkedin! The person with the highest remuneration has pay that is 11.4 times higher than the average pay at Folksam. About the the employee survey Every year Folksam carries out a company-wide employee survey. The survey goes back many years and is a tool used in developing and following up operations and leadership both locally and centrally, and ensuring mandatory requirements for systematic inspections of the working environment. The survey comprises around 110 questions, and the response rates in 2013 was 93 per cent. 2 Number of employees who responded in agreement with the question or rated it with four or five points on a five-point scale. 31 “There’s no better place to do road safety research” Like the typical Italian he is, Matteo Rizzi began riding a moped at 14 years old, and four years later he bought his first heavy motorbike. He’s bought four more since, and he’s not happy accidents – most injuries occur here and it’s the to sell them. He’s become a collector, and has a type of injury we deal with most. Motorbikes are great passion for motorbikes. He used to race, an interesting area in that they present the absolute but his interest has switched from riding as fast greatest challenge when it comes to road safety. as possible to enjoying rides on gravel roads and taking in the view. Safety gear for cyclists – more than just “We have to find other ways of enjoying helmets motorbikes than speed, otherwise things always According to Matteo, one of the most interestend the same way. ing issues ahead is safe cycling. It’s more than keeping cycle tracks in tip-top shape, it’s about A will to improve things the type of protection we should use when we Matteo knows what he’s talking about. He’s had cycle; a helmet is just not enough. But despite the buddies who died on the roads in their younger intention to make things safer for all road users, years when speed was all that mattered. He says the findings are not always well received. Is it it’s a determination to make things better that true you get quite a lot of bellyaching from both brought him to research. Matteo is a trained cyclists and bikers? mechanical engineer and his interest in anything “If you’re passionate about something you and everything on wheels led him to the field of naturally have strong opinions. We have to show traffic. He’s worked two years at Folksam as a cyclists and bikers a great deal of respect and lisroad safety researcher. ten carefully to what they say. It’s all about their We have to find more ways of everyday world, and if they’re not on our side enjoying motorbikes than just Motorbikes are the greatest challenge we’ll never achieve any results, no matter how speed. There’s no better place to do road safety research much research we do. And they often have very in Sweden,” says Matteo, who declares that while good points to make. I’m not afraid of criticism – Matteo Rizzi this may sound like a cliché, it is nevertheless I think it’s great when we get a reaction. We learn Road safety researcher at Folksam true. Our greatest impact is within car and bike a lot that way. 32 Road safety leads the way Growing urbanisation, high population growth and a switch from cars Networks and groups Folksam’s road safety researchers participate in to bicycles. These are changes Folksam’s road safety researchers beAEB Group (Autonomous Emergency Braking Group) International group for developing tests standards for autonomous braking systems lieve will happen and which, in combination with a rise in injuries to unCycle strategy group Led by the Swedish Transport Administration protected road users, have resulted in a change of direction in research ETSC (European Transport Safety Council) European lobby group whose purpose is to influence European road traffic legislation to encompass bicycle helmets and injuries to a greater degree. GNS Forum for the exchange of knowledge and the coordination of (Group for National Collaboration) operations within the field of road safety with the purpose of realising the Zero vision. ISO/TC 22/SC 12/WG 7 Road vehicles International standardisation group within road safety analysis from national and international standpoints, in which Folksam (AK) is chairman. Folksam insures one car in five and every year deals with more than 50,000 road traffic especially in the field of road safety. The long ISO/TC 22/SC 12/WG 1 Road vehicles Child restraint systems – International standardisation group within the child safety field claims. The information Folksam’s road traditions of our own road safety research deRCAR Collaborative international insurance industry group that focussafety research provides is used to save lives partment with five employees, of whom four (Research Council for Automobile Repairs) es on road safety and repair methods. in traffic. Fewer traffic injuries also means have doctorates in medicinal science and one SAFER Collaborative Swedish group within the road safety field located lower injury costs and thus lower third-party is a doctoral candidate, draw on information at Chalmers University in Gothenburg. vehicle insurance premiums, something which and experiences from the all of the accidents SIS/TK 237 Collision tests Road traffic injury analyses and EEVC coordination; Swedish benefits Folksam’s customers. Folksam’s road Folksam’s customers fall victim to. Staff at coordination group for standardisations within the specified field safety research costs approximately SEK 7-8 Folksam’s research department have links SIS/TK 242 Child safety in cars Swedish coordination group for standardisations within the per vehicle insurance policy and year. with Chalmers University of Technology, specified field Compared to its competitors, Folksam perUmeå University or Karolinska University forms unique work in injury prevention seen Hospital. Folksam works to realize the Zero Vision Ten indicators identified nationally* as important focus areas for achieving goals Ongoing supervision of national indicators is performed by GNS Väg. GNS Väg is national col1. Speed limit compliance, state road network 6. Safer automobiles in traffic laboration group and a forum for the exchange of According to government bill 2008/09:93, knowledge and the coordination between different the number of traffic fatalities should be hard 2. Speed limit compliance, municipal road net7. Safe motorbikes in traffic (ABS) parties with the purpose of realising the Zero vision of between 2008 and 2020. This is equivalent works 8. Safer state roads GNS includes representatives from the (Swedish) to a maximum 220 fatalities in 2020, and the 3. Sobriety in traffic 9. Safer pedestrian, cycle, moped paths in built up Transport Administration, Transport Agency, Work number of seriously injured in road traffic 4. Seat belt use areas Environment Authority, Folksam, NTF, Ministry of Enmust be reduced by a quarter. Reaching terprise, Energy and Communications, the National the goals the analysis points to will require 5. Helmet use 10. Operation and maintenance of pedestrian, Police Board, the Association of Local Authorities efficient performance management and new cycle, moped paths and Regions and Toyota Sweden AB. information, especially concerning the work Folksam’s road safety research concentrates on increasing safety for unprotected road primarily on indicators that concern cycling, motorusers. bikes, speed limit compliance and safer cars. 33 Folksam’s influence in the community and in creating customer benefit Customers Based on research such as real accidents and cars equipped with Folksam’s collision event data recorders (black boxes), work is proceeding at several levels to improve road Safer traffic safety. Our links to the universities are an important means by which to participate in, and influence, national and international networks. Consumer tests and information are also important tools as safety is a sales Industries argument – i.e. there is a demand for knowledge from independent parties about e.g. safer Authorities Insurance cars, child car seats and helmets in connection Safer traffic Universities, Safer traffic Citizens with purchases. Our own insurance soluetc. tions constitute another tool by integrating significant research results that affect claims outcomes. For example, the safest cars have lower premiums. Safer traffic Knowledge Road Safety Consumer information Research 34 Road safety activities, 2013 Volvo the easy winner in Folksam’s safe New contract with OKQ8 and Hertz car rankings Folksam customers seldom buy brand new cars, ‘How safe is your car?’ is Folksam’s ranking of but hire car companies do so often – they usually car crash safety based on the outcome of real replace the cars in their fleets after 9 to 10 months. accidents. The highest marks in this year’s report The insurance industry is a major customer in go to Volvo models V70, XC70, S80, S60 and V60 the hire car market; in the event of accidents, its from 2007 onwards. Their safety level is almost customers get a hire car while their own car is in 60 per cent higher than the average car and 12 the repair shop. By placing demands on the new percentage points better than number two on the car market, Folksam influences the second-hand list, the Honda CRV 98 – 06. market and thus the cars that will be on our roads Folksam handles more than 50,000 road for many years to come. Folksam ensures custraffic claims a year. This work provides access to tomers get sustainable cars by placing demands a major fund of knowledge about how damage on the safety and environmental standards hire and injuries arise, and how they can be avoided cars must have. This has a great impact on safety and limited. The car you travel in a determining and the environment for a long time ahead. factor in the outcome of an accident. Safety and environmental criteria are based on Percentage above Folksam’s annual list of safe, sustainable cars. Top of the list average Volvo V70/S80/S60/V60 0759 Whiplash protection in cars better for Honda CRV 98-06 47 men than women Folksam has carried out a study that shows how Volvo V70/S80/S60 00-06 46 effective whiplash protection in cars is for women BMW 5 Series 04-09 44 and men respectively. The results showed great Audi A4 01-07 43 differences in protective efficacy between the sexMitsubishi Galant 97-03 42 es. Whiplash protection has low or no protective VW Passat/CC 0842 effect at all for women in one in five cars, while Volvo XC90 0242 the same protection works well for men. One reason for the difference is that auto manufacturFolksam ranked 238 models of car in this year’s ers have for many years based the development of report. whiplash protection on male physiology. 35 Autonomous braking a difficult choice Studs, or no studs? Choosing the right Cycle helmets prevent 60 per cent of all ABS brakes for motorcycles crucial for for car buyers winter tyres serious head injuries rider safety – much more effective than Autonomous emergency braking is one of the Studs, or no studs? We hear different opinions A new study from Folksam shows that cycle previously known car’s most important protective systems. But about what is best – studded, or unstudded helmets prevent 60 per cent of all a cycling-reA new study from Folksam shows that motordespite the system’s being at least as efficient tyres – at the start of every winter season. lated head injuries leading to chronic probbike riders who use ABS brakes run a risk of as traction control and air bags, very few car Therefore in 2013, Folksam reviewed the test lems. In addition, they prevent almost four out suffering injuries leading to medical disability manufacturers offer it as standard equipment. data for 44 studded, 31 Nordic unstudded and of ten serious face injuries. that is no less than 65 per cent lower than for Furthermore, there are several different types 11 central European winter tyres to discover The study is based on just over 55,000 riders who do not use ABS. of autonomous braking and it’s difficult for the what type performs best during the winter injuries reported by accident and emergency Of the approximately 300,000 motorbikes consumer to find out how the different systems in different parts of Sweden. The review was hospitals in Sweden between 2003 and 2012. on Sweden’s roads, only 55,000 – i.e. just over work. based on the relationship that exists between The results were presented at the International 18 per cent – are fitted with ABS brakes. But A new study from Folksam shows that braking distance and accident risk. Research Council on Biomechanics of Injury the trend is positive. Between 2008 and 2012 autonomous braking which deploys during a Folksam’s review shows that Nordic (IRCOBI) conference in Gothenburg. sales of new motorbikes with ABS rose from collision from behind, has great significance unstudded winter tyres are best suited for the 15 per cent to 70 per cent. for car safety in city environments. Personal winter climate in southern and central Sweden. Antilock brakes will be obligatory from injuries in cars hit from behind fall by no less Despite braking distances’ being somewhat 12 of 13 approved cycle helmets for 2016 on all new motorcycles above 125 cc. If all than 64 per cent on roads with speed limits up shorter with brand-new studded tyres, the children inadequate – offer no promotorbikes were fitted with ABS, 13 fatalities to 50 kph /h Collisions still occurred in about frequent lack of snow in those parts of Sweden tection against the most usual head and 160 serious injuries could be avoided every 40 per cent of cases, but without causing any causes the studs to wear down and resemble injuries year. Motorbikes fitted with ABS enjoy a 15 per injuries. Furthermore, around 25 per cent of unstudded tyres in little more than a year. Folksam presented a cycle helmet test for chilcent premium reduction at Folksam. accidents are estimated to have been avoided dren’s helmets just before summer. Impacts in entirely. which the head is subjected to rotation is the Earlier studies showed primarily the accimost common form of force in bicycle accident avoidance effect of autonomous braking. dents and can result in brain injuries. Despite We now know that the injury-reducing effect this, the Swedish Consumer Agency’s certiis even higher due to the lower forces in the fication tests do not include helmet impacts collisions that still do take place. Cars fitted with rotation. Folksam’s more stringent tests with autonomous braking as standard have of the most common cycle helmets for children lower premiums. and youths show that only one out of 13 CE approved helmets protect against injuries resulting from impacts with rotation. 36 Predicting road safety, 2020 In the run-up to the annual road safety convention in Tylösand, the Swedish Transport Administration’s Road Safety Director Claes Tingvall and Folksam’s Road Safety researcher Maria Krafft were tasked with forecasting road safety in 2020. The forecast was also presented at Folksam’s AGMs by Anders Kullgren and Maria Krafft. Forecasting involves a mixture of one’s own Children should be able to go to school are protected in the same way. Cycle tracks where the driver acts as supervisor by monireferences and the facts the recipient is able on their own, noise must be reduced and and footpaths will be given impact-absorbtoring a display in the windscreen. It sounds to assimilate. Some ‘facts’ have their origin through traffic will be on foot or by bike. Ining surfaces and will also be protected from great, but you must be prepared to take conin existing solutions, while others seem to be grained routines will be stood on their head the elements as vegetation will grow to form trol when the display tells you to. Sleeping is pure fantasy – but they are not, according to when yielding to cyclists and pedestrians a roof above cyclists and pedestrians. out, but watching a movie is okay. the presenters. becomes obligatory, i.e. drivers will have to give right of way to cyclists and pedestrians Everything is connected The car The benevolent city on every city street. In just a few years, internet connections have Cars have progressed faster than ever before. In 2020 most Swedes live in the city; it’s Traffic lights have disappeared in many gone from 5 billion to 50 billion in 2020 All Not only can they be driven semi-automatiwhere the jobs are and where progress places, and space for cyclists has increased. vehicles are connected to the net, and a car cally because the roads have been fitted with happens. Because urbanisation, rising Making the traffic environment safe is a is like an Ipad on wheels. Car insurance is small magnets in the centre of the carriageaccommodation prices and the lifestyles of major challenge. ‘Cycle speed’ is the benchlinked to a driver’s behaviour behind the way to help the car stay on course, but the the young quickly change how we regard the mark for how fast you may drive your car in wheel, and driving smoothly and safely car also intervenes when a driver in an emerquality of life, road traffic does not occupy the city in 2020. pays. Communications inside the car are via gency situation does not act appropriately or the space it previously enjoyed. Having a car When bicycles, and their electric variants, speech and audio, not via displays and texeven react at all. Invisible alcohol interlocks in the city is actually a bother, and things will are the norm, road safety work will also ting, which are too risky. Wearing a headset are standard equipment. The car can also get worse. focus on them. Protecting cyclists from onewhen you drive is just as natural as it is for super-brake. This means the car is better Cycling, walking and public transit will bike accidents will be what counts. Cycle airplane pilots. On motorways we connect able to utilise the second before a possible form the backbone of personal transportahelmets are invisible and inflate like air bags to a service that makes driving more or less collision and act; in 2013 cars can brake and tion, and the rest of the transport system is if you fall off. Several other parts of the body automatic reduce speed by 35 kph within one second adapted accordingly. (which will probably be halved by 2020). 37 Why should an insurance company worry about the climate? No-one will have the money for insurance in the future if we don’t take responsibility for the climate issue – insurance companies will not have the money to run their businesses and individuals will not have the money to take out policies. The words are Karin Stenmar’s, Environwill be much more exposed in the future; it is said ment and Climate Manager at Folksam, that sea levels will rise by one meter within 80 when asked why the environment is years,” says Karin. important for an insurance company. Our work is based on overall responsibility. We Our assignment as an insurance company is not use our knowledge and muscle to push through just to spread risks between groups and individchange. We place high environmental demands on uals, but also over time. Individual events do not ourselves and the companies we collaborate with relate directly to higher premiums. On the other or invest our customers’ money in. And we were hand, climate change will have an impact on our the first insurance company in Sweden to receive planet over time. More storms, rising sea levels and Good Environmental Choice certification. more precipitation resulting in increasing claims are just some of the many challenges society faces. Sustainability is financial prudence “Sustainability is about the long-term. Whether There have been many storms in recent we manage pension savings, invest in the propyears; does this show up in your claims erty market, repair damage to a house or have a We see an increase in water disbursements? say in the cars that will be on our roads tomordamage as a result of a damper “Storm damage per se has not hit us too hard as row, what we do must last for years,” says Karin. climate and an increase in floods. our customers do not have much forest insured. That’s the macro-perspective, but we also need On the other hand we are predominant on to see the issue from a micro-perspective – it’s in Karin Stenmar the home insurance market where we note an day-to-day life where we all can do our bit. Environment and increase in water damage as a result of a damper The environment and climate issues inform Climate Manager at Folksam climate and an increase in floods. Coastal living everything we do at Folksam. 38 Active green initiatives dioxide released. The total climate impact Emissions by activity in per cent Folksam offsets amounts to 6,751 tonnes of carbon dioxide, which means around 34,000 trees will be planted to offset Folksam’s carbon footprint. Folksam seeks to be at the leading edge in environmental and climate Emissions per activity in tonnes CO2e, protection and has worked with sustainability issues since the 1960s. direct impact Environmental and climate issues are of central importance for Folksam 2013 2012 2011 Road travel 765 873 800 – no-one will have the money for insurance in the future unless we all Air travel 1,092 1092 940 Road travel 27 help to slow up climate change. A large company has major opporRail travel 2 2 0.003 Air travel 39 tunities to exert an influence and Folksam’s high environmental requireHeating 765 348* 371* Rail travel 0 Electrical 6 7 7 Heating 28 ments have contributed to a higher environmental standard at several system Electricity 0 large subcontractors. Printed matter 57 74 64 Printed matter 2 Paper 82 78 65 Paper 3 Coffee 21** 13 14 Coffee 1 26000 in order to pursue active dialogues with Water*** 2 2 Not inWater*** 0 During 2013... cluded our stakeholders. Total, tonnes 2,792 2,489 2,261 … and 2014, Folksam will train almost 2,000 CO 2e suppliers nationwide in environmental Folksam offsets its carbon footprint impact. Folksam’s carbon footprint from its own oper* Only head office heating was included in the 2012 and 2011 figures ** In 2013 all coffee purchased for Folksam operations was reported … Folksam began working according to ations amounted to 2,792 tonnes CO2e in 2013. ***Only water consumption for the head office in Skanstull is the substitution principle1 for its purchasing The main emissions sources were air travel, car included. Folksam’s other offices and Förenade Liv’s office are not organisation, which meant that all new included in the report. procurements were geared toward more journeys and heating, which together amount eco-friendly alternatives to 94 per cent of total emissions. These are … Folksam created a digital platform for the areas Folksam is focusing on to reduce By making conservative calculations and high stakeholder companies. Maintaining diaits climate impact. The carbon footprint also estimates in instances where data is scarce logues with our stakeholders is important for ensuring constant improvement. includes energy consumption in the properties – such as information on emissions from emFolksam invests in – which means our carbon ployee vehicles used on business – we ensure footprint covers more than Folksam’s actual that Folksam offsets its carbon footprint in In 2011 Folksam became the first insurance operation. full. CO2e, carbon dioxide equivalents, means company to receive the Swedish Society for Folksam has accounted and offset the that all six greenhouse gases, and not just carNature Conservation’s Good Environmental carbon footprint from its own operations for bon dioxide, are included in the emissions. Choice stringent eco-label. Our automotive many years, and its property holding is offset and building claims operations both have ISO through the Vi-Agro Forestry Programme. 14001 environmental management certificaThe Vi Agro Forestry Programme plants on tion. During 2013, Folksam worked with ISO average five trees for every tonne of carbon 1 Substitutionsprincipen innebär att alla som bedriver en verksamhet ska undvika att använda kemiska produkter som kan befaras medföra risker för människors hälsa eller miljön, om de kan ersättas med sådana produkter som kan antas vara mindre farliga 39 From paper to digital Clear guidelines for business travel Fewer offices means lower electricity Larger property portfolio resulted in Folksam has a clear ambition to reduce the Folksam’s travel policy provides the emconsumption higher energy consumption amount of printed matter by switching succesployees with clear guidelines for business All electricity purchased to Folksam’s and In recent years Folksam has increased its sively from paper to digital publications. This travel. It states that every journey should be KPA Pension’s head offices, offices around ownership of investment properties, which means that customers will have the opportuniwell-planned and justified and that rail travel Sweden together with the Folksam subsidiary explains the increase in climate impact from ty to receive insurance conditions and invoices should be used for trips up to 500 kilometres, Förenade Liv’s office premises, enjoys Good heating, electricity and water from one year digitally. During 2013, 4 million fewer insure.g. the route Stockholm-Gothenburg. Environmental Choice classification. Electricto the next. Electricity and heating for the ance terms for general and group insurance During 2013, Folksam staff travelled ity consumption from offices during 2013, and year fell while climate impact rose, following policies were printed, and the climate impact 516,276 fewer kilometres than during 2012, thus climate impact, was reduced by around 11 Folksam’s adjustment of emissions factors from printed matter fell by 17 tonnes CO2e. equivalent to a climate impact reduction of per cent compared to 2012. The reason for the for heating and electricity. Energy and water This reduction is also a result of Folksam’s 108 tonnes CO2e. The reduction is due to fewer reduction is that Folksam, during 2013, continconsumption derive from a large number of preparing more detailed data during the year, journeys by car. Emissions from air travel ued its restructuring to streamline operations properties owned by Folksam, mainly offices which made it possible to determine the total were at the same level as the previous year, and at offices nationwide. and residential properties in Stockholm but weight and thus make more precise calculaamounted to 1,092 tonnes CO2e. Rail travel Climate impact from heating increased also in other parts of Sweden. tions. increased by 109,937 kilometres, equivalent to by 417 tonnes CO2e compared to the previous Work is in progress in Folksam’s purchas115 return trips between Stockholm and Gothyear. This is because heating in Folksam’s The consumption figures include ing department on placing demands on supplienburg. This is good news – the climate impact offices around Sweden and Förenade Liv’s ers to ensure eco-labelled office products are from rail travel is marginal in comparison to office premises have been included in heating • Folksam Life/Life (wholly owned purchased. The goal is for all office materials air and accounted for only 2 tonnes CO2e of figures for the year. properties) to be replaced according to the substitution our total carbon footprint. Emissions from At 2 tonnes CO2e, the climate impact of • Folksam Life2 (formerly Gyllenforsen, principle. During 2013, Folksam purchased rail travel remained the same as the previous water for Folksam’s and KPA Pension’s head of which Folksam owns 71%). 17 tonnes more copier paper and envelopes year’s. offices remains at the same level as the previ• Folksam General (wholly owned properties) than in 2012, thus climate impact from paper Folksam will introduce further measures ous year. Water consumption fell somewhat, • KPA Pension (of which Folksam owns increased by 4 tonnes CO2e. to reduce air travel. The policy for travel and but this only has a marginal effect on climate 60%) All coffee purchased for Folksam’s head meetings will be made clearer and during 2014, impact, which is reported in whole numbers of office is organic and Fairtrade labelled, which Folksam will focus more on video conferenctonnes means it has a lower climate impact than ing. Emissions by 2013 2012 2011 traditional coffee, that no biocides were used activity, indirect in its cultivation, and that the farmers who impact cultivated the coffee received a fair price for Heating 3,729 3,839 3,278 their harvest. The climate impact from coffee Electrical system 188 11 10 Kilometres travelled 2013 2012 2011 rose from 13 tonnes CO2e to 21. This is because Water 42 39 Not Rail travel 2,008,178 1,898,241 1,653,665 starting from 2013, Folksam reports all coffee included Road travel 4,584,670 5,238,550 4,876,800 purchased within the company as compared Total, tonnes CO2e 3,959 3,889 3,288 to 2012, when only head office coffee purchasAir travel 4,366,086 4,338,419 3,901,738 es were shown. Total kilometres travelled 10,958,934 11,475,210 10,432,203 Heating represents the greatest climate impact from Folksam’s operations, totalling 2,422 tonnes of CO2e. This is a reduction of 110 tonnes CO2e compared with 2012. 40 During 2013 Folksam purchased offsets Green rental agreements for reduce energy Folksam’s climate responsibility exFolksam’s direct and in direct climate heating from Fortum. The purchase of offsets consumption tends beyond its own operations impact for heating is equivalent to 1,786 tonnes CO2e Just over one year has passed since Folksam Folksam is one of few operators in the Folksam’s climate footprint is broken down for Folksam’s property holding and 311 tonnes signed its first Green Rental Agreement. insurance industry that accounts for, and into three scopes in accordance with the CO2e for KPA Pension’s property holding. The agreement concerned White Arkitekter offsets, the climate impact from its property Greenhouse Gas Protocol international The climate footprint from Folksam’s AB’s head office with around 3,600 sq m of holding. The division between Folksam’s accounting standard. property holding amounted to 188 tonnes of floor space in the Katsan 1 block, neighbour carbon footprint from its operations and that CO2e, which is an increase of 177 tonnes comto Folksam’s head office. It was pleasing to of its property holding is shown in the chart Scope 1 represents direct emissions from own pared to 2012. The increase is due to Folksam’s note that the energy survey showed lowbelow. It shows that the majority of Folksam’s operations where Folksam’s leased cars are adjustment of the emissions factors used to er energy consumption than the original climate impact – almost 60 per cent – derives included. calculate climate impact from wind power projected values for the property. It’s worth from Folksam’s property holding. Scope 2 constitutes indirect emissions electricity. However, electricity consumpmentioning that other tenants have chosen to from electricity and heating purchased for tion fell by around 200 MWh. All electricity follow White’s example, even though it took The total climate impact from Folksam’s Folksam’s offices. purchased by Folksam is certified as generated a while for all concerned to understand the operations and is property holding in 2013 100 per cent by wind power. division into all the fractions. Other tenants amounted to 6,751 tonnes CO2e. Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from travel The climate impact from water consumpin the property have been informed about the by road, air and rail and paper, printed matter, tion amounted to 42 tonnes CO2e in 2013. This significance of green rental agreements, and coffee and water. Folksam’s property holding, is an increase of 3 tonnes CO2e. The reason for discussions are in progress with several tenants which is an insurance premium investment, is the increase is that water consumption for the concerning green agreements. During the year also included here. acquisitions that took place in 2012 was not green rental agreements were also signed with reported in its entirety, i.e. for the whole year, Friskis & Svettis, who opened a new fitness until 2013. facility in Folksam’s premises at Skanstull in September, 2014. Green rental agreements require e.g: • an energy survey • tenants to be informed annually of their electricity, water and heating consumption Folksam’s property holding 59% Scope 1 2% • the landlord to purchase renewable or Folksam’s operations 41% Scope 2 12% carbon neutral energy for heating Scope 3 86% • the landlord and tenant to purchase renewable electricity from specified generation sources • carbon dioxide emissions to be calculated annually • waste to be sorted at source so that all fractions currently possible can be recycled 41 Environmentally friendly car repairs Suppliers trained in Good EnvironCollecting proposals for greener To reduce the environmental burden from mental Choice working methods car repairs, the workshops Folksam engages During 2013, the purchasing organisation carDuring the year we also collected proposals make extensive use of refurbished spare parts ried out digital environmental training courses for good working methods that can reduce instead of routinely choosing new parts. In with all of Folksam’s claims adjustment environmental impact at our claims adjusters addition, plastic parts and glass windows are suppliers in the building sector, and also began within the building and automotive sectors. repaired instead of always using new spare similar training with suppliers in the automoCollection took place in connection with the parts. Re-using and repairing instead of tive sector. In all, the training courses were Good Environmental Choice digital trainbuying new does not just represent a gain for sent to all 261 suppliers within the building ing course, and was aimed at all employees the environment but is also a good deal for sector, and all employees with customer conwith customer contact or who adjust claims Folksam and Folksam’s customers. In 2013, tact or who carry out claims adjustment were through one of our suppliers. In the process this approach contributed to the avoidance of urged to participate. During 2013, distribution all employees were asked to submit their own a 1,441-tonne mountain of waste and savings of the course was also begun to Folksam’s individual proposals on how to make their of just over SEK 147 million in the repair of 1,575 suppliers within the automotive sector. operations greener and have less negative damaged cars. The completed training resulted in the to all environmental impact. In all, we received 1,223 participants’ receiving the information necesproposals during 2013, and the level of comsary to create a fundamental understanding of mitment was great among our employees. the criteria that Good Environmental Choice demands of Folksam as an insurance company, and from claims adjustment suppliers. The objective was to disseminate foundational information to the participants on how the environment is affected by the day-to-day working methods in their respective industries, and how operations can work to reduce its negative environmental impact. 42 Folksam´s Research Foundation The purpose of the foundation is to promote prefactors, personality and a return to sport are the vention of accidents and disease, rehabilitation subjects of five separate studies. and health-promoting scientific research through Another approved research project went to its own activity or through financial grants. It is Chalmers University of Technology which will primarily intended to provide research grants in analyse a common whiplash protection. The the areas of road safety, health and the environprotection is highly effective for men but not for ment. women, and the study will seek to discover why In 2013, 53 applications for research grants the whiplash protection does not work for women were received. Seven grants were approved, to any great extent. This is an important piece among them an application from Karolinska of the puzzle for designing better car seats for University Hospital where sports-related injuries the future. A listed of all approved grants is set from a physiological and psychological perspecout below. tive with a focus on prevalence, predictors, risk Title Applicant The prevention of mental ill health among children Umeå University through our parental support programme: evaluation of implementation strategies and effects on parenthood and children's mental health. Cortisol a mechanical link between stress and the risk Södertälje Hospital of diabetes and obesity Stress resilience and recurrent stroke in middle age Örebro University Hospital Behavioural therapy combined with interventions Uppsala University Hospital focused on changes in the cerebral cortex and patients with complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) Sports-related injuries from a physiological and psychoKarolinska University Hospital logical perspective with a focus on prevalence, predictors, risk factors, personality and a return to sport. A study of the SAHR whiplash system (Saab Active Chalmers University of Technology Head Restraint); why is it not effective on women? The Folksam prize in epidemiological research Awarded to Olof Nyrén, Karolinska University Hospital 43 Prizes and awards Du är en vinnare igen! Folksam Life’s best life company Folksam commended for its report on Folksam was declared best life insurance comparesponsible investment ny of the year for the second year running at InFolksam was picked out for its especially praisesurance Awards in April 2013. Earlier in the year worthy initiatives as an investor in the Large Söderberg and Partners also declared Folksam Pension Fund category when the RI Reporting best life company of the year in its annual traffic Award was presented for the best report concernlight report. ing responsible investments. The news service Responsible Investor, which specialises in reportHome insurance Stor gets highest marks ing on responsible investments and sustainability Folksam’s Stor home insurance received the in the finance industry for institutional investors highest marks in December from Konsumentworldwide, is behind the RI Reporting Awards. ernas Försäkringsbyrå (Consumers’ Insurance The winner in the category was the Dutch penBureau). The bureau’s objective is to provide cussion fund Pensioensfonds Zorg en Welzijn. tomers with impartial information and guidance, free of charge. Folksam – A Swedish Career Company in 2013 KPA Pension and Folksam commended Every year the business periodicals di.se (Today’s by Sustainable Brands Industry) and Din karriär (Your Career) pick KPA Pension and Folksam held on to their exout the 100 most exciting companies in which to cellent rankings in the Sustainable Brand Index make a career in Sweden. Folksam is one of these survey, which selects Sweden’s most sustainable brands. KPA Pension was declared the most suscompanies. The justification from DI reads: ‘Having nominated and reviewed 300 companies, Årets livbolag 2011 och 2012 tainable finance industry company in 2013 while we are proud to present Folksam, which thanks Du som sparar hos oss kan känna dig som en vinnare. För andra året Folksam finished in third place on the same list. to its interest in its employer brand, genuine i rad har vi blivit utsedda till Årets livbolag av Söderberg & Partners. commitment to its employees and exciting career opportunities, is one of the country’s hundred Varför? Jo, vi har återigen visat att vi kan leverera en trygg produkt best employers for Young Professionals”. med bra avkastning. Ett tydligt bevis på att vi är ett riktigt bra företag CHBÄST att pensionsspara i. NS BRA 13 20 K 6999-13-03 44 Partnership and from being a warning signal to a chronic Gothenburg Prize for Sustainable condition in many people. Development In conjunction with Folksam’s acquisition Folksam is one of the sponsors of the Gothsponsorship of SalusAnsvar, the award will change its enburg Award for Sustainable Development. name to the ‘Nordic medicine prize in cooperThe topic in 2013 was ‘Nature´s services and ation with Folksam’ ingenious solutions’. The winners were Janine Benyus and Pavan Sukhdev. The prize seeks Swedish Association of Health Proto demonstrate what is necessary and possible fessionals’ prize in cooperation with in the struggle for a more sustainable future. Pay donations to We Effect medical conditions in the upper gastroinFolksam The year’s prizewinners showed examples of Folksam has been working together with the testinal tract. The amount awarded is SEK The Association of Health Professionals’ this and teach us to understand, value and be Swedish Cooperative Centre for many years. 100,000. prize was established by the association inspired by nature. Staff have the option of donating part of their In connection with Tore Andersson’s together with SalusAnsvar. The prize was first pay to the organisation through deductions retirement as Folksam’s previous CEO, a awarded in 2009 and up until now the amount from salary. The level of commitment is great. decision was made to donate funds to Karowas SEK 250,000, but this was doubled in Employees donated SEK 675,877 during 2013, linska University Hospital over a four-year 2013 to SEK 500,000. In connection with and Folksam doubled that amount. In addiperiod (2005-2008) for the award of a prize for Folksam’s acquisition of SalusAnsvar, the tion to this, Folksam made a Christmas gift of epidemiological research in Tore Andersson’s prize will henceforth be awarded by Folksam. SEK 100,000 and held a Christmas Fairtrade name. Following an extension, the name of the The purpose of the prize is to aid the Assogoods sale for the benefit of We Effect that donation was changed to the Folksam Prize ciation of Health Professionals’ endeavours gave SEK 5,355. Folksam’s total collection for Epidemiological Research. The prize was to achieve its vision. The prize is awarded to Swedish Cooperative Centre activities awarded for the last time in 2013. to one or more members of the Association amounted to SEK 1,457,109 in 2013. of Health Professionals who contribute in a The SalusAnsvar Award to pain significant way to their profession and thus The Folksam Prize in Epidemiological researchers improve Swedish healthcare. Research With a prize sum of SEK 1 million, the SalusThe winner in 2013 was Britt-Marie Banck, The prize is awarded to internationally Ansvar Award is one of the Nordic region’s a self-care dialysis nurse at the Ryhov County prominent researchers who conduct scientific biggest medical prizes and rewards research Hospital, Jönköping. Britt-Marie received activities where epidemiological material is focused on ‘medical problems that have a an award of SEK 250,000 for her work on used for prevention in the public health field. direct effect on the everyday lives of patients patient-centred care in dialysis. Other winners Olof Nyrén, Professor of Clinical Epidemioland which entail long-term impairment of were Lars-Erik Olsson, Clinical Lecturer, ogy at the Department of Medical Epidemiolthe ability to work. The 2013 recipients are ProDepartment of Orthopaedics, Sahlgrenska ogy and Biostatistics at Karolinska University fessor Eija Kalso, University of Helsinki and University Hospital, Mölndal. Annika Park, Hospital, was awarded the prize, among Associate Professor Eva Kosek, Karolinska Area Manager, Blomstervägens Dementia other things, for his research using large scale University Hospital, Stockholm. The two reCentre, Gislaved. Lena Renman, District epidemiological methods for studying causes, ceived the prize for research that has increased Nurse, Tegs Healthcare Centre, Umeå. Each progress and prognoses for a wide variety of the understanding of how pain can progress receives a sum of SEK 83,500. 45 Counselling – an valued service Cooperation with the Safer Sweden Förenade Liv’s During 2013, counselling as a preventive service made a positive impact. Behind this is Foundation For the fifth consecutive year, Förenade Liv social engagement the fact that most of us at one time or anothworked together with the Safer Sweden Founer need professional help due to private or dation an organisation that seeks to improve work-related problems. At work it might be a the circumstances for those affected by crime. matter of stress, burnout, bullying or problems The aim is to reduce crime and violence and cooperating, while in private life it could conimprove security in Sweden by ensuring the Förenade Liv continued to make active efforts to reduce violence in cern relationships, divorce, disputes, death, victims of crime receive relevant help, support financial problems, legal difficulties, substance and protection. Förenade Liv is one of around society. Violence leads to personal suffering, problems for society and abuse or problems with one’s children. Falck ten collaborative partners. increased costs for insurance policyholders. The aim of this initiative is Healthcare is the provider, and has experiThe Safer Sweden Foundation organised a enced psychologists and therapists. A great National Victims of Crime week in February, to raise awareness, reduce risks and create security for customers in the deal of interest has been shown in the service, 2013 that included a number of seminars and society we live in. not least by the trades unions. Vision, ST, workshops. Förenade Liv participated together Lärarförsäkringar and SULF have all signed with the other collaborative partners. In all, the agreements regarding counselling for their seminars were visited by 500 people and drew As information and awareness about Företo the same policy, for example when everyone members. From the beginning of 2013, Förethe attention of newspapers, radio and TV. nade Liv’s emergency insurance increases, in a family has suffered threats or family memnade Liv, by means of its surplus, has been demand for counselling has also risen. Grief bers all need support in the event of a death. able to offer all of its commercial customers Lectures, seminars and publications counselling has risen most in recent years. One Age distribution among those who received counselling services. Förenade Liv holds seminars and lectures on theory may be that while grief was previously support shows 27 per cent were born in the 80s anti-violence on an ongoing basis. During 2012 managed within the family, our lifestyles have or later and, at 25 per cent, the age group that Rehabilitation for a sustainable return the reportage book ‘Ta din unge och spring’ become so individualistic today we are no sought support most was born in the 60s. to work (Grab your kid and run) was published in longer as close to one another. According to the insurance conditions, In collaboration with Svenska Re, Förenade collaboration with Safer Sweden. The book Women make use of the insurance to compensation will be paid for therapy on 10 Liv offers everyone who has suffered an illness takes up the situation of children who are the a greater extent than men, which may be occasions, but in exceptional cases more are and who has critical illness insurance, a week’s victims of violence in school – the aim is to because to a degree women seek help more required. In such an eventuality the crisis and convalescence on Gran Canaria instead of/ help create safer schools. A seminar was held readily, but it is also because Förenade Liv has trauma centre makes contact with Förenade together with insurance compensation. Comat Almedalen as a continuation on the subject. more women policyholders. An emergency Liv for approval. Crisis and trauma centre mercial customers are offered the possibility The theme was ‘School – a threat to student may embrace several people linked statistics show the distribution for some assoof convalescence following long sickness health’ Co-arrangers were the Swedish Teachciations and the total. absence as part of the insurance bonus. ers’ Union, the Union for Professionals and the Swedish Association of Health Professionals. Type of crisis On St. Valentine’s Day, customers were Contract Total number people Women/men Grief Threats/Violence Illness Other invited by Claud Marcus, paediatrician speSwedish Police Union 28 19/9 21 1 3 3 cialising in obesity; Anders Milton, previously Vision 51 42/9 24 8 14 5 a government expert on mental health, and Swedish White-Collar 52 30/22 23 12 10 7 Charlie Söderberg, known for the TV series Workers' Union Tonårsbossen and Lyxfällan. The topic was Lärarförsäkringar 7 6/1 6 1 Children’s Health. In addition, Förenade Liv Others 43 29/14 15 3 6 19 carried out a number of customer meetings Total 181 126/55 89 24 34 34 during the autumn with Charlie Söderberg on the topic ‘Children’s Health from the view46 point of the family budget’ KPA Pension – a leader among Asset investments ethical investments The world’s collective pension assets have the power to influence progress. It is therefore important how the pension funds are invested. KPA Pension has chosen to manage its assets according to clearly defined ethical investment criteria – persuasive and disqualifying. Since 1998, KPA Pension has been working for a sustainable future by Rules that influence behaviour Rules on exclusion taking active responsibility for people and the environment. Above all, KPA Pension seeks to persuade companies In these areas, KPA Pension does not invest to take responsibility for people and the at all in: social responsibility is about managing assets according to our ethical environment in the areas described below: investment criteria, but it also places demands on us as a company – KPA Weapons Human rights KPA Pension does not invest in activities that Pension must naturally set a good example and practice what it preaches. Customers’ funds are invested in companies harm people and the environment. One such We make conscious efforts to minimise our own environmental impact, in which human rights are respected. By area is weapons. We have defined weapons as conducting a dialogue with the companies, we products with the purpose of killing, maiming create a good working environment for all employees and support various influence them to take greater responsibility or destroying that are sold to military users. forms of social and environmental initiatives in the community. for issues that affect human rights. Tobacco Environment KPA Pension does not invest in companies KPA Pension invests its customers’ pension that produce tobacco products. By tobacco KPA Pension’s sustainability strategy – KPA Pension’s ethical position strengthfunds in companies that make active efforts to protection, we also refer to the ownership of • KPA Pension seeks to be the leading ens the brand and attracts more customreduce their negative impact on the environtobacco plantations. pension company in secure pensions and ers in our target group, which results in ment. We take an active role in developing ethical investments. increased profitability and competitivegreener energy by only investing in selected Alcohol • The strategic focus of KPA Pension is ness. energy companies that work on the developKPA Pension does not invest in companies to fulfil the wishes of its owners, social • Because we must practice what we preach, ment of sustainable energy. that produce alcoholic beverages, i.e. beverpartners and customers regarding secure, everyone in KPA Pension should continuages with an alcohol content of more than 2.25 sustainable pensions. ously be offered inspiration, support and Corruption per cent by volume. • Sustainable development must not only training in sustainable development. We KPA Pension will influence the companies we inform all of KPA Pension’s internal work, must work to reduce the environmental invest in by preventing corruption in its busiGambling but also the products and services it offers. burden of our own operations. ness relations. Corruption is a great problem in KPA Pension does not invest in companies This is to generate business benefit and cus• KPA Pension must be the leader in the many countries, as competition is eliminated, involved in commercial gambling. We undertomer benefit, as well as a sustainable future municipal occupational pensions market growth is inhibited and social development is stand commercial gambling to mean casinos for people and the environment, because: with regard to ethical investments. curbed. and gambling clubs. – Our view is that ethical investments • KPA Pension’s sustainability efforts must bring a more stable and better return as be transparent and measurable. well-managed companies are more secure and, in the long term, more profitable. 47 Dialogue as a way of exerting influence Collaboration with the Swedish Society One of the most important aspects of KPA for Nature Conservation and the Swedish Pension’s work is its active influence on the comUN Association panies in which it invests. We hold dialogues with During the year, KPA Pension consolidated companies so they continuously improve their its collaboration with the Swedish Society for work and become better at taking responsibility, Nature Conservation and the Swedish UN in particular for human rights, the environment Association. In collaboration with the Swedish and counteracting corruption. The work, which Society for Nature Conservation, KPA Pension is reported on pages 19-20, is conducted in colparticipated in various exhibitions and wrote laboration with the department for responsible an opinion piece to further influence society ownership at Folksam. KPA Pension works in collaboration with the the Swedish UN Association to strengthen the Sustainability issues continue to be imindividual’s rights in society ­something which portant for customers and employees KPA Pension customers feel strongly about – and Surveys carried out during the year indicate that supports its school meals campaigns, mainly in 89 per cent of KPA Pension’s employees think it Ethiopia. Eva Axelsson, Sustainability Manager is extremely important to work for an employer at KPA Pension, was elected to the Swedish UN who takes sustainability issues into consideraAssociation’s fund collection committee. tion. All employees undergo training in sustainability through full day, in-house training sessions Read more in KPA Pension’s own and also from guest lecturers. Customers also sustainability report continued to consider sustainability issues to During the year, KPA Pension launched a fully be important – among municipal and county digital sustainability report on its website. This employees, 8 out of 10 say it is important that enables a more continual reporting and follow-up pensions and investments are ethical, and equally of various initiatives. as many say they feel that employers should purchase ethical pensions services. During the year Swedish media drew attention to the risks with oil companies. KPA Pension continues to invest in sound energy companies that invest in renewable energy. However, in order to remain transparent and to develop measurability in how we influence the companies we invest in, we need more information. We have therefore initiated a project – Fossil Free Future – whose long-term aim is to continue investing in secure, ethical energy companies. We believe the entire industry faces a challenge in this regard, and we believe strongly that it is better to remain with sound energy companies and continue to influence them from inside rather than divest. 48 Our figures and Women Gender distribution boards and management (per cent) 2013 2012 2011 2010 Board of Folksam Life 50 50 50 50 Board of Folksam General 50 58 58 58 calculation methods Group management 45 45 45 33 Men Gender distribution boards and management (per cent) 2013 2012 2011 2010 Board of Folksam Life 50 50 50 50 Employees Board of Folksam General Group management 50 55 42 55 42 55 42 67 Employees, Folksam Total Employees 2013 2012 2011 2010 Overall index, employee survey (per cent)* 76 72 72 72 Number of employees 3641 3497 3400 3637 Have individual performance goals (per cent)* 92 93 91 – of whom women (per cent) 53 52 51 50 Feel great commitment to their work (per cent)* 84 85 82 87 – of whom men (per cent) 47 48 49 50 Overall index leadership, immediate superior (per cent)* 79 76 75 77 Average age 44.8 45.3 45.2 45.5 Totalindex ledarskap, närmaste chef (procent)* 79 76 75 77 Number of managers 381 356 334 360 – of whom women (per cent) 47 47 47 43 Percentage who changed positions in the past 12 months 2013 2012 2011 2010 – of whom men (per cent) 53 53 53 57 On own initiative via advertised position (per cent) 8 – – – Employee turnover (%) 9.8 12.0 8.0 4.7 In connection with restructuring (per cent) 8 – – – * Percentage who responded 4-5 on a 5-point scale in the employee survey, 2013 Age distribution (%) 2013 2012 2011 2010 -29 years 13.2 11.1 9.7 8.5 30-39 20.5 20.7 20.8 21.9 Total sickness absence, 2013 (2012) in per cent 40-49 30.0 31.3 31.4 30.4 Age Men Women Total 50-59 27.6 27.5 28.3 28.0 29 3.6 (4.6) 6.9 (6.0) 5.2 (5.4) over 60 8.7 9.4 9.9 11.2 30-49 2.3 (2.2) 5.2 (4.3) 3.9 (3.3) over 50 3.1 (2.2) 5.6 (4.7) 4.4 (3.4) Form of employment (%) 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total 2.8 (2.4) 5.5 (4.6) 4.2 (3.5) Employees on permanent contracts 97 98 97 97 Employees on fixed-term contracts 3 2 3 3 Of which long-term sickness absence, 2013 (2012) in per cent Full-time employees 92 92 91 91 Age Men Women Total Part-time employees 8 8 9 9 29 2.4 (3.7) 15.1 (20.0) 10.5 (13.3) 30-49 12.3 (29.1) 33.8 (29.4) 28.1 (29.3) over 50 33.9 (32.0) 32.2 (31.3) 32.8 (31.9) Total 20.4 (26.4) 30.9 (29.3) 27.6 (28.3) 49 Calculation methods, Number of managers employees Same as number of staff (see above). All data is gathered from Folksam’s salary Employee turnover system HRM. Same as number of staff (see above). Calculated as the lower of the number of new external Subsidiaries employees or employees who have left during The tables showing personnel key indicathe year as a percentage of the number of tors include all subsidiaries except Folksam employees in December. skadeförsäkring in Finland Limitations: Staff paid by the hour and on the basis of fees are not Age distribution included in the tables of key staff indicators. Same as number of staff (see above). Number of staff Form of employment, employees Includes all staff on permanent contracts and Same as number of staff (see above). in their probationary period, as well as staff on fixed-term contracts. Excludes staff paid by the Sickness absence hour and on the basis of fees. Reported sickness absence in relation to scheduled hours. Proportion calculated on same Average age population as number of staff (see above). Same as number of staff (see above). Calculated over full calendar year. 50 Environmental data Energy and water Energy use 2013 Total 2013 Folksam (Skanstull, Folksam's property Kilometres travelled 2013 2012 2011 field and sales offices holding (General, KPA Pension Rail travel 2,008,178 1,898,241 1,653,665 plus Förenade Liv) Life1, Life2) (60%) Road travel 4,584,670 5,238,550 4,876,800 Heat consumption (MWh) 9,076 2 32,019 8,016 49,111 Air travel 4,366,086 4,338,419 3,901,738 Electricity consumption (MWh) 8,999 11,729 2,788 23,516 Total kilometres travelled 10,958,934 11,475,210 10,432,203 Total energy consumption (MWh) 18,075 43,748 10,804 72,627 Road travel Energy use 2012 Total 2012 Car journeys in Folksam 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Folksam (Skanstull, Folksam's property field and sales offices holding (General, KPA Pension Distance in km (x 10) driven on plus Förenade Liv) Life1, Life2) (60%) official business 458,467 523,855 487,680 518,744 574,697 Heat consumption (MWh) 4,612 3 35,768 5,446 45,826 Of which driven with cars meeting Folksam's environElectricity consumption (MWh) 10,114 12,727 2,003 24,844 mental and safety requirements on purchase 123,989 145,500 158,940 184,179 185,355 Total energy consumption (MWh) 14,726 48,495 7,449 70,670 Total carbon dioxide emissions from car travel in tonnes 765 873 800 843 944 Increase/decrease in carbon Energy use 2011 Total 2011 dioxide emissions due to more/fewer km driven, in Folksam (Skanstull, Folksams property tonnes -108 +73 -43 -101 +28 field and sales offices holding (General, KPA Pension plus Förenade Liv) Life1, Life2) (60%) Heat consumption (MWh) 4,6874 32,948 2,602 40,237 Paper and printed matter Electricity consumption (MWh) 10,204 12,506 698 5 23,408 kg CO2/ Tonne Total energy consumption (MWh) 14,891 45,454 3,300 63,645 Quantity, kg tonne paper CO2 Paper 431,156 189 82 Printed matter 279,158 204 57 Water consumption 2013 Total 2013 Total 2012 Total 2011 Folksam's property holding Folksam (General, Life1, KPA Pension Coffee (Skanstull) Life2) (60%) 2013 2012 2011 Water consumption, m 3 22,980 6 312,461 101,825 437,266 410,585 365,414 Total quantity 14,156 1 9,712 8,742 1 2013 included all coffee purchased to the Folksam operation 2 Heating for field offices and sales offices estimated 3 Included only Skanstull’s heating 4 Included only Skanstull’s heating 5 Electricity in MWh reported incorrectly in the 2011 sustainability report; has been adjusted 6 Includes only Skanstull’s water consumption 51 Subcontractors Calculation methods, Electricity, heating and water consumption Vehicle workshops environment Energy consumption derives from properties that Folksam either owns and in which it 2013 2012 2011 Folksam’s total carbon dioxide emisconducts operations, properties it only owns, Number of partners 895 864 1,284 sions for carbon offsets in 2013 or premises it rents for its operations. The Number of partners totally fulfilling requirements 598 542 687 Folksam sustainability report shows water, form of ownership and whether operations are Proportion of partners totally fulfilling requirements 67 % 63 % 54 % electricity and heat consumption from its undertaken in the premises or not affect what own operations and its property holding. The is included in Folksam’s total energy and water report also presents emissions from company consumption. Folksam consists of the followtravel by air, rail and road using Folksam’s and ing four legal entities, which are included in the Vehicle disassembly plants its subsidiaries’ leased cars and employee cars. consumption figures. 2013 2012 2011 The climate footprint also contains emissions • Folksam Life1 (wholly owned properties) Number of partners 8 8 11 from paper, printed matter and coffee. In addi• Folksam Life2 (formerly Gyllenforsen, of Number of partners totally fulfilling requirements 8 8 9 tion, the report shows how many of Folksam’s which Folksam owns 71%). Proportion of partners totally fulfilling requirements 100 % 100 % 82 % partners, with regard to vehicle workshops, ve• Folksam General (wholly owned properhicle disassembly plants, building contractors ties) and washing and clean-up companies, fulfil • KPA Pension (60% owned by Folksam) Folksam’s environmental requirements. There is also the Folksam subsidiary Förenade Building contractors Where possible, emissions have been calLiv, which rents two office premises. 2013 2012 2011 culated in CO2e, carbon dioxide equivalents. Consumption figures for and electricity, Number of partners 201 204 186 Carbon dioxide equivalents mean that all six water and heating are based on meter readings Number of partners totally fulfilling requirements 118 137 124 greenhouse gases and not just carbon dioxide in Folksam’s property system as of January Proportion of partners totally fulfilling requirements 59 % 67 % 67 % are included in the emissions calculations. 31 every year. Adjustments to e.g. emissions This ensures that Folksam carbon-offsets the factorials and make the errors take place conwhole of its climate impact and not just carbon tinually, which explains any deviations from dioxide emissions. For the same reason, the previous years’ accounts in the sustainability Washing and clean-up companies principle is to calculate conservatively and report. Folksam’s climate offset for 2012 emis2013 2012 2011 make high estimates in instances where data is sions is based on the carbon footprint reported Number of partners 71 69 59 scarce, for example for the calculation of the in the 2012 sustainability report. Number of partners totally fulfilling requirements 59 59 49 climate impact of other vehicles and printed Proportion of partners totally fulfilling requirements 83% 86 % 83 % matter. New items in the 2013 sustainability Heating of premises report concern an extension of the accounting The information on carbon dioxide emissions of coffee, and the inclusion of heating from from properties in 2013 is based on heating Folksam’s offices around Sweden. consumption statistics in MWh and CO2 from our property manager. Heating for field offices and sales offices is estimated Life2 is 71 per cent owned by Folksam. The carbon dioxide emissions in the 2013 sustainability report are equivalent to Folksam’s share, 52 that is to say 71 per cent of the total carbon dioxide emissions are equivalent to Folksam’s Road travel Paper, printed matter and coffee dioxide emissions for Life2. share, that is to say 60 per cent of the total The figures for Folksam and its subsidiaries’ Statistics for paper, printed matter and copy KPA Pension is 60 per cent owned by emissions from water consumption of KPA road vehicle emissions are based on mileage come from Folksam’s purchasing department Folksam. Reported carbon dioxide emissions Pension’s properties. allowance statistics. Car journeys included and from the communications department. are equivalent to Folksam’s share, that is to say these cars and employees own cars used for Statistics about purchased copier paper, enve60 per cent of the carbon dioxide emissions Air travel business. The cars are divided into two catelopes, output data production, printed matter from heating of KPA Pension’s properties. Folksam’s business travel and that of its gories: Car A) number of kilometres driven and coffee have been reported by weight for subsidiaries is included in the 2013 sustainawith cars that, on purchase, met Folksam’s reconversion to CO2 equivalents. Electricity consumption in properties bility report. Carbon dioxide emissions from quirements on safety and the environment (i.e. Carbon dioxide emissions from electricity use air travel in 2013 are based on statistics from fuel-efficient petrol and diesel cars, ethanol in Folksam’s properties in 2013 is relatively low our travel agency, Ticket. The emissions figure cars, natural gas cars and hybrids) and Car B) Folksam's head office is located in as Folksam uses electricity certified as generatfrom the travel agency has been multiplied number of kilometres driven by other cars. Stockholm. ed by wind power and Good Environmental by a factor of two. The reason being that the • We assume that Folksam-approved vehicles Choice labelled. Consumption in 2013 is based climate impact of air travel is higher than (Vehicle A) emit 129 grams/km*. This is Folksam on actual consumption figures. Folksam owns overland transportation. This is due in part an estimate of the average emissions of Postal address SE-106 60 Stockholm, a 71 per cent interest in Gyllenforsen. Carbon to water vapour and nitrogen oxides being this group of vehicles; see more about the Sweden dioxide emissions are equivalent to Folksam’s released at high altitude and forming contrails vehicle group above. Visitor address Bohusgatan 14 share, that is to say 71 per cent of the total and ozone that has a warming effect. Using • We assume that (Car B) emits 181 grams/ Telephone +46-771-960 960 carbon dioxide emissions of Life2’s electricity a multiplier is in line with practice by several km** (according to the figures from the E-mail kundservice@folksam.se consumption. KPA Pension is 60 per cent actors that do climate calculations. Swedish Environmental Protection Agency). owned by Folksam. Reported carbon dioxide emissions are equivalent to Folksam’s share, Rail travel Calculation of emissions from vehicles: that is to say 60 per cent of the total emissions Folksam and its subsidiaries’ climate footprint from electricity consumption of KPA Penfrom rail travel is based on statistics on the (Car A) km x 129 gram = (CO2 Car A) sion’s properties. number of passenger kilometres from SJ and (Car B) km x 181 gram = (CO2 Car B) the emissions were calculated in the tool Our Water consumption in properties Impacts. Total: CO2 Car A + CO2 Car B = Total Carbon dioxide emissions from water in CO2 Car Folksam’s offices and properties are based on actual consumption figures. Water con* Based on average carbon dioxide emissions from Folksam-approved vehicles. sumption for the sales and field offices is not ** Based on average carbon dioxide emissions from new cars in included in the reported water consumption. Sweden 2006-2008, Swedish Environmental Protection Agency Report 5946. The emissions have been calculated with the calculation tool Our Impacts. The carbon dioxide emissions are equivalent to Folksam’s share, that is to say 71 per cent of the total carbon dioxide emissions from water consumption of Gyllenforsen. KPA Pension is 60 per cent owned by Folksam. Reported carbon 53 GRI Index Folksam Sustainability Report, 2013 Folksam reports it sustainability work in an annual sustainability report. In addition to this there are annual reports for the different companies(AR-GENERAL, AR-LIFE, AR-KPA) and Corporate Governance Reports (SR-GENERAL, SR-LIFE) in which some of the information is available. Some of the material attributable to Folksam’s work on sustainability is also available on the internet at www.folksam.se and/or www.kpa.se. All of the reports are available for download at www.folksam.se. GRI G3 Cross-reference list Strategy and profile 1. Strategy and Analysis G3 disclosures Description Page reference Scope (fully, partially or Comments not reported) 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisaA Word from the CEO, page 3 Fully tion (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. The reportFolksam's organisation and governFully ing organisation must include two brief paragraphs describing ance, pages 13-14, Corporate Govmaterial effects, risks and opportunities. ernance, pages 21-25,, Environment, pages 39-42 2. Organisational profile G3 disclosures Description Page reference Scope (fully, partially or Comments not reported) 2.1 Name of the organisation About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully page 7 2.2 Key brands, products and/or services This is Folksam, page 4; AR pages Fully Read more about the individual companies at folksam.se, 22-23 kpa.se and forenadeliv.se 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main diviFolksam's organisation and governFully sions,operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures ance, page 9; AR page 23 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters page 53 Fully 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully names of countries with either major operations or that are page 7 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form This is Folksam, page 4; Folksam's Fully organisation and governance, page 11; Environment, page 23 54 2.7 Markets served This is Folksam, page 4; About the Fully 2013 sustainability report, page 7; AR, pages 52-53 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation This is Folksam, page 4; Employees, Fully Further information is available in Folksam's Annual Report page 28 2013 at folksam.se and in the individual company annual reports (Folksam General and Folksam Life at folksam.se; KPA Pension's annual report can be found at kpa.se, Contact Förenade Liv for its annual report on: Tel +46 8-700 42 00). 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period in regard to Organisation and Governance, page Fully size, structure or ownership. 11. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Prizes and awards, page 44 Fully 3. Report parameters G3 disclosures Description Page reference Scope (fully, partially or Comments not reported) 3.1 Reporting period for information provided (e.g. fiscal/calendar About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully year) for the information reported. page 7 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully page 7 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully page 7 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully page 7 3.5 Process for defining report content. About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully Folksam uses GRI's reporting principles in support of decipage 7 sions about which areas and indicators will be reported. 3.6 Boundary of the report About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully page 7 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully report page 7 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Our figures and calculation methods, Fully facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can pages 49-53 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, Our figures and calculation methods, Fully including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations pages 49-53 applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Our figures and calculation methods, Fully provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statepages 49-53 ment (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Our figures and calculation methods, Fully scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the pages 49-53 report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the This document, pages 54-60 Fully report. 55 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Independent assurance report, page Fully assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report 61. accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organisation and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement G3 disclosures Description Page Scope (fully, partially or Comments not reported) 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees Folksam's organisation and governFully under the highest governance body responsible for specific ance, pages 9-12, SR General, pages tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 3-8, and SR Life, pages 3-8 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is Folksam's organisation and governFully also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the ance, page 9; SR General and SR organisation's management and the reasons for this arrangeLife, pages 11-13 ment). 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the SR General and SR Life, pages 6, 9-10 Fully number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. State how the organisation defines ‘independent’ and ‘non-executive’. This element applies only for organisations that have unitary board structures. See the glossary for a definition of ‘independent. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recomSee Comments Fully Information is available at folksam.se. Delegates who wish mendations or direction to the highest governance body to have business taken up at Folksam's AGMs may submit proposals in this regard. Delegates represent owners/customers at AGMs. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest AR–LIFE: Note 48, pages 99-101, AR Fully Links to social and environmental results may occur in comgovernance body, senior managers, and executives (including General: Notes 50, pages 101-103 pensation related to individual goals. departure arrangements), and the organisation's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Folksam's organisation and governFully Folksam complies with the Swedish Corporate Governance conflicts of interest are avoided. ance, page 11; SR General pages 4-8, code when reporting defined-benefits commitments. The SR Life pages 4-8 annual reports are available for download at folksam.se. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of Folksam's organisation and governFully the members of the highest governance body for guiding the ance, page 11 organisation's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Folksam's organisation and governFully conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, ance, page 10 and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the International agreements and frameFully organisation's identification and management of economic, works, page 6; Folksam's organisaenvironmental, and social performance, including relevant risks tion and governance, pages 11-12, and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internaRenowned Corporate Governance, tionally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. pages 21-26, Pro-Active EnvironmenInclude frequency with which the highest governance body tal Protection, pages 39-42. assesses sustainability performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own SR-General and SR Life, pages 14-17 Fully performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 56 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Not Folksam material. Fully The criterion is not reported as it is not relevant to Folksam's principle is addressed by the organisation. Article 15 of the Rio operation. Principles introduced the precautionary approach. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social International agreements and frameFully charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisaworks, page 6 tion subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) International agreements and frameFully and/or national/international advocacy organisations. works, page 6; Renowned Corporate Governance, page 26, Leading edge road safety research, page 33. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Customers, page 6; Renowned CorPartially porate Governance, page 21, Employees, page 27, Pro-Active Environmental Protection, page 39, Leading edge road safety research, page 33. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom Customers, page 6; Renowned CorFully to engage. This includes the organisation’s process for defining porate Governance, page 21, Employits stakeholder groups, and for determining the groups with ees, page 27, Pro-Active Environmenwhich to engage and not to engage. tal Protection, page 39, Leading edge road safety research, page 33. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully Folksam posts blogs about responsible ownership, road engagement by type and by stakeholder group. page 7; Customers, page 6; Resafety and savings. Folksam also communicates via a nowned Corporate Governance, page Twitter flow. 21, Employees, page 28, Pro-Active Environmental Protection, page 39, Leading edge road safety research, page 33. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeAbout the 2013 sustainability report, Fully holder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to page 7; Customers, page 6; Rethose key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. nowned Corporate Governance, page 21, Employees, page 28. Economic effects Performance Description Page reference Scope (fully, partially or Comments indicators not reported) Disclosures on sustainability governance About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully Catrina Ingelstam is Finance Director and a member of page 7; Folksam's organisation and Group management in charge of Financial Procedures and governance, pages 10-14, Renowned Purchasing. Corporate Governance, pages 21-26, SR General pages 1-15, SR Life pages 1-13 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations page 4 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the A Word from the CEO, page 3; Fully organisation's activities due to climate change. Renowned Corporate Governance, page 21, Karin Stenmar, page 38, Pro-Active Environmental Protection, page 39. EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations. AR–LIFE: Note 43, AR General Note Fully Folksam complies with Swedish accounting legislation 45 when reporting defined-benefits commitments. The annual reports are available for download at folksam.se/about us/ annual reports EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. See Comments Fully Folksam receives no state assistance. 57 Environmental impact Performance Description Page reference Scope (fully, partially or Comments indicators not reported) Disclosures on sustainability governance About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully Karin Stenmar is Folksam's Environmental Director. page 7; Organisation and governance, page 12, Pro-Active Environmental Protection, page 39, Our figures and calculation methods, page 49 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Pro-Active Environmental Protection, Fully pages 40-41, Our figures and calculation methods, page 51 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Pro-Active Environmental Protection, Partially pages 39-42, Our figures and calculation methods, page 49-53 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Good Environmental Choice, page 6; Fully Not possible to quantify the reductions. based products and services, and reductions in energy requirePro-Active Environmental Protection, ments as a result of these initiatives. pages 39-42, Our figures and calculation methods, page 49-53 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reducPro-Active Environmental Protection, Fully Not possible to quantify the reductions. tions achieved. pages 39-42, Our figures and calculation methods, page 49-53 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Our figures and calculation methods, Fully page 51 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Pro-Active Environmental Protection, Fully pages 39-41 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Pro-Active Environmental Protection, Fully The information reported refers to carbon dioxide emissions pages 39-40 from Folksam's business travel, printed materials and the consumption of coffee and paper. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Pro-Active Environmental Protection, Fully achieved. page 41, Our figures and calculation methods, page 51 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Pro-Active Environmental Protection, Fully services, and extent of impact mitigation. page 42, Our figures and calculation methods, page 51 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Pro-Active Environmental Protection, Fully other goods and materials used for the organisation's operapage 40, Our figures and calculation tions, and transporting members of the workforce. methods, page 51 Social impact: Terms and conditions of employment Performance Description Page reference Scope (fully, partially or Comments indicators not reported) Disclosures on sustainability governance About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully Harriet Pontán is HR director and the Group management page 7; Organisation and governmember in charge of issues that concern terms and condiance, page 12, Employees, page 39 tions of employment. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Employees, page 28, Our figures and Fully The majority of Folksam's employees work in Sweden. region. calculation methods, page 49 Folksam also has an operation in Finland – Folksam Skadeförsäkring – which employs around 180 people However, information concerning personnel does not cover this component. 58 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Employees, page 28, Our figures and Fully Folksam has not included employee turnover by age or gender and region. calculation methods, page 49 gender as this is not relevant to the operation. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining See Comments Fully All Folksam employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. agreements in accordance with Folksam's employment contract, with the exception of the CEO and Group management members. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, See Comments Fully According to the collective bargaining agreement the miniincluding whether it is specified in collective agreements. mum period of notice when Folksam announces redundancies due to lack of work is 12 months. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeEmployees, page 28, Our figures and Fully Folksam reports sickness absence according to Swedish ism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. calculation methods, page 49 accounting legislation. In principle, personal injury and absence due to injury does not occur in Folksam's operations. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control Employees, page 28, Our figures and Partially programmes in place to assist workforce members, their famicalculation methods, page 49 lies, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Employees, page 30, Our figures and Partially At present, Folksam lacks reliable information on the numcategory. calculation methods, page 49 ber of educational and training hours per employee. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employEmployees, page 28, Our figures and Fully Folksam reports this indicator by gender and age group. ees per category according to gender, age group, minority calculation methods, page 49 Also refer to the Corporate Governance Report for Folksam group membership, and other indicators of diversity. General and Folksam Life, which are available for download at folksam.se. Social impact: Human rights Performance Description Page reference Scope (fully, partially or Comments indicators not reported) Disclosures on sustainability governance About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully Folksam's work with human rights is concerns primarily the page 7; Organisation and governwork pursued by proactive corporate governance. In 2010, ance, pages 10-12, Renowned CorpoFolksam began reviewing with building materials suppliers rate Governance, page 21. had operations in low-wage countries. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreeRenowned Corporate Governance, Fully ments that include human rights clauses or that have undergone pages 21-26 human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Renowned Corporate Governance, Fully Folksam applies proactive corporate governance to encourundergone screening on human rights and actions taken. pages 21-26 age companies to assume their social responsibility. In 2013, the activities of 1,847 companies were audited with a focus on corporate performance regarding the environment and human rights. It is not possible to provide information on percentages. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. See Comments Partially Folksam works pro actively against discrimination within the company in compliance with the provisions of applicable laws and regulations. Social impact: Social issues Performance Description Page reference Scope (fully, partially or Comments indicators not reported) Disclosures on sustainability governance About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully page 7; Organisation and governance, pages 10-12. 59 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for See Comments Partially Folksam pursues insurance operations and compensates risks related to corruption. expenses for many different types of claims. Because of the extent of the operation we run, there is always a risk of corruption. In order to exercise sufficient control and to combat this type of crime in both practical and preventive terms, we employ building auditors and claims auditors who work to insure that corruption does not occur in connection with insurance matters. They carry out various types of checks in our systems. They check the accuracy of our physical claims documents and also carry out follow-up inspections in our customers' locations. Standards are higher when settling major claims, and settlement and payout is performed on commission There are also attestation regulations to be complied with. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's anti-corrupSee Comments Partially Employees receive ongoing training in the gifts and bention policies and procedures. efits they may receive in regard to bribery, corruption and taxation perspectives. An ethical rules booklet is provided to all employees and is also available for download on the intranet. All managers are encouraged to discuss these issues with their employees on an ongoing basis. At present, Folksam lacks reliable information on the number of employees thus trained. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. See Comments Fully No incidents of corruption were reported during 2013. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy develRenowned Corporate Governance, Fully opment and lobbying. pages 21-26 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of See Comments Fully No breaches of legislation or regulations took place during non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and the year. regulations. Social impact: Product responsibility Performance Description Page reference Scope (fully, partially or Comments indicators not reported) Disclosures on sustainability governance About the 2013 sustainability report, Fully page 7; Organisation and governance, pages 10-12, Customers, page 12, Renowned Corporate Governance, page 21, Pro-Active Environmental Protection, page 39. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Customers, page 16 Fully surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with See Comments Fully No breaches of legislation or regulations took place during laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of prodthe year. ucts and services. 60 Auditor’s report on the review of the Folksam Sustainability Report 2013 To the readers of the Folksam Sustainability Report Introduction The criteria on which our review is based consist of applicable parts of the Sustainability We have been engaged by the Boards of Directors and Executive Management of Folksam Reporting Guidelines, G3, issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and the accounting ömsesidig livförsäkring and Folksam ömsesidig sakförsäkring (Folksam) to conduct a review and calculation principles developed for the purpose and disclosed by the company. These are of the contents of the Folksam Sustainability Report 2013. The company has defined the scope described on pages 7, 50 and 52-53. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparations of of its sustainability report on pages 7, and 54-60. the Sustainability Report. the Boards of Directors and Executive Management’s responsibility for We regard the evidence we have obtained during our ordered are sufficient and appropriate in the sustainability report. order to provide grounds for the opinion we provide below. It is the Board of Directors and the Executive Management that bear the responsibility for day-to-day work regarding the environment, working environment, quality, social responsiOpinion bility and sustainable development, and for preparing and presenting the sustainability report Based on our review procedures, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe in compliance with applicable criteria as described on page 7 of the sustainability report, and that the Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, have been prepared in accordcomprising those parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3 (published by The Globance with the above stated criteria. al Reporting Initiative (GRI)) applicable to said report, and the company’s own reporting and calculation principles. Stockholm, March 14, 2014 Auditor’s Responsibility KPMG AB Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. Anders Bäckström Torbjörn Westman We have conducted our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports, Authorised Public Accountant Specialist member, Swedish institute for issued by FAR. A review consists in making enquiries, primarily among persons responsible professional authorised public accountants for preparing the sustainability report, and in performing analytical and other review procedures. The review is substantially less in scope and has another direction compared to an audit conducted according to IAASB standards on auditing, quality control and good accounting practice otherwise has. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain an assurance that would make us aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. 61 Address Postal address SE-106 60 Stockholm, Sweden Visitor address Bohusgatan 14 Telephone +46-771-960 960 For further information, please contact: Helena Hjeltström Telephone +46 8-772 83 61 Project Manager Helena Hjeltström Production Manager Kerstin Lager Art Direction, illustrations Markus Jansson Graphic design, infographics Monica Jälmevik Copywriter Helena Odsvall Photographers Alexander Pihl pages 3, 8, 15, 19, 27, 32 and 38 Lars Nyman pages 29 Andreas Lind remaining pages 62 S 11990 13-09
