Sustainable development report 2014 Supplement to the integrated annual report 30 June 2014 AT A GLANCE OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2014: SUMMARY Implats is one of the world’s primary producers of PGMs and associated base metals Production data*** 2014 2013** 2012** Variance % Tonnes milled (000t) 13 916 17 209 16 626 19 Refined platinum (000oz) 1 178 1 582 1 448 26 PGMs (000oz) 2 370 3 233 3 016 27 Revenue (Rm) 29 028 29 844 27 393 3 Capital invested (Rm) 4 384 6 258 7 894 30 Taxes* (Rm) 144 1 392 1 808 4 Unit cost per oz Pt* (Rand) 19 430 16 526 13 466 18 People 2014 2013 2012 Variance % Employees in service Own Number 40 238 40 237 39 621 – Contractors Number 15 602 17 130 22 483 9 Turnover % 5 6 10 33 HDSA in management % 50 48 48 4 Safety rates FIFR Pmmhw 0.043 0.065 0.087 34 LTIFR Pmmhw 3.92 4.21 4.96 7 TIFR Pmmhw 11.90 10.91 11.19 9 RIFR Pmmhw 2.68 3.06 3.13 12 Employees’ health People on wellness programmes Number 6 286 6 014 5 179 5 Total people on ART Number 4 276 4 039 3 566 6 TB cases Number 268 334 389 20 Medical incapacitation Number 331 588 699 44 The environment 2014 2013 2012 Variance % Energy consumed (000GJ) 14 395 17 574 17 542 18 Energy intensity (GJ/tonne milled) 1.034 0.955 0.986 8 Total CO2 emissions (000t) 3 037 3 788 3 707 18 Total direct SO2 emissions (t) 30 735 18 536 18 463 66 Total water consumed (Mℓ) 34 775 40 711 40 114 15 Water withdrawn (Mℓ) 21 365 25 440 25 274 16 Water intensity (Mℓ/tonne milled) 0.0025 0.0022 0.0023 14 Total water recycled (Mℓ) 13 409 15 271 14 839 12 Social capital 2014 2013 2012 Variance % SED expenditure (RSA) (Rm) 71 102 90 30 SED expenditure (Zimbabwe) (Rm) 67 89 71 25 Total SED spend (Rm) 138 191 161 28 Housing and living conditions expenditure (RSA) (Rm) 261 445 430 41 Housing and living conditions expenditure (Zimbabwe) (US$m) 15 24 66 38 Improvement Deterioration * Excluding share-based payments ** Restated due to exclusion of Mimosa, which is now equity accounted *** Production data excludes Mimosa thus impacts intensity factors. Variance 2014 versus 2013 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 AT A GLANCE OUR STRATEGIC JOURNEY Page / 1 Our vision is to be the world’s best platinum producing company, delivering superior returns to stakeholders relative to our peers BEHAVIOUR EXCELLENCE Safe and effective Deliver operational people who respect excellence and and care for continuous each other improvement AT A GLANCE Our strategic journey … becoming the BEST IFC / Our performance in 2014: Summary Strategic objectives 01 / Our strategic journey BEHAVIOUR EXCELLENCE Safe and effective Deliver operational SUSTAINABILITY people who respect TOGETHER excellence and OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE andnatural Conserve care for Social capital continuous resources and each other and licence improvement mitigate the to operate 02 / Our approach to reporting impacts of our operations 03 / CEO’s statement 10 / Changing minds, changing mines, Strategic objectives putting southern Africa first BEHAVIOUR EXCELLENCE 12 / Responding to the WBCSD, NDP, DPFA Safe and effective Deliver operational people who respect excellence and 17 / Our vision, mission and values and care for continuous SUSTAINABILITY improvement each other TOGETHER 18 / Responding to the Mining Charter Conserve natural Social capital resources and and licence 22 / Who we are – what we do mitigate the to operate BEHAVIOUR impacts of EXCELLENCE 24 / The challenging business context ourand Safe Strategic objectives effective operations Deliver operational 28 / Our risk assessment and management process people who respect excellence and and care for continuous 29 / Identifying our material sustainability focus areas each other improvement 34 / Our business strategy SUSTAINABILITY TOGETHER Conserve natural Social capital Behaviour resourcessupported and by: and licence Safety Strategic objectives strategy mitigate the to operate impacts BEHAVIOURof EXCELLENCE OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH Cultural our operations values Safe and effective Deliver operational Workpeopleenvironment who respect excellence and 36 / Our sustainable development management approach and care for continuous SUSTAINABILITY Leadership each other TOGETHER and supervision improvement 40 / Promoting ethics and good governance Conserve natural Social capital resources and and licence Health strategy mitigate the supportedtoby:operate impacts of Employee our operations wellness Strategic Prevention and education objectives SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Treatment and support 42 / Investing in employee relations People strategy SUSTAINABILITY supported by: TOGETHER 50 / Safety Effective employee management Conserve natural Social capital model 56 / Employee health and well-being resources and and licence Promoting mitigate the diversity to operate 60 / Attracting, retaining and developing talent impacts of Attracting, our operations retaining and developing talent 65 / Promoting diversity and transformation Effective people SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Operational excellence supported by: Effective planning and mineral resource management 68 / Our economic and social value added Intensive cost and productivity focus 72 / Investing in community development Operational delivery and performance management 76 / Accommodation and living conditions Innovation and new technology 80 / Enterprise development and procurement 83 / Respecting human rights Social licence to operate supported by: Meaningful and sustainable social investment in our CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS communities Respecting human rights and the interests of all 88 / Water stewardship stakeholders 90 / Climate change and energy management Abiding by the laws of the countries in which we operate 92 / Air quality management Effective and transparent governance and reporting 93 / Managing our waste 93 / Land management and biodiversity Sustainability supported by: Compliance with all relevant legislation APPENDIX Continuous improvement in air resource stewardship Optimisation of energy efficiencies and reduction of 94 / Our performance data carbon footprint 107 / The GRI and UNGC Preservation of natural water resources and water quality 108 / Independent assurance statement Development of alternative energy sources linked to our 112 / Glossary metals IBC / Contact details and administration IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING Page / 2 This report reviews our approach to addressing those social, economic and environmental issues that are seen as having a material impact on the long-term success of our business Boundary and scope While the report is of potential interest to all our existing and This report provides information relating to our sustainable prospective stakeholders, it is focused primarily on addressing development policies, practices, performance and prospects for the interests of socially responsible investment (SRI) analysts the financial year 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014, for operations and investors, as well as sustainability professionals. Our over which we have direct management control and for which approach to identifying the issues we regard as being most we set and implement policies and standards. These operations material to Implats in 2014 is described on page 35. are Impala, Marula, Zimplats and Mimosa. No changes to the boundary and scope have been applied in the year under Reporting standards review. Restatements of financial information have been due to Our sustainability reporting criteria has been compiled in the exclusion of Mimosa from the consolidated figures informed accordance with G4 Core Compliance and the Mining Sector by new International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), as well as Implats’ internally developed reporting guidelines. In addition to Materiality and target audience this report, we have provided a response to some of the criteria The report reviews our approach to addressing those social, of the GRI G4 Guidelines in a detailed online GRI response table, economic and environmental issues that are seen as having a available at www.implats.co.za/implats_reports/IR2014. As material impact on the long-term success of the business, the a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), sustainability of the economy, the environment and the we have also used the UNGC’s Advanced Level reporting communities in which we operate, or that are important to key criteria in our communication on progress, and we declare stakeholders. This year’s report includes a review of our that we meet the 24 advanced criteria. contribution in terms of: Global industry commitments on sustainability – as outlined Independent assurance in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Selected performance information has been independently (WBCSD) Vision 2050 assured by a third-party assurance provider, IRAS. The scope of National developmental priorities – as defined in the South the assurance, the selected performance information and the African National Development Plan independent statement of assurance are provided on page 108. Local sector-specific commitments – as provided in the Framework Agreement for a Sustainable Mining Industry, Contacts entered into by organised labour, organised business and Please address any queries or comments on this report to: government (see pages 10 to 16). Cindy Mogotsi, executive – sustainable development. E-mail: Cindy.Mogotsi@implats.co.za. Additional information is provided in the following reports, all of which are available online at www.implats.co.za Annual financial statements 2014 Mineral resource and Integrated Annual Report 2014 mineral reserve statement 2014 Supplement to the integrated annual report 30 June 2014 Supplement to the integrated annual report 30 June 2014 INTEGRATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL MINERAL RESOURCE ANNUAL REPORT STATEMENTS AND MINERAL RESERVE This was prepared in line with These were prepared according STATEMENT the recommendations of the to International Financial This conforms to the South South African Code of Corporate Reporting Standards (IFRS), African Code for Reporting of Practice and Conduct (King III), the SAICA Financial Reporting Mineral Resources and Mineral and draws on the guidance Guides, Financial Reporting Reserves (SAMREC) and the provided in the International Pronouncements, the Australasian Code for the <IR> Framework, issued by the requirements of the South Reporting of Mineral Resources International Integrated African Companies Act, the and Ore Reserves (JORC), and Reporting Council (IIRC). regulations of the JSE and has been signed off by the recommendations of King III. competent persons, as defined by these codes. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO’S STATEMENT Page / 3 Chief executive officer, Terence Goodlace (55) NHD: Metalliferous Mining, BCom, MBA Experience Terence was appointed to the Implats board in August 2010 and as Chief Executive Officer in July 2012. He has extensive mining experience and was previously the Chief Executive Officer and a director of Metorex Limited for three years. He has also served as Group Chief Operating Officer at Gold Fields where he worked for almost 27 years in various capacities. He is a council member of the Chamber of Mines (SA). which will take some months, we are deeply conscious of the need to invest further in anticipating and being responsive to society issues, if we are to realise our vision of being the world’s best platinum-producing company that delivers superior returns to all stakeholders. Improving employee relations Our commitment to advancing our employee relations (ER) strategy was severely tested this year by the ongoing rivalry between the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) and the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), the failure of the wage negotiations with AMCU late in 2013, and the subsequent five-month strike at our Rustenburg operations. The strike, the longest in the history of industrial relations in South Africa, has revealed significant shortcomings in the manner in which we, as a mining sector, have traditionally been conducting our business, and is having a profound impact on the nature of the industrial relations landscape in the country. TERENCE GOODLACE We made some initial progress early in the reporting period in delivering on the ER commitments that we made last year, with Dear stakeholder various initiatives aimed at improving communication with In my letter last year I suggested that Implats, and the platinum employees, building the people leadership skills of our sector as a whole, had experienced the most difficult year in supervisors and mine managers, and delivering the change its history. Little did I anticipate that this, my second year as management initiative aimed at developing a culture of shared chief executive, would be even more challenging and eventful corporate values. Unfortunately many of these initiatives were than 2013. put on hold during the latter half of the 2014 financial year, which was dominated by efforts to resolve the strike. The year was dominated by the five-month strike across the platinum belt in Rustenburg, reflecting the difficult state of The Rustenburg strike has come at a profound social, economic industrial relations across the sector, and compounding the and financial cost to all parties concerned: the already difficult existing challenges associated with a subdued global PGM living conditions of many workers have worsened; the market, a continuing rise in unit costs and a further reduction in communities surrounding our operations have felt the impact margins and productivity. The events of the past year have of reduced economic activity; the Company has lost R7.2 billion further highlighted the business significance of society issues, in revenue while employees lost R1.9 billion in wages; and the and underlined the importance of maintaining a strong focus on country as a whole has seen a resulting drop in GDP growth and sustainability. reduced global investor confidence. In this letter, I reflect on our performance across our operations In seeking to mitigate some of the key safety and health risks in our material sustainability focus areas, and provide an outlook of the strike, we consulted with AMCU and concluded a health on how we are addressing our challenges. While our immediate and safety agreement with them regarding the Rustenburg focus is to bring the Rustenburg mines back to full production, operations. The subsequent decision to encourage employees IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO’S STATEMENT Page / 4 An increased focus on leading indicators and actions in 2013 is reflected in our performance data to take leave and to suspend the operations has been widely South African operations and representing approximately 10% applauded for the contribution it made towards maintaining of the workforce, which is seen to be statistically significant. employee safety. The signing of this recognition agreement has The survey aimed to review three issues: the degree to which paved the way for more progress in advancing an ER strategy employees perceived their needs to be met across the Barrett that will foster a collaborative environment. Seven Levels of Consciousness Model, which is based on Maslow’s hierarchy of needs; the level of ‘cultural entropy’ within The strike finally ended on 24 June 2014, with the signing of a the organisation, measured by the extent to which employees three‑year settlement agreement (the terms of which are briefly choose negative words to indicate the degree of organisational reviewed on page 45 of this report). Following the conclusion of dysfunction; and the level of alignment between personal, the strike our immediate priority in the months ahead is to resume current and desired values in the organisation, which provides production at our operations in a safe and sustainable manner. an indication of an employee’s level of commitment to the Ensuring that our mines are financially viable in the context of low organisation. metal prices and increasing costs is a prerequisite for delivering on our wage agreement. In terms of delivering specifically on our The results of the survey have indicated that there are ER strategy, we have identified a range of activities that we will be challenges requiring further cultural or structural transformation implementing over the short and medium term aimed at building and leadership development. Most of these issues relate to better relationships across the organisation. health, the viability of the business, and the nature of the interpersonal connections experienced at work. Employees In our drive to build better relations, we will be implementing a highlighted their desire for the following needs to be met: new employee engagement model, presenting an attractive providing greater meaning and purpose in their work; the value proposition to employees, and developing new values establishment of strong, reliable and consistent workplace through the Respect, Care and Delivery initiative that we relations; and ensuring further growth and transformation within commenced throughout the Group in August 2013. To achieve the Company. In the coming year, focus groups will be the necessary shift in culture throughout the organisation we will introduced at all operations to better understand these issues be seeking to implement a robust process of coaching and and develop appropriate response programmes. training to assist first line managers to deal with the difficult labour situations. Our aim is to develop managers who pride Focusing on safety themselves in being leaders. We will also be working to further Regrettably, I must report the loss of life of four of our employees develop the direct two-way communication process through as a result of injuries sustained while on duty. We extend our SMS text messages that we put to use for the first time during sincere condolences to the families of Osika Chidhakwa, the industrial action. Recognising the need for a structural Lebogang Abednego Moiteri, Khalepile Joseph Matama and change in our approach to employee relations in South Africa, Shaun Pelser. While I am encouraged by some improvements in we shall continue to participate actively in relevant forums at the our safety performance this year, including a decrease in Chamber of Mines. fatalities from nine last year, any loss of life is unacceptable. I am determined to see a further step change in our safety As a part of the change management initiative led by myself, we performance and I take personal responsibility for ensuring that conducted a Barrett Survey among Implats employees to we develop the right safety culture through leadership. A revised assess employees’ perceptions of the current Implats culture, health and safety agreement signed in November with all and to provide an opportunity for employees to give input into employee representative groups, inclusive of AMCU, presents the culture they desire. This commenced in October 2013. The opportunities to engage more effectively with employees in survey was completed by 3 178 employees across the Group, promoting the right safety culture. representing all levels, geographies and demographics of the IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO’S STATEMENT Page / 5 As noted earlier, our commitment to safety informed aspects of We have implemented a zero-harm incentive scheme that our response to the strike, with the entire Rustenburg operation divides the incentive equally between safety and production. being suspended throughout the five-month period with the aim The safety component comprises the leading requirement of protecting the safety and security of our employees who that nets and bolts be installed on all panels and faced the risk of violence and intimidation. Prior to resuming the development ends, as well as the lagging measure of Rustenburg operations, mine overseers, ventilation officers and workforce lost-time injuries rock engineers conducted regular audits of all working places at To address high safety risks in our mines that cannot the mine to assess the support conditions and ascertain if the currently be mitigated through supervision, we continued ground conditions had deteriorated. The levels of risk identified to invest significantly in roof-bolting and netting, proximity were monitored, and have informed our start-up plan. detection systems (PDS), winch-signalling devices, new centralised blasting systems as well as fail-safe The strike period had both positive and negative impacts on our devices to prevent rolling stock from accidentally falling progress in advancing our safety and health initiatives. While down shafts. Notable achievements include the full many of our planned initiatives were necessarily put on hold until implementation of nets and bolts on both the Rustenburg production stability resumed and people returned to work, the Merensky Reef and UG2 Reef horizon stopes, equipping the period was used effectively to focus on enhancing our safety South African operations’ trackless vehicle fleet with PDS, standards and procedures. and the purchase and rollout of self-contained self-rescuers to all our underground employees. Our strategy continues to be built on changing the culture of the organisation (in line with the industry cultural transformation Despite these and other developments in our safety practices, framework), improving our supervision, and adopting and our performance tracked against a set of lagging and leading implementing various technical initiatives that aim to improve indicators has been variable and we acknowledge that there is workplace safety. To this end, I would like to mention certain still much work to be done. We are still some way from meeting positive developments in particular: our targets. The Group fatality rate improved by 34% to We introduced a five-day team mobilisation training 0.043 per million man-hours worked, from 0.065 in 2013. The programme for all our underground stoping teams, to lost-time injury frequency rate improved by 7% to 3.92 per enhance the team functionality and embed the right safety million man-hours, against a target of 3.37. The total injury culture at all levels in the Company. The best practice frequency rate (TIFR) – a measure of all recorded injuries, three-day Zero Incident Process for Leaders (ZIP) training including fatalities, lost-time injuries, restricted work cases and session was attended by all E-Level management and will be medical treatment cases – was 11.90, up from 10.91 in 2013. cascaded to supervisory level next year We used the non-production period at Rustenburg to update An increased focus on leading indicators and actions in 2014 is the Impala safety standards and procedures with a specific reflected in our performance data. The number of breathalyser focus on the major hazard control standards. These tests conducted across the Group increased by 22.3% to represent current best practice in the control of the specific 810 138; road behaviour checks increased by 24.2% to 52 527, identified fatal hazards and have been derived from detailed and the number of STOP® visible felt leadership observations risk assessments, investigations into fatal incidents and the increased by 2.6% to 73 444. The number of internal work experiences of other industry leaders stoppages decreased by 37.7% to 2 562. In addition, we took steps during the strike period to assess and improve our emergency preparedness and response plan In striving for zero fatalities and zero harm, we will continue to at Rustenburg and Marula, specifically relating to proto teams, focus on ensuring that all operations have behaviour-based control rooms, refuge bays and self-contained self-rescuers safety programmes in place. We need to ensure that senior IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO’S STATEMENT Page / 6 The challenging social context we are operating in further highlights the need for sustainable community development management engage with supervisors to contextualise the On the non-occupational healthcare front, membership of our recent and ongoing challenges and provide support for effective own medical aid offering increased by 8% to 21 994 people on supervision. We will also pursue interactions with senior union the scheme. Our Rustenburg and Marula operations continue leadership to gain commitment for safety initiatives. to work closely with the South African Department of Health in support of the national health insurance plan. Through the Promoting health and well-being Impala Bafokeng Trust (IBT) we have committed to renovate This year we made good progress in managing health risks and and expand the Primary Care clinic situated in Luka village in delivering on our health strategy, reflected in an improved the Rustenburg lease area. We will continue to seek to ensure performance across most of our parameters. The prolonged that our health strategy is aligned with the South African absence from work during the strike challenged our ability to Government’s national health strategy, including providing promote the health and well-being of a high contingent of our healthcare facilities around our lease areas. In Zimbabwe, workforce, and in particular those on chronic illness medication. Mimosa mine assisted with renovations to the Zvishivane To mitigate the risks, we have increased capacity and staffing at district hospital. our strike-affected operations, to monitor and manage patients. Following the strike, these additional resources have assisted in Promoting transformation expediting the medical screening of all employees, a necessary In South Africa, we have continued to engage with government intervention since no employee is allowed to work underground and other stakeholders to further our contribution towards a without a valid certificate of fitness. better, more equitable and participative society. We also believe strongly that a transformed and more diverse organisation is The revised health and safety agreement signed with all more resilient and better positioned to be competitive in the employee representative groups, and the strong relationship we country and region. As part of South Africa’s process of have established with AMCU HSE personnel, has played a transformation, we must meet the Mining Charter’s targets set significant role in facilitating our activities and improving our out for 2014. At year end, we remained well positioned with performance. Following the strike, a robust start-up process regard to performance against these targets and we seek to go was implemented, informed by risk assessments and beyond regulatory compliance. The next five-year Social and incorporating a revamped IT system, to ensure that risks were Labour Plans (SLPs) for Impala and Marula were completed and effectively identified and managed. submitted to the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) during calendar year 2013. The Marula SLP was approved at regional Proactive management of challenges faced during the strike level in 2013 and implementation advanced in 2014. At Impala, period ensured that we made good progress this year in a full assessment of the first generation SLP was conducted in managing HIV/Aids and TB in the Group. In particular, July 2014 by the regional office of the DMR. Based on this the uptake of antiretroviral therapy (ART) increased by 6% on assessment recommendations were made to be integrated into last year and there are now 4 276 people on the programme. the new SLP, and a resubmission was due in August 2014. We continue to introduce equipment with improved sound suppression, with all exposed individuals being trained in the use Advancing our progress this year included: of custom-made hearing-protection devices. However, ensuring Investing R331 million in training and development adherence to relevant requirements remains a challenge. All representing 5% of payroll and achieving the Mining Charter’s patients diagnosed with early signs of noise induced hearing 2014 target of 5% loss on screening audiograms were investigated, counselled and monitored. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO’S STATEMENT Page / 7 Improving equitable representation in our workforce. of Youth Development, Indigenisation and Economic At year end, despite a setback in our efforts during the Empowerment in this regard. prolonged strike, we had achieved and in most cases exceeded most of the charter’s targets. HDSAs represent Investing in our communities 50% of management (2013: 48%) and women 19% of The sustainability of our mining activities depends on our ability management (2013: 19%) unchanged from the previous year to contribute to the well-being and prosperity of our host Setting a leading example with our initiatives to improve the communities. The challenging social context we are operating accommodation and living conditions of our employees. We in further highlights the need for sustainable community have exceeded the Mining Charter’s requirements and have development as a commercial and social imperative. The most ambitious housing development projects in progress significant contribution we make to the well-being of our Complementing our housing efforts with investments communities and employees is our investment in improving the in community development projects amounting to accommodation and living conditions of employees, with a R332 million, inclusive of SLP commitments focus on enhancing home ownership opportunities. We are Using our core business to support local and HDSA proud to have been commended by the DMR this year for our businesses through preferential procurement, supplier progressive stance and leading example in this endeavour. Our development and enterprise development. We have seen a social investment strategy focuses primarily on infrastructure, decreasing trend in non-compliant operating expense health, education, community empowerment and poverty suppliers and an increase in black-empowered suppliers, alleviation projects, and aims to complement our housing particularly in the >25% to 50% HDSA/BEE category. The initiatives, through the provision of schools, clinics and total South African operations’ discretionary procurement for other amenities. 2014 was R7.9 billion of which 65%, or R5.1 billion, was from companies in which HDSA/BEE ownership was greater To better understand some of the social challenges that impact than 25% (2013: R5.5 billion or 55%). Overall there was the communities around Rustenburg operations, this year we an acceptable performance in the key charter elements conducted evidence-based research to further inform our social of capital goods, consumables and services against strategic interventions. The first phase entailed a review of sociothe 2014 targets. economic trends and developments in the Royal Bafokeng Nation (RBN) villages and those communities impacted by the In the year under review, we participated in the DMR’s Rustenburg operations, over a 10-year horizon from 2001. compliance assessment process championed by Moloto Consulting. We look forward to the outcomes of this process This year, the South African operations invested R71 million and to providing input into the review of the Mining Charter in in socio-economic development projects, inclusive of SLP the year ahead, through the Chamber of Mines (COM). commitments, and an additional R261 million towards improving accommodation and living conditions of our employees. The In Zimbabwe, we continue to engage with the government on Zimbabwe operations expended US$6 million on sociothe subject of indigenisation and how to implement the Mimosa economic development projects and a further US$15 million and the Zimplats indigenisation plans. The government has on employee housing. Total expenditure for the Group on social advised us to factor in our corporate social responsibility projects and housing amounted to R559 million. projects, so as to accrue credits towards achieving the 51% indigenisation target. We continue to engage with the Minister IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO’S STATEMENT Page / 8 Implats has continued to work through the Chamber of Mines in finding common solutions to some of the challenges faced by the industry Performance highlights this year include the following: form an important part of our contribution towards creating The development of our second home-ownership flagship sustainable communities, improving community relations, and project in South Africa, the Platinum Village in Rustenburg, advancing local economic development. This year the South progressed well; phase 1 is to build 557 units built at a cost African operations expended R2.0 billion on procurement from of R140 million. The R1-billion development project has a local tiered BEE suppliers, constituting 26% of the total final target of 2 420 units, to be completed over the next procurement spend (2013: R2.4 billion or 24%). In Zimbabwe, three years. Our strategy of providing quality bonded houses local suppliers accounted for 66% of Zimplats’ annual to employees is key to normalising the living and working expenditure on goods and services (2013: 64%); Mimosa’s environment of our employees indigenous procurement accounted for 92% of total Consistent with government’s vision of integrated human discretionary expenditure, consistent with levels in 2013. settlements, we develop schools near our housing developments. To serve the Boitekong Township including A focus in the next financial year will be to manage the the Sunrise View housing development that we completed in challenges associated with the negative impact of the strike on 2013 (comprising 1 717 houses now owned by employees social investment projects, including competing priorities and at a cost of R406 million), we developed the Sunrise budget constraints. View primary and secondary schools. In 2014, there were 1 372 learners (974 primary school, 398 secondary school), Conserving natural resources and minimising 39 educators (24 primary, 15 secondary) and 10 support our impact staff (seven primary, three secondary) benefiting from the This year our direct environmental impacts were significantly new schools. We are in the process of developing reduced as a result of the closure of the Rustenburg operations the Platinum Village schools project during the five-month strike. The disruption also affected the Once again, we contributed R10 million to the Impala monitoring of the Group environmental indicators at Rustenburg. Bafokeng Trust, which was established in 2007 by the Royal The decline in production translated into a decrease in the levels Bafokeng Nation and ourselves to augment the corporate of water and energy consumed: total water consumption at a social investment commitments of both organisations. Group level decreased by 15% (2013: 40 711 Mℓ) and total IBT-funded projects provided much-needed support energy consumption declined by 18%. In the first half of the year during the strike performance improvements attributed to a 3% increase in the At Zimplats, social development projects included the percentage of water recycled (2013: 38%). refurbishment of a local clinic at a total cost of US$60 000 and the extension of a local police station at a total cost of In implementing our carbon management strategy, our focus US$293 000. Donations amounting to US$273 000 were remains on energy-efficiency projects. To date, over R100 million made to the community, invested in education, sport has been expended on energy conservation programmes, development, health and income generating projects. resulting in a 3.1% reduction in indirect energy usage. Security of energy supply and rising prices are significant material risks The strike at Rustenburg regrettably impacted on project for our operations in South Africa and Zimbabwe. Electricity implementation, with many of our social projects halted. For consumption accounted for around 70% of our total energy example, our school support programme and our two principal consumption in 2014, and almost 11% (2013: 11%) of our enterprise development programmes (supplier development and overall cash cost base. Our projected expansion into deeper business advisory) were halted for the five-month period. operations that are more energy intensive, together with the Developing small and medium-sized enterprises, encouraging proposed introduction of a carbon tax in South Africa in January entrepreneurship and enhancing procurement opportunities, 2016, emphasise the business imperative to focus on reducing IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CEO’S STATEMENT Page / 9 and optimising our energy use. Our focus is on improving Conclusion operational and design efficiencies and incorporating best In my letter last year I argued that if Implats is to realise its vision practice technology and processes. Our longer-term strategic of being the world’s best platinum-producing company that investments include exploring a carbon neutral fuel source for delivers superior returns to all stakeholders, then we will need to our operations, and participating in collaborative efforts to anticipate and be responsive to society issues. We remain develop fuel-cell technology. committed to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact to which we are signatories. The events of this past Industry initiatives year have reaffirmed my belief that the pursuit of sustainable Implats has continued to work through the Chamber of Mines in development and zero harm are competitive imperatives, and finding common solutions to some of the challenges faced by that these should be recognised as fundamental elements of a the industry, and to seek strategic alignment to the relevant mining company’s fiduciary responsibility. national imperatives outlined in the National Development Plan (NDP). We have also continued to advance initiatives under the Implats’ management and the board firmly believe in the future Deputy President’s Framework Agreement for Peace and of PGMs and their important positive contribution for society at Stability in the Mining Industry signed by stakeholders in large. It is with this in mind that we have to withstand the current February 2013, and we are committed to driving implementation industry crisis by re-energising and rebuilding Impala post the of the principles of the UN Global Compact. five-month strike, continuing to increase volumes at Marula, and ensuring the success of our Zimbabwe operations. A review of our progress in contributing to the goals of the NDP and delivering on the Framework Agreement is provided on I once again sincerely thank the board for their leadership and page 13. Our contribution is reflective of our commitment to the Implats team for their understanding and support as we ensuring the growth and stability of the industry and our country. protect the Company in these turbulent times and position it These initiatives speak to legislative issues, taxation, social and for a more secure and sustainable future. labour challenges (such as employee indebtedness, health and safety, the migrant labour system, housing and living conditions), as well as economic imperatives (such as beneficiation, Terence Goodlace infrastructure constraints, energy and water supply). Chief executive officer During the year under review the International Platinum Association (IPA), to which Implats is affiliated, completed a life cycle assessment on the impacts and benefits of platinum group metals (PGMs). This study is important in highlighting the wide benefits of PGMs, both for the environment and the social contributions of mining, while taking into account the high impacts on land, water and energy consumption. We hope to communicate more broadly on these findings in the future. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CHANGING MINDS, CHANGING MINES, PUTTING SOUTHERN AFRICA FIRST Page / 10 Selected performance information has been independently assured by a third-party assurance provider, IRAS Responding to the National Development Plan Responding to the Deputy President’s Implats recognises the important role it plays in advancing the Framework Agreement on a Sustainable Mining objectives and vision of the National Development Plan of South Industry (DPFA) Africa (NDP), and has sought to align these objectives to the Following the global financial crisis of 2008 and the ensuing organisation’s own long-term goals. This has been done in some platinum mining strikes of 2012 which culminated in Marikana instances through collaboration with industry players, where 45 people lost their lives in 2012, it became imperative for government departments and local stakeholders in our areas of business, labour and government to work together in stabilising operation. We consider this an integral part of transforming the the industry. This commitment was made through the DPFA industry, society and the economy of our country. signed in February 2013 by all stakeholders with the exception of the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union The NDP was adopted by government in 2012 as an economic (AMCU). In broad terms stakeholders have committed to: and social development plan to eliminate the triple challenge of Ensuring the rule of law, peace and stability poverty, inequality and unemployment, and to increase Strengthening labour relations investments. The NDP seeks to create 11 million jobs, halve Improving living conditions of mineworkers unemployment, and substantially reduce poverty and improve Transforming the mining industry living standards by 2030. To achieve these objectives, the NDP Compliance to legislation recommends: Supporting long-term growth of the industry 1. Creating an environment for sustainable employment and inclusive economic growth As an organisation, we recognise the importance of these 2. Raising levels of exports and competitiveness commitments in giving impetus to our own long-term 3. Strengthening government’s capacity to provide leadership in sustainability objectives. promoting economic development 4. Mobilising all sectors of society around a national vision Responding to the Mining Charter The Mining Charter in South Africa was introduced in 2004 as a The NDP provides a breakdown of how its objectives can be vehicle to transform the mining industry by redressing historical achieved, for various sectors of the economy. For the mining imbalances engendered by apartheid. In seeking to make the industry, the objectives can be realised through: sector consistent with the overall transformation of South Employment and growth Africa’s social, political and economic landscape, the Mining Labour market proposals Charter focuses on the following eight pillars: Beneficiation Ownership Infrastructure Housing and living conditions A low-carbon economy and the environment Procurement and enterprise development Education and training Employment equity Healthcare Human resources development Social protection Mine community development Sustainable development In this report we have outlined our contribution towards these Beneficiation imperatives, as well as our planned interventions. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE CHANGING MINDS, CHANGING MINES, PUTTING SOUTHERN AFRICA FIRST Page / 11 Implats recognises its role in advancing transormation within the broader context of society and the significance of this in maintaining its licence to operate in South Africa. To this end our performance against these eight pillars is outlined on pages 18 to 21 of this report. Responding to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Vision 2050 Implats, while not a member of the World Business Council of Sustainable Development (WBCSD), recognises the important role that business has to play in creating a sustainable world, underpinned by fundamental changes in governance, economic frameworks and human behaviour. We thus support the nine key pillars of action that will lead to the 2050 vision in which the basic needs of nine billion people are met. The nine pillars speak to: People values – living well within the limits of the planet Human development – basic needs of all are met The economy – true value, true cost and profit are linked Agriculture – enough food, water and biofuels through a new green economy Forestry – recover and regenerate Energy and power – secure and sufficient supply of low carbon energy Buildings – close to zero-net energy building/infrastructure Mobility – universal access to safe and low impact mobility Materials – not a particle of waste Our support for these elements is demonstrated through our community development initiatives, our environmental programmes, the beneficiation of our metals, and industry initiatives that drive economic transformation of the sector. These are referenced more broadly on pages 12 to 16. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE RESPONDING TO THE WBCSD, NDP AND DPFA Page / 12 THE GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE World Business Council on Sustainable Development Vision 2050 WBCSD vision 2050 Context and commitments People’s values – Understanding and encouraging change through cooperation, so that sustainable living becomes People living well, and within the limits of the planet mainstream – Promoting healthy people, healthy societies, healthy business Human development – Building trust, entrepreneurialism, inclusiveness Basic needs of all are met – Business reaches out, trading and training – Delivering the infrastructure for human development Economy – Redefining progress: true value must drive inclusive markets. True value, true cost, true profit – Financing based on long-term value – Accounting for the real world – Driving inclusive markets through true value – Accelerating innovation through efficiencies Agriculture – Cultivating knowledge-intensive agriculture Enough food, water and biofuels through a new Green – Research delivers progress in food and biofuel Revolution – Promoting growth in global trade, crop yield and carbon management Energy and power – Greenhouse gas emissions peak and decline Secure and sufficient supply of low-carbon energy – Promote demand side efficiency – Contribute to 2050 goal of 50% reduction in global CO2 emissions on 2005 levels – Reduced cost of renewables Buildings – Developing resource-efficient buildings: all new buildings to use zero net energy, and enforce strict Close to zero net energy buildings energy efficiency regulations Mobility – Promoting integrated transport solutions and smarter mobility, to enable near universal access to Universal access to safe and low-impact mobility reliable, low-impact mobility – Developing alternative drivetrains and fuels Materials – Improving the eco-efficiency of resources and materials Not a particle of waste – Eliminating waste by closing the material loop and embracing life cycle thinking – New business models for manufacturing, design and recycling Forests – Increasing forest protection and efficient production Recovery and regeneration – Ceasing deforestation – Committing to carbon cuts and driving progress through carbon incentives IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE RESPONDING TO THE WBCSD, NDP AND DPFA Page / 13 THE NATIONAL PERSPECTIVE The National Development Plan The NDP objectives Context and commitments Transforming society Social cohesion should be enhanced by: and uniting the – Reducing poverty and inequality by broadening opportunity through economic inclusion, education and skills development country – Promoting mutual respect – Deepening appreciation of our mutual responsibilities An economy that – In 2030, the economy should be close to full employment. creates more jobs, is – It should equip people with the necessary skills more inclusive and – It should ensure that ownership of production is more diverse that shares the fruits – The functioning of the labour market should be improved through reforms on dispute resolution of growth more – Small business should be supported equitably Building safer – People living in South Africa should feel safe and have no fear of crime communities – People should have confidence in the criminal justice system and police service – There should be greater provision for community participation in community safety Improving – To grow in a more inclusive manner the country needs higher levels of investment in economic infrastructure, as well as infrastructure infrastructure that supports human settlements Reversing the spatial – Settlements patterns should meet the needs and preferences of citizens taking into account broader social, environmental and effects of apartheid economic interests Improving education, – Measures taken to address poor education and health that significantly reduce opportunities for a productive life and undermines the training and dynamism of the South African economy innovation, and providing quality healthcare Fighting corruption – Measures taken to address high corruption levels frustrate the state’s ability to deliver on its development mandate An inclusive and – South Africa’s rural communities should have greater opportunities to participate fully in the economic, social and political life of the integrated rural country through access to good quality education, healthcare, transport and other basic services economy Transitioning to a – The country needs a coherent plan to emit less carbon, use water more sustainably, and protect the oceans, soil and wildlife low-carbon resourceefficient economy IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 Page / 14 Our contribution in 2014 – Our investments in employment opportunities, education, health, housing and infrastructure collectively provide a significant contribution to building social cohesion – We are committed to promoting broad-based transformation, evidenced by the nature of our initiatives, for example relating to ownership, employment equity, skills development, procurement and housing – We provided more than 45,000 direct jobs in South Africa and approximately 7,000 in Zimbabwe – We stimulated significant employment opportunities throughout our value chain, including through our procurement practices targeted at encouraging local economic development and transformation – We invested significant resources in enhancing employment opportunities through our skills development and training initiatives – Our tax revenues facilitated public investment in developing human capital – We engaged with government and labour representatives in finding an approach to collective bargaining that takes account of a multi-union environment, and in exploring opportunities for linking wages to productivity Various Mine Crime Combating Forums (MCCF) have been established through the Deputy President’s Framework Agreement. These include one in Phokeng (Rustenburg), one in Gauteng (West Rand) and one in Limpopo. Mining company’s Security Heads are active participants. During the launch of the MCCF, Implats signed a pledge of commitment to the Framework Agreement for a Sustainable Mining Industry. We were initially represented by Mine Security, and have since boosted representation. The agenda points include: – Stakeholder mine crime related incidents reports – Public violence – Planned marches – Spontaneous gatherings – Meetings held on mine premises where no permission was granted – Profiling of individual causing violence/destabilisers – Crime against the mine and mine employees – Successes – Profiles of suspects – Any intelligence regarding crime – Identification of hotspots – We contribute to infrastructure development through our significant investments in mining projects, as well as through our social investment initiatives in our host communities – Our capital investments have enhanced export opportunities – Our investments in health, education, basic infrastructure and community empowerment and in housing, have contributed directly to the development of human settlements – Our social investment strategy is aimed at establishing infrastructure that will address urgent needs in mine communities with a focus on longer-term impacts – Our flagship investment in the well-being of our local communities is our commitment to the provision of accommodation and improved living conditions for our employees and their families – We strive to create viable local communities in which employees are able to reside with their families in a stable, healthy and secure environment – This year we invested more than R331 million in various skills development programmes at all levels – We also invest in various education-related infrastructure – In addition to our occupational health measures, we have been active in addressing non-occupational health risks, most notably HIV and TB – We partner with the Department of Health in addressing community health issues, including our contribution to the establishment of healthcare facilities in and around the lease areas – We promote high standards of ethical behaviour throughout our activities – We have a zero-tolerance stance on fraud and corruption, with all employees, business partners, contractors and associates all of whom are required to conduct themselves in accordance with the Implats Code of Ethics and our fraud policy – Adherence to this Code is facilitated by a “whistle-blowing” helpline that enables the confidential reporting of alleged incidences – This year 14 out of 50 investment projects verified benefited 8 500 people in South Africa and almost 5000 in Zimbabwe through investments in infrastructure, education, health, housing, enterprise and sports development with R138 million total expenditure in Socio Economic Development for the Group and R428 million in housing initiatives for the Group – The demographic of beneficiaries shows that over 99% of these beneficiaries were black, while more than 62% were youth (35 years of age and under) – We have implemented various energy and water usage efficiency initiatives and are assessing the feasibility of using biomass as an energy source at our Rustenburg smelter – We work with industry bodies and government in seeking an appropriate policy response to climate change that does not compromise the competitiveness of our sector, noting both our important developmental contribution as well as the role of platinum group metals in the transition to a lower carbon economy IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 Page / 15 THE INDUSTRY SECTOR PERSPECTIVE The Deputy President’s Framework Agreement The Framework Agreement Context and commitments – In signing the FA, Implats commits to: Building a relationship – Acting in a fair and impartial manner in dealing with unions and – Improve internal security measures and consistently among stakeholders acting swiftly where these principles are violated implement them at the workplace based on trust – Working with government and labour to identify and address factors – Negotiate in the workplace and industry in ways that support and respect behind workplace conflict long-term development and constructive peaceful labour relations Strengthening labour – Respect the rule of law and the legal framework in labour relations – Contribute to creating cordial relations between unions in the relations matters sector – When taking decisions, to take account of both the broader context – Follow proper labour relations procedures in South Africa (in particular the need to reduce poverty, inequality – Work with Labour to fast-track resolution of disputes and unemployment), as well as the interests of investors – The development of a pre-negotiations framework – Respect agreements and legal obligations – Recognise and respect cultural diversity in the workplace Ensure the rule of law, – Properly adhere to laws, regulations and charters governing the – Participate in the Mine Crime Combating Forum (MCCF) peace and stability sector and consistently apply their policies and respect agreements – Take all legal steps against unprotected labour actions – Take measures to protect staff members from violence and – Work with government and labour in developing protocols for intimidation and to ensure that security personnel act in accordance security and law enforcement with the law at all times – Where possible, inform police of all planned and unplanned – Avoid acting in a manner that provokes of raises tensions in the work strikes and protests place Improve living – Accelerating the implementation of human settlement interventions – Assisting with resources and technical support for upgrading conditions human settlements around mining towns within the context of regulatory requirements and additional voluntary contributions Assist workers with – Assist workers with financial literacy and financial planning – Inform individual employees upon receipt of emolument financial literacy and garnishee orders and consider steps to assist employees who financial planning are highly indebted Reaching optimal – Accelerate progress in transformation, including the areas of – Review its long-term strategy and support initiatives for levels of ownership, procurement, employment, beneficiation, human restructuring, re-skilling to achieve competitiveness, transformation resource development, as well as health and safety in line with the sustainable growth and transformation targets set out in the Mining Charter Transform the migrant – Improve socio-economic conditions in labour sending areas – Ensure integration and implementation of SLPs and IDPs in labour system – Enforce and implement all elements and commitments of the Mining labour sending areas and mining areas Charter Resolve labour – Negotiate in the workplace and industry in ways that support long-term development and constructive peaceful labour relations. disputes as speedily as possible in the best interest of members and South Africa Assist workers with – Find sustainable solutions to employee indebtedness and empower employees to be able to adequately manage their financial affairs and financial literacy and guard against unscrupulous micro lenders. financial planning IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 Page / 16 Our contribution in 2014 – A Code of Conduct was included in our newly signed recognition agreement with – The agreement does however still not fully address majoritarianism AMCU – A new Recognition Agreement may be signed at Marula during 2015. This is – The Company has interdicted against any unapproved mass meetings or picketing provided that AMCU becomes the verified new majority union areas – Mining companies work closely with security to prevent intimidation, and to – Codes of conduct have helped ensure that all parties understand and respect this ensure ethical behaviour. The Recognition Agreement signed at Impala lowered objective thresholds in a number of areas – A guideline for verification has been developed. This guideline relies on third party – Subsequent to our recent experiences the recently signed recognition verification. Full co-operation by organised labour is needed for this to be done. agreement with the unions has simplified the verification process. We have Third party assessment of union deductions has been used on a number of identified and implemented initiatives aimed at ensuring more effective solutions occasions over the last two years for working in a multi-union environment, and to moving to a more open system – Union membership verification and processing of union membership stop orders where all employees are recognised and respected as equals, based on a against the Company’s payroll will be conducted in accordance with the Labour culture of trust, respect and care Relations Act – We invested in improving the quality of the relationships that we have with employees, unions, government and local communities – The Chamber of Mines has played a very active role in engaging with Security, – Implats Security visibility has been improved in traditional safety hotspots, and Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice cluster through the National Joint reaction units remain on high alert to quell any violence that may erupt. Security Operations Command (NATJOC) Management on the mine maintain good relations with the SAPS – Companies have played an active role through Provincial Joint Operations – During the strike period Impala Rustenburg has participated at the Joint Command (PROVJOCs) and NATJOC (including information sharing) Operations Command (JOC) in Phokeng by having permanent representation. – The Chamber has appointed a permanent liaison security Head to work with the Additional security measures have been put in place during the strike (100 Mining Companies and NATJOC additional security members, eight additional armoured cars, additional – Visible policing in hotspots has improved surveillance capabilities and helicopters on standby) – A total of R261 million was expended on employee housing (2013: R445 million) – At the Refineries the Tswelopele home ownership development comprising 108 – The development of our second home-ownership flagship project, the Platinum housing units has been completed, to the value of R36 million. A total of 104 Village in Rustenburg, has progressed well. Phase 1 entails investing R210 million units have been sold to employees in building 557 units; during the strike-affected year a total of 283 houses were – At our Marula operation, by year end we had built 58 of the target 122 units for completed and 181 handed over to employees in the Platinum Village. The employees. Project completion is on schedule for December 2014. The contract R1-billion development project has a final target of 2 420 units, to be completed value is R58 million over the next three years. Consistent with government’s vision of integrated human – Following the completion last year of the R406 million Sunrise View home settlements, Implats is developing a Platinum Village schools project ownership development (with 1 717 units built and sold to employees) and the – While the strike period did not affect our construction activities, it had a negative launch of the Sunrise View Primary School, this year Implats completed the impact on house sales, due to the lack of earnings required by banks. We are development of the Sunrise View High School, which was opened in February confident that once the Rustenburg operations normalise, sales will pick up 2014 – In 2014, 707 employees were enrolled for ABET, which provides for basic numeracy skills – Implats has continued to focus on transformation. Our performance against the Mining Charter is as outlined on pages 18 to 21 in this report. – In support of the Deputy President’s Framework Agreement (DPFA), a Task team – This research is planned to run from August 2014 to October 2014. Implats has has been established to participate in the government driven policy review around two representatives on the Chamber task team. The outcomes of this process migrant labour, spearheaded by the Department of Performance, Monitoring and will inform policy around migrant labour. Through the Chamber, input shall be Evaluation (DPME) a multi-stakeholder committee consisting of Labour, Industry given to this process to ensure that industry issues are taken into account and government – The Committee has since appointed the services of a consultancy to conduct research pertaining to the migrant labour system, taking into account, economic, social, health, safety, industrial relations and mining policy Impala works closely with Unions to resolve all internal disputes through dispute resolution mechanisms and within the auspices of the Commission for Conciliation Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). Process issues flowing from wage agreements will be handled by the plenary through the task teams established by the Company and the Union. The work of the task team may include consultation and/or advice from third party expertise. These task teams will deal with issues which include: – micro-loans and garnishee orders – job grading reviews – medical separation agreements – shareholding review – retirement benefits and funeral cover – medical aid – subcontracting, labour hire and employment agencies – life skills centre – The Chamber has established an internal task team on employee indebtedness to – A number of companies have reported good progress on this matter amongst others drive financial literacy training. Both Old Mutual and Edu-touch are – Implats has hired a former Sheriff of the Court who now works in our finance starting to roll out programmes in mining areas and in mining communities department to assist in identifying and curbing fraudulent garnishee orders. We have – Some companies have started an analysis of the opportunity to manage emolument seen an improvement as some garnishee orders have been deemed unprocedural. Attachment Orders and how to help restructure indebtedness of employees Through our Adults Basic Education programme we have included numeracy training IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE OUR VISION, MISSION AND VALUES Page / 17 www.implats.co.za Our vision To be the world’s best platinum producing company, delivering superior returns to stakeholders relative to our peers. Our mission To safely mine, process, refine, recycle and market our products at the best possible cost ensuring sustainable value creation for all our stakeholders. Our purpose To safely and responsibly produce platinum group metals (PGMs) in order to make a meaningful contribution to the sustainability of our planet. PGMs are environmentally friendly ‘green’ metals, which ensure cleaner air through effective emission control and are also used in electronics and electrochemical processes, in the medical and dental fields and increasingly in the development and use of fuel cells. Our values WE RESPECT All our stakeholders, including: –– Shareholders –– Employees and their representative bodies –– Communities within which we operate –– Regulatory bodies –– Suppliers and customers –– Directors and management –– All other interested and affected parties The principles of the UN Global Compact The laws of the countries within which we operate Company policies and procedures Our place and way of work Open and honest communication Diversity of all our stakeholders Risk management and continuous improvement philosophies WE CARE For the health and safety of all our stakeholders For the preservation of natural resources For the environment in which we operate For the socio-economic well-being of the communities within which we operate WE STRIVE TO DELIVER A safe, productive and conducive working environment A fair working environment through equitable and competitive human capital practices On the development of our employees Positive returns to our stakeholders through an operational excellence model On our commitments to all stakeholders On our capital projects Quality products that meet or exceed our customers’ expectations IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE RESPONDING TO THE MINING CHARTER Page / 18 An assessment of our performance in calendar year 2013 is outlined below. Impala Platinum scorecard for the broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter for the South African Mining Industry How Compliance Mining Charter Achieved we Element Description Measure target by 2014 target 2013 Weighting 2013 fared Reporting Has the company Documentary Annually March 2013 Y/N Yes reported the level proof of receipt of compliance from the with the charter department for the calendar year Ownership Minimum target Meaningful 26% 15% Y/N Yes for effective HDSA economic ownership participation Full shareholder 26% 15% Yes rights Housing and Conversion and Percentage Occupancy rate Base-line Y/N Yes living upgrading of reduction of of one person conditions hostels to attain occupancy rate per room the occupancy towards 2014 rate of one person target per room Conversion and Percentage Family units Base-line Yes upgrading of conversion of established hostels into family hostels into units family units Procurement Procurement Capital goods 40% 30% 5% 5% and enterprise spent from BEE development entity Services 70% 60% 5% 5% Consumable 50% 40% 2% 2% goods Multinational Annual spend 0.5% of 0.50% 3% 2.5% suppliers on procurement procurement contribution to the from value social fund multinational suppliers Employment Diversification of Top 40% 35% 3% 0% equity the workplace to management Achieved reflect the level* 21% country’s demographics Senior 40% 35% 4% 4% to attain management competitiveness Middle 40% 40% 3% 3% management Junior 40% 40% 1% 1% management Core skills 40% 35% 5% 5% On target Reasonable Not on target * Top management include E and F level, while for the Department of Labour (DoL) this is defined as F level only hence the difference in our performance achievement on page 66 of this report IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE RESPONDING TO THE MINING CHARTER Page / 19 Impala Platinum scorecard for the broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter for the South African Mining Industry continued How Compliance Mining Charter Achieved we Element Description Measure target by 2014 target 2013 Weighting 2013 fared Human Development of HRD 5% 4% 25% 25% resource requisite skills, expenditure as development including support percentage of for South total annual African-based payroll (excl. research and mandatory skills development development initiatives intended levy) to develop solutions in exploration, mining, processing, technology efficiency (energy and water use in mining), beneficiation as well as environmental conservation and rehabilitation Mine Conduct Implement Up-to-date Implementation 15% 15% community ethnographic approved project of projects will development community community implementation serve to consultative and projects enhance collaborative relationships processes among to delineate stakeholders community leading to needs analysis communities owing patronage to projects Sustainable Improvement Implementation 100% Annual progress 12% 12% development of the industry’s of approved achieved against and growth environmental EMPs approved EMPs management Improvement of Implementation 100% Annual progress 12% 12% the industry’s of the tripartite achieved against mine health and action plan on commitments in safety health and the tripartite performance safety action plan on health and safety Utilisation of Percentage of 100% 5% 5% South Africansamples in based research South African facilities for facilities analysis of samples across the mining value chain Beneficiation Contribution Additional Section 26 of The beneficiation – – of a mining production the MPRDA strategy and its company towards volume (percentage modalities of beneficiation (this contributory to above baseline) implementation measure is local value outline the effective from addition beyond beneficiation 2012) the baseline requirements per commodity extracted in South Africa Total score 100% 96.50% On target Reasonable Not on target IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE RESPONDING TO THE MINING CHARTER Page / 20 Marula Mine scorecard for the broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter for the South African Mining Industry How Compliance Mining Charter Achieved we Element Description Measure target by 2014 target 2013 Weighting 2013 fared Reporting Has the company Documentary Annually March 2013 Y/N Yes reported the level proof of receipt of compliance from the with the charter department for the calendar year Ownership Minimum target Meaningful 26% 15% Y/N Yes for effective HDSA economic ownership participation Full shareholder 26% 15% Yes rights Housing and Conversion and Percentage Occupancy rate Baseline Y/N N/A living upgrading of reduction of of one person conditions hostels to attain occupancy rate per room the occupancy towards 2014 rate of one person target per room Conversion and Percentage Family units Baseline N/A upgrading of conversion of established hostels into family hostels into units family units Procurement Procurement Capital goods 40% 30% 5% 5% and enterprise spent from BEE development entity Services 70% 60% 5% 5% Consumable 50% 40% 2% 2% goods Multinational Annual spend 0.5% of 0.50% 3% 0% suppliers on procurement procurement contribution to the from value social fund multinational suppliers Employment Diversification of Top 40% 35% 3% 3% equity the workplace to management reflect the level* country’s demographics Senior 40% 35% 4% 4% to attain management competitiveness Middle 40% 40% 3% 3% management Junior 40% 40% 1% 1% management Core skills 40% 35% 5% 5% On target Reasonable Not on target *T  op management include E and F level, while for the Department of Labour (DoL) this is defined as F level only hence the difference in our performance achievement on page 66 of this report IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE RESPONDING TO THE MINING CHARTER Page / 21 Marula Mine scorecard for the broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter for the South African Mining Industry continued How Compliance Mining Charter Achieved we Element Description Measure target by 2014 target 2013 Weighting 2013 fared Human Development of HRD 5% 4.5% 25% 25% resource requisite skills, expenditure as development including support percentage of for South total annual African-based payroll research and (excluding development mandatory skills initiatives intended development to develop levy) solutions in exploration, mining, processing, technology efficiency (energy and water use in mining), beneficiation as well as environmental conservation and rehabilitation Mine Conduct Implement Up-to-date Implementation 15% 15% community ethnographic approved project of projects will development community community implementation serve to consultative and projects enhance collaborative relationships processes among to delineate stakeholders community leading to needs analysis communities owing patronage to projects Sustainable Improvement Implementation 100% Annual progress 12% 12% development of the industry’s of approved achieved against and growth environmental EMPs approved EMPs management Improvement of Implementation 100% Annual progress 12% 12% the industry’s of the tripartite achieved against mine health and action plan on commitments in safety health and the tripartite performance safety action plan on health and safety Utilisation of Percentage of 100% 75% 5% 5% South Africansamples in based research South African facilities for facilities analysis of samples across the mining value chain Beneficiation Contribution Additional Section 26 of The beneficiation – – of a mining production the MPRDA strategy and its company towards volume (percentage modalities of beneficiation (this contributory to above baseline) implementation measure is local value outline the effective from addition beyond beneficiation 2012) the baseline requirements per commodity extracted in South Africa Total score 100% 97% On target Reasonable Not on target IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE WHO WE ARE – WHAT WE DO Page / 22 TO BE COPY LIED S U P P Implats is structured around six main operations with a total of 25 underground shafts SOUTH AFRICA 1 Marula Sustainability performance summary • 2% improvement in LTIFR • Polokwane • 13% decline in TIFR • 37% improvement in ART uptake 1 Marula • Maintained ISO 14000 certification Impala 2 • 10% improvement in Pt oz produced in 3 Two Rivers Rustenburg • concentrate to 78 500oz 4 Impala Refineries Johannesburg • 2 Impala Sustainability performance summary • 3 fatalities • 45% improvement on the FIFR • 3% decline in LTIFR • 26% decline in VCT interventions • 5% increase in ART uptake • 42% reduction in Pt oz produced to 411 000oz 3 Impala Refining Services (IRS) Sustainability performance summary • 14% increase mine-to-market • 12% decrease in gross refined Pt oz 4 Two Rivers Sustainability performance summary • 26% improvement in LTIFR to 1.40 • 3% increase in tonnes milled to 3.3 million • 8% increase in production to 175 100Pt oz in concentrate Impala Platinum Holdings (Implats), one of the world’s foremost producers of platinum and associated platinum group metals Attributable mineral resources of 212Moz Pt (PGMs), has its primary listing on the JSE Limited (JSE) in South as at 30 June 2014 Africa, and a level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme in Zimplats 45% Impala 28% the United States of America. Tamboti 11% Afplats 6% Implats is structured around six main operations with a total of Imbasa and Inkosi 4% Marula 3% 25 underground shafts. Our operations are located on the Mimosa 2% Bushveld Complex in South Africa and the Great Dyke in Two Rivers 1% Zimbabwe, two of the most significant PGM-bearing ore bodies in the world. Our headquarters are in Johannesburg and we have six main operations: Impala, Zimplats, Marula, Mimosa, Two Rivers and Impala Refining Services. The structure of our Our major shareholders are the Royal Bafokeng Nation (RBN) operating framework allows for each of our operations to and the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), who own 13.2% establish and maintain close relationships with their stakeholders and 14.2% respectively, with a balance of the shares being while operating within a Group-wide approach to managing the held by various public entities. (Refer to page 121 of the economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainability. integrated report.) IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE WHO WE ARE – WHAT WE DO Page / 23 Our major shareholders are the Royal Bafokeng Holdings (RBH) and the Public Investment Corporation (PIC), who own 13.2% and 14.2% respectively ZIMBABWE 1 Mimosa Sustainability performance summary • 49% improvement in LTIFR • 37% improvement in TIFR • US$5 million spent on community development • 3% improvement in tonnes milled to 2.5 million 2 Zimplats Sustainability performance summary Zimplats 1 • 1 fatality • 41% improvement in LTIFR • 116% increase in SO2 due to a 33% increase in sulphur content in concentrate, increased production and better assay’s after the XRF calibration • US$1.1 million spent on community development • 21% increase in Pt oz produced in matte Bulawayo • Mimosa 2 We produce around 25% of the world’s supply of platinum with a workforce of approximately 56 000, including 16 000 contractors. In the financial year ended 30 June 2014, the Group produced 2.370 million ounces of PGMs (2013: 3.233 million ounces), which included 1.178 million ounces of platinum (2013: 1.582). Our markets are in Japan, China, the US and Europe. Production this year was significantly impacted by the five-month strike that took place across most of the South African platinum SOUTH AFRICA mines from 23 January to 24 June 2014. ZIMBABWE PGMs are primarily platinum and its associated by-products palladium, rhodium, ruthenium and iridium, which usually occur in association with nickel and copper. While PGMs are a relatively rare commodity (only about 500 tonnes are produced annually, of which less than 200 tonnes are platinum), they are playing a progressively important role in everyday life, whether it is in goods we use daily, or in the processes required to produce these goods, as well as in autocatalytic converters for emission control. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE THE CHALLENGING BUSINESS CONTEXT Page / 24 This has been yet another very difficult year for the South African platinum sector during which it has been confronted by ‘a perfect storm’ of challenges This has been yet another very difficult year for the South African Finding lasting solutions to these challenges will require a platinum sector during which it has been confronted by ‘a collaborative partnership between business, government perfect storm’ of challenges. The crippling five-month strike and labour, informed by mutual trust and respect. For this across the platinum belt in Rustenburg comes on top of a partnership to work effectively, each of the stakeholders will subdued global PGM market, a continuing rise in unit costs and need to be willing to question some of the fundamental reduction in margins and productivity, and ongoing challenges assumptions that they may have long taken for granted. around access to skills as well as critical infrastructure such as electricity, water and transport. In a country with one of the The platinum strike – highlighting some highest levels of inequality globally, where unemployment and structural challenges poverty remain high, and where service delivery by local On 23 January 2014, AMCU formally embarked on a strike at government has been slow, mining companies are facing Anglo Platinum, Impala Rustenburg and Lonmin. The strike was heightened expectations from neighbouring communities for more than a conventional wage strike – in many respects it jobs and the provision of services. At the same time, the sector represented a clear campaign by AMCU to address some of is facing an increasingly stringent (and at times uncertain) the fundamental historic imbalances created by apartheid regulatory regime, greater pressure for more rapid progress on and the mining sector. black economic empowerment, and growing demands for greater efficiencies and a more commensurate return by an The emergence of AMCU as a majority union in the platinum increasingly weary investment community. belt, challenging the traditional dominance of the ANC-aligned NUM, has ushered in a new era in the history of industrial The losses caused by the strike have severely impacted all relations in South Africa. It has prompted the sector to reflect stakeholders: the already low levels of trust between employers, deeply, not only on the traditional conditions of employment in workers and government have dropped further; the desperate the mining industry, but also more broadly on the nature of the living and social conditions of many workers in some areas have sector’s business model. Although the strike has ended with a worsened; and potential productivity levels have declined, three-year settlement agreement signed on 24 June (see threatening the viability of some shafts. In some areas, the page 45), many of the systemic challenges underpinning the dignity of the workforce continues to be undermined by the strike still have to be addressed. ‘master and servant’ culture that has plagued the industry throughout the apartheid era. Additional questions remain regarding the manner in which the negotiations have been conducted, the nature of the union The financial impact of the strike has been considerable: the rivalry, politicisation and violence that accompanied the strike, industry lost R24 billion in reduced revenues, and across the and the persistence of the majoritarian labour system. industry employees lost R10 billion in wages (for some workers it could take up to five years to recoup lost wages), while many Many of these issues are deeply rooted in the country’s history suppliers have seen their businesses threatened following the and in the social problems that are a legacy of the migrant reduction in economic activity. The country as a whole has labour system. These challenges have been further exacerbated experienced a resulting drop in economic growth, reduced tax by the inequality between rich and poor, by the increasing costs revenues and increased pressure on global investor confidence of food, energy and water, and by the growing debt burden and South Africa’s credit rating. compounded by the exploitation of miners by unscrupulous credit providers. The combination of profound economic hardship and high levels of social and economic inequality, has given rise to communities and individuals who understandably feel increasingly helpless, frustrated and angry. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE THE CHALLENGING BUSINESS CONTEXT Page / 25 Challenging global market conditions persist As the strike was playing out in South Africa, at a global level there remained continuing uncertainty regarding the future direction of PGM prices. Remarkably, despite the significant supply disruptions caused by the strike, this had little immediate impact on prices, suggesting a market that is in oversupply. This is seen to be a result of stagnant growth in demand, due primarily to reduced economic activity and the uptake in some instances of substitute metals, coupled with the existence of above-ground inventories and the increase in PGM recycling. The market uncertainty facing the platinum industry is mirrored across the mining sector, with mining companies around the world feeling the impact of volatile commodity markets, uncertain economic growth and an increasingly skittish investment community. On the upside there have been some encouraging signs of an increase in PGM demand, with evidence of a recovery in car sales in the US and EU, and further growth in China and other emerging economies, accompanied by tightening and more widespread vehicle emissions standards. The Japanese PGM jewellery market has also begun to pick up, with 2013 indications roughly 5% ahead of the prior year and early 2014 sales continuing this trend. China seems mixed at the moment with 24 carat gold still dominating the jewellery space. Without a significant uplift in PGM demand, a return to normal production levels could lead to a sharp reduction in PGM prices (or the continuance of current low prices), further impeding the ability of the platinum sector to deliver compelling financial and social return. Offsetting this scenario is the potential that future supply may be constrained due to delays in returning to full production, the recent reduction in capital investment in capacity, and the possible closure of less viable shafts. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE THE CHALLENGING BUSINESS CONTEXT Page / 26 Addressing competing stakeholder demands, and ensuring business resilience in the challenging domestic and global context, is far from easy Addressing the underlying structural conditions Increasing stakeholder expectations Addressing these competing stakeholder demands, and The challenging local and global context has been further ensuring business resilience in the challenging domestic and exacerbated by the growing demands and expectations of global context, is far from easy. Doing so will raise its own set of stakeholders. In South Africa, communities and employees challenges and potentially create a series of unintended across all sectors have been flexing their muscles: communities socio-economic problems. have been protesting against what is seen to be poor service delivery by local municipalities, adding pressure to mining To achieve our aspirations on safety, productivity, and employee companies to address these shortcomings; employees have development – and to address the continuing concerns been expressing dissatisfaction with their employers’ value regarding labour volatility – ultimately we will need to move away proposition; and community-based non-governmental from our historic dependence on the ‘low-wage, highorganisations have been increasingly active in holding employment’ business model on which our mining industry was companies to account. Collectively these events suggest a founded nearly 150 years ago. Achieving the radical switch to a groundswell of community activism presenting real risks to ‘high-wage, low-employment’ model, in which our mining business sustainability and the retention of their social licence to methods are mechanised and people are moved from the rock operate in host communities. face, will provide some significant benefits – for our operations, the people we employ and the economies we serve. It will lead At the same time, business is facing a regulatory landscape that to fewer, safer and better paid jobs, offer improved development is becoming more difficult to navigate, with a plethora of policy and career advancement prospects for our employees, allow decisions adding pressure on our abilities to do business both in more women to be employed, and ensure the sustainability of South Africa and Zimbabwe. The lack of capacity within certain our business, with the significant economic benefits that this strategic government departments – at national, provincial and provides. While ultimately this is a more sustainable approach, it municipal level – is adding to the challenge of regulatory is likely to come at the cost of jobs, presenting its own set of uncertainty, and constraining our ability to make long-term associated socio-economic difficulties. investment decisions. The recent elections in South Africa, and the subsequent changes at a ministerial level, have presented Similarly, we ultimately need to see the end of the migrant labour further challenges in terms of rebuilding relationships with system – a system that, for all its well-known social ills, provides government, while in Zimbabwe we face continuing uncertainty work and sustains the families of mine workers, as it has done around calls for indigenisation and beneficiation. for the past 150 years. The effect on our rural areas, particularly the Eastern Cape, as well as our neighbouring countries such as Compounding the growing pressure on companies to Lesotho, Mozambique, Zambia and Malawi, where most of our demonstrate greater social return, are the calls from an migrant workers come from, will be severe. Ending the system increasingly nervous and outspoken investment community raises additional challenges; the reality is that the best mining for the South African platinum industry to improve cost and skills in South Africa have traditionally come from Lesotho, operational efficiencies to boost their progressively eroding Mozambique and the Eastern Cape. To overcome this challenge profitability. Delivering on these shareholder demands may we need to invest in developing a bigger pool of skills from our require remedial action including retrenchments, an action that local communities. This requires changing an ongoing is politically highly sensitive in a region with such high perception among many local community members that unemployment. underground mining jobs are dangerous, physically demanding and poorly remunerated. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE THE CHALLENGING BUSINESS CONTEXT Page / 27 Developing partnerships informed by trust and respect Given this challenging business context it is clear that business in general, and the mining sector in particular, needs to develop a deeper understanding and appreciation of its relationship with society, and of its roles and responsibilities in responding to society challenges. For the mining sector to survive and flourish, it is critical that the sector plays an active and informed role – in partnership with government, labour and civil society – in ensuring that mineral wealth is generated more responsibly, and that its benefits are shared more equitably between shareholders, workers and the country as a whole. The fundamental changes that are needed to address the failures within the current business model – be it progressive mechanisation, the effective introduction of performance incentive schemes, the shift away from the majoritarian union dispensation, or measures to address the migrant labour system – will not be possible until there is a genuine shift in the culture developed between business, government and labour, to one of partnership and cooperation, founded on trust and mutual respect. All these factors play a significant role in our risk assessment process which informs the organisation’s strategic response. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE OUR RISK ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT PROCESS Page / 28 Our structured risk management process allows for robust discussions regarding the materiality of the risk OUR RISK ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT PROCESS Arising from this process we identify a set of objective-based Implats’ risk management process sets out to achieve an risk assessments (ORAs) that cover approximately 60 of the appropriate balance between minimising the risks associated most important aspects of the Implats business. Each identified with any business activity and maximising the potential reward. risk, as well as its associated controls, has a clearly defined line This process enables the board and senior managers to take management owner. This process is repeated and reviewed decisions regarding the possible trade-off between risk and regularly, ensuring that the information remains relevant. All reward, and assists them to identify and pursue appropriate information is captured into the Group risk repository system strategic growth opportunities informed by the Group’s risk that informs the Group risk profile. The Group risk profile is appetite and risk tolerance levels. presented on a monthly basis to the Exco and quarterly to the board risk committee, which has been separated from the audit Our risk management process comprises the following steps: committee. This approach allows for robust discussion regarding Establishing the context: We consider the nature of the the materiality of the risk, its likely impact on the business external operating context (pages 30 and 31), and the views in the short, medium and long term, and the necessary risk and interests of our stakeholders (pages 32 and 33) mitigation measures. Identifying the risk: We establish both the source and cause of the risk, and evaluate all possible consequences This process culminates in the identification of a prioritised set of Analysing the risk: We identify and assess what this means Group strategic risks (see page 30). Collectively, these risks, for the achievement of our objectives along with the outcomes of our internal and external stakeholder Evaluating the risk: We determine the risk rating (by severity, engagement activities, and our assessment of market exposure and frequency), identify the controls (both existing fundamentals, are used to identify our material sustainabilityor new), and prioritise the risks related issues. These issues are prioritised in terms of their Treating the risk: We consider all options to establish the impact both on the organisation and on our key stakeholders. most appropriate response for each identified risk. They inform the nature of our Group strategic objectives (page 35), as well as the performance issues for monitoring and reporting. Internal stakeholder issues Risk External Macro-economic identification stakeholder issues and issues materiality Exco deliberation Board and ratification confirmation IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE IDENTIFYING OUR MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS Page / 29 OUR MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS Informed by the Group risk process, and the material interests and concerns of our key stakeholders, we have identified the following four material sustainability focus areas, and the associated issues, three of which are detailed in this report. Safe and Conserve effective natural Social people who resources capital respect and mitigate investment and care for the impacts of and licence each other our operations to operate –– Investing in employee –– Water stewardship –– Our economic and relations –– Climate change and social value added –– Safety energy management –– Investing in community –– Employee health and –– Air quality management development well-being –– Managing our waste –– Accommodation and –– Attracting, retaining and –– Land management and living conditions developing talent biodiversity –– Enterprise development –– Promoting diversity and and procurement transformation –– Respecting human rights These material focus areas underpin our Group strategy, and are reflected in our four strategic objectives discussed in our integrated report on pages 30 to 39: Behaviour Excellence Sustainability Together IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE IDENTIFYING OUR MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS Page / 30 This year the Group risk profile includes key risks, the 10 most critical of which are set out below. Group Strategic strategic risk Context Our response measure objective Reference Non-delivery Short-term challenges include: safe Ensuring the safe return to work for all Excellence: IR of production resumption of the Impala Rustenburg employees by implementing the Deliver Page 76 and operation post-strike; ramping up to detailed start-up plan for the operational productivity full production as per the start-up operations. excellence targets at plan, maintaining our ability to achieve Implement initiatives relating to: mining Impala completion of the mining cycle; quality; training; visible felt leadership; Rustenburg speeding up the establishment of face mine planning protocols and work length in new mining areas; ensuring procedures. increased productivity. Wage On 23 January 2014, around Striving to provide an enabling work Behaviour: Page 42 negotiations 80 000 members of the Association environment that fosters open, honest Safe and and employee of Mineworkers and Construction and effective relations between effective Page 68 relations Union (AMCU) commenced strike management, employees and elected people climate action at the Rustenburg mines of union representatives. Impala, Lonmin and Anglo American Engaging with various government Together: Platinum (Amplats). The strike lasted departments directly, working with the Social capital until the end of June 2014, resulting Chamber of Mines and labour investment in estimated production losses for representatives to find sustainable Impala of 312 000ozs Pt. solutions to industrial relations challenges in the country. Platinum Despite the protracted strike, Understanding the future demand for Excellence: IR group metal the platinum price did not move our products, and the corresponding Deliver Page 22 (PGM) price significantly over this period, which is industry supply-side profile. operational fluctuations an indication of significant aboveScanning the environment for excellence ground metal stocks. technological advances that may affect the demand for Implats’ products (substitution), and instituting appropriate responses where possible. Volatility of the The volatility of the rand/US$ Closely monitoring the rand/dollar Excellence: IR rand/US$ exchange rate primarily impacts exchange rate as a source of Deliver Page 49 exchange rate revenues for the basket of PGMs and significant volatility for our business operational base metals produced. Fluctuations in and where prudent try to mitigate excellence the exchange rate have a marked its impact. influence on cash flows. Shear-induced The behaviour of the Mutambara Close monitoring and review of the Excellence: IR ground Shear has been erratic and affected areas by industry experts and Deliver Page 44 instability at unpredictable. As a result, prediction using the best available technology. operational and 80 Zimplats of the operability and hence Ensuring that the worst affected areas excellence (Mutambara production levels in the short to are quarantined. Shear) medium term may not be accurate. Establishment of a detailed action Behaviour: plan is in progress. safe and effective people IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE IDENTIFYING OUR MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS Page / 31 Group Strategic strategic risk Context Our response measure objective Reference Pressure to The issue of further minerals Maintaining regular high-level contact Sustainability: Page 85 provide metal beneficiation has been on the agenda with the DMR as part of the platinum Conserving at low prices of the South African Government industry group. natural for local since 1995, in the belief that Engaging in national technological resources beneficiation beneficiation will help re-industrialise research for further opportunities. – South Africa the economy and create hundreds of thousands more jobs in manufacturing. The DMR is pursuing the specific agenda of developmental pricing and forced local sales. Uncertainty The Zimbabwean Government has Maintaining regular contact with Together: IR regarding advised that the Zimplats government officials. Social capital Page 46 indigenisation indigenisation plan signed in January Ensuring full legal and regulatory investment and 121 policy in 2013 needs to be revised. compliance in a continuously changing Zimbabwe environment. Investing in community and social development initiatives. Weak balance The financial impact of the protracted Proactive and rigorous review of the Sustainability IR sheet and cash strike has been far reaching. Implats short and long-term business planning Page 49 flows is currently operating in a cash process and parameters, together with constrained mode. ensuring that appropriate funding is available or in place. Excessive There are multiple and sometimes Maintaining regular contact with Together: Page 51 taxation at conflicting interpretations of the government officials. licence to Zimplats unique special mining lease tax law Conducting training and awareness operate that is applicable to Zimplats. campaigns to internal stakeholders, as well as tax compliance audits. The security of In South Africa, the electricity supply Maintaining regular contact with Sustainability: Page 85 supply of industry is dominated by Eskom, Eskom to ensure we are aware of any Conserve electricity in which owns and operates the situation that may affect us. natural South Africa transmission grid. Eskom has a Ensuring we minimise our resources net installed generation capacity of consumption of energy and water by 42 000 MW. Given planned and promoting efficient processes, and unplanned outages it is able to bring adopting appropriate technologies. a maximum of 36 000 MW on line at present. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE IDENTIFYING OUR MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS Page / 32 RESPONDING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ MATERIAL CONCERNS Implats has a range of stakeholders, with varying degrees of influence on the Company and on our ability to create value. While we recognise that all stakeholders are important, we have prioritised strategic relationships with employees and unions, government, shareholders, BEE partners, customers and communities, each of whom is critical to the longer-term sustainability of our business. As part of our strategic initiatives, a review process is currently under way to map stakeholder groupings and assess the effectiveness of engagement mechanisms and take corrective measures where necessary. Stakeholders Nature of engagement Material issues raised Our response Reference Employees Internal communication Conditions of employment Collaborative engagements to Page 42 Engagement with trade unions Safety and health initiatives find solutions to issues of Workplace forums Progress with transformation concern Production and performance Undertaking a culture survey Reviewing internal incentive systems Trade unions Internal communication Living wage Strong focus throughout the Page 42 Collective bargaining units Conditions of employment year on engaging with union Branch committees Discrimination representatives, and Chamber of Mines Union recognition establishing a new labour Safety relations environment that Transformation fosters open, honest and effective communication Shareholders, Roadshows Industrial relations climate Investor concerns and queries analysts and Results presentations Wage negotiations are addressed in our regular investors Investor conferences The situation in Zimbabwe investor engagements One-on-one appointments Future metal prices, and PGM supply and demand dynamics Cost control measures Capex programme Progress at Impala Platinum Government Meetings with officials from Labour relations Implats engages constructively Pages 44 local, provincial and national Safety (accidents and with government at all levels, to 46 government stoppages) both as a company and Compliance visits from Progress with transformation through industry representative government (SA) and indigenisation bodies (such as the Chamber Chamber of Mines (Zimbabwe) of Mines) on these material Parliament Portfolio Committee Progress with social and issues Mining Industry Growth, labour plans (SA) In the current year, Development and Employment Community investments and engagement in South Africa Task Team (MIGDETT) engagement included a particular focus on Environmental compliance finding solutions to the The establishment of a Base industrial dispute Metal Refinery (Zimbabwe) Local government was engaged in conducting a social impact assessment in partnership with them in our mine communities Traditional Community engagement Employment and procurement The responsible executive at Page 38 council, meetings opportunities each operation addresses to 39 local land Community trust meetings Enterprise development issues of concern to the owners and Future forum meetings Infrastructure development community. Information on our local One-on-one meetings Health and social facilities performance on material communities Environmental impacts and issues is provided at our property damage community “future forums”, Business opportunities particularly on employment, Educational planning procurement, infrastructure Unemployment development, environmental issues and health IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE IDENTIFYING OUR MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS Page / 33 Stakeholders Nature of engagement Material issues raised Our response Reference Suppliers Supplier forums Conditions of contracts Modified engagements with Page 39 One-on-one meetings Review of contractor contractors, developed clear operating standards in line principles that will guide the with Implats policy and selection and use of reputable standard contractors with the right skills and values systems to do specific tasks that the business is not able to do Customers Industry forums Effective delivery against Track and respond to One-on-one meetings terms customer feedback. Keeping Customer feedback customers informed of any Reputation surveys possible supply disruptions due to industrial action Chamber of Contribute to CoM meetings Contribution to industry Joined the Chamber in July Page 15 Mines (CoM) (at CEO and working group positioning and lobbying 2012 and have contributed to 16 level) activities actively to various initiatives including, in particular, the drafting of the Framework Agreement for a Sustainable Mining Industry BEE or Operational meetings Cost of production Questions and concerns indigenous Board meetings Capital delivery relating to safety, health and partners One-on-one meetings Safety skills development are Progress with transformation, discussed with partners. and labour and social plans Regular updates on progress Labour relations on employee relations Community issues are provided Producer and Strategy meetings All of the above Ongoing cost pressures within industry Industry interest group the PGM sector industry forums meetings resulted in the formation of a platinum CEOs forum, handled through the CoM Advocacy Stakeholder liaison meetings Ensuring greater community Engage with and respond to groups One-on-one meetings benefit various stakeholder groups Surveys, hotlines and Improved labour relations as appropriate publications Environmental impacts Greater transparency Media Press releases All of the above Media releases are distributed One-on-one interviews (radio, throughout the year, updating TV and print media) the public on all material issues affecting the Company IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Page / 34 A critical focus for our business is people Our vision is to be the world’s best platinum producing company, delivering superior returns to stakeholders relative to our peers. To achieve this vision, the Group focuses on four strategic pillars: Behaviour, Excellence, Sustainability, Together. These have been determined in response to the material risks that impact our ability to create value. In this report we address our strategic objectives relating to Behaviour, Sustainability and Together, while Excellence is detailed in the integrated report. The following focus areas underpin our Group strategy, and are reflected in our strategic objectives. The four pillars Safe and Conserve effective Social natural Deliver people who capital and resources operational respect licence and mitigate excellence and care for to operate impacts of our and continuous each other operation improvement Safety strategy Supported by: Supported by: Supported by: supported by: –– Meaningful and –– Compliance with –– The operational –– Cultural values sustainable social all relevant excellence model –– Work environment investment in our legislation –– Effective planning –– Leadership and communities –– Continuous and mineral supervision –– Respecting improvement in resource Health strategy human rights and air resource management supported by: the interests of all stewardship –– Intensive cost –– Employee stakeholders –– Optimisation of and productivity wellness –– Abiding by the energy focus –– Prevention and laws of the efficiencies and –– Operational education countries in reduction of delivery and –– Treatment and which we carbon footprint performance support operate –– Preservation of management People strategy –– Effective and natural water –– Innovation and supported by: transparent resources and new technology –– Attracting, governance and water quality retaining and reporting –– Development of developing talent alternate energy –– Effective people sources linked to our metals IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO CREATING VALUE OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Page / 35 Strategic objective 1: We continue to address security of supply through recycling, BEHAVIOUR – SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE reuse and reduction of use initiatives, as well as actively seeking Our ability to secure an effective employer/employee relationship to minimise impacts, mitigate risks, minimise the cost of doing is vital in the present labour climate and going forward. We will business and address community sustainability in our areas focus on developing our employee value proposition so that of operation. employees’ personal goals and aspirations are aligned to the objectives and deliverables of the organisation. We will ensure Key indicators that will be covered are water, energy, emissions, that our employee housing, skills development, health and waste and land management. reward programmes contribute to these goals. Strategic objective 4: We will strive to institutionalise a more open, democratic and TOGETHER – SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO transparent industrial relations climate through our cultural OPERATE change management process introduced in 2013. We aspire to The viability of our business is dependent on us making a achieve a common vision and value system advanced and meaningful contribution to the societies in which we operate, by owned by our people together with the executive and the board. implementing projects that have a positive impact on our communities. Respect for human rights and the interests of our Given the nature of our business, ensuring the safety and stakeholders and abiding by relevant laws and regulations, are well-being of our workforce is critical to our ability to create value critically important. Our strategic approach in investing in as it impacts productivity, and ultimately affects the long-term socio-economic development is premised on the belief that the sustainability of the business. Our strategy focuses on long-term viability of our business is closely linked to the promoting the right behaviour, ensuring the right practices, and success and well-being of the communities in which we operate providing the right working environment. and the areas from which a significant portion of our employees emanate. Securing the trust and endorsement of these Key material issues will cover employee relations, health, safety, communities and their political representatives is essential to skills development and diversity. maintaining our licence to operate. Our commitment to improving the living conditions of our employees through access Strategic objective 2: to housing, provides an opportunity for differentiation and EXCELLENCE – DELIVERING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE competitive advantage. It represents a strong business/ AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT employee linkage and serves as the cornerstone of other pillars To sustain our business we need to ensure an effective mineral of our broader transformation strategy such as skills resources management system, coupled with a strong drive to development and retention, local procurement and enterprise manage costs and enhance productivity. Delivering consistent development. We are committed to meeting the transformational returns through optimised operations, focused on increased objectives of the countries of operation through the mine volumes and grade quality, is essential to reward our empowerment of historically disadvantaged South Africans and stakeholders and ensure their continued support. Ensuring the indigenous people of Zimbabwe. profitability allows us to reinvest in our human resources, motivate our staff and continue to contribute towards developing Key aspects covered are socio-economic development, sustainable communities in our areas of operation. housing, procurement, enterprise development and community development. Strategic objective 3: SUSTAINABILITY – CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES These four pillars of our strategy are addressed in this report AND MITIGATING IMPACTS OF OUR OPERATIONS and in our 2014 integrated report. This report covers those sites The Group creates value primarily by extracting and refining in which we have a majority stake, and excludes Two Rivers. PGMs. Without access to these natural minerals we have no The operational specific performance for each of the material business. To support our extraction and processing of these indicators is outlined in the operational review of each site in the resources we rely on access to land, water and energy – all of integrated report. which have a material impact on the environment and the communities in which we operate. We recognise that the supply All material aspects identified above are material to all sites with of these resources is likely to be constrained going into the the exception of the South African mining charter indicators. future, resulting in increased costs of doing business, and greater efforts required to address impacts on communities. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page / 36 Our sustainable development management approach IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page / 37 Our management approach and strategic response informs our response to those society issues that have an impact on our business, and over which we have some influence. Our Group strategy and sustainability policy are regularly reviewed and revised to provide for the changing social context, and to ensure that we are focusing on the most material issues. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page / 38 Our commitment to sound safety, health, social and environmental performance is reflected in our structures and support functions at an executive and operational level Our management approach Ensure compliance to relevant regulatory statutes in At board level, sustainability issues are addressed through countries of operation such as South Africa’s Mining Charter the social, ethics and transformation (SET) committee and Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act, and (established in 2012), and the health, safety and environment Zimbabwe’s National Indigenisation and Economic (HSE) committee (in place since 1988). Empowerment Plan The SET committee, chaired by Thandi Orleyn, an Ensure that the organisation maintains its social licence to independent non-executive director, is responsible for the operate in host countries by advancing social transformation Group’s activities relating to social and economic and upliftment in affected communities development, good corporate citizenship, the environment, health and public safety, consumer relationships, and labour This Forum will lend support to the Exco which in turn supports and employment issues. the board’s HSE committee, the SET committee, and the audit The HSE committee, chaired by Alastair Macfarlane, an and risk committees. Sustainability objectives form part of the independent non-executive director, guides strategy, key performance indicators against which the performance of assesses the adequacy and appropriateness of HSE policies, Implats’ management and executives is measured and standards and procedures, and reviews Group-wide remunerated. Details on these KPIs and their implications for the performance on a quarterly basis. The committee also executive are provided in our integrated annual report. investigates and reviews all major incidences and fatalities that have occurred. People management The audit committee, chaired by Hugh Cameron, an The people management function is headed up by a dedicated independent non-executive director, oversees the Group executive reporting to the CEO. The scope of work appointment of the assurance provider for non-financial includes remuneration, human resource development, talent performance each year. The results of these are presented to management and employment equity. the committee with the necessary recommendations and action. In future this will fall under the SET committee. Group policies and procedures on people management issues are established at corporate level and apply at our operations. A more detailed review of the composition and activities of these Our policies and procedures are aimed at contributing to sound board committees is provided in our integrated annual report. employee relations, attracting and retaining talent, and ensuring the continuous development of our employees, while at the At an executive level, sustainable development falls under the same time offering opportunities for career progression with a responsibility of the executive committee, which is responsible particular emphasis within our South African operations on for reviewing performance in terms of the Group’s non-financial historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs). Each indicators. Towards the latter part of the year a decision was operation has a transformation committee comprising taken to re-establish the Group Sustainable Development representatives from management, unions and women, as Forum, which will focus on medium to long-term strategic well as various other stakeholder groups who contribute to sustainability issues. In its new form, the forum is constituted by overseeing and advancing transformation at each operation. a multi-disciplinary team and its principal objectives are to: The operational committees report to the Group SET committee. Identify material sustainability issues and risks that have an Our operations also have community Future Forums, at which impact on the business and devise appropriate strategic issues of concern to local communities – such as employment responses to these risks opportunities, procurement, and health, safety and Align strategic interventions to the global, national and environmental performance – are discussed. Issues arising industry agenda concerning sustainable development such from these community forums are relayed to the operational as the World Business Council’s Vision 2050, the South committee and, ultimately, to the Exco. These are elevated to African National Development Plan and the Framework the SET committee on a quarterly basis and board, as required. Agreement for a Sustainable Mining Industry IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH Page / 39 Managing health, safety and environmental Each year an independent audit is conducted on selected social (HSE) issues projects, based on the financial, legal and reputational risk as Group and site-specific HSE policies, procedures and standards well as to determine impact, progress and potential remedial are in place to ensure that we comply with legislative action where a project faces possible failure. A detailed requirements and support our vision of zero harm. Responsibility summary of this can be found on pages 74 and 75 of this for implementing HSE policies and procedures rests with line report. management. All operations submit quarterly performance reports to the board-appointed HSE committee. Group and Managing contractors and suppliers operational level HSE specialists support line management in Implats suppliers span the entire value chain from exploration to implementing the strategy and in monitoring and managing final production of precious metals in the refining process. Our performance. The Group H&S executive and Risk and approach is to source all goods and services within the country Sustainability executive are members of Exco. of operation, and a greater emphasis is on local suppliers defined as tier 1, 2 and 3 based on their proximity to the The Group’s environmental team has close links with operational operations in South Africa. Tier 1 suppliers are those from and project management and is involved in due diligence directly and indirectly impacted communities (Bafokeng Villages exercises undertaken in connection with acquisitions and the and Freedom Park in Rustenburg, and the Four-farms area in development of strategic initiatives. Implementation of our Burgersfort), tier 2 are within the local municipality around the policies is enhanced by our commitment to maintaining operations and tier 3 are those within the bigger areas ISO 14001 certification for our environmental management surrounding the local municipality. In Zimbabwe local suppliers systems. Regular compliance audits are conducted at our are those that are within the country of operation. Local operations by the Group’s internal auditors, as well as by the procurement is advanced through our enterprise development external auditor. All of the Group’s operations are now initiatives as described on page 80 of the report. ISO 14001 certified. In response to concerns regarding contractor behaviour not In addition to the ISO 14001 certification, the refineries are reflecting our value systems, and to minimise any potential signatories to Responsible Care® and retained their certification. liability, last year we reviewed our contractor strategy. This Responsible Care® is the chemical industry’s global voluntary strategy seeks to ensure that we have defined principles that will initiative under which companies, through national associations, guide the engagement of reputable contractor companies with such as the Chemical and Allied Industries Association (CAIA) in the right skills and value systems to undertake specific tasks South Africa, work together to continuously improve and that we are not able to do ourselves. All contractors and communicate on their HSE performance. suppliers are appraised on our policies and business practices and are expected to, at a minimum, abide by these principles in Managing our investments in socio-economic their business conduct and practices at all our operations. The development strategy has been structured into two phases. The first phase The sustainable development department based at our entails using our training and recruitment resources to ensure Rustenburg operations manages our socio-economic that all contracting employees are vetted and assessed development initiatives in our South African operations. A according to our own internal standards. The second phase technical team is responsible for implementing the projects, specifically interrogates each contracting company and the work working together with the stakeholder engagement department. they do for us. We have completed the detailed assessments The identification of community projects is an ongoing process with the assistance of an external specialist and will, over time, based on a needs analysis, undertaken in consultation with effect the required change. In the short term we are planning to stakeholder representatives from communities, local government insource all development mining, ventilation construction as well and employees. The sustainable development project steering as sweeping and vamping services. committee is responsible for reviewing the proposed projects after due diligence. Once approved by the project steering We will continue to focus our attention on suppliers’ B-BBEE committee, the projects are recommended to the Group’s certificates and prompting suppliers well in advance of their executive committee, a multi-disciplinary executive-level expiry dates. Penalties on annual increases will continue to management team that evaluates the merits of investing in be levied on untransformed suppliers. During the year no each project. services of suppliers were terminated. In Zimbabwe, sustainable development initiatives are implemented and managed by the stakeholder engagement executive supported by technical personnel from the operations. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH PROMOTING ETHICS AND GOOD GOVERNANCE Page / 40 We maintain a zero tolerance stance on fraud and corruption We are committed to promoting the highest standard of corporate governance, and to ensuring that our practices are materially aligned with the expectations of the King Code of Governance for South Africa 2009 (King III). The Implats board assumes overall responsibility for the effectiveness of internal controls, risk management and governance, and for ensuring that our business objectives are met. We maintain a zero tolerance stance on fraud and corruption. In the current year 90 cases were reported across the Group, We expect all our employees, business partners, contractors 50% of which were from the South African operation, 44% were and associates to conduct themselves in accordance with the from the Zimplats operation and the remaining 6% were from Implats Code of Ethics and our fraud policy. The code and the Mimosa operation. This reflects a 35% reduction from last policy are both fully compliant with local laws and regulations. year’s figure. The founded cases also decreased from 47% of total cases last year to 38% of total cases this year. The fraud policy outlines conflict of interest, the prevention of dissemination of Company information, the acceptance of All reported allegations are investigated in compliance with our donations and gifts, and the protection of the intellectual fraud policy (see the table below). Of the 90 cases reported and property and patent rights of the Company. The policy outlines investigated this year, four were classified as BEE fronting; the disciplinary action (including dismissal or prosecution) that 14 were conflict of interest and corruption; 45 were fraud and will be taken in the event of any contravention. A “whistletheft and 27 related to misconduct and other irregularities. blowing” toll-free helpline is in place to facilitate the confidential reporting of alleged incidents that are reported to the chief audit The status on the 90 cases referred to above is as follows: executive and the board chairman. The executives and line 24 are still pending; management are responsible and accountable for the 32 were unfounded; and implementation of the fraud policy, Code of Ethics and the 34 were founded. procedures associated with these policies. In keeping with our zero tolerance stance on fraud and corruption, 20 of the 34 founded cases resulted in a guilty outcome and appropriate disciplinary action was taken against the parties involved; while in four cases the employees were found not guilty, a further four cases did not warrant disciplinary action and the remaining six are still in process. The table below provides the classification of the allegations and outcomes in each category: Nature of cases reported Group-wide in the 2014 financial year Investigation Allegations Allegations pending unfounded founded Total Nature of allegation BEE fronting 1 1 2 4 Conflict of interest and corruption 7 5 2 14 Fraud and theft 9 15 21 45 Misconduct and other 7 11 34 27 Total 24 32 34 90 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 OUR GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH PROMOTING ETHICS AND GOOD GOVERNANCE Page / 41 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Page / 42 Safe and effective people who respect and care IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE Page / 43 Being more responsive to the needs and interests of our people is critical to ensuring the long-term viability of our business, as well as the mining sector as a whole. We recognise that our business will only prosper if we are able to recapture the hearts and minds of our employees by adopting an employee value proposition that aligns employees’ personal goals and aspirations with the objectives and deliverables of the organisation. To achieve this, we will be implementing a cultural change management process aimed at developing a common vision and value system developed and owned by our people and their representatives, together with the executive and board. We will strive to institutionalise a more open, more democratic and more transparent industrial relations climate, where employees are recognised and respected as equals, based on a culture of trust and respect. Prioritising safe production, and ensuring the health of our employees, underpins all that we do and remains key to ensuring the sustainability of our business. We seek to achieve this by focusing on promoting the right behaviour, ensuring the right practices, and providing the right working environment. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Page / 44 Informed by the developments of the past year, our employee relations (ER) vision is to pioneer a new, innovative, dynamic, and sustainable partnership with our employees The period in review has been dominated by the ongoing rivalry between mining trade unions AMCU and NUM, the failure of the wage negotiations late in calendar 2013, and the subsequent five-month strike at platinum mines across the Rustenburg area. This strike, the longest in the history of industrial relations in required to submit a completed affiliation form to the payroll. South Africa, has revealed significant shortcomings in the This allows the Company to determine the threshold of the manner in which we, as a mining sector, have traditionally been union based on the number of affiliations relative to the conducting our business, and is having a profound impact on bargaining level. Union affiliation is monitored on a monthly how we understand and approach our relationship with basis. The operations also have branch committees where employees. The strike resulted in approximately 125 working unions and management meet to discuss employee-related days lost. Following the end of the industrial action at the matters including conditions of work. We monitor labour Rustenburg operations, the Marula operations in Limpopo went relations in our operations, with monthly reports submitted from on a three-day unprotected strike, demanding that the wage the operations to the Exco. An independent third-party conducts deal signed in Rustenburg be extended to these operations and the derecognition of NUM. These demands were not acceded to biannual surveys on the effectiveness of our labour relations. We as a formal agreement had already been signed, and employees respect the independent status of unions and the right of our were instructed to return to work. Management continues to employees to associate, or not to associate. We distance engage with employees to find solutions to unresolved issues. ourselves from, and condemn, any attempt to differentiate between people on the basis of colour, religion, gender or creed. Our strategic approach to employee relations Informed by the developments of the past year, our employee Currently 92% of our permanent employees are covered by relations (ER) vision is to pioneer a new, innovative, dynamic, collective bargaining agreements. These agreements address and sustainable partnership with our employees and their issues relating to salary and benefit reviews, the participation of representative bodies, with the aim of becoming the best unions in decision-making at different forums, and consultation employer in the platinum industry. Our ER mission is to ensure and notice periods regarding any significant organisational that our people are treated with respect and care, fairly changes. The minimum notice period for any organisational rewarded for their contributions, empowered to raise their change or activity at Implats’ operations is 30 days. concerns, safely engaged in their daily duties, and able to deliver on their personal and organisational goals. In response to instances of intimidation, we have taken a harder line on discipline, especially with respect to reported cases of To achieve this mission and vision, we have set ourselves the assault and violence in line with the Framework Agreement following strategic goals: facilitated by the Deputy President. This action needs to Ensuring high levels of employee engagement, based on the continue to send a consistent message that workers who shared values of respect and care misconduct themselves will face severe consequences, even if Establishing collaborative relationships with all unions in a this action elevates the risk of illegal work stoppages. multi-union environment Empowering frontline management to engage effectively Our 2014 performance on employee relations with employees Our principal focus during the reporting period has been on Restructuring the ER function to enable the achievement of addressing the issues associated with the intense rivalry the ER strategy. between AMCU and the NUM, and dealing with the outcome of the wage negotiations with AMCU and the subsequent five Our labour relations policy deals with freedom of association, months’ strike in Rustenburg. While we made some initial recognition of trade unions, discrimination and the rights of progress early in the reporting period in delivering on our ER employees and contractors. The organisation has in place commitments made last year – relating in particular to improving threshold agreements which clearly stipulate the different levels employee communications and delivering on our shared of rights a union may have depending on their representivity. corporate values initiative – these initiatives were significantly Employees are free to join a union of their choice and are impacted by the strike. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Page / 45 The unaffordable wage demand Throughout the five-month Rustenburg strike (from 24 January to 24 June 2014) a key demand by AMCU was the much publicised call for a R12 500 per month basic wage for entry-level underground mine workers, most of whom were on a basic rate of R5 500 per month. Given the context of current and anticipated PGM prices, and the existing cost structure, this level of remuneration is unaffordable for the three affected platinum mining companies, each of whom can barely cover their sustaining capital expenditure costs. For Impala this is illustrated in the graph below. The wage demand problem (R/Ptoz) Our original wage offer problem (R/Ptoz) 35 000 35 000 8 807 30 000 30 000 793 25 000 25 000 4 075 4 075 20 000 20 000 2 115 2 115 8 806 8 806 15 000 15 000 10 000 10 000 8 807 8 807 5 000 5 000 0 0 Impala Impala Revenue Wages Other costs Revenue Wages Other costs Sustaining capital Projects R12 500 wage demand Sustaining capital Projects 9% wage increase The final settlement concluded on 25 June 2014 contains the following principles for a three-year duration: An annual wage increase of R1 000 per month for employees whose basic wage is less than R12 500 a month for the first two years of the agreements, with an increase in the third year of R950 a month Employees currently earning R12 500 a month or more, or whose basic rate reaches that amount during the course of the agreement, will receive an 8% increase for the first two years of the agreement and 7.5% thereafter The living-out allowance will follow inflation for the first year and then remain constant for the next two years Fringe benefits will generally, during the course of these agreements, increase by amounts linked to the inflation rate All employees received, within one week of their return to work, the back pay due to them from their 2013 increase date. Guaranteed pay (entry-level underground employees) YEAR CASH REMUNERATION ANNUAL BENEFITS ANNUAL NOW Basic pay Holiday leave allowance/ Living out Total cash Estimated ER provident/ Guaranteed package 13th cheque allowance remuneration medical retirement R5 500 R458 R1 850 R7 808 R93 696 R600 R888 R9 297 R111 564 1 July 2013 Basic pay Holiday leave allowance/ Living out Total cash Estimated ER provident/ Guaranteed package 13th cheque allowance remuneration medical retirement R1 448 R6 500 R542 R2 000 R9 042 R108 804 R654 R1 050 R10 745 R128 940 1 July 2014 Basic pay Holiday leave allowance/ Living out Total cash Estimated ER provident/ Guaranteed package 13th cheque allowance remuneration medical retirement R1 199 R7 500 R625 R2 000 R10 125 R121 500 R706 R1 113 R11 944 R143 328 1 July 2015 Basic pay Holiday leave allowance/ Living out Total cash Estimated ER provident/ Guaranteed package 13th cheque allowance remuneration medical retirement R1 149 R8 450 R704 R2 000 R11 154 R133 848 R759 R1 179 R13 093 R157 116 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Page / 46 Across the Group we are communicating more directly with employees Prior to the strike, we devoted considerable time and and our values. Good participation was recorded in most, resources to ensuring a smooth transition from a work but not all, areas. Diagnostics have been conducted on the environment dominated by NUM, to one dominated by AMCU. puzzle boards to determine the nature and type of The derecognition of NUM and the associated litigation messaging displayed thus far. The majority of the input has processes lasted approximately five months at the end of which been positive, with mixed messaging in some areas. The we began the lengthy process of negotiating a recognition survey also indicated discontent in some areas associated agreement with AMCU. The signing of this agreement in July with blame, mistrust, control and racism. We will be paved the way for the beginning of the wage negotiations with analysing the results and agreeing on the nature of the AMCU in respect of the Rustenburg operations. Unfortunately change management interventions to be instituted. we were not able to deliver on our efforts at establishing a multi-union dispensation with a lower threshold and the Building the capacity of frontline managers to manage avoidance of a ‘winner takes all’ majoritarian system. Through quality relations: The HR function has identified and our engagements with government and other stakeholders we compiled a list of training and development programmes that will be continuing to pursue the implementation of a democratic are currently provided to frontline managers. We are labour dispensation. assessing the suitability and adequacy of these programmes in terms of building the capacity of these managers to deal While the strike in Rustenburg had an obvious profound impact effectively and appropriately with the challenging labour on the achievement of our strategic objectives relating to context. The programme is still not complete due to employee relations, some progress was made in certain areas. the disruptions caused by the strike and remains work in progress. Completion of wage negotiations and conclusion of an HSE agreement: Except for Rustenburg all negotiations Encouraging high level of employee engagement: were completed within the mandate and without industrial Across the Group we are communicating more directly with action. In addition, AMCU was consulted and an HSE employees. In addition to the survey of employee opinions agreement was concluded with them in respect of the mentioned earlier, other initiatives include videos, briefings, Rustenburg operations. During the strike the decision to CEO addresses, general manager feedback and daily, weekly encourage employees to take leave and to suspend the and monthly meetings at shafts across all different forums operations was widely applauded for the contribution it made within operations. These interactions are in addition to the towards maintaining the safety of employees. In terms of the numerous engagements between Implats and the unions. recent agreement, we are obliged to run three separate A direct two-way communication process between processes of negotiations in respect of the Refineries, Marula management and employees has been developed and put and the Rustenburg operations. to use for the first time during the industrial action. This process is being developed further to enable optimum Seeking union compliance with protocols and usage into the future. procedure: Formal meetings were established to ensure the necessary structures of engagements. These meetings are Participating in Chamber forums: Throughout the year we monitored and reports are produced on a monthly basis. The participated in various forums at the Chamber of Mines on a content of these reports is discussed at the strategic ER number of initiatives, including on the centralised bargaining meetings that take place on a regular basis. Despite our best forum established by the Minister of Labour. Regrettably our efforts, during the strike and subsequent to it, there have efforts on this particular forum did not succeed due to been incidents of intimidation and a lack of discipline. AMCU’s reluctance to negotiate at an industry level. Promoting our Respect and Care initiative: During the Maintaining sound labour relations at Zimplats: We year we undertook a cultural values survey among have continued to enjoy generally a constructive relationship approximately 10% of the South African workforce (see box). at the Zimbabwe operations, with no industrial action The findings of the survey have been discussed with the experienced throughout the year from either of the two main executive and feedback has been given to the SET unions, the Associated Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe committee of the board. We have commenced an (AMWUZ) and the National Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe engagement process to communicate the results more (NMWUZ). Collective bargaining for the Zimbabwean mining broadly to the workforce. In parallel with the survey, we industry went smoothly and was concluded without incident undertook an interactive puzzle board initiative aimed at in February 2014. engaging employees to assess their views on the Company IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Page / 47 Undertaking a cultural values survey among our employees As a part of the change management initiative initiated by the CEO, we conducted a Barrett Survey among Implats employees to assess employees’ perceptions of the current Implats culture, and to provide an opportunity for employees to give input into the culture they desire. The survey was undertaken in September and October 2013, and the analysis was completed in November 2013. The survey was conducted online for those with email addresses, and manually for those without easy access to computers. The survey was completed by 3 178 employees across the Group, representing all levels, geographies and demographics of the South African operations. This represents approximately 10% of the workforce, which is regarded as a statistically representative sample. The survey aimed to determine the following three issues: The degree to which employees perceived their needs to be met across Barrett’s Model of the Seven Levels of Consciousness, which is based on Maslow’s hierarchy of needs; The level of ‘cultural entropy’ within the organisation, measured by the extent to which employees choose negative words to indicate the degree of organisational dysfunction as well as wasted energy; and The level of alignment between personal, current and desired values in the organisation, which provides an indication of an employee’s level of commitment to the organisation. The survey resulted in the following principal findings: The study revealed general employee unhappiness reflected in average entropy levels of 33% across all South African operations. This suggests that there are issues requiring further cultural or structural transformation and leadership development. Most of these issues relate to health, the viability of the business, and the nature of the interpersonal connections experienced at work; Employees highlighted their desire for the following needs to be met: providing greater meaning and purpose in their work; the establishment of strong, reliable and consistent workplace relations; and ensuring the further growth and transformation within the Company; At lower levels within the organisation, culture challenges are experienced primarily at the level of personal relationships, while at higher levels the challenges are predominantly in terms of organisational effectiveness and coherence. The study concluded that employees desire respectful, caring workplace relationships in which their value is acknowledged, and highlighted the importance of promoting results achieved through teamwork and accountability, driven by workplace meaning and purpose. It is evident that we need to focus on developing leadership capacity if we are to meet these expectations. Following the survey we have commenced an engagement process with employees to provide feedback on the survey, to gain a better understanding of various aspects of the results, and to stimulate a conversation with them regarding the alignment of values with organisational goals. It is also planned that a process of transformation with leadership will be initiated at senior levels. The results of the cultural survey are being built into current processes, such as our Team Mobilisation and Zero Incident Process for Leaders initiatives. Due to the industrial action, the process has taken longer than anticipated to complete. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Page / 48 Our immediate priority in the months ahead is to resume production at our operations, in a safe and sustainable manner Our focus on employee relations for 2015 and Enhancing relationships: We will continue to drive various beyond initiatives aimed at building better relationships across the Our immediate priority in the months ahead is to resume organisation. As part of our drive to win over the hearts and production at our operations, in a safe and sustainable manner, minds of employees, we will be implementing a new and ensuring that our mines are financially viable, in the context employee engagement model, presenting an attractive value of low metal prices and increasing costs. proposition to employees, and developing new values through the Respect, Care and Delivery initiative that we In terms of delivering on our ER strategy, we recognise the need commenced throughout the Group in August 2013, but that to operate at both an informal and formal level. Implementing was disrupted at the Rustenburg operation during the strike. our strategy will encompass a range of activities over the short The aim of this initiative is to work with our employees and medium term. towards establishing a shared value system. In addition we will be working to entrench a spirit of partnership with our Continuing discussions on key issues: As part of the recognised unions, by seeking to extend the common values agreement that ended the strike, we have committed with all shared with our employees to the institution of the union. By other parties to continue talks on various outstanding issues working together we will be seeking to develop a shared including: the management of microloans and garnishee agenda with the union, especially in terms of employee orders; the nature of the medical separation agreement; wellness and the upliftment of employee living and social the retrenchment agreement/severance policy; retirement conditions. We recognise that this will require effective benefits and funeral cover; sub-contracting, labour hire communication and active engagements with and employment agencies; job grading review; employee union representatives. shareholding; medical aid; and the establishment of a life skills centre. We have established internal teams to represent Building capacity: To achieve the necessary shift in culture the Company with responsibility for driving these issues, both throughout the organisation we will be working to enhance at a plenary negotiation level and within specific task teams. the knowledge, skills and attributes of managers, employees Through our representation on these teams we will be and their representatives. A crucial initial focus will be the seeking to add to an attractive value proposition for our development and empowerment of our first line managers. employees that management, employees and unions We will seek to implement a robust process of training, perceive as fair and that, collectively, we can be proud of. particularly in the areas of people management, coaching, developing subordinates and handling employee grievances. Our aim is to develop a new breed of managers who pride themselves in being ‘leaders of men’ rather than ‘masters that have to be served’. At the same time we will be working with our employee representatives and leaders to provide them with further training and awareness-raising on relevant legislation and Group policies and procedures. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Page / 49 Changing the boundaries and shifting the paradigms: Recognising the need for a structural change in our approach to employee relations in South Africa, we shall continue to participate actively in relevant forums at the Chamber of Mines, including those relating to: the migratory labour system; the nature of majoritarian system; labour hire and employment agencies; the secondment of shop stewards to the regional and national institutions of the union; the establishment of life skills centres; and mining housing initiatives. Maintaining solid industrial relations in our Zimbabwe operations: In Zimbabwe our focus will continue to be on striving to resolve IR issues swiftly in-house, strengthening internal communication structures to enhance the effectiveness of the Company’s works councils, and building trust at all levels of the organisation. Looking to the future, an important lesson that we have taken from the strike is that the current industrial relations landscape and mining model cannot continue. Addressing the challenges raised by the strike will require more than changes to our employee relations strategy alone. It will require us to revisit our approach to the migratory labour system, to work on transforming the low skill, low paying, labour-dependent mines, and to continue with our significant social investments in housing and education. We recognise that we cannot deliver these issues on our own, and that we need to work actively with our industry partners, government, union leaders and other stakeholders. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE SAFETY Page / 50 The period of down time during the strike was used effectively to focus on enhancing our safety standards and procedures Ensuring the safety and health of our employees, contractors and suppliers is essential if we are to respect their most fundamental human rights; without a meaningful commitment to respecting the rights of those with whom we interact, we will have no social or political licence to operate. As with all our activities this year, our safety performance was The strategy seeks to change the safety culture throughout the affected by the five-month strike at our Rustenburg operations. Group from the traditional measured culture of dependence to This period had both positive and negative impacts on our independence, and ultimately to interdependence. In our progress in advancing our safety and health initiatives. While dependent culture, although there is an acceptance of the need many of our planned initiatives were necessarily put on hold until for safe practices, these are generally only followed when production stability resumed and people returned to work, the effective supervision is present and demands it. In an period was used effectively to focus on enhancing our safety independent culture, every employee is committed to safe standards and procedures. Our commitment to safety also working practices, taking clear responsibility for their own informed aspects of our response to the strike, with the entire actions. In the interdependent culture that we are striving for, Rustenburg operation being suspended throughout the fivethere is the added focus of helping others to adopt good safety month period in order to protect the safety and security of our practice. employees who faced the risk of violence and intimidation. As outlined in the diagram below, our safety strategy has three Our strategic approach to safety main pillars, each of which is underpinned by an accompanying Our safety strategy seeks to develop a culture of safety within set of action plans. the organisation such that we can achieve our vision of zero harm. The strategy was developed following external (DuPont) and internal reviews of our safety systems and culture, and an analysis of the root causes of fatal, reportable and lost-time incidents. Culture Leadership Supervision Skills Person Attitudes Motivation Teamwork Team mobilisation Zero harm incentives Respect and care Safety strategy Adopting leading practices Technical initiatives Accident investigation Equipment – Risk Management System (ISO 31000) Physical Design – Practices Standards Environment Housekeeping Policies and procedures Zero harm incentives Safety training (ZIP) IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE SAFETY Page / 51 A new zero-harm incentive scheme was implemented that divides the incentive equally between safety and production DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR documented and known hazards that need to be checked Following is an overview of the progress made during the year for in the workplace. This enhancement programme forms on some of the key strategic initiatives under each pillar of our part of our workplace entry examination and safe declaration safety strategy. procedure. Training material for TARP was completed and will be used during the test phase, following the strike. An Person internal team has been appointed to customise TARP to Culture: manage fall of ground (FOG) hazards in the workplace. We continued to implement the industry’s Mine Health and A formal risk assessment addressing physical risks to Safety Council’s (MHSC) cultural transformation framework women and female-specific occupational disorders was and embed the Mining Charter’s health and safety initiated and will continue following the strike. commitments. Steps were taken during the strike period to assess and improve an emergency preparedness and response plan at Leadership: Rustenburg and Marula, specifically relating to proto teams, Our overarching objective to develop the right safety culture control rooms, refuge bays and self-contained self-rescuers through leadership is being driven by the CEO, who led the that were areas of concern following the major fire and executive team’s visible personal commitment to addressing disaster at Harmony’s Doornkop Mine in February 2014. safety. Prior to resuming the Rustenburg operations, mine 104 E-level management and 10 board members attended a overseers, ventilation officers and rock engineers conducted three-day Zero Incident Process for Leaders (ZIP) training regular audits of all working places at the mine to assess the session. The ZIP planned for all D-level production support conditions and ascertain if the ground conditions employees has been deferred and will be reviewed in the had deteriorated. The levels of risks identified were current year. monitored, and informed the start-up plan. All Implats Exco and E-level production managers underwent the 360° health and safety leadership assessment using the Standards and procedures: Mining Charter’s health and safety leadership assessment An important focus during the strike was to use the nontool. Participants gained an insight into how their individual production time to update the Impala safety standards and safety behaviour is viewed by their peers. procedures with a specific focus on the major hazard control standards. These represent current best practice in the Motivation: control of the specific identified fatal hazards and have been A new zero-harm incentive scheme was implemented that derived from detailed risk assessments, investigations into divides the incentive equally between safety and production. fatal incidents and the experiences of other industry leaders. The safety component comprises the leading requirement During the year: that nets and bolts be installed on all panels and –– All mining and processing major hazard control documents development ends, as well as the lagging measure of the were completed in allocating the metadata; teams’ lost-time injuries. Management is measured on lost –– 75% of all engineering standards and procedures have time and restricted work injuries. Safety officers and rock allocated metadata; and engineers have observed good levels of compliance since –– A document review and update process is under way of the introduction of the incentive. the control documents for the top five major safety hazards: fire, rock fall, irrespirable atmosphere, mobile Team mobilisation: machinery and unguarded machinery. We have introduced a five-day team-mobilisation training programme for all our underground stoping teams, to Safety training: enhance the team functionality. This programme was A six-day training programme for miners, shift supervisors suspended during the strike. and mine overseers is now fully functional and entrenched. (1 219 employees attended during the year). The Group CEO Practices regularly makes an attendance to show his support and Risk management system: commitment. An online hazard identification and rectification system is Progress was made in training safety representatives to the being implemented across the Group. During the reporting MQA qualification as required by the Mining Charter. We are period, baseline risks were populated into our ISOMETRIX on track to achieve the charter’s targets before the end of system. Further development work will be undertaken in calendar year 2014. 2015 to ensure that the risks reflect the right hierarchical Safe production rules were developed and rolled out through structure. training. We have reached the final development stages of our Triggered Action Response Plan (TARP) – a set of IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE SAFETY Page / 52 A revised health and safety agreement with all employee representative groups, inclusive of AMCU, the representative union since 2013, was signed on 7 November 2013 Environment Personnel Detective Systems (PDS) on trackless machinery: Respect and care: Implats is implementing a PDS system in a phased A revised health and safety agreement with all employee approach, broadly following the MOSH adoption process representative groups, inclusive of AMCU, the representative and making provision for additional legislative requirements, union since 2013, was signed on 7 November 2013. The including locomotive management information systems. As new agreement presents opportunities to engage more part of phase one, all underground trackless mobile effectively with employees in promoting the right safety machinery at Marula and Rustenburg were equipped with a culture. vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-person PDS system. Methane management: As part of a continued drive to Technical initiatives: improve our management of flammable gas, various We continued to focus on making substantial investments in initiatives were implemented this year. These include: technical initiatives aimed at minimising the human element of reviewing and updating an initial risk assessment; risk within our operations: undertaking gas sampling at Rustenburg and Marula to Roof bolts and nets: all stope panels and all ‘on-reef’ and determine the flammable gas emissions at each shaft; and ‘off-reef’ development ends requiring bolting and netting holding a very successful methane awareness campaign in have been fitted. August 2013. Fire retardant conveyor belts: all worn or damaged conveyor Blasting system replacement: The replacement of centralised belts will be replaced with fire retardant belts. blasting systems in shafts with Sasol’s SafeBlast® system is Self-contained self-rescuers (SCSR): Rustenburg has progressing well and the project is due to be completed by received all 34 550 SCSR that are required. SCSR the end of the 2015 financial year. equipment is being rolled out to the workforce at all shafts Underground fire detection system enhancements: where SCSR equipment was not previously in use. The R9.7 million fire-detection system expansion project is Electronic winch signalling devices: the Rustenburg operation under way. has standardised an electronic winch signalling device which gives a 15-second audible and visual warning before it Over the year we invested R148 million (2013: R210 million) in powers the motor. The system also includes a facility to trip various technical solutions aimed at protecting all those who the winch from any remote area along the length of the gully. work in our mines. These investments are reflected in the graph Currently 543 (87%) of all centre gullies with pull lengths of and table below. more than 200m are equipped with these signalling devices. Safety technical initiatives Total Expenditure estimated Estimated to date expenditure completion Initiative R’000 R’000 date Roof bolt and netting 25 508 25 508 Completed Fire retardant conveyor belting 15 000 15 900 Ongoing Self-contained self-rescuers 66 267 70 000 Completed Sasol safe blast system 11 000 84 000 FY 2019 Fire detection system 4 241 5 000 Aug 2014 WPD signalling devices for scraper winches 8 063 9 000 Jan 2014 Personnel detection systems on trackless machinery 33 682 289 682 Completed Methane management 6 309 15 966 Dec 2015 Underground fire detection system enhancements 283 9 675 Jun 2015 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE SAFETY Page / 53 The Group fatality rate improved to 0.043 per million man-hours worked, from 0.065 in 2013 The lost-time injury frequency rate per million man-hours (LTIFR) decreased to 3.92 from 4.21 in 2013, against a target of 3.37 Technical safety interventions (%) 120 New winch return rigs 100 New winch signalling devices New shaft safety devices 80 Locomotive speedometers 60 Nets and bolts on Merensky Nets and bolts on UG2 40 Self contained Self-rescuers 20 PDS 0 July 2013 June 2014 Notwithstanding the progress achieved this year in implementing Our 2014 safety performance our safety strategy, it is evident from our Group performance It is with regret that we report that four of our employees died at (reviewed below) that we are still some way from meeting our our operations during 2014. Two fatalities were caused by falls targets. Regrettably, although we recorded our lowest ever of ground, one fatality involved a locomotive and another fatality rate, this still fell short of the 2013 milestone of 0.03 per involved a fatal electrocution. We have undertaken investigations million man-hours, an industry-wide concern. An important into the root causes of these fatal incidents and have contributing factor is that we have not been able to achieve the implemented remedial actions. level of operational discipline and compliance required to meet the targets in all of the operational areas. This decrease in fatalities from nine last year (and 12 in 2012), coupled with the continuing reductions in our fatality rate, reflects some of the steady improvements in performance that We extend our sincere condolences to the families, we have achieved as a result of our strong focus on safety. Despite this progress, our performance tracked against a set of friends and colleagues of the four permanent employees lagging and leading indicators, has been variable and we who died at Impala during the course of work during acknowledge that there is still much work to be done. 2014. KEY LAGGING INDICATORS  Mr Osika Chidhakwa died following a fall of ground The Group fatality rate improved to 0.043 per million accident on 25 August 2013 at Zimplats’ Ngwarati Mine man-hours worked, from 0.065 in 2013. The lost-time injury frequency rate per million man-hours  Mr Lebogang Abednego Moiteri died in a fall of ground (LTIFR) decreased to 3.92 from 4.21 in 2013, against a target accident on 8 October 2013 at Impala Rustenburg’s 10 of 3.37. It must be noted that Implats’ LTIFR may not be Shaft comparable to industry peers based on the exclusion of Restricted Work Cases (RWCs) from the lost-time injury frequency rate. For comparability additional safety data can  Mr Khalepile Joseph Matama died in an incident involving be found on page 101 of this report. mobile equipment on 4 December 2013 The total injury frequency rate (TIFR) – a measure of all at Impala Rustenburg’s 14 Shaft recorded injuries, including fatalities, lost-time injuries, restricted work cases and medical treatment cases – was  Mr Shaun Pelser was electrocuted on 8 January 2014 at 11.90, up from 10.91 in 2013. This rate may be overstated Impala Rustenburg’s Processing division due to the inclusion of first aid cases in the statistics. For comparability with industry peers refer to safety data on page 101 of this report. The serious injury frequency rate improved to 2.69 per million man-hours from 3.06 in 2013. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE SAFETY Page / 54 In seeking to mitigate safety risks in the workplace, an ongoing focus is to increase supervision and leadership skills and implement best practice KEY LEADING INDICATORS Our safety focus for 2015 and beyond A total of 52 stoppage instructions (excluding Section 55s) We have prioritised the following strategic objectives and focus were issued by the DMR in 2014 (2013: 65), resulting in the areas for safety in the year ahead: relevant shaft being closed for a period. All shafts collectively Culture shift: Shifting the safety culture through leadership, lost approximately 205 shaft days of production at our using the Mine Health and Safety Council’s Five Pillar Cultural Rustenburg operations, and 29 days at Marula (compared Transformation Framework (CTF), remains an ongoing with 261 and 21 days respectively in 2013). We continue to priority. This will include using opportunities presented engage actively with the authorities on these stoppage through the revised health and safety agreement with all instructions, including challenging them legally where we feel employee representative groups, to engage more effectively this to be justified. While we support all safety work with employees in promoting the right safety culture. stoppages where its condition or behaviour has been Normalise the industrial relations environment: From a identified that poses a direct danger to safety, extending safety perspective, we will ensure that senior management these stoppages beyond the scope of the risk is problematic engage with supervisors to contextualise the recent and and in certain instances may have a negative impact on ongoing challenges and provide support for effective safety performance. supervision. We will continue to pursue interactions with Our internal safety stoppage system, formalised in 2013, senior union leadership to gain commitment for safety recorded a total of 2 562 proactive stoppages made in initiatives. workings during 2014, compared to 3 528 in 2013. Supervision and technology: In seeking to mitigate safety We achieved 95.2% compliance in our road behaviour risks in the workplace, an ongoing focus is to increase testing, as compared with 91% last year; despite this supervision and leadership skills and implement best practice improvement, we fell short of our target of 100%. technical initiatives. We conducted 810 138 breathalyser tests throughout our Safety performance measures: We will further develop operations in line with Company policy of zero alcohol in the leading indicators and increase the safety weighting in workplace. As a result, 498 tested positive, representing a short-term incentive schemes. 42% decrease on the number of individuals testing positive Targets: In striving for zero fatalities and zero harm, we will in 2013; disciplinary action has been taken against all continue to focus on ensuring that all operations have employees testing positive. behaviour-based safety programmes in place. Each operation is expected to achieve at least a 20% improvement During the year, seven potentially serious safety incidents in their LTIFR performance. In addition, we will strive to occurred, during which no injuries were sustained. In each case, achieve: 100% compliance with road behaviour; 100% an investigation into the root cause was conducted and remedial compliance with platinum rule or 100% disciplinary action for actions undertaken. Tragically, two critical incidents occurred on non-compliance, to these rules. the lease area during the year, both of which involved the death of a child of our employees. At Rustenburg’s 6 Shaft Hostel, a one-year-old toddler was fatally run over. At our new Platinum village development, an eight-year-old boy drowned in a flooded excavation trench. The investigations revealed a number of control deficiencies, which have been addressed through a joint AMCU management forum. Fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) Per million hours worked 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Impala Rustenburg 0.052 0.091 0.115 0.061 0.166 Impala Springs 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Marula 0.000 0.000 0.13 0.000 0.000 Mimosa 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.100 0.000 Zimplats 0.068 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Group 0.043 0.065 0.087 0.053 0.122 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE SAFETY Page / 55 A total of 52 stoppage instructions were issued in 2014 (2013: 65) We achieved 95.2% compliance in our road behaviour testing, as compared with 91% last year Notable safety achievements Operation Achievement Impala 4 Shaft 1 million fatality-free shifts Impala 11 Shaft 1 million fatality-free shifts Impala 14 Shaft 2 million fatality-free shifts Marula 2 million fatality-free shifts Zimplats A 41.4% improvement in their LTIFR to 0.41 per million man-hours worked Afplats shaft sinking operation A 89.8% improvement in their LTIFR to 1.79 per million man-hours worked Springs Refinery A 38.1% improvement in their LTIFR to 0.26 per million man-hours worked FIFR (per million hours worked) RIFR (per million hours worked) 2010 0.122 2010 3.21 2011 0.053 2011 3.23 2012 0.087 2012 3.13 2013 0.065 2013 3.06 2014 0.043 2014 2.68 FY14: 0.043 FY14: 2.68 A 34% improvement A 1% improvement LTIFR (per million hours worked) TIFR (per million hours worked) 2010 4.61 2010 15.21 2011 4.94 2011 13.47 2012 4.96 2012 11.19 2013 4.21 2013 10.91 2014 3.92 2014 11.90 FY14: 3.92 FY14: 11.90 A 7% improvement A 9% deterioration Comparison of fatality rates (calendar years) across the South African platinum industry (per million man-hours worked) 0.400 0.350 0.300 0.250 0.200 0.150 0.100 0.050 0 ANGLO LONPLATS NORTHAM IMPLATS AQUARIUS EASTPLATS ROYAL GLENCORE PLATINUM PLATS BAFOKENG Pt INDUSTRY Pt ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 (6 months June 2014) IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Page / 56 Our health strategy addresses both occupational and non-occupational health and is focused on preventing harm to our employees Effective management of occupational health risks, and promoting health and well-being in the workplace, protects our employees, enhances productivity, and helps maintain our licence to operate. Investing in healthcare in communities around our operations provides a significant society benefit and is also important for achieving our longer-term business goals. This year we made good progress in managing health risks and Our strategic approach to health delivering on our health strategy, reflected in an improved Our health strategy addresses both occupational and nonperformance across most of our parameters. The force majeure occupational health and is focused on preventing harm to our leave strategy during the strike presented a significant employees. It is structured around three main pillars, as outlined occupational health risk, with the prolonged absence from work in the diagram below. On occupational health, our strategy is to challenging our ability to promote the health and well-being of a ensure that all occupational health risks are identified, mitigation high contingent of our workforce. A particular challenge was to controls are in place and that any ill health is detected and ensure that patients with chronic illnesses adhered to their treated early and efficiently. Any resulting disability is referred to medication. Plans were implemented to mitigate this risk, independent third parties for assessment and possible including classifying employees into groups for medical compensation. Our strategy on non-occupational health focuses purposes and increasing capacity and staffing to monitor and on ensuring that all employees have access to affordable manage patients. Following the strike, the additional resources healthcare so that all health stressors can be identified, assisted in expediting the necessary medical screening of managed and treated. The delivery and funding arrangements employees, to assess whether they were fit to perform their depend on local facilities and conditions, and differ between our specific duties. The revised health and safety agreement with all operations in South Africa and Zimbabwe. employee representative groups and the strong relationship established with AMCU HSE personnel played a significant role in facilitating our activities and improved performance. Following the strike, a robust start-up process was implemented, informed by risk assessments and incorporating a revamped IT system, to ensure that risks were effectively identified and managed. Identification of health risks Early detection of illness Annual medical screening Wellness Occupational health centre Employee Assistance Programme HIV wellness programmes Financial support and counselling Nutritional supplement underground Access to affordable healthcare and medical aid Health strategy Clinics, hospitals and third-party Chronic illness education service providers HIV/Aids ARV treatment programme Treatment Education Tuberculosis Alignment with Department of Health Smoking and alcohol and NHI Noise induced hearing loss IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Page / 57 All patients diagnosed with early signs of NIHL (5% to 9.9%) on screening audiograms were investigated, counselled and monitored Over the year a total of 6 286 employees participated in company funded and managed HIV wellness programmes (2013: 6 014) The Impala Medical Plan (IMP) is a registered medical scheme Pneumoconiosis: The risk of contracting silicosis at our that was formed to provide private care to employees and their operations is extremely low due to the very low levels of Alpha dependants through Company-owned and operated facilities at Quartz in the rock that is being mined. Altogether, seven Rustenburg, Marula and Refineries. The facility is competitive employees and 10 contractors were diagnosed at our and the membership continues to grow. In addition, we provide Rustenburg operation; all of these cases have proven historic access to external medical schemes to those employees who gold mine exposure. All cases have been submitted for prefer alternative private arrangements. assessment and compensation to the Department of Health’s Medical Bureau of Occupational Diseases. All new employees The South African Government’s commitment to developing are diligently screened for pneumoconiosis at pre-employment National Health Insurance (NHI) will impact our non-occupational examination. Pre-employment individuals who have x-ray health strategy. We continue to support the NHI through changes suggestive of silicosis are classified as unfit and partnerships, working closely with the Department of Health referred back to their previous employer for assessment and (DoH) directly and through the Bojanala Health Forum. submission to the Bureau of Occupational Diseases. Chronic illnesses: The treatment and monitoring of chronic Nutrition forms an important element of our health strategy. To illnesses continued during the five-month strike. Impala ensure nutritional quality, we use the advice of dieticians in the Medical Services (IMS) used the non-production time to choice of all food provided in Company accommodation. A trial review the records of those patients with chronic conditions to establish effective methods of distribution, control and formal who fall under IMS and IMP. Despite our best efforts to mid-shift feeding was conducted last year. ensure that patients adhered to treatment during the strike, 618 patients (347 on ARVs) were classified as unfit for duty Our 2014 health performance until full medical assessments were positively completed. The primary health risk facing our employees is pulmonary HIV/Aids: We have an HIV/Aids policy that covers activities tuberculosis (TB) associated with human immunodeficiency virus across all our operations. The policy ensures patient (HIV) co-infection, both of which are of epidemic proportions in confidentiality, non-discrimination and highlights our southern Africa. The major occupational health risk associated commitment to ARV treatment programmes. Our HIV with our mining activities is noise induced hearing loss (NIHL). prevalence rate is estimated at 23% based on available data Key health trends and performance during 2014 are for the Impala Rustenburg operation. We proactively summarised below; a more detailed breakdown of our health managed challenges faced during the strike period and have performance at an operational level is provided in the table on made good progress this year in managing HIV/Aids and page 102. TB in the Group. In particular, ARV uptake exceeded our General health indicators: The number of occupational business plan target of 5% growth. During the strike, a major medical examinations conducted this year was 59 322, focus at our Rustenburg operations was to strive to ensure as compared to 90 440 last year. The significant drop is that HIV patients on wellness and ARVs remained compliant primarily due to the closure of the Rustenburg Occupational to treatment. Impala clinics and the hospital continued to Health Centre during the five-month strike, during which time operate normally throughout the difficult period, albeit with only exit examinations and examinations of essential services reduced staff and patient numbers. IT systems were used to personnel and certain supervisors were conducted. No track when a patient had missed a script collection and the previously unknown occupational illnesses were detected in patient promptly contacted. Those patients on ARVs that the Group this year. were deemed to be non-compliant and classified as unfit will Noise induced hearing loss (NIHL): In 2014, receive necessary treatment and care before being permitted 36 employees with potential NIHL were diagnosed and to return to work. During the year, we undertook 10 086 HIV submitted for assessment for compensation, as compared to tests on employees (2013: 11 782). Over the year a total of 50 in 2013. While the decrease is partly due to reduced 6 286 employees participated in company funded and levels of medical and audiometric screening examinations managed HIV wellness programmes (2013: 6 014), of whom during the strike period, encouraging improvements across 4 276 (2013: 4 039) received antiretroviral therapy (ART). all parameters of our NIHL performance were achieved in the Altogether, 982 of those on ART joined the ART programme months before the strike. We continue to introduce during the year. The number of employees receiving ART equipment with improved sound suppression and exposed through external medical aids or government health facilities individuals are trained in the use of custom-made hearingis not known and so these figures may be underestimated. protection devices. However, ensuring adherence to relevant Regrettably 68 employees passed away due to HIV-related requirements remains a challenge. All patients diagnosed illness during the year (compared with 69 in 2013), while an with early signs of NIHL (5% to 9.9%) on screening additional 331 patients applied for medical incapacity and left audiograms were investigated, counselled and monitored. the Group (2013: 588). IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Page / 58 In managing TB in our workforce we adhere to the national guidelines and made good progress this year, achieving all our targets Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB): In managing TB in our Number of employees workforce we adhere to the national guidelines and made good progress this year, achieving all our targets. A new VCT interventions diagnostic protocol for TB diagnosis using PCR testing is in place and is assisting in more rapid and accurate diagnosis 2010 6 837 and in primary treatment sensitivity. We have negotiated price 2011 14 072 reductions for the tests but these remain high compared to 2012 9 820 state tender price and we are in discussions with the DoH. 2013 11 782 During the year, 268 new cases of pulmonary TB were 2014 10 086 detected (2013: 334), of whom 70% are HIV-positive. Our FY14: 10 086 incidence rate of 841 per 100 000 employees is below the A 14% decline South African population rate of 1 003/100 000. Multiple drug resistant TB remains a concern; this year we had ART 11 cases on treatment at Rustenburg (2013: 17). Malaria: In 2014, 33 cases of malaria were diagnosed at 2010 1 905 Impala Rustenburg and 11 at Zimplats. All of these patients 2011 2 773 had recently travelled to malaria endemic areas and were 2012 3 566 successfully treated. The malaria vector surveys we 2013 4 039 conducted at the Ngezi operations in November 2013 2014 4 276 indicate that it is not a malaria endemic area. FY14: 4 276 National Health Insurance: Impala and Marula continue to A 6% increase work closely with the SA Department of Health (DoH) in support of the NHI plan. This year an MoU was signed with the DoH, which allows appointed Impala medical personnel Medical incapacity and forensic medical experts to attend post-mortem 2010 281 examinations. This will greatly assist in determining the 2011 388 medical causes of death where the cause is not obvious. 2012 699 Through the Impala Bafokeng Trust (IBT) we have committed 2013 588 to renovate and expand the Luka Clinic on the Impala lease 2014 331 area; an MoU has been developed and building will start FY14: 331 in FY2015. A 47% decline Medical aid and non-occupational medical care: This year the Impala Medical Plan (IMP) received 1 037 new applications and membership increased by more than our NIHL targeted 5%. Currently, membership levels are 21 994. The 2010 107 cost of external medical schemes is becoming prohibitive for 2011 57 many employees and we strive to ensure that the IMP 2012 63 maintains affordable contribution levels. 2013 50 2014 36 FY14: 36 Number of employees A 28% decline Pulmonary TB HIV/Aids death in service 2010 399 2010 134 2011 350 2011 131 2012 389 2012 112 2013 334 2013 69 2014 268 2014 68 FY14: 268 FY14: 68 A 20% decrease Stable IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Page / 59 This year the Impala Medical Plan (IMP) received 1 037 new applications and membership increased by more than our targeted 5% Our health focus for 2015 and beyond Diesel particulate matter (DPM): The monitoring of We have prioritised the following key focus areas for health in personal exposures to DPM will continue. The risk of the year ahead: exposure to DPM is mitigated by adequate ventilation, low Delivering on our strategic priorities: sulphur diesel replacement and exhaust filters in –– Striving for zero harm underground diesel combustion engines. –– Ensuring further mitigation of risks relating to occupational Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB): TB in mining continues to chronic illnesses, HIV/Aids, as well as noise induced receive a high level of political focus in southern Africa and hearing loss (NIHL) we will support initiatives aimed at achieving an effective –– Promoting access to effective, affordable healthcare regional response. Our current focus areas for improvement –– Ensuring that our health strategy is aligned with the South in our own TB programmes are assessing the TB risks in African Government’s national health strategy, including contractors, contact tracing in communities, and mitigating assisting with the provision of healthcare facilities around the risk of exporting active TB to our labour sending areas. our lease areas HIV/Aids: We will strive to ensure a further uptake of at least Noise induced hearing loss: We will continue to have 10% of known HIV-infected employees onto our wellness annual audiometric screening examinations to detect and ART programmes, as well as carefully monitoring and deterioration of hearing early and before permanent NIHL driving compliance of the existing 4 276 patients on ART develops. Any employee who shows signs of early hearing treatment. loss of between 5% and 10% will undergo a formal evaluation and safety investigation. We will continue to track and investigate all cases of early NIHL. Employees showing an early hearing loss shift of between 2.5 and 5% will undergo formal counselling on the risks of noise, the importance of wearing Hearing Protection Devices (HPD) and the implications of NIHL. Action will be taken against employees who have been counselled and are found without HPD in the designated areas. We will continue with our programme of silencing machines across the Group and with our buy quiet policy of only purchasing machine and equipment that emits noise below 110dB. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE ATTRACTING, RETAINING AND DEVELOPING TALENT Page / 60 Our competitive advantage is driven through individual and team development Attracting and retaining talent remains a significant challenge, environment. The strategy seeks to support the overall not only for Implats, but for the mining industry as a whole, both corporate strategy by ensuring that we have the right people, at locally and globally. the right place doing the right things. Our competitive advantage is driven through individual and team development, working with Factors contributing to this challenge include the growing shared values founded on respect and care. Our vision is to competition for skilled resources, the reduced supply of skilled progressively mechanise our mining processes and continue to and semi-skilled mining talent, low education levels in our improve levels of workforce proficiency, satisfaction and diversity. semi-skilled talent pool, and the general poor image of the mining industry as a potential employer. In the first half of this year we made good progress in implementing our people strategy and towards achieving our While this year’s strike at our Rustenburg operations did not objectives and targets. This progress was hindered in the have an immediate direct impact on our retention of skills, since second half of the year as a result of the prolonged strike, during our competitors were in the same position, it impacted which many of our training and development programmes were negatively on the delivery of our training programmes, and suspended. brought into sharp focus the need for us to be effective in communicating and living the ‘employee value proposition’ The organisation employs approximately 40 000 permanent associated with working for Implats. employees and 16 000 contractors, none of whom are selfemployed individuals. The organisation does not have seasonal Our strategic approach to people employees. A detailed breakdown can be found on page 96 of Our people strategy focuses on ensuring that our employees are the report. motivated, have the ability and requisite skills to carry out their duties, and that they operate in a safe, fair and ethical work Our people strategy Value of respect and care Diversity and transformation Sound corporate governance Fair, ethical and sustainable organisation Effective people People People A learning model with who are Remuneration ability motivated Talent management Recognition Team mobilisation Reward IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE ATTRACTING, RETAINING AND DEVELOPING TALENT Page / 61 Motivating our people Developing skills: Our skills development activities focus on A key focus this year has been on ensuring more effective three main areas: technical skills, general education and communication throughout the organisation of the benefits and people management skills. These are all critical enablers for opportunities associated with working at Implats. Our ‘employee us to increase intellectual capacity within the Group and to value proposition’ encompasses our programmes relating to facilitate succession planning and advancement activities, employee housing, skills development, health and financial thus reducing our reliance on the external market for these reward. It will be communicated internally first and then skills. Talent development also supports the attainment of our externally through posters, electronic media, graphics displayed employment equity targets in our South African operations. in the workplace and in public places such as shopping malls. We continue to improve the measurement (both quantitative The underlying message is: if you work for us, this is what you and qualitative) of the outcomes of the training and will enjoy. development programmes being implemented. A more detailed review of our approach to developing people with In delivering on our employee value proposition, we have the ability is provided overleaf. following strategic focus areas: Providing career advancement opportunities: Rewarding good performers: Through our performance Succession planning is undertaken at semi-skilled and management programme we have committed to offering supervisory level positions, as well as at professional qualified attractive remuneration and employment benefits, coupled (D level) and senior management (E level). Discipline-specific with effective incentives linked to our safety and production talent management forums and area-specific talent efficiencies. Lower levels of mining productivity and increased identification forums identify, develop and assess talent at safety stoppages have placed additional pressure on our various levels within the organisation as a line management fixed pay elements and employees’ disposable income. We function with the support and assistance of the talent offer maternity leave of four months, and family responsibility department. The talent pools are reviewed quarterly and leave of four days. In Zimbabwe, levels of mining activities assessed to ensure that identified talent is considered for continue to increase, placing greater demand on critical skills promotional and developmental opportunities. and talent. Our Zimbabwean operations pay rewards that fall Developing leadership capacity: Ensuring effective into the upper quartile of the market rate, which is effective in leadership skills is critical in promoting sound employerattracting good talent. Benchmarks are conducted to ensure employee communication and relations. Developing we remain competitive. attributes to deal with people challenges is a priority in the current labour environment. Our targeted leadership interventions focus not only on developing the technical ability of managers, but also on ensuring that they have the necessary people leadership skills. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE ATTRACTING, RETAINING AND DEVELOPING TALENT Page / 62 Our training and skills development programmes aim to instil excellence in efficiency, productivity and safety Developing people with ability Our training and skills development activities go beyond compliance to promote a people-focused culture, with relevant programmes aligned to Implats’ strategic imperatives and values aimed as instilling excellence in efficiency, productivity and safety. We have a three-pronged approach to improving the skill base of our employees and supporting the Group’s vision: Optimising team output and Maintaining an inflow of future productivity Developing our talent pipeline requisite skills Objective Objective Objective To ensure the development and retention To minimise avoidable turnover, secure To improve education within our of talent with the requisite skills, the best available talent in the market, neighbouring communities, identifying knowledge and experience, in an and recognise, develop and reward talent and developing skills in local schools, as environment conducive to maintaining within the organisation. part of efforts to recruit from our local continuity and improving safety and communities. productivity. Key initiatives Key initiatives Key initiatives Team mobilisation: developing Mining academy: developing an School adoption programme: respect among team members and in-house mining academy to provide developing management and ensuring that mine overseers and best practice training interventions infrastructure at targeted schools supervisors are equipped to effectively Engineering training: Implats School support programme: lead and mobilise their teams training projects to develop artisan mentoring educators, developing Shaft optimisation: focusing on and engineering skills school sporting facilities, offering direct coaching/training in mining best Graduate development training: Impala bursaries to top achievers practices upon completion of degree the Bursary programme: offering fully New technology: mitigating the graduate is placed on a development paid high-school scholarships, and human element risk from our activities programme to obtain a mine offering university bursaries to learners and promote a safety culture managers certificate of competence in mining, chemical, electrical or Technical mining training: ensuring (MMC) mechanical engineering that line managers and supervisors are ABET: offers full and part-time classes kept informed about evolving to ensure career progression and standards and regulations, and new functional literacy and numeracy technologies IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE ATTRACTING, RETAINING AND DEVELOPING TALENT Page / 63 Total workforce turnover for 2014 was 4.5%, as compared with 5.7% in 2013 South African operations had 91 full-time bursary holders (84% are HDSA) studying at universities Developing a fair, ethical and sustainable R15 million has been budgeted and basic infrastructure organisation requirements will be completed in 2015 with the goal of Underpinning our efforts to provide a work environment informed accommodating 1 000 trainees (young people with grade by mutual trust, respect and care, is our commitment to 12 qualifications) per year. The second phase, in 2016, will promoting high standards of corporate governance and ethical involve the building of training venues. behaviour throughout our activities, as well as diversity and –– School adoption programme: Implats works closely with transformation in our South African operations. Our approach to the South African Department of Education to formally delivering on these commitments is reviewed in other sections of ‘adopt’ a selection of community schools that we have this report. either built or that are in our mining lease area but that do not benefit from existing support programmes. We Our 2014 performance on people management currently have seven schools in the scheme, which we aim Our investment in employee development this year was to develop into schools of excellence. curtailed during the strike, which has impacted several of our Skills development expenditure: This year our South performance indicators. A summary of our performance on key African operations invested R331 million in skills issues over the year is presented below; additional detail at an development. This 22.7% decrease on 2013 expenditure operational level over the past four years is presented in the (R428 million) was as a result of many initiatives being performance table on pages 96 and 97. suspended during the strike. Expenditure was only 5.2% of payroll, against our targeted level of 5.5%. For the Zimplats Skills turnover: Total workforce turnover for 2014 was operations, US$2.5 million was expended on skills 4.5%, as compared with 5.7% in 2013. The five-month strike development, unchanged from the previous two years. Over had a significant impact on the turnover of miners at our the year we provided an average of 79 hours of training per South African operations; this was 5.3% for the year, down employee for all our employees, while our contractors by 3.4% from 8.8% last year. Turnover of rock drill operators received an average of 28 hours each of training at our South was 3.9%, as compared with 4.4% last year. At the Zimplats African operations operations turnover remained stable at 3.5% (3.9%: 2013). Bursaries and learnership programmes: During 2014, our South African operations had 91 full-time bursary holders Skills development interventions: Several key initiatives (84% are HDSA) at university studying primarily in the were introduced during 2014: engineering and mining-related disciplines, while we had –– Team mobilisation: This initiative aims to develop a 10 full-time bursaries from our Zimbabwe operations. In respectful and caring attitude among all Implats team addition, a total of 554 individuals benefited from our members with the aim of ensuring safe production. apprenticeship and learnership programmes (80% are HDSA) Specific focus areas include safety, the nature and across the South African operations. economics of the platinum business, the role played by the individual and team, and the reward structure for delivery Group employee turnover (%) on targets. During 2014, we trained 21 teams and commenced the selection and recruitment of in-house 12 trainers. 10 –– Zero Incident Process for Leaders (ZIP): This best practice Australian initiative is a three-day training session. 8 All E level management attended ZIP in 2014. To embed 6 the ZIP concepts throughout the Group, ZIP training will be 4 cascaded downwards to supervisor level. 2 –– Mining academy: We are establishing an in-house mining academy for our South African operations to provide 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 training interventions that will evolve in line with changing Group employee turnover technology, legislative requirements and training needs. ■ IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE ATTRACTING, RETAINING AND DEVELOPING TALENT Page / 64 This year we implemented our amended performance management system Adult basic education and training (ABET) and Our focus on people management for 2015 Foundational Learning Competence (FLC): The level of and beyond basic functional literacy (ABET3) at our mining operations In striving to implement an effective people strategy, our principal continues to improve, reaching 82% in 2014. In 2014, objectives for 2015 are to: 707 employees were enrolled for ABET, in both full-time and Retain key talent (mine overseers, shift supervisors, miners, part-time classes, representing a 12% decrease on 2013 engineers, foremen and artisans); this is vital to maintain (805 students). ABET was suspended during the strike. On continuity and improve safety and productivity average 30% of those who wrote exams successfully Increase supervision and leadership skills and introduce best completed their programmes, while 70% dropped out or practice technical initiatives were unsuccessful in their examinations. Implats will Address potential skills shortages through in-house technical implement the anticipated national senior certificate for adults trainee programmes, capacity-building at supervisory and (NASCA) qualification, developed as an equivalent to the managerial level, and enhanced people-leadership initiatives South African school-leaving qualification, for implementation Promote our employee value proposition and develop a by 2016. pipeline of talent in schools, to support our efforts to recruit Leadership development: Altogether 104 members of our from communities around our operations management team and 10 board members at the South Allocate an additional 1.5% salary adjustment to middle and African operations participated in the Zero Incident Process senior management who possess critical skills. for leaders (ZIP). At our Zimbabwe operation, a total of 527 people underwent leadership development, comprising a total of 2 105 training days. Performance management: This year we implemented our amended performance management system through various communication methods involving all stakeholders. A revised incentive scheme was implemented during the year, with equal weighting given to safety and production. Under the agreement signed with AMCU, supervisors (C 5 level) have been removed from the bargaining unit and are now included in our formal performance management. Promoting local employment: Open days were held around shopping malls in neighbouring communities, to present the opportunities available at Implats operations. Despite efforts to hire more local people, migrant workers continue to play an important role in the industry, particularly for rock drill operators and winch operators, who come principally from the Eastern Cape, Northern Cape and Lesotho. These two job categories constitute more than 38% of our South African workforce. As outlined above, we continue to invest in various skills development initiatives in our local communities, as well as seek to promote local employment through our local procurement practices (see page 80). IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND TRANSFORMATION Page / 65 The recruitment and retention of highly sought-after skilled HDSAs, particularly women, is an ongoing challenge We believe strongly that a transformed and more diverse organisation is more resilient and better positioned to be competitive in the country and region. Our strategic approach to diversity We encourage female representation at all levels of the In seeking to meet and go beyond the expectations of the organisation. Our approach classifies women into two specific Mining Charter and Employment Equity Act, our employment groups: women at all levels, and women in mining (specifically equity (EE) strategy has two priority focus areas: those working in underground conditions). As we progressively Integrating transformation and EE considerations within our mechanise our mining methods, there will be greater opportunity talent-management activities to advance women representation in the long term. In Accelerating the recruitment, development and promotion of Zimbabwe, there is no legal target set for gender equity. designated groups into occupational levels that are underNonetheless, at Zimplats we are committed to promoting represented. gender equity at all levels of the organisation, particularly at managerial level. The operation aims to achieve at least a ratio of The Group transformation committee and Implats’ operational 10% of new recruits as females, specifically targeting surface EE structures follow a common framework aimed at driving the engagements. strategy throughout the Group. During this year, we appointed EE managers for all our operations and we established Our 2014 performance on diversity representative transformation committees to address our As part of South Africa’s process of transformation, we must employment equity imperatives. meet the Mining Charter’s requirement that by the end of 2014 HDSA employees make up 40% of each management level The recruitment and retention of highly sought-after skilled (junior, middle, senior and top management), as well as in the HDSAs, particularly women, is an ongoing challenge, as the core and critical skills category. widespread lack of skills in South Africa has resulted in extreme competition for suitable candidates. Given the current operating We made good progress this year in promoting equitable challenges, our efforts remain directed towards retention and representation, especially at Exco level which increased from promotion. To further develop our understanding of where our 22% to 50% HDSA representation. At year end, despite a strengths and weaknesses lie in promoting diversity, we have setback in our efforts during the prolonged strike, we had commissioned external consultants to conduct a diversity audit achieved, and in most cases exceeded, the charter’s targets in 2015. The findings of this exercise will be incorporated into (see table overleaf). our diversity management programme. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND TRANSFORMATION Page / 66 At Zimplats, this year 17% of all surface engagements were women, surpassing our target of 10% At our South African operations, at year end we had 146 women increased our targeted intake of females at entry level/novices in management representing 19% of total management. Our from 10% to 15%; we achieved 13%, just short of this increased overall women representation in our workforce remained at target. 10%. We also have a number of ‘women in mining’ initiatives, and women representation in mining development programmes At Zimplats, this year 17% of all surface engagements were continues to improve in all mining training streams. Although the women, surpassing our target of 10%. The number of women in mining charter does not stipulate a target for women, we mining is improving year-on-year, with females currently continue to focus on women advancement. For 2014 we constituting 6% of the total Zimplats workforce. HDSA in management (South Africa) 2014 2013 Mining Mining Charter Total Charter Total target number of HDSA target number of HDSA 2014 HDSA employees/ employees/ 2013 HDSA employees/ employees/ % % members members % % members members Board 40 62 13 8 35 67 12 8 Exco 40 50 10 5 35 22 9 2 Senior management 40 39 105 41 35 37 108 40 Middle management 40 45 210 95 40 43 206 89 Junior management 40 54 434 236 40 54 444 240 Total management 50 772 385 49 779 379 HDSA excl. non-executives is 377 which represents 50% of management. Senior management representation is E levels (excluding Exco), middle management is D upper and junior management is D lower. The table below summarises the HDSA representation at all levels across our South African operations. Employment equity South African operations Total HDSA Level Total in-service employees % HDSA F – Top management 4 2 50 E – Senior management 111 44 40 D–P  rofessionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 644 331 51 C – Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management 5 104 3 878 76 B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 12 328 10 314 84 A – Unskilled and defined decision making 18 010 16 015 89 Total permanent 36 201 30 584 84 Non-permanent employees 69 63 91 Total 36 270 30 647 84 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SAFE AND EFFECTIVE PEOPLE WHO RESPECT AND CARE PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND TRANSFORMATION Page / 67 Our overall women representation remained at 10% Women in management maintained at 19% The tables below summarise the indigenous people representation at our Zimbabwean operations. Indigenous People Representation Zimbabwe Operation Mimosa Number of % Indigenous Number InIndigenous Grade People service Employees F – Top management 100 2 2 E – Senior management 100 6 6 D–P  rofessionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 100 35 35 C – Skilled technical and academically qualified junior management 100 123 123 B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 100 345 345 A – Unskilled and defined decision making 100 264 264 Total 100 775 775 Zimplats Number of % Indigenous Number InIndigenous Level People service Employees F – Top management 100 4 4 E – Senior management 95 19 18 D – Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 99 239 237 C – Skilled technical and academically qualified junior management 100 805 805 B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 100 1 552 1 552 A – Unskilled and defined decision making 100 649 649 Total 99 3 268 3 265 Our focus on diversity for 2015 and beyond To achieve our employment equity goals, our employment equity strategy focuses on the following issues: Retaining key talent as far as possible, aiming for turnover of less than 7.5% per annum Aiming to meet our legislative HDSA targets as per the mining charter Aiming for the following representations of women: 10% women in mining and advancing women in supervisory and management positions Maintain 50% HDSA representation on Exco Inculcating a corporate culture and value system to advance transformation, supporting the culture transformation strategy for the South African mining industry. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Page / 68 Social capital and licence to operate IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE Page / 69 Our strategic approach to investing in socio-economic development is premised on the belief that the long-term viability of our business is linked to the well-being of the communities in which we operate and the areas from which a significant portion of our employees emanate. Securing the trust and endorsement of these communities and their political representatives is essential to maintaining our social licence to operate. In our South African operations our investment strategy focuses primarily on infrastructure, health, education, community empowerment and poverty alleviation projects. The strategy aims to complement our accommodation and living conditions initiatives, through the provision of schools, clinics and other amenities. Our commitment to improving the living conditions of our employees through access to housing provides an opportunity for differentiation and competitive advantage in attracting future skills. It represents a strong business/employee linkage and serves as the cornerstone of other pillars of our broader transformation strategy. It supports skills retention, procurement from local enterprises and enterprise development in host communities through the value chain, and forms part of our broader commitment to respecting the human rights and interests of our stakeholders. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE OUR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL VALUE ADDED Page / 70 Implats’ operations make a significant positive contribution to socio-economic development in both South Africa and Zimbabwe Through our core activities, Implats’ operations make a support to the management and monitoring of value creation significant positive contribution to socio-economic development through socio-economic investments. Discussions are held in both South Africa and Zimbabwe. Our social programmes quarterly with community forums comprising community and investments are identified in collaboration with community representatives, the local municipality, traditional representatives representatives and the local municipality in our areas of and company representatives for each discipline. Performance operation. These are further aligned with the regional Integrated elements are monitored and reported quarterly to the social Development Plan (IDP) for the South African operations, and ethics and transformation committee of the board. are assessed quarterly through a third party to determine impacts and risks. Through the Human Resources Committee In the year under review we have continued to provide people investments are discussed on a monthly basis, taking employment, skills and training, we have paid taxes and royalties into account skills development expenditure, the team to governments and dividends to our shareholders, we have mobilisation programme and other people-related initiatives. This purchased goods and services from local businesses, and is evaluated against team productivity, absenteeism, skills invested in the development and improvement of infrastructure turnover and other indicators. The re-establishment of our and other social services in the communities that are home to sustainable development forum in the new year will give further our employees. A detailed breakdown of the economic value added throughout 2014 is provided in the following table: Value added statement 2014 2013 2012 for the year ended 30 June Rm Rm Rm Revenue 29 028 29 844 27 393 Net cost of products and services (17 091) (14 542) (13 463) Value added by operations 11 937 15 302 13 930 Other net (expenditure)/income 153 (185) 1 152 Depreciation (3 341) (3 332) (1 629) Total value added 8 749 11 784 13 453 Applied as follows to: Employee benefits 7 609 8 276 6 521 Labour and other 7 378 8 374 6 894 Share-based payments 231 (98) (373) The state as direct taxes 706 1 080 1 109 Deferred tax (562) 312 698 Royalty recipients 693 674 598 Providers of capital 666 1 008 3 731 Financing costs 432 375 248 Non-controlling interest (137) 53 119 Dividends 371 580 3 364 Total value distributed 9 112 11 350 12 657 Reinvested in the Group (363) 435 796 8 749 11 785 13 453 Implats supports the principles of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative on the disclosure of payments to governments. In the years under review R1 548 million was paid to the South African Government as taxes and US$78 million was paid to the Zimbabwean Government. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE OUR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL VALUE ADDED Page / 71 Taxes paid directly to government by category and country* Distribution of value in 2014 South Africa** Zimbabwe*** Employees wages (A to C4)* 62% Management wages 19% (Rm) (US$m) Share-based payments 3% State as direct taxes 2% Profit taxes 489 16 Royalties 8% Employee PAYE 1 001 22 Providers of capital 7% Royalties taxes 58 40 Total 1 548 78 * Employees lost an additional R1.9 billion in wages during the *  Reporting in line with the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative five-month strike. If included, the percentage employee wages would (EITI). increase from 62% to 69% and management would decrease from ** Excludes Two Rivers. 19% to 16%. *** Excludes Mimosa. During 2014, we created significant value for our various stakeholders in the form of: Taxation and royalties paid to Employee wages and benefits government excluding PAYE R7 609 million R1 140 million Dividends paid to shareholders Payment to providers of capital R371 million R666 million De-investment in the Group to Skills and training spend in sustain value creation for South Africa stakeholders R331 million R363 million Investments in socio-economic development initiatives in our Payments to suppliers and communities – in South Africa contractors – in South Africa R71 million R7 900 million and Zimbabwe and Zimbabwe US$6 million US$326 million IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE INVESTING IN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Page / 72 Our social investment aims to complement our accommodation and living conditions initiatives, through the provision of schools, clinics and other amenities The sustainability of our mining activities depends on our ability to contribute to the well-being and prosperity of our host Social impact assessment communities. In South Africa and Zimbabwe, the challenging Our social impact assessment (SIA), undertaken in social context highlights the need for sustainable community collaboration with the Royal Bafokeng Administration (RBA), has been structured in two phases, to address development as both a commercial and social imperative. Many two intentions. The first phase entailed a review of of our operations are in rural areas characterised by low levels of socio-economic trends and developments in the Royal formal economic activity, and inadequate provision of Bafokeng Nation (RBN) villages and those communities infrastructure and services. impacted by the Rustenburg operations, over a 10-year horizon from 2001. The objective was to assess the level Our management approach to social of impact that mining has had on these areas. The second phase is a field baseline survey, aimed at investment establishing a baseline of key socio-economic indicators Our strategic approach to investing in socio-economic that can be used to measure and monitor progress that development initiatives focuses primarily on infrastructure, is achieved through social interventions carried out by health, education, community empowerment and poverty the operations in partnership with other stakeholders alleviation projects. The strategy aims to complement our such as government, RBN, industry players and community stakeholders. accommodation and living conditions initiatives, through the provision of schools, clinics and other amenities. Our goal is to The two studies aim to ensure that going forward: establish infrastructure that will address urgent needs in mine Our interventions have been informed by empirical communities with the focus on longer-term impacts. We evidence on key social indicators identified in encourage and support the participation of our employees in communities Our approach to stakeholder engagement is robust community projects. and inclusive, and our activities conducted in collaboration with key stakeholders While much work has been done in advancing socio-economic Our medium and long-term social interventions are transformation in our areas of operation, we recognise that there aligned with Implats’ long-term strategic outlook. is scope to strengthen our approach and contribution. This year we have conducted evidence-based research to better The first study spanned all 29 villages of the RBN, with a focus on 15 villages and informal settlements that are understand some of the social challenges that impact the directly affected by current operations. By year end the communities around our Rustenburg operations, and to further study had covered approximately 36 000 households inform our social strategic interventions (see box alongside). and was nearing completion. Using census data for A similar study is planned for the Marula operations in 2015. 2001 to 2011, the main indicators analysed were basic demographics, access to basic services, educational levels, employment and income, and future shaft In Zimbabwe, we are implementing a community development closures and the opening of new ones. Preliminary plan aimed at addressing community concerns and requests findings from the survey highlighted the depth of the identified through a perception study and ongoing consultations social challenges brought about by in-migration and the with community leaders. The plan focuses on education, health increased competition for limited resources. In turn, the and income-generating projects and will assist in narrowing the findings brought into sharp focus the need for an integrated and collaborative approach to addressing gap in terms of expectations relating to development needs social challenges that exist in communities. such as clinics, agricultural activity, employment, construction of secondary and primary schools, clean water and sanitation, and Over the coming year the details of these findings will food availability. It also seeks to improve neighbourliness inform developments in our strategic approach to between Zimplats and the surrounding communities. In line with socio-economic development. This includes seeking to turn potential risks identified in current and future areas government recommendations, the operations factor corporate of operation, into opportunities to promote community social responsibility projects into their indigenisation sustainability during and after the life of mine. The implementation plans, so as to accrue credits towards baseline survey is currently being conducted by a leading compliance with the 51% indigenisation target. research institution and will be used to further our understanding of the social challenges being faced by mining-specific households, as well as the impact of SLPs, and the migrant labour system. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE INVESTING IN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Page / 73 Our 2014 performance and achievements for Following is a brief summary of the identified contribution social investment associated with the 14 investments reviewed in 2014: The total investment in socio-economic development projects The nine projects in South Africa benefited almost for the South Africa operations this year amounted to 8 500 people, while over 3 700 people benefited from the R71 million, inclusive of social and labour plan (SLP) five projects in Zimbabwe. Of these, almost 5 000 were commitments. The 30% decrease on the R102 million we community members that benefited from new and improved invested last year is mainly attributable to the strike and the infrastructure, including a hospital upgrade in Zimbabwe, and declaration of force majeure at the Rustenburg operations. An the new primary and secondary schools in Sunrise View additional R261 million was spent on improving accommodation The construction of the schools created 287 temporary jobs, and living conditions of our employees (see pages 76 and 77). of which 232 went to members of the local community. The The Zimbabwe operations’ social investment decreased by completed schools are benefiting 1 372 children and have 33% from US$9 million in 2013 to US$6 million in 2014. A created 49 permanent jobs (teachers and support staff) detailed breakdown of our community investments is presented Once again, we contributed R10 million to the IBT, which in the tables on pages 74 and 75. was established in 2007 by the Royal Bafokeng Nation and ourselves to augment the CSI commitments of both The strike at Rustenburg this year regrettably impacted project organisations. The five reviewed IBT projects benefited over implementation, with many of our social projects halted. This in 6 700 people and included health and education turn limited the scope and effectiveness of the annual interventions. IBT-funded projects provided much needed independent review and assessment of the socio-economic support during the strike impacts of most of our investments. The external consultants Our projects in Zimbabwe included: the refurbishment of a visited only nine projects in South Africa (including five projects clinic benefiting nearly 3 500 community members; the funded by the Impala Bafokeng Trust (IBT)) and five in Zimbabwe construction of classroom blocks, boarding hostels, a library during 2014, representing only a small portion of our total social and related facilities at Marshall Hartley boarding school investment. This reduced our ability to comprehensively assess benefiting 97 learners and four educators; the construction the number of beneficiaries from our social initiatives, and to of a chicken run and assisting the beneficiaries to access identify project improvements and opportunities. The previous a market for poultry; and the launch of two community review covered 55 socio-economic development projects gardening projects in Ngarava and Ngezi, to supply Zimplats’ – broadly categorised as infrastructure, enterprise development catering suppliers with vegetables or social development – and determined that our socioOver 99% of the beneficiaries of the 14 reviewed economic development expenditure for 2013 benefited more socio‑economic development projects were black. Just over than 100 000 people in South Africa and over 12 000 in 60% of these were youth (35 years of age and under), Zimbabwe. making them the greatest pool of beneficiaries The research concluded that 46% of the stated project objectives were fully achieved, and 62% partially achieved. The highest scoring projects included use of funds, project design and implementation. Those projects with weaker scores included sustainability of projects and dependency risks. Overall, 87% of the 14 reviewed projects were rated good, 13% rated adequate and none were found to be poor or defective. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE INVESTING IN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Page / 74 This year we completed the second generation five-year Social and Labour Plans for the Rustenburg and Marula operations A review of our progress in developing home ownership The Zimplats Mhondoro Ngezi Chegutu Zvimba Community houses and promoting enterprise development is provided Share Ownership Trust, established in 2011 as part of the later in this section. Company’s indigenisation implementation plan, has to date implemented projects valued at more than US$3 million from the This year we completed the second generation five-year Social donation of US$10 million pledged to the trust by the Company. and Labour Plans (SLPs) for the Rustenburg and Marula Projects implemented in the three districts include the purchase operations and submitted these to the DMR during calendar of a grader for road construction (road construction and year 2013. An updated five-year SLP will be submitted in maintenance is a priority need identified by the community), October 2014. The Marula SLP was approved at a regional rehabilitation of schools, construction of classroom blocks at level and is being implemented. The DMR regional office more than 30 schools, sinking of boreholes to address access conducted a full assessment of the first generation SLP at to potable water and infrastructure for income-generating Rustenburg, in July 2014, and made recommendations for the projects. new SLP. The availability of funds for SLP commitments will be constrained due to low PGM prices and while the Rustenburg operations restore production levels in 2015. South African operations socio-economic development expenditure Rm Programme 2014 2013 2012 2011 Empowerment of community structures 20 13 17 31 Health, safety and environment 1 2 2 2 Education 21 18 15 17 Government and municipality support infrastructure 17 45 34 38 Sport development 7 10 10 11 Enterprise development 3 5 9 28 Community welfare, arts and culture 2 9 3 3 Total socio-economic development 71 102 90 130 Housing and living conditions 261 445 430 277 Total sustainable development 332 547 520 407 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE INVESTING IN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Page / 75 We aim to undertake a social impact study in communities neighbouring our Marula operations and identify collaborative enterprise development initiatives Zimbabwean operations socio-economic development expenditure US$000 Programme 2014 2013 2012 Zimplats’ socio-economic development expenditure Education 208 3 062 3 283 Health 91 668 873 Infrastructure – – Government and municipality support infrastructure – – Enterprise development 88 80 47 Sport development 94 54 35 Other 578 340 1 071 Total socio-economic development 1 059 4 204 5 309 Housing and living conditions 15 20 548 49 000 Total sustainable development 1 074 24 752 54 309 Mimosa’s socio-economic development expenditure Empowerment of community structures 92 – 698 Health, safety and environment 2 897 3 912 16 Education 310 422 1 120 Government and municipality support infrastructure 67 – 450 Sport development 1 869 – 1 125 Enterprise development – – 2 Community welfare arts and culture – 336 10 Total socio-economic development 5 236 4 670 3 421 Housing and living conditions 146 3 031 16 560 Total sustainable development 5 382 7 801 19 981 Our focus on social investment for 2014 and beyond Manage the challenges associated with the negative impact of the strike on social investment projects, including competing priorities and budget constraints Reflect on the findings of our SIA and formulate the necessary strategic responses. The field baseline survey under way will be used to complement these findings and will inform future decision-making on socio-economic development Undertake a social impact study in communities neighbouring our Marula operations Identify collaborative enterprise development initiatives that bolster economic activity in our areas of operation. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE ACCOMMODATION AND LIVING CONDITIONS Page / 76 We are recognised leaders in the mining industry for our contribution towards improving the accommodation and living conditions of employees We want all our employees to enjoy quality housing and living developing family houses within communities and making it conditions. In South Africa, where there is a severe shortage of possible for employees to buy their own homes in these areas. affordable housing and long waiting lists for units being built, this The strategy of providing quality bonded houses to employees is is a particular challenge. In partnership with local and provincial key to normalising the living and working environment of our government, we help to alleviate this problem. Implats has employees. Houses are sold at cost to employees with Implats invested over R2 billion since 2009 on improving the housing providing interest-free loans of up to one-third of the value of a and living conditions of our employees. house, effectively providing the initial deposit while reducing the risk to banks and increasing their appetite to grant bonds. Our strategic approach to accommodation Employees who opt to purchase property are paid a housing and living conditions allowance that contributes to their bond repayments. For those We are recognised leaders in the mining industry for our employees who cannot access funding for home ownership, or contribution towards improving the accommodation and living who do not wish to purchase a home, decent mine conditions of employees. This investment is the most significant accommodation is provided. of our contributions to the well-being of our communities and employees. Through our investment in housing we aim to create Our vision is to have at least 50% of employees living with their viable local communities in which employees are able to reside families in decent accommodation by the year 2020. In the with their families in a stable, healthy and secure environment second generation SLP document compiled for the five-year within commuting distance of their place of work. period 2014 to 2018, R1 billion has been allocated to improving housing and living conditions. The housing projects we initiate extend into other community projects, including roads, lighting, water, health, sewerage and Our 2014 performance and achievements on schools as we seek to collaborate with local government to accommodation and living conditions eradicate the informal settlements surrounding our operations. We are proud to have been commended by the regional DMR in July 2014 for our progressive stance and leading example in Last year we completed the conversion of all hostels, with implementing programmes aimed at improving the housing one person per room and family units, thereby fulfilling the and living conditions of mineworkers. We achieved our project requirements of the 2014 Mining Charter. Our focus is now on targets for 2014 and are on track to deliver on our objectives for 2020. South African operations 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Houses planned – 60 771 728 81 109 373 478 3 046 Houses built – 60 771 728 81 109 373 293 2 415 Houses sold – 22 68 488 479 564 261 327 2 209 Hostel rooms conversion into decent single accommodation 759 1 173 1 194 1 194 538 517 – – 5 375 Hostel conversion into family units – – 66 66 66 66 – – 308 Currently 21% of our employees in South Africa make use of Company accommodation in various forms, and an additional 6% are on the Company’s home ownership scheme. The balance of employees utilise private accommodation. As part of our social responsibility we have undertaken a baseline study within the communities that we operate. This will assist in identifying those employees who are not in decent accommodation and inform our housing strategy. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE ACCOMMODATION AND LIVING CONDITIONS Page / 77 In our South African operations: At the Refineries the Tswelopele home ownership A total of R261 million was expended on employee housing development comprising 108 housing units has been (2013: R445 million) completed, to the value of R36 million. A total of 104 units The development of our second home ownership flagship have been sold to employees project, the Platinum Village in Rustenburg, has progressed At our Marula operation, by year end we had built 58 of the well. Phase 1 entails investing R210 million in building target 122 units for employees and an additional contract to 557 units; during the strike-affected year a total of build 30 units has been awarded to a local community-based 283 houses were completed and 181 handed over to company. Project completion is on schedule for December employees in the Platinum Village. The R1 billion 2014. The contract value is R72 million development project has a final target of 2 420 units, to Following the completion last year of the R406 million Sunrise be completed over the next four years, depending on View home ownership development (with 1 717 units built employees’ appetite to purchase, and creditworthiness. and sold to employees) and the launch of the Sunrise View Consistent with government’s vision of integrated human Primary School, this year Implats completed the settlements, Implats is in the process of developing a development of the Sunrise View High School, which was Platinum Village schools project opened in February 2014 While the strike period did not affect our construction We secured additional land in Rustenburg suburb, Geelhout activities, it had a negative impact on house sales. This extension 8, for further housing development. Project plans was due to the lack of earnings required by banks and will be developed following a performance review of existing deterioration in employee credit rating. We are confident that initiatives. once the Rustenburg operations normalise, sales will pick up IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE ACCOMMODATION AND LIVING CONDITIONS Page / 78 We have focused on promoting home ownership by developing integrated residential suburbs and providing quality single-person and family accommodation At our Zimbabwe operations: Enhancing home ownership opportunities, particularly for Zimplats expended US$15 million on employee housing critical skilled employees (2013: US$8 million). By year end, the Company had Finding mechanisms to further optimise accommodation completed the first phase of its employee home ownership cost per employee. scheme, with 680 core houses allocated to employees. The second phase will be undertaken in 2016. Out of the We have set ourselves the following commitments for our South 261 company houses planned for 2014, 201 units were African operations in 2015: completed and handed over to employees and the remainder Undertake phase 2 of the construction at Platinum Village, of the units will be completed in the first quarter of 2015. with our goal of completing 2 420 units within this Construction of employee houses continues to be phased, development at a total cost of R1 billion depending on due to financial constraints employees’ appetite to purchase, and creditworthiness Ngezi commissioned the recreational facilities, including a Commence construction of the primary school at the community hall and a clubhouse, in an attempt to make the Platinum Village location more attractive to skilled personnel. The focus going Finalise construction of 94 units at our Marula operation forward is to construct company and core houses for Exploit opportunities of securing strategically located employees. additional land and services for further housing projects, and further expand our accommodation options and improving Our accommodation and living conditions value and affordability as far as possible. focus for 2015 and beyond In support of the Deputy President’s Framework Agreement we We will continue to partner with government to ensure that our continue to work towards our long-term goal to have at least housing projects contribute to fully functional communities with 50% of our workforce at the mines residing with family by 2020, all the required amenities, and that they are constructed within a we will continue to focus on: broader integrated spatial development framework. We will also Promoting home ownership by developing further integrated partner with government and the Bafokeng Nation to provide residential suburbs, in addition to providing quality singlebulk infrastructure and services to mine communities in line with person and family accommodation our own developmental needs. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE ACCOMMODATION AND LIVING CONDITIONS Page / 79 Sunrise View primary and secondary schools In 2013 we completed our Sunrise View home ownership development project, with 1 717 houses built and sold to employees. As part of our aim to create integrated communities, we have complemented the construction of houses with the construction of the Sunrise View primary and secondary schools. The project was undertaken in partnership with the Impala Bafokeng Trust and the North West provincial government. Implats contributed 50% to the R86 million cost of constructing the two schools. The construction of the schools provided jobs for over 280 skilled and unskilled people. Of these, 232 were members of the local community. The primary school opened in 2013 and the secondary school in 2014. Both schools opened with a limited intake with a three-year strategy to increase the enrolment to capacity. In 2014, there were 1 372 learners (974 primary school, 398 secondary school), 39 educators (24 primary, 15 secondary) and 10 support staff (7 primary, 3 secondary) who benefited from the new schools. Implats remains committed to the Sunrise View community and to the schools that we have built. We believe that our contribution should go beyond infrastructure and include activities that provide a holistic intervention. Through the Implats-funded Impala Bafokeng Trust, new computers have been installed in Sunrise View Primary school and both the primary and high school receive mentorship and support through our School Support Programme that primarily focuses on mathematics and science. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT AND PROCUREMENT Page / 80 Our enterprise development department implements a business assistance programme, to support local and black-owned businesses Encouraging enterprise development initiative, or a total R2.2 million investment to date. The Our investment in developing small and medium-sized programme was halted during the five-month strike and enterprises, and encouraging entrepreneurship, forms an will continue in the year ahead. important part of our contribution to the longer-term viability of our neighbouring communities. Our enterprise development Our ED department implements a business assistance (ED) programmes in South Africa are designed to build resilience programme, to support local and black-owned businesses that within host communities and a more robust and competitive are experiencing difficulties in meeting their contractual supply chain for the Group, with a particular focus on local obligations. The department conducts a diagnostic analysis to and black-owned businesses. We work closely with the determine intervention or development needs as required. We Royal Bafokeng Enterprise Development unit in Rustenburg, then assist these companies to implement corrective action, and the Marula Community structures in Burgersfort. All our provide mentoring and practical training where required. External initiatives are evaluated to ensure that they are fulfilling expertise or specialised services are sourced in when the need expectations. arises under the guidance of the ED team. As outlined below, in our South Africa operations this year we In addition our ED office within the supply chain department continued to provide some support to 20 small to medium local functions as a walk-in centre to give guidance in business black businesses through two key initiatives. Regrettably, registration, preparing business plans, funding and complying however, both of these initiatives were halted as a result of the with regulatory and Impala procurement requirements for five-month strike. start-up entrepreneurs. Supplier development programme: This programme was At our Zimbabwe operations, a local ED programme entails launched in 2013 with the aim of assisting 10 local small, working with seven SMMEs within the local community in medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) and black-owned Mashonaland West province. The enterprises supply Zimplats businesses that were already part of the Implats supply with goods and services such as protective clothing, chain, to become more competitive. The 24-month construction materials and ore transportation. To date, $5 million university-accredited training and mentoring programme has been expended with these enterprises and this is estimated includes business-specific training with bi-weekly on-site to grow significantly over the period 2014 to 2024. The suppliers meetings with the owner/manager. Since its inception in have submitted a five-year plan and Zimplats is providing January 2013, eight out of the 10 participating companies guidance on how to achieve planned targets. have increased their turnover, with an average turnover growth rate of more than 400%. A total of 33 jobs have been Promoting transformation through procurement created equating to a 13% job creation rate. The programme Supporting local and black-owned businesses through was regrettably halted in January 2014, due to the platinum preferential procurement is an important part of our contribution sector industrial action. R1.1 million was invested in the to promoting transformation. Our top 10 suppliers are as programme in 2014, of a total R1.8 million to date. The outlined in our stakeholder mapping table which can be found programme will continue in the new financial year. on our website www.implats.co.za. In line with the Mining Charter, by the end of 2014 companies are required to source a Business advisory and development service: This percentage of capital goods (40%), consumables (50%) and programme aims to help local black entrepreneurs to grow services (70%) from companies that have met the required levels and sustain their businesses and become part of the Implats of black representation in their ownership structures. supply chain. The objective is to develop business skills that Performance in this regard is managed through operational will lead to increased efficiencies, turnover and profit. Ten procurement committees that meet fortnightly and take into companies were selected in January 2013 and assisted by account: an external service provider over a 12-month period. The Compliance to procurement procedures and commercial 10 businesses experienced turnover growth of 20% and terms and agreements employment growth of 61% (from 33 to 53). These start-ups Transformation targets and performance ranged from garden service providers to construction Supplier compliance and conduct to operational agreed companies. In 2014, Implats invested R1.2 million in the terms and conditions. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT AND PROCUREMENT Page / 81 Our preferential procurement strategy focuses on the following: Suppliers’ B-BBEE certificates and systems are in place to Continuously seeking, identifying, supporting and promoting remind suppliers 90 days in advance of their expiry dates. suitable historically disadvantaged suppliers through Annual increases are not granted when B-BBEE certificates sustainable procurement practices have expired or transformation commitments have not been Creating opportunities for economic growth through met. During the year we did not terminate the services of any preferential procurement from local communities suppliers (2013: 21). Although two companies were accused of Leveraging our existing supplier base to unlock opportunities fronting, upon investigation it was discovered that they had for local employment, mentorship and investment in the expired BEE certificates and were requested to obtain greater value chain of Implats certification. We endeavour to prevent suppliers who are Nurturing an environment through the ED department for ‘fronting’ from being included in our supply chain. partnerships and joint ventures between our existing supplier base and local entrepreneurs Included in the cost of sales is total discretionary spend of Sustainably improving year-on-year BEE spend performance R5.5 billion, of which 72% was spent with suppliers having relative to the requirements of the Mining Charter and BEE ownership of greater than 25% in the consumables reporting in parallel on B-BBEE performance as per the category, and 72% on services (2013: R6.4 billion, 64% on DTI Codes of Good Practice. consumables and 60% on services). Our performance The total South African operations’ discretionary procurement The strike action that ensued in Rustenburg this year had a for 2014 was R7.9 billion of which 65%, or R5.1 billion, was major impact on our procurement expenditure. The economic from companies in which BEE ownership was greater than 25% impact on BEE expenditure was estimated at R1.7 billion lost (2013: R5.5 billion or 55%). revenue to suppliers. The immediate focus for procurement will be to support the operation to regain stability post the strike and Overall there was acceptable performance in the key Mining to normalise daily operations. Charter elements of capital goods, consumables and services against the 2014 targets (see table below). Efforts to promote BEE procurement have been significant and we have seen a decreasing trend in non-compliant operating expense suppliers and an increase in black empowered suppliers, particularly in the >25% to 50% category. Percentage HDSA/BEE procurement (>25%) of category’s discretionary procurement (SA operations) Mining Charter target 2014 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Category (%) R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % R billion % Capital 40 1.1 48 1.5 42 1.6 41 2.2 57 1.6 46 Consumables 50 1.8 72 2.0 64 1.5 55 1.3 48 1.1 45 Services 70 2.2 72 2.0 60 1.7 61 1.4 59 1.1 59 Total operations 5.1 65 5.5 55 4.8 51 4.9 55 3.8 50 Note: Capital goods have been reported based on IFRS and Implats’ accounting policies recognition criteria for capital expenditure. Suppliers with a valid broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE) certificate at one point in the financial year under review, contributed to BEE spend. At Rustenburg operations the economic impact on BEE expenditure was estimated at R1.7 billion due to the five-month strike. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT AND PROCUREMENT Page / 82 This year R2 billion was spent on procurement from local tiered HDSA/BEE suppliers Promoting development through local procurement Enhancing procurement opportunities in neighbouring communities is an important contribution towards creating sustainable communities, improving community relations, and advancing local economic development. This year R2.0 billion was spent on procurement from local tiered HDSA/BEE suppliers, constituting 26% of the total group procurement spend (2013: R2.4 billion or 24%). Local suppliers are classified as tier 1, 2 or 3 based on their proximity to the operations. Local tiered areas classified as tiers 1, 2 and 3 Category Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Impala Rustenburg Mine lease area Rustenburg Municipality Bojanala district (Bafokeng Village) Marula Platinum Mine lease area (four farms) Greater Tubatse Municipality Greater Sekhukhune district Local (tiers 1, 2 and 3) HDSA/BEE procurement (>25%) as a percentage of total discretionary procurement 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Category R million % R million % R million % R million % R million % Impala Rustenburg 1 816 30 2 197 27 1 911 25 1 557 22 1 067 17 Marula Platinum 199 26 156 22 130 21 103 13 103 13 Zimplats continued to implement its local supplier development strategy to further assist in the broader economic recovery of Zimbabwe. During the year local suppliers accounted for 66% of the Company’s annual expenditure on goods and services (2013: 64%). Mechanisms are in place to encourage and continuously monitor the growth of local supplier partnerships. In accordance with the Company’s transparency procedures, a cross-functional internal team reviews and approves the award of tenders. In addition, a tip-offs anonymous system, in partnership with an independent audit company, is in place so that suppliers, employees and other stakeholders can report on any incidents of corruption of any nature, including the award of tenders. Mimosa’s indigenous procurement as a percentage of total discretionary expenditure was 92%, consistent with levels in 2013. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 SOCIAL CAPITAL AND LICENCE TO OPERATE RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS Page / 83 Respect for human rights is an integral part of the Company’s Code of Ethics and values Our 2014 human rights achievements and We track implementation of human rights issues through performance monthly reports. Procedures are in place to ensure that channels Respect for human rights is an integral part of the Company’s are available to deal with unfair practices. No cases of Code of Ethics and values. Our human rights policy, which was discrimination were reported in the year under review. approved in 2013, commits us to striving for full compliance with applicable legislation in the regions in which we operate, as well While our agreements with contractors do not specifically as to implementing the human rights principles in the United contain human rights clauses, contractors are expected to abide Nations Global Compact. Employees are trained on the Code of by our Company policies, practices, standards and the Ethics through our intranet and all new employees are trained as constitution of the countries in which they are operating. We part of the induction process. recognise the need to further improve our monitoring of contracted labour on human rights issues. Through stakeholder Following the tragic events at Marikana, we recognise the need engagement processes, material community issues pertaining to across the mining sector to ensure better management of human rights are addressed in community forums. No claims of security-related issues. Enhancing the interface between the human rights abuse were made against the Company in the South African Police Service (SAPS) and our own security year under review. response is critical in avoiding any escalation of conflict. To mitigate this risk we have committed to and are implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. The principles focus on three spheres of security management: risk assessment, interactions with the South African Police Service, and interactions with private security. We will be using this framework to guide and train our security contingent. To formulate appropriate security responses, early identification of the potential for violence is critical, which requires regularly updated and credible information on security threats. All policies and procedures are supported and cover the following human rights-related aspects: Minimum employment age Disciplinary and grievance processes Rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining Prevention of forced or compulsory labour Equality and fair treatment of all individuals free from discrimination, irrespective of race, gender, creed or place of origin The need for security personnel to uphold these human rights. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS Page / 84 Conserving natural resources and mitigating impacts IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS Page / 85 As a company involved in the exploration, extraction and processing of mineral resources, our activities result in the unavoidable disturbance of land, the consumption of resources, and the generation of waste and atmospheric and water pollutants. Given these impacts, it is important that we demonstrate responsible stewardship of the resources we share with the societies in which we operate, particularly as our underground operations become deeper and consume greater amounts of energy and water. this involves taking measures not only to address security of resource supply (for example through efficiency, recycling and fuel-switching), but also to actively minimise our impacts on natural resources and on the communities around our operations. Taking such measures has direct benefits in terms of reduced costs and liabilities, enhanced resource security and improved security of our licence to operate. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS Page / 86 An amended Implats environmental policy was published in August 2013 This year our direct environmental impacts were significantly All our operations are ISO 14001 certified. In line with our reduced as a result of the closure of the Rustenburg operations environmental management systems expectations, all during the five-month strike. Monitoring of the Group operations are required to identify and report on environmental environmental indicators at Rustenburg was also affected. The incidents. Systems are in place to investigate and determine the decline in production translated into a decrease in the levels of direct and root causes of high-severity incidents, and to address water and energy consumed across the Group. An increase in and close out these incidents. The implementation of an the percentage of water recycled at all operations contributed to amended five-tier incident classification matrix for the Group our improved water management performance. There were no will be rolled out in 2015. ‘critical’ environmental incidents reported. To ensure continued assurance of legal compliance to all Management developments environmental authorisation requirements and conditions, we are An amended Implats environmental policy was signed and implementing land management solutions for South African published in August 2013. The policy commits the Company to operations. running our exploration, mining, processing and refining operations in an environmentally responsible manner, and to In addition to managing our direct environmental impacts, all ensure the well-being of our stakeholders. The policy also operations are expected to develop or fund a flagship local commits to integrating environmental management into all community environmental project to visibly demonstrate that we aspects of the business with the aim of achieving world-class have moved beyond just compliance on environmental issues. environmental performance in a sustainable manner. The management of the environmental impacts of our operations and processes involves the following focus areas: Promoting responsible water stewardship by minimising water use and water pollution Minimising our negative impacts on air quality Responding to climate change risks and opportunities and promoting responsible energy management Managing our waste streams Promoting responsible land management and biodiversity practices. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS Page / 87 All operations are expected to develop or fund a flagship local community environmental project to visibly demonstrate that we have moved beyond just compliance Case study – Landfill site management IMPALA RUSTENBURG SUPPORTS LOCAL WASTE PROGRAMME Impala Rustenburg operation is proud to play a fundamental role in ensuring effective waste management in the Royal Bafokeng Nation. An estimated population of around 350 000, the majority of whom fall into the very low income range, generates nearly 60 000 tonnes of waste per annum. With no formal waste collection programme in place to serve the 29 villages scattered over a large geographic area, in 2010 the Royal Bafokeng Administration (RBA) introduced a two-bag collection service, as well as various recycling programmes, to serve all the villages. The initiative, however, proved unsustainable, due to the significant transportation and disposal costs to the nearest municipal landfill site. Impala Rustenburg operation owns and operates a permitted general waste disposal facility within this general geographic area. This landfill site was developed to allow for full control over the operations’ waste management efforts as well as correct and timeous disposal of general operational waste. In 2010, the RBA approached Impala for assistance with their waste collection service. It was agreed that the collected waste from the various villages could be disposed of at the Impala landfill site at no cost to the Bafokeng. Impala Rustenburg’s landfill site has to date accepted, and correctly disposed of, approximately 18 000 tonnes of domestic waste from the surrounding Bafokeng villages. This represents approximately 50% of the total waste volume managed at this site on a yearly basis. Not only has this resulted in a general improvement of the aesthetics of the area, but has directly contributed (both physically and financially) towards the social upliftment of the local community. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS WATER STEWARDSHIP Page / 88 We are highly reliant on water for our mining, processing and refining operations Our management approach to water The Ground water impact: A study commissioned by Impala stewardship Rustenburg to map the possible impact of the mining We are highly reliant on water for our mining, processing and operations on ground water was completed, and the findings refining operations. Water is an increasingly scarce resource and have been shared with the Royal Bafokeng as the land to maintain our licence to operate we continue to manage water owners. Executive management are reviewing strategic quality. Our approach to water management is guided by our solutions to mitigate reputational risks identified through the water conservation strategy, introduced in 2010. The strategy study. The deep groundwater model update, including all focuses on water consumption and quality management, underground workings at the operations, has been proposes a framework for operation-specific water conservation completed. A second phase will involve the incorporation of strategies, and defines a water consumption baseline for the a dynamic and static water balance simulation model that will period to 2020. In fulfilment of this strategy we are implementing assist with water management. various projects to reduce potable water consumption, optimise Water quality improvement project: A ground and surface industrial use and increase water recycling. Water risk water quality treatment project has been approved and will assessments are reviewed on an annual basis. Surface ground run during the course of 2015 and 2016. The aim of the water monitoring programmes are in place. We are currently project is to remediate the pollution plume around the tailings reviewing and updating the strategy to further strengthen our dam, primarily by installing boreholes around the tailings commitment to water use efficiency and conservation. In dam, reusing the water at processing as well as by means of fulfilment of our commitment to transparency on performance, we biological accumulators such as planting trees around the have once again participated in the Carbon disclosure project for tailings dam and installing floating wetlands in the Rockwall Water Disclosure (CDP). dam, to improve the quality of the water. The South African operations continue to engage with the Our 2014 performance on water Department of Water Affairs (DWA) and are all in the process of Water management has improved at all our operations this year. amending the water-use licences (WULs). Obtaining these Total water consumption for the Group was 34 775 megalitres, amendments is critical to ensuring that current operations are including both water withdrawn and water recycled. This not affected and that the proposed expansion of operating represents a decrease of 15% on water consumption in 2013 activities are not stalled. The implementation of the DWA’s newly (40 711 megalitres) and is predominantly attributed to the closure formulated water discharge system, which entails effluent of the Rustenburg operations throughout the five-month strike. discharge penalties, is pending. At our Zimbabwe operations, the Environmental Management Agency was engaged to ensure A 14% increase in our unit consumption rate of water (kilolitres that renewed licences for 2014 were issued. Water extracted per tonne ore milled) over the 2013 levels is due to the strike from dams and rivers is all within the set allocation limits. action in Rustenburg as well as the exclusion of Mimosa production numbers. This year we set a recycled water target All our operations are in the process of determining their of 40% and have seen a greater focus on recycling initiatives site-specific water balances. This will assist in developing action throughout the organisation. A total of 13 409 megalitres of plans, with measurable targets, to ensure further progress. We water was recycled, which equates to 39% of all the water work closely with different stakeholders to ensure security of consumed for the year, which was 1% below our annual target supply for our operations and the surrounding communities. of 40%. However, in the first half of financial year 2014 (before the strike) 41% of water was recycled. The amount of potable The management of water continues to receive a high level of water consumed decreased by 15% on 2013 levels. The focus at the Rustenburg operations. Dry conditions experienced Refineries operation is a zero effluent site; some of the process in the north west of South Africa, together with municipal water streams are treated to boiler quality and are reused, with potable water supply problems, presented challenges for the no effluent released into natural water courses. operations and highlighted the need for improvements in water management. Two major projects are in progress at the Rustenburg operations, namely: IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS WATER STEWARDSHIP Page / 89 Total water consumption for the Group was 34 775 megalitres, a 6.5% decrease in our unit consumption rate of water over the 2013 levels Further details on the total water withdrawn, consumed and recycled at each of our operations are provided in the performance table on page 104. Consumption (Mℓ) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 1) Water from water service providers or municipalities 7 515 8 851 10 722 12 636 11 970 2) Waste water from other organisations 2 313 2 598 2 767 3 769 3 668 3) Water from rivers 2 175 2 344 2 124 2 337 2 659 4) Water from dams 6 696 8 777 7 891 7 016 7 506 5) Water from ground water 2 667 2 870 1 770 1 287 1 276 Water withdrawn (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5) 21 365 25 440 25 274 27 045 27 079 Water internally recycled 13 409 15 271 14 840 14 823 9 981 Total water consumption 34 775 40 711 40 114 41 868 37 060 Notes: Note 1: From 2011 the Zimplats and Mimosa water withdrawn from rivers and dams excludes water provided to communities (in line with the SA operations). Note 2: At Marula and Zimplats, fissure water is included as groundwater from 2011. Our Zimplats operation uses a potentially significant amount of fissure water in one of its mining operations that has not as yet been quantified. Note 3: From 2011 the Refineries water withdrawn includes domestic water (offices, stores, etc.). This is in line with Group reporting. Note 4: Unit consumption is in kl/tonne ore milled except for Refineries which is kl/tonne matte milled. Our water focus for 2015 and beyond We have prioritised various activities in the year ahead. These include: Increasing the percentage of water that we recycle to 40%, and reducing our water withdrawn including potable water Continuing to engage with authorities and communities on water-related issues to ensure we meet regulatory and society expectations Reviewing and updating our water conservation strategy and driving its implementation at operational level Investigating the feasibility of water treatment alternatives. Water (Mℓ) 45 000 40 000 35 000 Water withdrawn 30 000 Water internally recycled Total water consumption 25 000 20 000 15 000 10 000 5 000 0 FY10 FY14 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT Page / 90 In implementing our carbon management strategy, our focus remains on energy-efficiency projects Our management approach to climate change The bulk of our emissions (2.7 million tonnes) fall under Scope 2 and energy emissions which are associated with Eskom electricity usage, Climate change has potentially significant implications for with the balance (0.3 million tonnes) arising from burning fossil our activities, resulting both from governmental policy fuels such as coal, diesel, petrol and industrial burning oil (Scope requirements as well as the physical impacts of a changing 1 emissions). Emissions intensity (tonnes of CO2 per tonne of climate. A detailed review and assessment of the climate ore milled) in 2014 was 0.218, as compared with 0.206 in 2013. change risks and opportunities for Implats can be found in This has been impacted by the exclusion of Mimosa from the our submission to the CDP’s Climate Change Programme, production figures. Additional data on our direct and indirect available at www.cdproject.net. greenhouse gas emissions and our energy usage, by operation for each of the past five years, are provided in the performance In implementing our carbon management strategy, our focus table on page 105. remains on energy-efficiency projects. Security of energy supply and rising prices are significant material risks for our operations Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in South Africa and Zimbabwe. Electricity consumption accounted for around 70% of our total energy consumption in 2014, 11% of our overall cash cost base. Our projected Scope 1 emissions 6% Scope 2 emissions 94% expansion into deeper operations that are more energy intensive, coupled with the proposed introduction of a carbon tax in South Africa in January 2016, emphasise the business requirement to focus on reducing and optimising our energy use. As the scope for further energy efficiency and reduction initiatives at our smelters and refineries is minimal, our focus is mainly on Implats conducts an annual greenhouse gas emissions mining operations. The South African operations work closely assessment to understand the Group’s exposure and identify with Eskom and participate in demand-side management areas for GHG mitigation and increasing efficiencies. To date, (DSM) programmes. We seek to improve operational and over R100 million has been spent on the implementation of design efficiencies, incorporating best practice technology energy conservation programmes, resulting in a 3.1% reduction and processes. Our longer-term strategic investments include in indirect energy usage. Following is a brief review of the exploring a carbon neutral fuel source for our operations, and principal energy-efficiency initiatives being implemented: participating in collaborative efforts to develop fuel-cell technology. Promoting the optimal use of compressed air systems at the Rustenburg operations, by examining equipment We have determined an absolute GHG emissions reduction performance and ensuring the flow of compressed air is target of 5% by 2020 from the base year 2008 (year of first maximised during off-peak times and minimised during peak carbon footprint assessment), in line with our projected times, is anticipated to achieve a reduction of 7.8GWh per growth profile. annum The conversion of all underground lighting at Rustenburg Our 2014 carbon and energy management operations to a more energy-efficient lighting source is performance anticipated to reduce annual consumption by 15GWh Total CO2 emissions for 2014 amounted to 3 million tonnes, as Power factor correction equipment has been installed at compared with 3.8 million tonnes in 2013. The significant Rustenburg and Mimosa with initial performance monitoring decrease is largely attributable to reduced production as a indicating an average 4% reduction in energy consumption, result of the strike action in 2014 at our Rustenburg operations, exceeding the anticipated 2.5% reduction which accounted for 67% in comparison to the typical 75% of the Group total CO2 emissions. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT Page / 91 We achieved an 18% reduction in energy consumption levels, exceeding the anticipated 2.5% reduction Following the trial use of fibreglass reinforced plastic (FRP) Our coal to biomass fuel-switch project aims to use bamboo fan blades at Mimosa, which proved to be more efficient and as an alternate fuel source to coal. Initial testing confirmed consume 35% less power compared to steel, a more robust the feasibility of using the biomass as an alternative, but high-efficiency underground auxiliary fan with proven energy raised concerns about the calorific content of bamboo and savings similar to FRP blades was identified. Subject to challenges associated with its cultivation. The project has approved funding, a replacement fleet of 75 auxiliary fans been submitted for registration as a Clean Development will be installed, with projected energy savings of $84 000 Mechanism (CDM) to enable future carbon credit issuances. achieved per annum We are exploring opportunities to investigate alternative carbon neutral fuel sources. These initiatives are evaluated periodically to ensure effectiveness and validity. Climate change indicators Units 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1 emissions) (t000) 323 401 418 436 395 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2 emissions)* (t000) 2 714 3 332 3 113 3 462 3 176 Electricity purchased (MWh000) 2 780 3 395 3 322 3 469 3 267 Direct energy (GJ000) 4 386 5 350 5 584 5 661 5 250 Indirect energy (GJ000) 10 008 12 224 11 958 12 561 11 763 Total energy (GJ000) 14 395 17 574 17 542 18 222 17 013 * Indirect CO2 emission restated in FY2014. Our carbon and energy management focus for 2015 and beyond We have prioritised the following climate change and energy management activities for the year ahead: Further understanding the impact of climate change on our operations and surrounding communities Improving our energy data management systems, to ensure that we report accurate and comprehensive information. This is vital for defining an effective strategy, complying with anticipated mandatory regulations, and setting and achieving realistic targets on energy consumption, efficiency and emissions reductions Updating the Group carbon footprint and setting realistic reduction targets for each operation in line with our carbon management strategy Aligning our South African operations with the government’s Integrated Energy Plan Continuing to work with government and academic institutions on the development of fuel-cell technologies that will utilise PGMs as alternative energy sources. An amount of R2 million a year has been committed for this work with a total budget of R6 million allocated to the project. Total CO2 emission (t000) Total energy consumption (GJ000) FY10 3 755 FY10 17 013 FY11 4 022 FY11 18 222 FY12 3 707 FY12 17 542 FY13 3 788 FY13 17 574 FY14 3 037 FY14 14 395 FY14: 3 037 FY14: 14 395 19% decrease 18% decrease IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT Page / 92 Ambient air quality is monitored at our operations via a network of ambient monitoring stations Our management approach to air quality Our 2014 performance on air quality The most significant air quality emission for the Group relates to At Impala Rustenburg, Refineries and Zimplats, average daily the sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions from our smelting and SO2 emissions are calculated daily. Rustenburg’s SO2 emissions refining operations in Rustenburg, Springs and Zimplats. The dramatically decreased throughout the second half of the year South African operations are subject to the Air Quality Act and mainly due to the prolonged strike action. adhere to the requirements of legislative developments. In Zimbabwe, legislation for air quality was introduced in 2009, This year, total direct Group emissions of SO2 were 30 735 tonnes, governing the issuing of emission licences. Our objective is to up from our emissions of 18 536 tonnes in 2013. Our Zimplats ensure that we comply with all licence requirements. A renewal operations contributed 84.5% of total direct SO2 emissions, while application for an air emissions licence (AEL) for our Rustenburg Rustenburg and Refineries operations contributed 12.1% and operations was submitted and finalisation is pending; the 3.3% respectively. The significant increase in SO2 emissions was operation also submitted a requested air impact assessment to as a consequence of the Zimplats phase 2 expansions, a 33% support its renewal application. An AEL for Refineries operations increase in sulphur in concentrate with increased production levels has been approved. Both our Rustenburg and Refineries as well as improved laboratory assays. Due to the recalibration of operations are located within the priority areas as promulgated the XRF analysis machine in July 2013, a significant SO2 increase by the National Environmental Management Air Quality Act. was realised. As such year-on-year figures are not comparable. Indirect SOx amounted to 24 665 tonnes and indirect NOx Ambient air quality is monitored at our operations via a network amounted to 12 107 tonnes. Further details on the SO2 emissions of ambient monitoring stations. These monitoring stations at each of our operations over the past five years are provided in measure SO2, NO2 and particulate matter and provide an the performance table on page 105. Daily ambient standards indication of ambient air quality levels and associated trends. exceedances were all within the allowable exceedance frequency. Total direct SO2 emitted (t) % direct SO2 emissions FY10 16 926 FY11 18 881 Rustenburg 13% FY12 18 463 Refineries 3% FY13 18 536 Zimplats 84% FY14 30 735 FY14: 30 735 66% increase We have prioritised addressing the Zimplats SO2 output to align with Group standards. We aim to complete a feasibility study for the Zimplats SO2 abatement plant in 2015 for construction to begin in 2016. The estimated cost of the SO2 abatement scrubber is US$80 million. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES AND MITIGATING IMPACTS MANAGING OUR WASTE Page / 93 Our approach to waste management across the Group seeks, During the reporting period both Marula and Refineries as a minimum, to ensure compliance with the emerging submitted applications for waste licences for their waste legislative requirements relating to waste. During the year many management activities and the outcomes are still pending. of the pending regulations in South Africa were finalised and published by the South African Department of Environmental The hazardous waste situation remains challenging in Affairs; these included regulations on waste classification and Zimbabwe, with no facilities in line with South African or management, landfill disposal, landfill assessment, and an international best practices being available. The Refineries team updated list of all waste licensing activities. Norms and is investigating the export of jarosite to China as an option to standards on the remediation of contaminated land and the divert waste from landfill. All legal requirements in terms of the storage of waste were also published. The most significant Basel Convention are being assessed. All operations continue to implications for Implats are associated with the National investigate reuse and recycling opportunities. Environmental Management Waste Amendment Act and the National Environmental Laws Amendment Act. These stipulate The Group’s recycling rate for 2014 was 69.1% versus 67.9% that mine residue deposits and stockpiles in future will also be in 2013. A large portion of the waste from Rustenburg and governed by the Waste Act and be subject to all licensing Refineries is treated; although treatment is regarded as a better requirements, as well as the stated regulations and standards. waste management solution than disposal, technically it is not This will place additional administrative demands on mining considered a ‘recycling’ method. Implats continuously evaluates companies, and present potentially significant costs. Clarifying waste management by scrutinising current trends compared and understanding the discrepancies between the newly against best practice and legislative requirements. Adjustments imposed requirements under the Waste Act, and the current are made where necessary. Our activities for the coming year regulations under the MPRDA, will remain a focus for Implats in centre on clarifying the expectations of emerging regulatory the coming year. developments and ensuring we meet requirements. LAND MANAGEMENT AND BIODIVERSITY Our approach to land stewardship focuses on rehabilitation, At Refineries, the Aurora mineshaft has been decommissioned while ensuring the responsible management of water, and closed. Rehabilitation obligations and closure of the shaft biodiversity, mineral waste and hazardous substances. are being investigated with the DMR. A formal rehabilitation plan Rehabilitation is a key regulatory and financial risk for Implats for the tailings dam is awaiting confirmation. and is linked to annual closure liabilities, which are reviewed and updated annually in line with regulations. An important input Biodiversity towards the annual liability update is our assessment of our Given the potential of mining activities to affect habitats through ground water impacts and associated mitigation processes. Our land disturbance, land-use change and pollution, basic rehabilitation activities adhere to a defined Implats mine closure biodiversity management is a requirement within all our methodology and our South African operations follow the operational ISO 14001 management systems. All operations prescribed norms and standards for the remediation of have site-specific procedures and standards to manage the contaminated land in terms of the Waste Act. impacts associated with their activities. Formal biodiversity management plans, which incorporate the revised guidelines Developments in 2014 from the South African National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI) Rehabilitation activities this year focused on maintaining and Minister and Members of the Executive Council (MINMEC previously rehabilitated side slopes as well as grassing new Biodiversity), are being implemented at both the Rustenburg and risings. Both Marula and Refineries completed their Marula operations. contaminated land assessments and remediation plans. At our Rustenburg operations, the last of the opencast pits has been A formal biodiversity monitoring programme was also rehabilitated. A total of 46.6ha was rehabilitated over the implemented at the Rustenburg operations during the year. This reporting period. Following the identification of certain sites that is aimed at evaluating the current management approach and were struggling to rehabilitate unassisted, appropriate allow for adjustment where necessary. intervention, for example erosion controls and chemical amelioration, is being undertaken where required, to ensure that Only Zimplats and Refineries operate within close proximity to these sites are sustainably rehabilitated. The current cost areas of high biodiversity. The refining operation is near the estimate for Rustenburg closure, amounted to R962.5 million; Cowles dam that feeds into the Blesbokspruit, which is deemed financial provisions for this amount are in place as per DMR an ecosystem under threat and appears on the Montreux requirements. record. Although Refineries is deemed to have no direct impact on this ecosystem, it is represented on the Blesbokspruit forum Following the cessation of all opencast mining at Zimplats in and is involved with environmental education and conservation 2008, an opencast rehabilitation programme has been in at the Blesbokspruit Grootvlei Trust. In Zimbabwe, a total of progress since 2011. To date, 1 382 891m3 of waste rock 276ha of the Zimplats operation is located within the Ngezi material has been backfilled and the project reached 55% National Park. This area, which was associated with historic completion by year end. We aim to backfill all the voids with opencast mining, has subsequently been rehabilitated and is waste rock and re-establish indigenous grass and tree species thus deemed non-operational. by 2016 at a cost of US$7.9 million. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX Page / 94 Appendix IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX Page / 95 Implats has followed the guidance provided by principles and criteria provided in the GRI’s G4 guidelines. A brief review of our application of the GRI reporting principles is provided. A detailed response to each of the GRI reporting criteria (with hyperlinks to the corresponding sections of the report) is provided on our website, along with our Communication on Progress in terms of the UN Global Compact. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 96 PEOPLE South Africa Occupational levels Male Female Foreign nationals Total Rustenburg A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 Senior management 15 0 3 45 5 0 0 2 2 0 65 7 72 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 138 8 12 236 32 0 4 46 11 0 405 82 487 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 2 704 24 1 693 433 6 3 78 301 2 3 723 522 4 245 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 7 838 10 1 108 772 2 0 10 1 826 5 9 783 789 10 572 Unskilled and defined decision making 12 836 17 0 14 1 597 4 0 0 1 935 24 14 802 1 625 16 427 Total permanent 23 532 59 17 1 096 2 839 12 7 136 4 075 31 28 779 3 025 31 804 Non-permanent employees 29 3 0 5 9 2 0 1 0 0 37 12 49 Grand total 23 561 62 17 1 101 2 848 14 7 137 4 075 31 28 816 3 037 31 853 Male Female Foreign nationals Total Marula A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior management 4 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 7 0 7 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 23 0 0 18 7 0 0 3 4 0 45 10 55 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 347 2 0 40 46 0 1 9 87 0 476 56 532 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1 087 0 0 0 88 0 0 0 45 0 1 132 88 1 220 Unskilled and defined decision making 1 216 0 0 2 343 0 0 0 19 1 1 237 344 1 581 Total permanent 2 677 2 0 62 484 0 1 12 156 1 2 897 498 3 395 Non-permanent employees 10 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 10 5 15 Grand total 2 687 2 0 62 489 0 1 12 156 1 2 907 503 3 410 Male Female Foreign nationals Total Refineries A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senior management 1 0 1 3 1 0 0 1 3 0 8 2 10 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 14 0 5 30 11 1 4 9 7 1 56 26 82 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 156 2 4 100 36 1 1 18 3 0 265 56 321 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 393 1 3 23 88 0 0 15 6 0 426 103 529 Unskilled and defined decision making 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total permanent 564 3 13 156 136 2 5 43 19 1 755 187 942 Non-permanent employees 0 0 0 1 2 0 0 1 0 0 1 3 4 Grand total 564 3 13 157 138 2 5 44 19 1 756 190 946 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 97 Male Female Foreign nationals Total Head Office A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 2 1 3 Senior management 5 0 0 10 1 0 2 3 1 0 16 6 22 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 2 0 0 6 4 0 1 7 0 0 8 12 20 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 3 0 0 0 6 6 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 0 0 0 1 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 6 7 Unskilled and defined decision making 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 Total permanent 7 0 0 19 12 0 3 18 1 0 27 33 60 Non-permanent employees 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Grand total 7 0 0 19 13 0 3 18 1 0 27 34 61 Male Female Foreign nationals Total Combined (South Africa) A C I W A C I W Male Female Male Female Total Top management 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 3 1 4 Senior management 25 0 4 60 7 0 2 6 7 0 96 15 111 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 177 8 17 290 54 1 9 65 22 1 514 130 644 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 3 207 28 5 833 518 7 5 108 391 2 4 464 640 5 104 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 9 318 11 4 132 950 2 0 29 1 877 5 11 342 986 12 328 Unskilled and defined decision making 14 052 17 0 16 1 942 4 0 0 1 954 25 16 039 1 971 18 010 Total permanent 26 780 64 30 1 333 3 471 14 16 209 4 251 33 32 458 3 743 36 201 Non-permanent employees 39 3 0 6 17 2 0 2 0 0 48 21 69 Grand total 26 819 67 30 1 339 3 488 16 16 211 4 251 33 32 506 3 764 36 270 Zimbabwe Mimosa Females Males Total F – Top management 0 2 2 E – Senior management 1 5 6 D – Professionally qualified and experienced specialist 6 29 35 C–S  killed technical and academically qualified 7 116 123 B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 7 338 345 A – Unskilled and defined decision making 5 259 264 Grand total 26 749 775 Attributable to Implats Zimplats Females Males Total F – Top management 0 4 4 E – Senior management 1 18 19 D – Professionally qualified and experienced specialist 31 208 239 C–S  killed technical and academically qualified 52 753 805 B – Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 88 1 464 1 552 A – Unskilled and defined decision making 43 606 649 Non-permanent employees 2 55 57 Grand total 215 3 053 3 325 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 98 In-service 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Impala Rustenburg own employees 31 804 32 226 31 865 31 779 30 791 Contractor employees 11 201 12 624 14 436 13 462 13 457 Impala Springs own employees 942 991 1 021 1 053 1 004 Contractor employees 679 899 1 138 282 260 Marula own employees 3 395 3 165 2 965 3 272 3 241 Contractor employees 909 853 743 937 727 Zimplats own employees 3 325 2 929 2 791 2 757 2 418 Contractor employees 2 749 2 775 6 412 2 610 1 262 Mimosa own employees 711 776 786 784 788 Contractor employees 64 65 100 115 113 Corporate own employees 61 64 89 77 75 Contractor employees 0 0 0 0 0 Total own 40 238 40 151 39 517 39 722 38 317 Total contractors 15 602 17 216 22 829 17 406 15 819 Group total 55 783 57 367 62 346 57 127 54 136 Labour sending areas Impala Marula South Africa 2014 2014 Eastern Cape Number 5 070 146 Free State Number 805 29 Gauteng Number 846 22 KwaZulu-Natal Number 621 10 Mpumalanga Number 231 203 North West Number 18 374 44 Northern Cape Number 1 256 3 Limpopo Number 475 2 781 Western Cape Number 19 – Total Number 27 697 3 237 Foreigners Number 4 107 158 Grand total Number 31 804 3 395 Zimplats Zimbabwe 2014 Bulawayo province Number 30 Foreigner Number 6 Harare province Number 83 Manicaland province Number 334 Mashonaland Central province Number 324 Mashonaland East province Number 265 Mashonaland West province Number 1 194 Masvingo province Number 489 Matabeleland North province Number 34 Matabeleland South province Number 51 Midlands province Number 458 Other areas Number 57 Grand total Number 3 325 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 99 Attributable to Implats Mimosa Province 2014 Byo Prov Number 53 Foreigner Number 0 Harare Number 45 Manicaland Number 50 Mashonaland Central Number 40 Mash East Number 25 Mash West Number 30 Masvingo Number 100 Matabeland North Number 42 Matabeleland South Number 37 Midlands Number 353 Grand total Number 775 Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Turnover Impala Rustenburg Percentage 4.4 6.0 10.1 8.4 6.1 Impala Springs Percentage 4.5 7.5 5.3 5.4 6.7 Marula Percentage 5.6 4.2 11.0 21.7 4.8 Zimplats Percentage 3.6 3.9 4.2 4.4 5.3 Mimosa Percentage 9.0 3.5 4.2 3.4 6.2 Corporate Percentage 10 9.4 7.7 11.3 18.7 Group Percentage 4.5 5.7 10.0 8.3 6.0 Women turnover Impala Rustenburg Percentage 0.2 4 0.3 0.4 0.2 Impala Springs Percentage 1.4 2 1.7 0.7 2.0 Marula Percentage 0.3 5 0.7 0.9 0.3 Zimplats Percentage 0.2 6 6 0 5.2 Mimosa Percentage 5.0 4 0 0.4 0 Corporate Percentage 1.6 50 2.2 5.2 12.0 Group Percentage 0.6 5 0.8 0.4 0.6 Unionised workforce Impala Rustenburg Percentage 78 73 58 73 73 Impala Springs Percentage 71 70 70 62 84 Marula Percentage 87 75 65 70 65 Zimplats Percentage 40 46 52 37 27 Mimosa Percentage 25 24 24 25 26 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 100 MALE TO FEMALE PAY RATIO Female Male Impala Rustenburg Top management – 1 Senior management 0.81 1 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 0.84 1 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 0.89 1 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1.07 1 Unskilled and defined decision making 0.99 1 Total 1.04 1 Impala Springs Top management 0.73 1 Senior management 0.76 1 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 0.79 1 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 0.87 1 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1.08 1 Total 1.01 1 Marula Senior management 0.00 1 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management 0.77 1 Skilled technical and academically qualified workers, junior management, supervisors, foremen, and superintendents 0.86 1 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 1.01 1 Unskilled and defined decision making 0.98 1 Total 0.84 1 Grand total 1.05 1 SAFETY Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Fatalities Impala Rustenburg Number 3 9 11 6 15 Impala Springs Number 0 0 0 0 0 Marula Number 0 0 1 0 0 Zimplats Number 1 0 0 0 0 Mimosa Number 0 0 0 1 0 Group total Number 4 9 12 7 15 Reportable injuries Impala Rustenburg Number 209 358 360 370 340 Impala Springs Number 1 2 1 2 0 Marula Number 33 36 60 50 45 Zimplats Number 6 12 4 8 8 Mimosa Number 1 0 2 0 0 Afplats and head office Number 2 13 3 0 0 Group total Number 252 421 430 431 393 Medical treatment cases Impala Rustenburg Number 341 454 441 589 752 Impala Springs Number 75 78 82 131 93 Marula Number 86 90 131 178 148 Zimplats Number 27 19 33 19 23 Mimosa Number 10 17 26 47 25 Afplats and head office Number 6 44 11 0 0 Group total Number 545 702 724 964 1041 Lost-time injuries Impala Rustenburg Number 311 503 573 555 484 Impala Springs Number 1 2 1 3 0 Marula Number 47 45 88 91 69 Zimplats Number 6 12 4 8 8 Mimosa Number 3 2 11 2 3 Afplats and head office Number 1 15 4 0 0 Group total Number 369 579 681 659 564 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 101 Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Restricted work cases Impala Rustenburg Number 77 135 59 86 158 Impala Springs Number 1 0 1 1 1 Marula Number 121 71 58 69 86 Zimplats Number 5 7 6 9 11 Mimosa Number 1 3 6 8 4 Afplats and head office Number 0 0 0 0 0 Group total Number 205 216 130 173 260 Employee hours worked Impala Rustenburg Hours 57 954 414 98 131 748 95 598 107 97 628 130 90 482 090 Impala Springs Hours 3 913 170 4 746 833 4 453 614 5 015 400 4 564 200 Marula Hours 8 885 363 8 303 702 7 678 134 9 897 064 7 345 896 Zimplats Hours 14 646 272 17 257 526 19 361 847 10 627 319 11 629 661 Mimosa Hours 7 803 469 7 762 842 9 250 991 9 996 092 8 560 183 Afplats and head office Hours 854 084 1 395 686 831 411 141 443 89 776 Group total Hours 94 056 773 137 598 336 137 174 104 133 305 270 122 685 903 FIFR Impala Rustenburg Pmmhw 0.052 0.091 0.115 0.061 0.166 Impala Springs Pmmhw 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Marula Pmmhw 0.000 0.000 0.130 0.000 0.000 Zimplats Pmmhw 0.068 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Mimosa Pmmhw 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.100 0.000 Group Pmmhw 0.043 0.065 0.087 0.053 0.122 LTIFR Impala Rustenburg Pmmhw 5.37 5.13 5.99 5.68 5.35 Impala Springs Pmmhw 0.26 0.42 0.22 0.60 0.00 Marula Pmmhw 5.29 5.42 11.46 9.19 9.39 Zimplats Pmmhw 0.41 0.70 0.21 0.75 0.69 Mimosa Pmmhw 0.38 0.26 1.19 0.20 0.35 Group Pmmhw 3.92 4.21 4.96 4.94 4.61 TIFR Impala Rustenburg Pmmhw 12.58 11.13 11.22 12.60 15.41 Impala Springs Pmmhw 19.68 16.85 18.86 26.92 20.60 Marula Pmmhw 28.59 24.81 36.08 34.15 41.25 Zimplats Pmmhw 2.59 2.20 2.22 3.39 3.61 Mimosa Pmmhw 1.79 2.83 4.65 5.70 3.74 Group Pmmhw 11.9 10.91 11.19 13.47 15.21 MTCFR Impala Rustenburg Pmmhw 5.88 4.63 4.61 6.03 8.32 Impala Springs Pmmhw 19.17 16.43 18.41 26.12 20.38 Marula Pmmhw 9.68 10.84 17.06 17.99 20.15 Zimplats Pmmhw 1.84 1.10 1.70 1.79 1.98 Mimosa Pmmhw 1.28 2.19 2.59 4.15 2.92 Group Pmmhw 5.79 5.11 5.28 7.10 8.49 Total injuries Impala Rustenburg Number 729 1 092 1 073 1 230 1 394 Impala Springs Number 77 80 84 135 94 Marula Number 254 206 277 338 303 Zimplats Number 38 38 43 36 42 Mimosa Number 14 22 43 57 32 Afplats Number 7 63 15 0 1 Group total Number 1 119 1 501 1 535 1 796 1 866 *Afplats figures include growth and exploration. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 102 HEALTH Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 VCT interventions Impala Rustenburg Number 7 626 10 316 7 792 12 647 6 236 Impala Springs Number 10 9 14 19 24 Marula Number 566 540 292 275 130 Zimplats Number 1 563 714 1 424 889 204 Mimosa Number 321 203 298 242 243 Group Number 10 086 11 782 9 820 14 072 6 837 Employees on ART Impala Rustenburg Number 3 822 3 639 3 222 2 488 1 709 Impala Springs Number 27 28 26 19 14 Marula Number 138 101 65 51 29 Zimplats Number 137 120 114 92 63 Mimosa Number 152 151 139 123 90 Group Number 4 276 4 039 3 566 2 773 1 905 Pulmonary TB cases Impala Rustenburg Number 213 311 352 318 352 Impala Springs Number 1 1 0 0 0 Marula Number 41 15 21 19 25 Zimplats Number 7 1 6 5 11 Mimosa Number 6 6 10 8 11 Group Number 268 334 389 350 399 NIHL Impala Rustenburg Number 16 36 53 52 92 Impala Springs Number 0 0 0 0 0 Marula Number 14 12 10 4 14 Zimplats Number 6 2 0 0 0 Mimosa Number 0 0 0 1 1 Group Number 36 50 63 57 107 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 103 SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Expenditure Impala Rustenburg (R million) 280 387 313 312 233 Impala Springs (R million) 14 16 21 21 20 Marula (R million) 37 24 19 24 19 SA operations total (6% of wage bill) (R million) 331 428 353 357 272 Employee literacy (ABET III and above) Impala Rustenburg Percentage 82 80 74 57 55 Impala Springs Percentage 94 94 93 92 90 Marula Percentage 91 90 92 88 88 Zimplats Percentage 99 99 99 99 99 Mimosa Percentage 99 99 99 96 96 Average Group literacy Percentage 93 92 86 86 85 ABET training employees Impala Rustenburg Number 686 794 900 804 851 Impala Springs Number 0 5 7 13 58 Marula Number 21 6 0 25 32 SA operations total Number 707 805 907 842 941 Total number of employees trained (including ABET) Impala Rustenburg Number 20 338 29 299 23 477 24 178 24 751 Impala Springs Number 963 1 053 1 091 1 127 1 039 Marula Number 2 660 1 874 1 117 1 421 1 210 SA operations total Number 23 961 32 226 25 685 26 726 27 000 Value of ABET training Impala Rustenburg (R000) 8 577 12 769 10 220 11 157 10 002 Impala Springs (R000) 0 486 578 1 600 4 161 Marula (R000) 19 2 0 1 260 1 012 SA operations total (R000) 8 596 13 257 10 798 14 017 15 175 Hours of ABET training Impala Rustenburg Hours 69 672 148 728 134 842 190 525 165 840 Impala Springs Hours 0 11 064 13 433 15 136 27 808 Marula Hours 20 160 4 032 0 14 450 24 422 SA operations total Hours 89 832 163 824 148 257 220 111 218 070 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 104 ENVIRONMENT Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Key production figures Ore milled (excluding Mimosa) (tonnes) 13 916 17 209 16 626 20 974 20 309 Tailings disposed on tailing dam (000 tonnes) 16 004 20 770 20 619 23 163 21 809 Dump slag treated (000 tonnes) 90 172 175 250 179 Furnace and converter slag generated and treated (000 tonnes) 382 783 772 880 844 Total slag treated (000 tonnes) 472 955 947 1 130 1 023 Platinum produced (000 oz) 1 581 1 448 1 836 1 741 Group material consumption Diesel (000 litres) 21 776 25 247 27 875 26 000 23 466 Petrol (000 litres) 830 1 137 1 237 1 666 1 250 Coal (tonnes) 127 883 158 732 161 563 170 000 159 240 Industrial burning oil (000 litres) 1 264 1 730 2 660 2 453 2 034 Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Key production figures – Energy Impala Rustenburg (GJ000) 7 945 11 453 11 360 12 220 11 295 Impala Springs (GJ000) 2 549 2 727 2 688 2 695 2 530 Marula (GJ000) 792 729 713 694 674 Zimplats (GJ000) 2 390 1 940 2 100 1 865 1 826 Mimosa (GJ000) 719 725 701 747 688 Group total (GJ000) 14 395 17 574 17 542 18 222 17 013 Key production figures – Water (Mℓ) Total water withdrawn (Mℓ) Impala Rustenburg (Mℓ) 10 353 14 514 15 961 18 115 17 482 Impala Springs (Mℓ) 758 838 792 769 715 Marula (Mℓ) 1 690 1 969 1 989 1 817 1 494 Zimplats (Mℓ) 6 389 5 775 4 408 4 007 4 729 Mimosa (Mℓ) 2 175 2 344 2 214 2 337 2 659 Group total (Mℓ) 21 365 25 440 25 274 27 045 27 079 Total water consumed* Impala Rustenburg (Mℓ) 16 247 24 735 26 012 28 044 22 859 Impala Springs (Mℓ) 1 255 1 244 1 251 1 244 1 125 Marula (Mℓ) 3 573 3 544 3 585 3 355 2 841 Zimplats (Mℓ) 10 386 7 852 6 003 5 528 6 172 Mimosa (Mℓ) 3 314 3 336 3 263 3 697 4 063 Group total (Mℓ) 34 775 40 711 40 114 41 868 37 060 Total water recycled Impala Rustenburg (Mℓ) 5 894 10 220 10 051 9 928 5 376 Impala Springs (Mℓ) 497 406 459 474 411 Marula (Mℓ) 1 883 1 574 1 596 1 541 1 347 Zimplats (Mℓ) 3 997 2 078 1 595 1 521 1 443 Mimosa (Mℓ) 1 138 993 1 139 1 359 1 404 Group total (Mℓ) 13 409 15 271 14 840 14 823 9 981 * Total water consumed = total water withdrawn and total water recycled. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX Page / 105 Key production figures – Emissions Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total direct CO2 Impala Rustenburg (tonnes) 114 432 182 406 193 317 208 463 186 199 Impala Springs (tonnes) 141 372 158 553 154 077 166 267 149 707 Marula (tonnes) 7 102 6 331 6 450 7 157 6 959 Zimplats (tonnes) 51 257 43 864 53 697 41 190 42 371 Mimosa (tonnes) 9 834 9 815 10 362 12 528 9 673 Group total (tonnes) 323 997 400 969 417 902 435 605 394 909 Total indirect CO2 Impala Rustenburg (tonnes) 1 928 823 2 534 307 2 444 347 2 725 366 2 532 798 Impala Springs (tonnes) 159 445 149 223 147 166 155 388 150 433 Marula (tonnes) 206 412 175 914 170 958 168 970 163 747 Zimplats* (tonnes) 312 357 366 492 249 345 222 955 228 114 Mimosa* (tonnes) 107 120 106 506 101 391 189 113 100 477 Group total (tonnes) 2 714 157 3 332 442 3 113 207 3 461 792 3 175 569 Total direct SO2 Impala Rustenburg (tonnes) 3 729 5 832 4 736 6 319 3 638 Impala Springs (tonnes) 1 006 687 256 462 Marula (tonnes) 0 0 0 0 0 Zimplats (tonnes) 26 000 12 017 13 470 12 100 12 449 Mimosa (tonnes) 0 0 0 0 0 Group total (tonnes) 30 735 18 536 18 462 18 881 16 926 * Indirect CO2 restated for FY2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 due to change in conversion factor in FY2014. Key production figures – Land management 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Disturbed areas rehabilitated Impala Rustenburg (ha) 39.7 18.4 23.4 40.2 56 Impala Springs (ha) 0 0 0 0 0 Marula (ha) 3.0 3.3 0 0 61 Zimplats (ha) 3.2 2.5 0 0 0 Mimosa (ha) 0.7 4 0 0 0 Group total (ha) 46.6 28.2 23.4 40.2 117 Rehabilitation liabilities/current costs* Impala Rustenburg (R000) 729 761 712 708 768 Impala Springs (R000) 67 63 60 0 0 Marula (R000) 102 94 82 70 80 Zimplats (R000) 285 247 216 164 166 Mimosa (R000) 0 98 77 63 67 Afplats (R000) 16 Group total (R000) 1 199 1 263 1 147 1 004 1 081 Rehabilitation provisions Impala Rustenburg (R000) 436 523 520 455 432 Impala Springs (R000) 34 37 38 0 0 Marula (R000) 52 54 57 41 35 Zimplats (R000) 145 154 117 99 111 Mimosa (R000) 0 47 52 40 42 Afplats (R000) 8 Group total (R000) 675 815 784 636 620 * In line with financial accounting principles and not DMR requirements. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX OUR PERFORMANCE DATA Page / 106 Key production figures – Land leased and managed Implats Mining Prospecting South Africa interest right (ha) right (ha) Impala 100% 29 773 Impala RBR JV 49% 3 789 Afplats 74% 4 602 1 065 Imbasa 60% 1 673 Inkosi 49% 2 584 Marula 73% 5 494 223 Two Rivers 45% 2 140 Tamboti 100% 8 535 Implats Mining Zimbabwe interest leases (ha) Zimplats 87% 48 535 Mimosa 50% 6 591 Area in ha. Total Total Total Group Group Group Key production figures – Waste management Unit 2014 2013 2012 Non-mineral/non-hazardous waste Reused tonnes 1 014 1 405 7 051 Recycled tonnes 7 582 15 026 11 864 Recovered tonnes 0 0 0 Treatment tonnes 0 0 0 Disposal tonnes 3 001 5 324 8 044 On-site storage tonnes 0 0 0 Non-mineral/hazardous waste Reused tonnes 3.0 3.5 0 Recycled tonnes 23 960 27 991 40 756 Recovered tonnes 0 0 0 Treatment tonnes 3 294 6 433 7 703 Disposal tonnes 8 251 9 194 11 413 On-site storage tonnes 9.5 12 28 Mineral waste Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Accumulated tailings (000 tonnes) 16 004 20 770 20 619 22 878 21 809 Accumulated waste rock (on surface) (000 tonnes) 778 1 484 1 323 1 388 1 202 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT Page / 107 Implats has followed the guidance provided by principles and criteria provided in the GRI’s G4 guidelines. A brief review of our application of the GRI reporting principles is provided below. A detailed response to each of the GRI reporting criteria (with hyperlinks to the corresponding sections of the report) is provided on our website, along with our Communication on Progress in terms of the UN Global Compact. Principles relating to the quality of this report Materiality: As outlined on pages 29 to 35 the issues covered in this report have been guided by a combination of feedback from stakeholders, the identification of material issues by the sustainable development forum, and matters identified through the Group’s risk management process. Stakeholder inclusiveness: The views and concerns of stakeholders have been considered in this report. Sustainability context: The content of the report is informed by the nature of our products and markets, and with consideration to the social, economic and environmental context in which we operate. See for example page 13 where we provide a detailed review of our contribution to addressing national developmental priorities of South Africa. Completeness: The Group’s revised approach to sustainability management have been disclosed under management approach page 38 as well as key sections of the report. Balance: The Group has endeavoured to report in a balanced manner, reflecting both achievements and challenges during the year. Comparability: In almost all performance areas, comparisons with 2013 have been made. Where possible and where the information is available, data has been provided over a period of five years. Accuracy: Implats believes data has been provided in a format that is broadly acceptable and comparable against industry norms. Where necessary definitions have been provided and where there are differences with industry norms, indicated. Timeliness: This sustainable development report is published annually, combining financial and non-financial performance. Clarity: The Group has adopted a reporting style that is concise, but comprehensive enough to be understandable to the lay person. Reliability: In 2009, Implats implemented a sustainability toolkit to collate and verify data, and to ensure greater accuracy and reliability. Certain performance indicators have been verified by the external assurance provider. Principles relating to the boundaries of this report This report includes operations that are wholly owned or managed by the Group, as well as Mimosa mine, in which Implats has a 50% interest. The Two Rivers operation, in which the Group has a 45% interest and does not directly manage, is not directly covered. Mass balance: Mass balance accounting is used to calculate all sulphur emissions at our smelters. In this case, sulphur mass balance is a systematic manner in which the mass of inputs containing sulphur with the mass of outputs containing sulphur as products, waste, change in material stocks and emissions. Particulate matter: Particulate matter is tiny pieces of solid or liquid matter released to the atmosphere. At Implats, particulate matter refers to the mass of particulates measured at ambient monitoring stations. Particulate matter smaller than 2.5 microns (μm) in size is called PM2.5 and particulate matter bigger than 2.5 microns (μm) and smaller than 10 microns (μm) in size is called PM10. Isokinetic sampling: Isokinetic sampling is a sampling method which is used for monitoring pollution from the stacks. The samples are taken in a duct or stack. The sampling collects particles at a rate where the velocity and the direction of the gas entering the sampling nozzle is the same as that of the gas in the duct or stack and elsewhere in the stream. The results are therefore more accurate and reliable. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Page / 108 To the board and stakeholders of Impala Platinum Limited Integrated Reporting & Assurance Services (IRAS) was commissioned by Impala Platinum Limited (hereafter, ‘Implats’) to provide independent third party assurance (ITPA) over the information contained within this Sustainable Development Report (hereafter, ‘the SDR’), covering the 12-month period from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014. The assurance team comprised primarily of Michael H Rea, our Lead Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner (CSAP), with more than 15 years’ experience in environmental and social performance measurement and assurance in over 75 assurance engagements in 17 countries, Jordan Pruner (Associate CSAP), our team of junior associates, and additional technical support from Petrus Gildenhuys (Gilden Assurance), Dr Markus Reichardt: both of whom have more than 10 years’ experience in sustainability reporting and assurance. ACCOUNTABILITY AA1000AS (REVISED, 2008) To the best of our ability, this assurance engagement has been managed in accordance with AccountAbility’s AA1000AS (2008) assurance standard, where the format of the engagement was structured to meet the AA1000AS Type II (Moderate) requirements. INDEPENDENCE IRAS was not responsible for the preparation of any part of this report and has not undertaken any other engagements for Implats that would compromise our ability to afford ITPA over this year’s report. Responsibility for producing this report belonged to Implats and its sustainability reporting advisers (Incite). Thus IRAS is, and remains, an independent assurer over the content and processes pertaining to this report. Although this statement is directed at key Implats stakeholders, as the users of the report, IRAS’ ultimate responsibility in performing its assurance activities is to the management of Implats in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with them. ASSURANCE OBJECTIVES The assurance process was designed to provide stakeholders of Implats with an independent ‘moderate level assurance’ opinion on whether the report meets the following objectives: Adherence to AccountAbility’s AA1000AS (2008) principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness Alignment with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines, with the objective of establishing whether or not the report has met the core level of reporting requirements Reasonable adherence to local and international expectations for effective reporting, including guidance provided through the King Code of Corporate Governance (King III) and the International Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC) recommendations for integrated reporting Accuracy, consistency, completeness and reliability of reported data, relative to a sample set of selected sustainability indicators, as tested at selected sites Completeness and reasonability of selected sustainability indicators contained within the report, relative to the 122 data points reviewed for IRAS’s Sustainability Data Transparency Index (SDTI). In meeting the Type II assurance objectives, IRAS undertook a review of selected sustainability performance indicators at the following operational sites: Rustenburg Operations, Zimplats (Mine and Smelter), Springs Refinery and Mimosa. A desktop review of Mimosa’s safety data was also conducted while at Zimplats’ operations. Scope of work performed AA1000AS (2008) COMPLIANCE The process used in arriving at this assurance statement is based on AccountAbility’s AA1000AS (2008) guidance, as well as other best practices in assurance. Our approach to assurance included the following: A review of sustainability measurement and reporting procedures at Implats’ head offices and Rustenburg Operations to determine the context and content of sustainability management by the company A review of Implats’ information collation and reporting procedures to define the content of the report by looking at the materiality of issues included in the report, stakeholder engagement responses to issues identified, determination of sustainability context and IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Page / 109 coverage of material issues, ultimately leading to adherence to the AA1000AS principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness A review of data collection, collation and reporting procedures at selected sites (as stated above), with specific reference to the following selected sustainability performance indicators: Indicator Quantity Page(s) 1. PHW Person Hours Worked: The number of hours worked – 94 056 773 101 calculated or counted via clock-in systems – for all employees and contractors 2. LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: The calculated number of 3.92 5, 55, 101 employee and/or contractor injuries on duty resulting in an ability to return to work the next calendar day per 1 000 000 PHW 3. Fatals Fatal Injuries: The number of employee and/or contractor injuries 4 4, 53, 100 on duty resulting in death 4. TIFR Total Injury Frequency Rate: The calculated number of 11.90 5, 55, 101 employee and/or contractor injuries on duty resulting in either an ability to return to work the next calendar day, the need to obtain medical treatment beyond basic first aid, or fatalities, per 1 000 000 PHW 5. NIHL Noise Induced Hearing Loss: The number of new cases of 36 58, 102 hearing loss greater that a loss of hearing (or ‘PLH shift’) greater than 10%, deemed to have been the result of employment activities and submitted for consideration for compensation 6. TB Tuberculosis: The number of new cases of Tuberculosis, 268 58, 102 regardless of whether or not the case is deemed “occupationrelated” 7. VCT Voluntary Counselling & Testing: The number of tests 10 086 58, 102 conducted of employees and contractors for HIV/Aids as a result of counselling provided by medical personnel or external specialists 8. ART Antiretroviral Treatments: The number of employees who are 4 276 58, 102 enrolled in ART programmes at year-end, net of any enrolments that were terminated – for all reasons – during the year 9. Electricity Total direct and indirect electricity consumption – from all sources 2 780 000 91 – for primary purposes (i.e., mining and processing activities) MWh 10. Petrol Total direct and indirect petrol consumption, inclusive of vehicles, 830 000 104 generators and other equipment (i.e., for all uses) Litres 11. Diesel Total direct and indirect diesel consumption, inclusive of vehicles, 21 776 000 104 generators and other equipment (i.e., for all uses) Litres 12. Coal Total direct and indirect coal consumption, for all purposes 127 883 104 Tonnes 13. Total energy Total direct and indirect energy consumed from all sources 14 395 000 91, 104 consumed GJ 14. Water Total direct and indirect water consumption – from all sources – 34 775 88, 89, 104 for primary purposes (i.e., mining and processing activities) Mℓ 15. Indirect CO2 Total indirect Carbon Dioxide emissions 2 714 157 91, 105 Tonnes 16. Indirect NOx Total indirect Nitrogen Oxide(s) emissions 12 107 92 Tonnes 17. Indirect SOx Total indirect Sulphur Oxide(s) emissions 24 665 92 Tonnes IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Page / 110 Indicator Quantity Page(s) 18. Direct CO2 Total direct Carbon Dioxide emissions 323 997 91, 105 Tonnes 19. Direct SOx Total direct Sulphur Oxide(s) emissions, at Rustenburg 30 735 92, 105 Operations, Zimplats and Springs Refinery Tonnes 20. Procurement Presence and application of systems and controls for measuring R2 015 000 82 and managing procurement from ‘historically disadvantaged South Africans’, as per the Employment Equity Act of South Africa, inclusive of rand value and percentage of total spend 21. SED spend Total rand value of expenditures on socio-economic R71 million 74 development (SED) projects, inclusive of expenditures against Social & Labour Plan commitments 22. HDSA in The number of persons deemed ‘Historically Disadvantaged 378 66 management South Africans’, as per the Employment Equity Act of South Africa, working in management positions, above the supervisor level – excluding non-executive directors 23. Females in The number of women working in management positions, above 146 66 management the supervisor level – excluding non-executive directors – in South Africa Reviews of drafts of the report for significant errors, anomalies and/or insupportable assertions A series of interviews with the individual responsible for collating and writing various parts of the report in order to ensure selected claims were reported and substantiated. Due to the scope and nature of this AA1000AS (Type II, Moderate) assurance engagement, the site visits were undertaken to test the authenticity of data at the primary source of collection and collation, and the report – inclusive of the sustainability information contained within both the SDR and IAR – has been assessed at the point of data aggregation for accuracy of reporting. GRI COMPLIANCE In determining the GRI G3 ‘application level’ of the report, we performed the following exercises: A review of the process used to define the content of the report by looking at materiality of issues included in the report, stakeholder engagement response to stakeholder issues identified, determination of sustainability context and coverage of material issues. A review of the approach of management to addressing topics discussed in the report. Reviews of the report to confirm that the requisite number of Implats has met the GRI’s G4 ‘Core’ application level requirements, inclusive of the need for reasonable discourses on materiality and disclosures on management approach to data measurement, monitoring and reporting. Findings Overall, it was determined during the assurance process that, in general, the company’s sustainability reporting processes are comprehensive, and it was noted that: Implats has developed comprehensive systems for data collection, collation and reporting, at both the operation and Group level, and appear to be in a constant state of continuous improvement through the development and implementation of enhanced sustainability data policies, procedures, systems and controls. While the ongoing reliance on multiple Excel spreadsheets to collect, collate and report data continues to create opportunities for simple data transcription errors – affecting the accuracy and/or reliability of some data at some collection points at the sites – procedures appear to be improving to address these potential problems. Aside from the following exceptions, the tested site-specific data was found to be reasonably accurate and/or reliable, although process improvements at some sites may still be required with respect to the implementation of internal control procedures for data accuracy and reliability. Exceptions: –– The way in which Medical Treatment Cases (MTCs) are recorded differs among the sites, with one of the five tested sites recording MTCs inclusive of First Aid Cases (FACs), and the others excluding FACs from the total number of MTCs. This results in non-comparable data throughout the Group, and a tendency towards over-reporting the total number of MTCs, thus making TIFR data non-comparable to peer companies. IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Page / 111 –– Implats’ applied definition for Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) is exclusive of Restricted Work Cases (RWCs), which is inconsistent with standard local and international practice within the Metals & Mining Sector, thereby resulting in data that is not comparable to peer injury frequency rates (i.e., LTIFR). –– Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT) rates for HIV/Aids – based on current data collation systems and controls – must be deemed not comparable beyond the limits of historical comparisons of Implats’ prior year data, due to instances of multiple counting of tests conducted, rather than the number of persons tested. –– Due to changes in the way in which the sulphur content within concentrate is assessed at Zimplats, there has been a significant increase in total SO2 emissions at that site. As such, current data should be deemed ‘improved’, yet not wholly comparable to prior year data. Implats adequately adheres to the AccountAbility AA1000APS principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. The report adequately meets the GRI’s G4 requirements for Core level reporting. As per IRAS’s own Sustainability Data Transparency Index (SDTI), Implats scores extremely well compared to most JSE-listed companies, demonstrating an active commitment to data transparency relative to reasonably expected key data points. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS Based on the information reviewed via our site visits, desk research and management interviews, IRAS is confident that the sustainability information reported within the SDR and IAR provides a comprehensive and balanced account of Implats’ environmental, safety and social performance for the period under review. The data presented is based on a systematic process and we are satisfied that the reported performance data accurately represents Implats’ ability to manage and/or report on its performance, while meeting the AA1000AS (2008) principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Moreover, and although the quality or quantity of data of some GRI G4 indicators can be improved, this report appears to meet the GRI’s G4 Core level requirements. However, the following recommendations have been identified: With respect to the issue of non-comparability of safety data to industry peers, Implats should continue to investigate the need for updating its currently applied definitions, and update those definitions where deemed necessary. Implats should continue to ensure that future assurance engagements include the site visit testing of data, vis-à-vis the expectations of AA1000AS (Type II), but because of the long history of assurance over sustainability data, should consider reducing the frequency of site visits to cover all sites in a two or three year cycle, relying on desk review in interim years. The excellent systems and controls currently in place – compared to most other companies – suggests that sites can demonstrate that they adequately meet the tests for accuracy, consistency, completeness and reliability, and therefore do not need annual assurance site visits. For more information about the assurance process employed to assess the sustainability information contained within Implats’ 2014 Sustainable Development Report, email michael@iras.co.za. Integrated Reporting & Assurance Services Johannesburg 11 September 2014 IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX GLOSSARY Page / 112 ABET Adult Basic Education and Training AEL Air Emissions Licence Aids Acquired immune deficiency syndrome AMCU Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union AMWUZ Associated Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe ART Antiretroviral therapy, provided for the treatment of HIV and Aids (excluding state and private medical aid) BEE Black economic empowerment CCMA Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration CSI Corporate Social Investments CO2 Carbon dioxide COM Chamber of Mines COSATU The Congress of South African Trade Unions dB Decibels. Unit of measurement for sound pressure DMR Department of Mineral Resources, South Africa DPFA Deputy President Framework Agreement DoH Department of Health DOL Department of Labour DSM Demand-side management DPM Diesel Particulate Matter DWA Department of Water Affairs ED Enterprise Development EMP Environmental Management Programme ESOP Employee Share Ownership Programme Executive director Director employed by the Company and is involved in the day-to-day running of the organisation FIFR A rate expressed per million man-hours worked of any Impala employee, contractor or contractor employee or visitor who is involved in an incident while performing his/her duties at work and who sustains terminal injuries shall constitute a fatal accident. Any road-related fatal incident where the Company is in full control of the vehicle, the driver and conditions related to the road injury of an employee shall constitute a fatal incident. A fatal injury may occur when an employee is incapacitated for a period of time prior to expiration, thus requiring a revision of injury status from LTI to a fatality FOG Fall of Ground Foreigner Non-South African citizen FY Financial year (to 30 June) GHG Greenhouse gases GJ Gigajoules. Unit of measure for energy GRI Global Reporting Initiative HDSA Historically disadvantaged South African HIV Human immunodeficiency virus HSE Health, Safety and Environment IBT Impala Bafokeng Trust, socio-economic development vehicle jointly funded by Implats and RBH ILO International Labour Organisation IMP Impala Medical Plan Impala Platinum Impala Platinum Limited, comprising the Rustenburg operations and the Refineries in Springs Implats Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Independent directors Directors who, apart from receiving directors’ remuneration, do not have any other material pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company, its management or its subsidiaries, which in the judgement of the board may affect their independence IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX GLOSSARY Page / 113 ISO International Organisation for Standardisation IDP Integrated Development Plan JSE Johannesburg Stock Exchange LED Local Economic Development Local community Communities that are directly impacted by our mining operations and are on or near the mine property Lost time injury A work-related injury resulting in the employee being unable to attend work at his/her place of work, performing his/her assigned duties, on the next calendar day (whether a scheduled workday or not) after the day of the injury. If the appointed medical professional advises that the injured person is unable to attend work on the next calendar day after the injury, regardless of the injured person’s next roster shift, a lost-time injury is deemed to have occurred LTIFR Number of lost-time injuries expressed as a rate per million hours worked and excludes restricted work cases Marula Marula Platinum (Pty) Limited Materiality and material Issues of materiality are those aspects that may have a significant impact on the organisation’s issues reputation and may carry a financial and/or legal cost. These aspects are identified internally through the risk process and externally through ad hoc or routine engagements with a range of stakeholders Medical treatment cases A medical treatment case is defined as a one-time treatment and subsequent observation of minor (MTCs) injuries by an appointed medical professional. Such minor injuries may include treatment by the application of bandages, antiseptic, ointment, irrigation of the eye to remove non-embedded foreign objects or the removal of foreign objects from the wound. MTCs never involve a loss of one or more calendar days after the injury, regardless of the injured person’s next rostered shift or where the injured is unable to perform one or more of routine functions normally connected with his/her work due to a restriction applied by an appointed medical professional MIGDETT Mining Industry Growth, Development and Employment MHSC Mine Health and Safety Council Mimosa Mimosa Platinum (Private) Limited Mining Charter Broad-based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry MPRDA Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, No 28 of 2002, which came into effect in South Africa on 11 May 2004 MW Megawatt, a measure of electric power NGO Non-governmental organisation NHI National Health Insurance NBI National Business Institute NDP National Development Plan NATJOC National Joint Operation Command NMWUZ National Mine Workers Union of Zimbabwe NIHL Noise-induced hearing loss Non-executive director A director who is not involved in the day-to-day running of the organisation but is a nominee director of a material shareholder NOx Nitrogen oxides NUM National Union of Mineworkers, South Africa ORAs Objective-based risk assessments PBC PGM beneficiation committee established PGI Platinum Guild International PGMs Platinum group metals, being the metals derived from PGE PIC Public Investment Corporation PPM Parts per million PROVJOC Provincial Joint Operation Command RBH Royal Bafokeng Holdings (Pty) Limited RBN Royal Bafokeng Nation IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 APPENDIX GLOSSARY Page / 114 RIFR Reportable or serious injury frequency rate. A reportable injury is an injury which results in: a) The death of the employee b) An injury, to any employee, likely to be fatal c) Unconsciousness, incapacitation from heatstroke or heat exhaustion, oxygen deficiency, the inhalation of fumes or poisonous gas, or electric short or electric burning accidents of or by any employee and which is not reportable in terms of paragraph (d), or as required by the OHS Act where applicable d) An injury which either incapacitates the injured employee from performing that employee’s normal occupation for a period totalling 14 days or more, or which causes the injured employee to suffer the loss of a joint, or a part of a joint, or sustain a permanent disability Restricted work injuries A restricted work injury is a work-related injury which results in the employee being able to return (RWI) to his/her permanently assigned workplace, to perform his/her permanently assigned work on the next calendar day, but where the injured is unable to perform one or more of their routine functions normally connected with his/her work due to a restriction applied by an appointed medical professional RLM Rustenburg Local Municipality SANBI South African National Biodiversity Institute SHEQ Safety, Health and Environment Quality SIA Social Impact Assessment SLP Social and Labour Plan SMMEs Small, medium and micro enterprises SO2 Sulphur dioxide TARP Triggered Action Response Plan TB Pulmonary tuberculosis, which in South Africa is considered an occupational illness when it is associated with the presence of dust in the workplace TIFR All injuries expressed as a rate per million man-hours worked Traditional council Elected/appointed members of a community according to customs and practices. The tenure of leadership these leaders differ among communities. The chief King/Kgoshi/Kgosi or inKhosi is the head of the traditional council leadership and the chairman of the council UNGC United Nations Global Compact VCT Voluntary counselling and testing, in respect of HIV and Aids WBCSD World Business Council on Sustainable Development WUL Water-use Licence ZIP Zero Incident Process for leaders INDICATOR Basic calculation Indirect energy 2014 DEFRA Guidelines Indirect CO2 (SA) Eskom Integrated Report 2014 Indirect CO2 (Zimbabwe) International Energy Agency (IEA) Report 2012 Direct energy from diesel, petrol, and IBO 2014 DEFRA Guidelines Direct energy from Sasol Gas Sasol Gas supplier Direct CO2 from Sasol Gas Sasol Gas supplier Direct energy from coal consumption Supplier analysis Direct CO2 from coal consumption Supplier analysis IMPLATS Sustainable development report 2014 CONTACT DETAILS AND ADMINISTRATION Registered office Impala Platinum Japan Limited 2 Fricker Road Uchisaiwaicho Daibiru, room number 702 Illovo, 2196 3-3 Uchisaiwaicho Private Bag X18 1-Chome, Chiyoda-ku Northlands, 2116 Tokyo Telephone: +27 (11) 731 9000 Japan Telefax: +27 (11) 731 9254 Telephone: +81 (3) 3504 0712 Email: investor@implats.co.za Telefax: +81 (3) 3508 9199 Registration number: 1957/001979/06 Share codes: Company Secretary JSE: IMP Tebogo Llale ADRs: IMPUY Email: tebogo.llale@implats.co.za ISIN: ZAE000083648 Website: http://www.implats.co.za United Kingdom secretaries St James’s Corporate Services Limited Impala Platinum Limited and Suite 31, Second Floor Impala Refining Services 107 Cheapside Head office London 2 Fricker Road EC2V 6DN Illovo, 2196 United Kingdom Private Bag X18 Telephone: +44 (020) 7796 8644 Northlands, 2116 Telefax: +44 (020) 7796 8645 Telephone: +27 (11) 731 9000 Email: phil.dexter@corpserv.co.uk Telefax: +27 (11) 731 9254 Public Officer Impala Platinum (Rustenburg) François Naudé PO Box 5683 Email: francois.naude@implats.co.za Rustenburg, 0300 Telephone: +27 (14) 569 0000 Transfer secretaries Telefax: +27 (14) 569 6548 South Africa Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited Impala Platinum Refineries 70 Marshall Street PO Box 222 Johannesburg, 2001 Springs,1560 PO Box 61051 Telephone: +27 (11) 360 3111 Marshalltown, 2107 Telefax: +27 (11) 360 3680 Telephone: +27 (11) 370 5000 Telefax: +27 (11) 688 5200 Marula Platinum 2 Fricker Road United Kingdom Illovo, 2196 Computershare Investor Services plc Private Bag X18 The Pavilions Northlands, 2116 Bridgwater Road Telephone: +27 (11) 731 9000 Bristol Telefax: +27 (11) 731 9254 BS13 8AE Zimplats Auditors Block B PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc Emerald Park 2 Eglin Road 30 The Chase (West) Sunninghill Emerald Hill Johannesburg Harare, Zimbabwe 2157 PO Box 6380 Harare Corporate relations Zimbabwe Johan Theron Telephone: +26 (34) 332 590/3 Investor queries may be directed to: Fax: +26 (34) 332 496/7 Email: investor@implats.co.za Email: info@zimplats.com Assurance provider Integrated Reporting and Assurance Services 8 6th Street Parkhurst Johannesburg 2193 Email: michael@iras.co.za BASTION GRAPHICS www.implats.co.za
