CSG is committed to lighting up households in South China ZHANG Binghui LU Qingxia YANG Junquan CSG Lights Up Every Household in Southern China CHEN Kanggui CSG 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report ZHEN Ruidong CHEN Xiaoyu FENG Pujun XIA Songyu SHI Guangyu WANG Bingyi Be touched by CSG staff A touching CSG team Search Add: No.6, Huasui Rd, Zhujiang Xincheng, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, Guangdong Postcode: 510623 Te l : 020-38121958 Fax: 020-38865670 Dear readers, as we did in previous years, we hope our exquisite cover Website: www.csg.cn illustration can better your understanding of CSG’ s development. This year’ s Report cover is designed under the philosophy of “CSG Dream, 2013 To-Top Road” . The cover delivers three folds of meanings: An abstract three phase AC concept responds to CSG Logo.CSG is on the road to top, and it requires a dynamic , sustainable approach. Scenes of power generation, power transmission and power consumption. Corporate Social Responsibility Report The three scenes refer to a harmonious power eco-system consisting of power source, power grid and clients. Scan me for more information The letter E refers to CSG’s mission of establishing itself as a leading international power company with focus on Excellence, Efficiency, and This Report is made by recycled paper. Environment. Interview with CSG Board Chairman Board Chairman In recent years, air pollution has caused constant smoggy weather across much ost of China, raising great public Against the backdrop of the National-level “China Dream” , CSG has brought forward a complimentary concept of the concerns in related to environmental issues. The CPC Central Committee has called for stronger initiatives to promote “CSG Dream” ; asking ‘What is the relationship between the CSG Dream and CSG’ s corporate social responsibility?’ green, circular and low-carbon development, and strongly opposes sacrificing the environment in exchange for short-term economic growth. You might ask “What has CSG done in promoting green development?” China’s President, XI Jinping, pointed out that rejuvenation of China is the greatest dream of our nation throughout modern history, noting that the national “China Dream” is the shared responsibility of every company and every Transformation of the electricity development model is significant as it drives the company to adopt a smart, efficient, person. We of CSG have our own dream too. In the short-term, our dream is to overcome our disadvantages in reliable and green grid development plan and process. We are leveraging CSG’ s platform role for optimized resources management and build CSG into a truly outstanding company that matches our ranking in the Fortune 500 list. In deployment and its instructive role to upstream and downstream industries to make every effort at reducing the consumpthe long run, the CSG Dream is to become a world-leading power grid company that excels in service, management tion of fossil fuels and making every watt of power generated greener. To realize this goal, CSG has continued to further the and corporate image. Such is the embodiment of “China Dream” within CSG. “Green Action” program. In 2013, the fossil fuel consumption for generation of electricity sold by CSG dropped to 215g Shouldering social responsibility and practicing “CSG Dream” go together. They share the common aim to pursue standard coal/kWh, which equals a CO2 emission level of 572g, or about 18% lower than the national level. This is the result of the concerted efforts by various stakeholders. On the power supply side, CSG has endeavored to realize energyquality and efficient development of the company, and to go to great length to provide customers with safe, efficient power generation and dispatch, and to optimize hydropower in Yunnan. These efforts have avoided a waste of 19 reliable and high quality power supply. To promote the CSG Spirit “To Light up Every Household with My Hard TWh, and enabled 131.4 TWh of power transmission from the West to the East, setting an historical record. On the other Working”, and to make the intelligence and strength agglomerate, CSG actively shoulders social responsibility. By hand, CSG has been actively promoting the development of clean energy, especially renewable energy including hydrconstructing a World Leading Power Grid Company, and fulfilling China Dream, CSG Dream as well as individual opower, wind power and solar power. By the end of 2013, across the CSG grid, the installed capacity from non-fossil fuels dreams, CSG will spare no effort to archive Customers’ Satisfaction, Business Development and Employees’ Happiaccounted for 47% of the grid ’s total, the generated power accounted for 38% of the grid ’s total, resulting in a 31% and ness. 22% higher total than national averages respectively. On the power grid side, CSG spared no effort in the development of planning, management, technology development and operational growth programs and has successfully cut the overall line loss to 6.02% (according to the parent company ’s statistical scope), reaching the same level with advanced countries such as the US and France. On the customer side, we have striven to provide more energy conservation services and helped What specific measures has CSG taken to realize the “China Dream” ? them to save a total of 930 GWh in 2013. In the future, CSG shall continue to implement the energy conservation and emission reduction strategies now in motion, we will actively support the low-carbon pilot province/city projects and provide a green force for a beautiful China In the current campaign, CSG has firmly established service awareness and the understanding of CSG as a service provider and window a transparent organization, and is working to ensure that all our activities served to ensure the safe and stable operation of the grid, appreciation of sState assets, decrease of customer’s outages and improved customers’ satisfaction. In 2013, the average grid-wide CSG’ s performance in corporate social responsibility is already at the toplevel among all SOEs. What will CSG do to outage time dropped 8.8% than from the year before, and, in particular, outages in the western region dropped by 58%. Five CSG further efforts in this area in the future? power supply bureaus were awarded national level-A golden companies in power supply stability, accounting for half of all awards ed tp CSG companiesies. The awards were a result of the an independent, third-party customer satisfaction survey focused on CSG. They revealed an overall rating of was 81 points, 4 points higher than the year before. CSG ranked top in the customer satisfaction surveys Fulfilling corporate social responsibilities is a complex strategic process, and a systematic project and a project of this in the Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou, Guangzhou and Shenzhen areas. scope asks for everyone’ s participation. In the past few years, CSG has systematically implemented responsible management practices, responsible business practice, installed responsibility integration processes, encouraged responsibility At the same time (in this year), we have carried out 28 rectification projects and 7 special campaigns with a principle focus of “caring dissemination and follow-up research in responsibility sharing and has developed a strategy-driven social responsibility for the under-privileged, ensuring power for affordable housing schemes, supporting the rural area’s development towards a well-off society and in supporting business management model. CSG’ s “Strategy-driven social responsibility management” efforts were documented as a business case and recogdevelopment”. CSG staff visited 1.13 million people in urban and rural areas, all of whom live on governmental subsidies, and the nized as one of the 10 best social responsibility practices among central enterprises. (question: By whom?) company carried out voluntary power safety checks for 1.15 million customers in these categories. Additionally we have arranged one customer service manager for each of the 702 affordable housing communities in the five provinces and regions in CSG service area. For the next steps, we will continue to comply with the “Implementation guidelines for the harmonious development strategy of central enterAmong the new communities scheduled to have power access in 2013, CSG accomplished installation of standard power supply prises in the 12th five-yearplan” . We shall bring CSG’ s social responsibility practices in-line with international standards and facilities in advance, for 450 communities, giving access to power inside 33 days on average. We made an investment of RMB 20.5 guidelines from the perspective of both the stakeholders’ interests and the company’s business features. CSG’s responsibilibillion to renovate and upgrade rural grids in 2013, and have improved power quality for 840 thousand rural clients. CSG has been ties consist of six parts: Core responsibility; political responsibility; basic responsibility; historical responsibility; special actively supporting local development plans and delivering high quality power supply to key projects. We established the “Quick responsibility and common responsibility. To accomplish these goals we shall earnestly work to raise the quality of our Power Access” service brand and have appropriate delivered power supplies to a number of key clients with power demands above work around them. We have also established a social responsibility implementation mechanism to impart specific require100 kVA 32 days in advance of the installation date promised. We have also conducted energy conservation diagnoses for 1,025 ments to every level, every profession, every post in CSG so that everyone may be involved in the practice of social businesses. Moreover, we have launched education campaigns to establish closer relationships with the public and strengthen our responsibility and in building our brand image. “A myriad of twinkling lights symbolizes the great rapport of CSG” and in brand image. our society. CSG Management Guide to Reading This Report This report consists of the Introductory Chapter, the CSR report and the Summary. The Introductory Chapter is composed of the feature report on social responsibility and an update on implementation of the Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy; the CSR report systematically discloses CSG’ s practice of corporate social responsibility programs in the year 2013 including power supply, environmental protection, economic performance and social harmony; the Summary gives a detailed account of the company’ s sources of responsibility, responsibility management and outlook for 2014. 01 Feature Report: Responsibility 07 Implementation of Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategies Environmental Protection Power Supply Responsibilities 09 33 To ensure a safe, stable, reliable and quality CSG’s responsibilities are to build a green power power supply for the sustainable development grid, to facilitate energy conservation and of the economic society is CSG’s core responsienhance emission reductions and to facilitate a bility. To maintain public safety and public coordinated and sustainable development of interests in view when confronting serious enterprise, community and environment. and/or unexpected natural disasters is CSG’s Energy Conservation and principal political responsibility. 37 Emissions Reduction on the 45 Golden Bee 2020 Power Generation Side Overall Energy Conservation Safe power Energy Conservation and Contingency 40 46 and Emissions Reduction 11 generation 27 management Emissions Reduction on the Power Grid Side Performance 19 Reliable supply 29 Grid construction 43 Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction on the Customer Side 31 Science and technology innovation A Myraid of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Social Harmony Economic Performance Responsibilities Responsibilities 57 47 CSG is committed to universal power service. CSG’s fundamental economic responsibilities are to Our special responsibility is to facilitate coordistrictly carry out the national policy on tariffs, pay From Left to Right nated development between urban and the rural special attention to management, ensure security, areas. appreciation in terms of value, cost reduction and efficiency improvements of State-Owned assets, and to To cooperate with stakeholders ensuring a LIAO HE WANG QI XIAO ZHAO ZHONG WANG SUN ZHANG LI prioritize social benefits. win-win situation and is the shared responsibilJianhua Xiqiang Liangyou Dacai Peng Jianguo Jun Jiuling Xiaoyi Xiaodong Wenzhong 49 Operation 54 Power Market Development Promotion ity of CSG and all sectors of the community. Performance Vice President Vice Vice Board Board Board Board Board Head of Vice Chief Regional Economic and Social 59 Public Welfare 62 Staff Development 50 Law Compliance 55 Development Promotion and Board President President Director/ Director/ Chairman Director/ Director/ Discipline President Accountant Chairman of the Vice Vice President Vice and 60 Cooperation and Win-Win 53 Cost Reduction and Efficiency mprovement Guangdong President President President Inspection Power Grid Origin of Responsibility/ About Us/About the Report/ Report Rating/The Third 66 Responsibility 71 2014 Outlook of 2014 75 Party Endorsement United National Global Compact Performance/ Feedback Form/Innovative 2013 Key Performance 78 GRI Index/Report Glossary 81 Report Compilation 封三 Index Table Feature Report on Responsibility Feature Report on Responsibility Four measures designed to solve the Receiving recognition from the public problems in people’ s access to power ensuring power for the affordable housing schemes; , supporting rural area’ s developments towards realization of a well-off society and We have focused on reducing customer’ outages and raising their level of overall satisfaction. In response to issues of most concern, supporting business development in an endeavor to solve acute problems in people’s access to power and usage. By making the four service measures the focus of solving the electricity issues of most concern to the public, CSG’ s service including power quality and power supply expansion, CSG has strengthened efforts in four areas: Caring for underprivileged users,; received positive recognizition from the people and has been ranked the top utility service provider in public opinion surveys done by local governments. One customer manager 450 affordable with waiting 15KkWh of free 1.15 million free 36,000 2.27 million has been arranged for housing communities time reduced “Four power services” to each of the 702 were given access to Ranking No.1 in public opinion surveys in many provinces and regions: electricity is registered power safety checks potential safety energy-saving affordable housing light and power by 33 days. 80,213 households monthly for 1.38 million were conducted threats were bulbs given free project communities. services ahead of low-income households cleared of charge schedule CSG staff visited people in urban and rural areas who live in CSG has been providing one-stop and point-to-point service to affordable housing communities. CSG “Power service is great!” publicly subsidized facilities and conducted free power members visit the residents often to provide timely safety checks to resolve any potential threats to them and followup regarding power project progress and to their safe access to adequate power supplies. try and make every effort to minimize customer’ CSG teams have also launched major publicity campaigns waiting time and ensure timely communication. and liaised with both government and community organizaThe completed affordable housing communities tions to ensure the free power policy has truly benefited the were listed in CSG work plans as priority projects; under-privileged . CSG ensures timely service to these communities, Two energy-saving bulbs were provided for every family who including power access, meter readings, tariff collecThe Guangdong Power Grid Company The Guangxi Power Grid Company lives on economic subsidies Ensuring power tion and customer services. Caring for disadThe company has ranked No. 1 in residents’ The company has won first place in public dedicated to the vantaged people satisfaction among companies of 10 service sectors in satisfaction among companies of 10 utility affordable housing Four meas scheme Guangdong for seven consecutive years, and has been service sectors in Guangxi. ures awarded top place for utility service by the Guangdong Provincial Government for five consecutive years. CSG has been strengthening rural grid renovation to improve its power supply capability and quality. Since 2012, in order Providing customized services, conducting regular to prevent the overload and/or shortcircuit of the 10 kV and special visits, collecting feedback and suggesdistribution transformers during the Spring Festival power tions and responding to each potential client has consumption peak, . CSG has invested a cumulative sum of been accomplished. The Yunnan Power Grid Company The Guizhou Power Grid Company RMB 780 million to upgrade 11,308 distribution transformers Strengthening management of outage plans, in rural areas. 2013 saw no distribution transformer breakNo.1 The company has ranked No. 1 in public For three years, the company has been downs during the Spring Festival. Supporting rural Supporting busimalfunction emergency repairs and customer outage monitoring systems are in place. satisfaction among companies of 10 utility ranked as top in overall customer satisfaction CSG has adopted the model of supplying power in rural areas area’ s development ness development Organizing energy conservation campaigns and service sectors in Yunnan for five years in a row. among all utility service providers in Guizhou in collaboration with village committees and has aided rural towards becoming a technological training has been established. development; the company also actively carried out supportwell-off society ing projects for the rebuilding of rural grids. Arranging Establishing work Conducting energy Delivering power supply for Zero transformer business expansions was overload damage 15,000 logs for 4,553 conservation RMB 20.5 billion has 176 35-110kV Power quality customer anagers business clients diagnosis for 1,025 accomplished, on average, 32 The Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau The Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau has been elevated was registered days ahead of schedule for been invested in rural substations were for main clients has been businesses has been for 840,000 during the Spring main clients with a power grid development built in 2013 has been done. accomplished. completed. Festival power demand above 100 KVA For 13 consecutive years, the Bureau has won the No. For three years in a row, the Bureau has held rural households consumption peak 1 spot in Guangzhou’ s public opinion surveys the top place among companies in the 40 governmental utility services in Shenzhen Everyday, thousands of CSG frontline staff members fulfilltheir responsibilities: they patrol all along Note Hainan Province did not conduct a public opinion survey in 2013. power cables in remote mountain areas, they read meters in remote rural areas, and they conduct emergency repairs in all types of weather. Too, they stay on duty in the depth of night … dedicating themselves to this cause on what may be seen to be a every ordinary post. CSG respects every Responsibility Intemember’ s diligence and contribution and has held various activities to strengthen team-building, to gration – Awarding inspire staff initiative and entrepreneurship and inspire their sense of honor and belonging. In 2013, CSG held the 1 st award ceremony for staff where the individuals and teams that made outstanding Further Reading staff achievement contributions in the production, operation or management were given awards and honors. Five teams to encourage their and seven individuals were selected as first-grade honor receivers, while another five teams and 10 individuals were honored as “Moving CSG” role models. Such honoring activities make the role models enthusiasm into mirrors and encourage others to promulgate their spirits; these activities also recognize the value Scan the QR code to The utility service sector mainly refers to water, gas, electricity, public transport, telecommunication, banking and other of staff, gather all CSG members’ wisdom and strength together and encourage everyone to put into follow the award ceremony 颁奖礼现场 sectors that relate closely to people’ s life and work. Governments at all levels regularly conduct public opinion surveys to practice the core value of “A myriad of twinkling lights, reflects the great rapport of CSG” on their job. for “Moving CSG” teams and individuals learn the public’ s opinion on services provided and to gather comments on utility services so as to provide feedback for governmental decisionmaking processes and sector reform, and to continuously enhance service quality of these sectors. 01 Feature Report on Responsibility Feature Report on Responsibility 02/03 Feature Report on Responsibility Feature report on responsibility –popularizing Strengthening management Improving the quality of power services in CSG’s vast rural areas of the rural power grid electricity in rural areas CSG is dedicated to building a well-off rural area and has taken a number of solid measures including: rural grid outage management; special projects to CSG has been earnestly implementing the Central Government’ s policy and the CSG mid-to-long-term development strategy and has developed “Opinions to upgrade voltage in rural areas and research projects to improve rural electricity quality. As a result, the power supply reliability and the passing rate of Promote Rural Grid Development” according to the principles of coordinated development of urban and rural power grids and integrated management. The comImbalances in regional, urban and rural area program and project developments are characteristics of recent modernization programs in China. In overall voltage in rural areas have increased significantly. pany has also taken advantage of its resources, management strength and the synergy among all professional departments and local power bureaus to reinthe five provinces and regions of CSG’ s service area, the Pearl-River-Delta area, in particular, has demonstrated a more advanced economic develforce the fundamental management of rural grids, enhance support to rural grid development and reform, and to continue to improve the management and opment whereas the vast rural areas in the west have developed relatively slowly. CSG has been actively supporting the National development plan, Power supply reliability Overall voltage passing service levels in rural areas. in rural areas rate in rural areas implementing the policies to foster development and benefit rural areas, endeavoring to popularize utility services within its’ service area, ensuring reliable, safe and satisfactory power access for the public and contributing to the harmonious social economic development in all regions. 99.93% 99.91% 98.84% 98.00% CSG departments at all levels have been diligently carrying out their management responsibilities and integrating rural grid services into the 98% 98% There are 34 minority ethnicities living in the five provinces and regions of the CSG service area including Zhuang, Yao and Miao. According to the Optimizing managementmodels unified management system; municipal power supply bureaus have taken the county power bureaus in their administrative areas as their subordiof rural grid installment and 93.98% 6th national demographic census, there are 48.51 million minority ethnic people in these five provinces and regions, representing 20% of the total nate organizations and manage them directly. As a result, an integrated management structure combining general management departments with 92% 94% 92.00% power delivery technical management departments and directly overseen by municipal power supply bureaus has been established in rural areas. population. Most of the minority communities live in remote areas with poor access to transportation . CSG fully respects the traditions, cultures, customs and feelings of minority ethnicities and protects cultural diversity. With the faith of “Lighting up thousands of homes no matter how 86% 90% distant they are”, CSG has committed itself to delivering electricity to every home of the minority groups and supporting harmony among all Year 2012 Year 2013 National standard Year 2012 Year 2013 National standard ethnicities. At the county level, the local power organizations operated separately, with ill management results, for a long time. CSG has launched a standardization scheme at all county-level power companies. CSG took the power supply stations as the pilot starting-point and phased in integrated Promoting standardization professional services in the rural grid. During 2013, 30% of all rural power supply stations have been standardized with significant management Raising the service Distribution of minority ethnicities in five provinces and regions of the CSG service area and service improvements. level of rural grids Guangdong The Guangxi Zhuang Hainan Province Autonomous Region Yunnan Province Guizhou Province Province County power supply companies often lack a sustainable development capability, CSG provincial companies have actively supported projects in CSG has strengthened rural grid companies’ service awareness, promoted integration of urban and rural power supply service, narrowed regional differthis area by capital injection, loans, and power generation expansion. CSG has also gradually improved rural grid infrastructures through generences and continued to enhance rural power service quality. Most CSG county-level power supply companies have ranked top in local business surveys. Zhuang Zhuang Hui Yi Lisu Tibetan Jino Miao Shui Maonan Li Supporting rural grid ous investment in major grid repair and technical reform programs, unifying the production and service facilities and other measures. Furtherdevelopment Yao Yao Jing Bai Hui Jingpo Mongol Bouyei Hui Mongol Miao more, CSG has set up employee allocation pilots in nine county power companies to explore solutions to address structural labor shortages at frontline production posts. She Miao Yi Hani Lahu Blang Derung Dong Bai Mulam Zhuang Providing convenient electricity usage service. CSG power supply Fulfilling service promises for rural areas. CSG has strengthened the Hui Dong hui Zhuang Va Primi Manchu Tujia Yao Manchu Hui business windows have covered over 80% of townships and over county-level organizations’ service initiatives, increased business Yi Zhuang Qiang 1/3 of administrative villages so as to meet the rural customers’ efficiency, realized total coverage of the 95,598 service hotlines in Manchu Mulam Gelo Dai Naxi Nu Shui Regulating rural grid employment needs. rural areas and 100% fulfillment of its service promises for rural Maonan Miao Yao Achang Bouyei Gelo She power service. Population distribution of CSG employs staff in strict accordance with relevant laws and establishes harmonious labor relations. It has included the staff members of rural grid faciltiminority ethnic groups ies in the company’s unified employment management system to gradually realize “same post/ same job/same salary” within the same organization. 206 million 1711 million Electricity stimulates rural economies Electricity brightens up farmers lives 1534 million 1255 million 145 million 1.96% 36.84% 33.12% 36.18% 16.53% Due to historical reasons, county-level power companies have many problems in the area of employment, including complex property relations, coexistence of According to the characteristics of the agricultural production in Power quality in rural areas has continued to improve; rural multiple management models such as direct management and agent managedifferent provinces and region, CSG has allocated dedicated funds residents no longer arebbothered with the problem of unstable ment, non-standard employment management, unclear labor relations, different for power supply facilities upgrading and renovation to assist local voltage and constant tripping. They can use modern household salary systems and incomplete social insurance mechanisms. In light of all these timber processing in Guangxi, tobacco fire-curing and greenhouse appliances including refrigerators, air conditioners, induction cookproblems, CSG has established a labor system under the guidelines of the “legal vegetable planting in Yunnan, tealeaf processing in Guizhou and ers and other appliances with peace of mind. mariculture in Hainan to meet the power demands of agricultural entity as the accountability body; labor contract management as the key and production. Population of Guangdong: Population of Guangxi: Population of Yunnan: Population of Guizhou: Population of Hainan: post management as the basis”, and has launched reforms in organizational 105.05 million 46.45 million 46.31 million 34.69 million 8.77 million structure, staff structure, salary systems and performance appraisal systems in order to promote harmonious development of county power companies. Distribution of the populations living in poverty in five southern provinces and regions With standardized employment management, workers in the rural power companies are actively working for rural grid reform. Among the 592 national povertyalleviation target counties, 156 are in CSG the service area, accounting for 26% of the national total. CSG has Advancing rural grid reform always paid great attention to the remote, underdeveloped regions and disadvantaged communities, allocating more resources in these regions, providing power service at the same price, and of the same management standard and service quality with as the more developed regions, supplying high quality, clean and efficient power to every home in the underdeveloped areas, supporting local economies and social development and sending CSG has been closely watching the changes of power demand in both rural and urbanized areas. The company continues to complete grid structures in brightness and happiness to these local rural communities. rural areas and has established at least one 110kV+ power station in every county and completed a new ruralgrid … which is safe, reliable, energy saving, Poverty-stricken populations environmentally friendly, technologically advanced and normatively managed. Resplendent night view in a rural area Farmers using an induction cooker without worry 22 million 1012 million 1014 million 1149 million 75 million Investment in rural grid construction and rebuilding (unit: 100 million RMB) with improved electricity quality 0.21% 21.79% 21.90% 33.12% 8.55% 300 260 The Kaili Power Supply Bureau ensures power service for the Taizi ginseng planting base 230 242 213 205 200 100 aPopulation of uangdong: Population of Guangxi: Population of Yunnan: Population of Guizhou: Population of Hainan: 105.05 million 46.45 million 46.31 million 34.69 million 8.77 million Number of county population Number under the national Number living under national Number living under national Number living under national living under the national poverty line: 28 poverty line: 73 poverty line: 50 poverty line: 5 0 poverty line: 0 Year 2009 Year 2010 Year 2011 Year 2012 Year 2013 Note 1. CSG realized delivery of power to every home within its service area by the month of October, . 2012. 2. Population figures of minority ethnicities come from statistics of the 6th nNational dDemographic cCensus. Note With China’ s economic structural adjustments, the Central Government’ s budget for rural grid renovation investment has decreased relative to other programs/years. CSG has made active Trekking through mountains and waters to transport power materials 3. The populations under the poverty line are numbers gathered at the end of 2011 and calculated by the national poverty line standard released in 2011: per capita annual Electricity helps the fueling of the timber Sparing no effort to ensure the power supply for Power supply remains uninterrupted during a power check and repair; villagers of Lapian efforts to increase its self-generated capital to ensure stable investment for rural grid renovation. income of 2,300 RMB in rural area (Poverty population of Guangdong is calculated by taking out the number of people above poverty line from the total population). spring farming and greenhouse vegetable planting Village, Yaoshan Township singing and dancing under electric lights CSG investments accounted for approximately 1/3 of the total grid construction investment. processing industry in Guangxi 4. Populations of all provinces and regions are those at the end of 2011, referring to the China Statistical Yearbook 2013. 04 Feature report on responsibility –popularizing power services in CSG’s vast rural areas Feature report on responsibility –popularizing power services in CSG’s vast rural areas 05/06 Implementation of CSG Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy CSG’s To-the-Top campaign has come at the most critical and challenging period of our time. We have furthered the Deepening the unified management structure implementation of strategy and unified management; strengthened top-level structures; constructed an advanced management system and moved toward key steps for the actualization of CSG strategies with the goal of becoming an international leading power grid company that excels in service, management and corporate image. CSG has systematically summarized the experiences of the early phase of the “To-the-Top” campaign, deepened unified management, focused on establishing a business management system with CSG characteristics and pushed corporate management toward a lean model. CSG has issued the integrated corporate management framework, Established a unified institution system at CSG headquarters. 14 clarified and unified the guidelines and future directions, categopanel discussions were held on institutional centralization with 2,362 Corporate mission rized and standardized the company’ s core businesses including 75 suggestions dealt with, 261 problems in institutional coordination Developing a Complete Strategy System Proactively shouldering social level-one businesses, 237 level-two businesses and 696 business addressed and 237 institutional items resolved. CSG has also reguresponsibility; items. On such a basis, CSG has optimized, integrated and implelarly examined and clarified institutions to identify effective ones mented the overall design for corporate business under the guideand simplify redundant ones. In 2013, CSG abolished 6,192 institumaking every effort to ensure CSG has established a complete strategic lines of the three operational principles; mapped out a business tions representing a 40% reduction from the year before, further power supply blueprint for five business models and laid the foundation for fully strengthening system integrity as well as coordination between instiimplementation system; formulated 14 subrealizing a normalized and standardized CSG business pattern. tutions. strategies in support of CSG mid-to-long-term strategy for the branches and subsidiaries; identified a strategic management principle of “strategy-oriented, innovation-led, unified Serving Established an all-round CSG business management network. CSG Supporting the operation of the various CSG management committhe Customers tees are twelve (12) level-one businesses and 77 level-two businesses, leadership; clear professional categorization, has systematically identified business/ management related factors, built four structures i.e., a framework structure, criteria structure, additionally 203 business items have been refined, and 41 key coortiered accountability and effective monitoCore values dination problems have been addressed, 483 cross-departmental and Returning the CSG Lights Up delivery structure and support structure and revised eight factors Caring about ring”, and pushed forward the all-round actcross-discipline processes have been reviewed, and 4,112 potential Every Household such as business frameworks, organizational structures, business Support of the Society the Staff ualization of strategy processes, management mechanisms and work standards. risks have been identified. Too, the company streamlined businesses in Southern China and information design. Commitment Establishing Comprehensive of CSG Management Committees Pushing forward management improvements Eight management committees were estabCSG’ s management, currently, may be said to lag behind international counterparts. Therefore, CSG has been dililished: a budget management committee, an gently incorporating management improvement actions with strategy implementation in order to leverage the Strategic objective assets life-circle management committee, a corporate-level decision supporting system “To-the-Top” campaign to optimize operations. and comprehensive planning management To be a world-leading power grid company which excels in service, management and CSG continued to do comparative research related to performance committee, a customer all-round service manCSG has successfully completed all stages and areas of the corporate image assessment. CSG has selected 13 key internationally advanced power agement committee, a capital/whole-process management improvement scheme, realized the transition companies as benchmark counterparts and carried out in-depth management committee, a risk management goals ion schedule and met the requirements of the manresearch related to their characteristics and on how these characteriscommittee, a human resources management agement improvement scheme of the SASAC. tics affect the companies performance and image. committee and a supervision management committee. These committees identify those key issues which call for coordination and To push forward “two basis, two approaches” CSG has won 18 awards in the power sector for management innovaStrategic route push for closer collaboration between busiand pursue “two transfers” CSG has supported the Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau tion, including 5 top awards. Among them, the “Framework design and ness links. and the Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau’ s endeavor to Two basis and two approaches: Position CSG as a service-based company, application of unified management for a conglomerate”, anaward practice operation-based management and control; operate the company as a catch up with world-leading power companies, identifying conglomerate and manage it as a unity which recognizes one of the top 10 power sector management innovakey areas for improvement. tion achievements in 2013 by Chinas’ Electricity Council. Two transfers: Transferring the power grid to a more intelligent, more efficient, more reliable and greener one and the corporate management to a more refined All management committees shall learn from level internationally advanced management philosophies, absorb grass-roots/first-hand expeStrengthening the management information process rience, continue to deepen the top structure Key capabilities design of various business fields, coordinate a Customer Power grid Power grid Value Development united push-forward toward the implementaservice operation development creation support tion of CSG key strategic themes and estabcapability capability capability capability capability To realize the goal of integrating informationalization with corporate strategy and new advanced management systems, CSG has lishment of an advanced CSG management optimized the information management business modelpaying greater attention to business linkages, horizontal coordination and system. grass-roots needs to effectively enhance the quality of information management and related services. In 2013, CSG has won an A-level award in the area of informationization quality assessment for central enterprises, indicating that CSG has stepped into tierone among central enterprises in this field. 07 Implementation of CSG Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy Implementation of CSG Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy 08 Power Supply Ensuring power availability and quality for all customers CSG members carefully checking insulators CSG has always considered grid safety and stability as the company’ s lifeline and followed the service principle of “customer-first, before laying the UHV transmission line realizing a win-win in terms of harmony” . In practice, CSG has continued to minimize customers’ outage time, provide quality services, enhance customer experience and ensure a safe, stable, reliable and high quality power supply for sustainable economic and social development. safe power generation reliable supply contingency management grid construction science and technology innovation Number of major and and severe Average outage time among urban customers Third-party customer power safety incidents (statistics from the parent company) satisfaction rate: Number of major and severe facility 81 incidents I’ m CSG Nandudu, find more details on page 46. 0 2.31 hours/household 28.04% decrease year-on-year points (out of 100)Reaching internationally leading level Comparisons of per capita power consumption in China and selected major developed countries (Unit: kWh) 14000 12000 Every watt counts 10000 8000 Whenever you want electricity, just insert the plug into the socket or turn on the switch and 6000 the power is on. It seems so simple and easy. But, do you know that transmitting every 4000 watt of electricity safely is actually not easy? Electricity is different from other tangible 2000 objects. It is generated in a power plant and transmitted to thousands of homes through 0 power cables. The generation, transmission, dispatching and sale of power all happen 1950 1959 1968 1977 1986 1995 2004 2013 (Year) instantaneously and simultaneously. Electricity is difficult to be stored in large amounts US Japan South Korea UK China and is irreplaceable. Therefore the responsibility exists at every second to ensure a safe, stable, reliable and quality power supply. In 2013, China’ s power consumption per capita was 3,911 kWh, equal to that of the US in 1961, the UK in 1967, Japan in 1975 and South Korea in 1995, or 78% of the internationally accepted amount of power consumption per capita when a country is fully industrialized. (Source of information: China Electricity Council) Washing power equipment in the air Ensuring power supply to the flower Climbing over snow and ice to bserve market during the Spring Festival the weather conditions Safe Production CSG has always considered grid safety and stability as its lifeline. While in 2013 China, as a whole, saw an Targeting the 10 major grid operation risks; CSG has continued to improve the closed-loop risk management Power Supply Number of major and above major power safety increase in major production safety incidents, CSG had no equipment or power safety incidents, no major and control mechanisms including timely prevention before incidents happen, effective response during incidents and equipment incidents security incidents that caused widespread negative impact on society or the company, and no serious and continuous improvement after incidents; as a resultCSG has effectively prevented and controlled grid operafor which CSG is tion risks and ensured a safe, stable and reliable power supply. responsible operation errors; additionally, the total number of power safety incidents of all kinds, at all levels, dropped 0 nearly 40% over the year before, making 2013 the safest production period in recent years. Specifying In-depth Calculating in measures analysis advance Green Energy Power grid operates stably Before Analyzing During Strengthening management and control After Continuous improveincident thoroughly incident incident ment Correct CSG considers the prevention and control of grid operation risks as the core safety task and has been strengthening Timely emergency Number of safety response Optimizing warnings measures incidents causing serious real-time control of operational risks to realize risk anticipation, and has implemented thorough measures and correct negative impacts to contingency response plans to optimize performance. Though under high safety and risk prevention pressures and society and the company 0 Economic with a large panorama of operational tasks, CSG has successfully handled various complex malfunctions and safeguarded the power grid’ s operation. Performance 4,705 power grid risk warnSuccessfully handled 309 malfunc1,662 incident analysis reports ings providedwith real-time t i o n s o f 500 k V A C l i n e s , 12 were written according to system Improving the headquartersprovincial-level two-tier deployment and risk precaution consultation mechanism reports presented; 24 general abnormal conditions of the DC operation abnormalities in the in-place; deepening the rolling operation linkup by season, month, week and day; closely monitoring power grid and above power safety incident system and 725 trippings of large effort to prevent future occurrences risks caused by natural disasters, outage and equipment defects. Social harmony risks were identified and units in 2013. of the same/similar incidents. successfully prevented. Number of serious incidents caused by Adhering to the three “Don’ ts” s in everyday risk management and control, i.e., don’ t not arrange operations operational mistakes that damages grid stability, don’ t not arrange operations that might cause general and/or above general risk of 0 power safety incidents, and don’ t not arrange operations that might result in customer outages with serious negative impacts. Prevention and control of 10 major grid operation risks as the core task Identification of ying 39 key prevention and control tasks, successfully overcoming ame the risks brought on by the longtime near-limit operation of the West-to-East Project cables and the change of power grid system characteristics before and after the operation of the two major hydropower transmission projects. The amount of power transmitted by the West-toPower supply and demand are in constant change, the East project continues to grow, the connection balance between hydropower and coal-fired power and between electricity and gas becomes closer and the balance of power generation and supply between the closer, making the system ’s stability attributes more East and the West are challenging. and more complex Complexity Changeability Natural disasters and human Bipolar blocks may occour errors in operation may bring when the Yunnan-Guangdong about multiple and/or serious DC transmission line is malfunctions which can lead operating under a high power to large-area power outages 10 1 load. Outages to key clients may 9 Four major threats to 2 Continuous commutation bring about/cause serious loss failure or simultaneous blocks and negative social impact power grid operation may occour in multi-circuit Complexity, HVDC transmission system changeability, Abnormality of power plant 8 vulnerability and 3 Multi-circuit transmission control systems or weak lines in same corridor or cross damping of regional grids natural disasters, all span may trip simultaneously may cause power oscillations The top 10 grid operation risks Outages during construction 7 4 When main channels are may weaken the normal operating close to their limit distribution system and cause for long periods of time, large-area blackouts 6 5 equipment malfunction or improper adjustment/control may occour Explosions involving key Main protection mechanisms, equipment such as switches stability control systems and current transformers can and/or switches may refuse cause complex malfunctions to operate Natural Vulnerability disasters Social and economic development is unbalanced Natural disasters such as typhoons and earthquakes between different regions, some regions’ grids sufferhit CSG’ s service area often and pose a continual ing from vulnerable structures and the risk of extenthreat to safe grid operation. sive outages still exists. Hard working staff in the Dispatching Room 11 Power Supply Power Supply 12 Sound Operation of Facilities Enhancement of Facilities' Sound Operation CSG's facility assets take up over 80% of its total assets therefore, asset management has a direct bearing on CSG has enhanced the management of facilities by improving their maintenance and control, including Power Supply the safety and reliability of the power grid. According to the principle of assets life cycle management, CSG has standardization of ledger information, formulation of maintenance manuals, key diagnosis and repair of controlled the risks and enhanced management of facility assets with the objective of long-term, sound operaall major new and old facilities. Sound operation is assured thanks to such means as monitoring, preventions. tive trials, regular inspection, special maintenance and technological upgrading. Strategies for Facility Management Enhancement Enhancement of Facility Maintenance Green Energy Drawing upon advanced ideas in the philosophy of assets management, CSG has adopted the top level design for its assets; formulated strategies of the life cycle management of said assetsleading to prolonged life and sound operation of facilities, at the same time this has decreased the net rate of asset retirement and assures optimal results of risk management aswell as increasd efficiency and cost controls. Preventive Trial & and Regular Special Inspection Inspection To-date 14,700 key lines and 266,000 100% of facilities have been subject major facilities of power generation and Economic Optimal Results of Risk Management, to preventive trials and regular transformation have undergone special Performance inspection. inspection and maintenance. Efficiency and Cost Control Programs Maintenance and Technological Upgrading Key Plan Annual Plan Project Construction Supplies and Asset Retirement Optimizing investment Procurement Repair RMB16.401 billion has been put into 100% of the key elements of the annual Making use of assets work plan haves been carried out, comSocial harmony Carrying out follow-up planning and anagement Heightening the awareOptimizing procurement technological upgrading in 2013, posed of 105 projects items in 34 categoanalyses of facilities after by minimizing the by establishing demands ness of contractors for to standards and establishing resulting in better stability and more initiation of operations by net rate of asset ries and 5 programs focused on specific scientific assessment prediction mechanisms achieve better project taking into consideration etirements sound operation of facilities. aspects of the master plan. systems assuring better and by avoiding repeat quality and management the requirements of suppliermanagement of construction of dupliof schedules and costs manufacturers for sound facilities and work quality cate facilties operation of facilities Making use of the assets during their life cycle New Technologies and Equipment for Facilities Inspection The cost of operation of facilitiesand maintenance vary with such factors as their characteristics, type of management of power grid operations and weather. Facilities operation and maintenance procedures have been formulated scientifically for better/lean management, efficient control of risks and sound operation. Performance assessment Assessment of facilities' and continuous improvement 6 1 condition Submarine Cable Protection Transmission Line Patrols Sea achieved with Advanced Equipment Land Inspection by Smart Robots Sky by Helicopter Six Steps for Work plan formulation Assessment of facilities' and facilities maintenance 5 Facilities Operation 2 importance and Maintenance Submarine cables in the 500kV Hainan 500kV Guishan Inspection A Helicopter and Drone Power Network Project is are the lifeline of the Center, Zhongshan Power and Operations Technology power supply to Hainan. The SubmaSupply Bureau, carries out Center was established. With Formulation of facilities Determination of management rine Cable Maintenance Department of real-time inspection of facilities 19 thousand km of transmismanagement strategies 4 3 levels on the basis of the UUltra-high Voltage Company had with smart robots to ensure the sion lines under inspection by and detailed standards established risk matrices to overcome many difficulties, such as seasickness and complex sea condireliability of services. helicopters and drone aircraft, tions, and these efforts, and others, 6,245 defects were spotted. have safeguarded the cable with The operational indices of main facilities are the best ever, whose availability coefficient has been including use of such advanced equipment as a buried-depth detector. improving year-by-year. Availability Coefficient of 500kV for Main (Unit: %) Availability Coefficient of 220kV for Main (Unit: %) Facilities from 2011 to 2013 Facilities from 2011 to 2013 National National Average 99.935 99.964 99.814 Average 99.970 99.984 99.928 in 2013 in 2013 99.930 99.970 99.967 99.980 99.992 99.980 99.970 99.985 99.987 99.952 100.0 99.949 100.0 99.956 Index Express 99.951 99.918 99.803 99.899 99.8 99.8 99.6 99.527 99.6 Index Accomplishments 99.4 99.4 Percentage of Employees Receivinged Health and Safety Training 100% 99.2 99.2 99.035 Personal Injuries One accident 99.0 99.0 Transformer Circuit Breaker Overhead Line Transformer Circuit Breaker Overhead Line Casualty Rate in related to Personal Accidents 1/316 (person/1000 persons per year) Year 2011 Year 2012 Year 2013 Year 2011 Year 2012 Year 2013 13 Power Supply Power Supply 14 Standardization of Safe Production Management Safety Supervision We have optimized the safety supervision process, specified standards and established a long-term and CSG has been continually improving the Safe Production and Risk Management Systems, enhancing effective mechanism for safety supervision achieving a dynamic supervision process, promoting rectificaPower Supply systems applications and consolidating the basis for safe production management. As a result, accidents tion, and implementation of safety production. and malfunctions have been reduced significantly and safe production has witnessed a stable positive In line with the requirements of “full trend. coverage/zero tolerance, strict law enforcement and substantial effects” , CSG has Safe Production and Risk Management carried out a general inspection on safety production, investigated and managed hidden Green Energy CSG has improved the closed-loop management model for safe production and risk management, mandangers utilizing 178,000 inspection staff in aging and controlling various risks to the letter. In 2013, CSG effectively controlled 54 major risks and total, investigating 34,000 potential problems eliminated 10 serious hidden dangers enhancing safe production. and hidden dangers as they were discovered. The rectification rate for 2013 was 95% and those units not suitable for rectification have Horizontal axis all implemented the risk control measures Economic recommended. Performance Using infrared devices to test facilities and investigate hidden dangers in the wild CSG has dedicated itself to evaluating the safety management of subsidiaries and branch enterprises, Layer Level Category S pecialty and, as well, enhancing safety supervision and management from the following perspective: safety supervision, emergency and power supply management, systems management, and comprehensive manageSocial harmony ment, etcand more. vertical axis Power Grid Ultra-high Power Grid Dispatching CSG has implemented the procedure of “making things clear” and “interviewed” accident-related subProvince High Facilities Operations sidiaries and branch enterprises, and penalizied them based on their responsibility. City Medium People Repair Workshop Low Society Infrastructure Promotion of Standard Operation Class & Team Acceptable Environment ...... CSG has promoted standard operations across the whole organization and compiled 577 operation guidebooks related to 20 specialties, incorporating high-level trade standards, enterprise systemsand requireAnnual Report Monthly Plan Weekly Adjustment Daily Action ment risk management systems with work procedure for specific posts. These guidebooks provide specific work procedures for staff, enabling them to know “what to do” and “how to do it” . Verification of the Safe Production and Risk Management SysCSG has promoted Safe Productems in Prefecture-level Units tion and Risk Management Systems in Standardization the production process by organizing Year 2011 Year 2012 Year 2013 “Two Manuals” 28 units in the eastern and western Standardizing staff’ s work in at each step Five 1 unit 1 unit 1 unit regions to carry out “one-to-one” partDiamonds Controlling work quality and ensuring safe production ner assistance campaigns, thus improvFour Promoting the efficiency of the Safe Production and Risk Voice ing the construction and application of Diamonds 1 unit 10 unit 12 unit Management System the system at a grassroots level. We 生产管理 have promoted the verification of the Three 一体化工作手册 Diamonds 48 units 59units 57units entire system in 79 units of CSG in prefecture/municipal-level cities, Two The project monitor for improving overall safety management Diamonds 29 units 9 units 5units Efficiency the power transformation and performance. Applicable to Management and operations team kept Team Helping staff to make effective plans and enhance their three separate records work efficiency every day, each one monitoring distinct/different The decline of power safety incidents at Making full use of the information systems, automatically generating safe production and management plans, filing management requirements Grade level or above ( unit incident ) 150 reference materials and conducting statistical analysis because many overlapped In 2013, the power safety inci35% at the grassroots level. dents of Grade Ⅲ level, or above, have 125 124 This complexity increased declined greatly. There was one inci生产班组 the burden on the monitor 100 一体化工作手册 but, after the implementadent at Grade level, 80% down year81 tion of a standard operaon-year; 22 incidents at Grade level, 75 42% Workload Reduction tions process, the monitor 42% down year-on-year; 81 incidents 80% only need s t o keep one 50 at Grade Ⅲ level, or down by 35% 38 Cutting work with low relevancy and streamlining record. 22 Applicable to Class and non-core businesses, with achieved about a 20% year-on-year 25 reduction of workload 5 1 Team Staff 0 “Allin-one-manual” to makinge it easier for the staff GradeⅠIncidents GradeⅡIncidents Grade Ⅲ Incidents to study the rregulations ( S t a ff m e m o f r o m F o s h a n Power Supply Bureau) Year 2012 Year 2013 15 Power Supply Power Supply 16 Power Quality Management 警钟 Reflection on Accidents: The Alarm is Sounding! Customer expectations of a higher quality delivery of their power supply has posed a challenge for units CSG insists on a people-oriented strategy and highly values safe production but, three personnel Power Supply working in these areas and demonstrates crews are achieving higher demand expectiations for power qualaccidents still occourred in CSG’ s service area in 2013, which claimed four lives. One accident ity. By enhancing power quality management and working mechanisms, CSG has improved both overall happened within the organization, causing the death of one staff member in charge of communipower quality and client satisfaction. cations acceptance; the other two accidents were related to other units, causing the death of three workers. For specific areas, highly sensitive to power quality, CSG has increased Personal Injuries Green Energy Standardizing the layout investment for the construction of power grid and monitoring systems. Description of Accidents Nature of Accidents We have are realizing ed real-time monitoring of 1,557 power quality of the monitoring termina monitoring terminals and 15,696 voltage monitoring terminals. When the Qujing Bureau of the EHV Power The accident happened due to the ignoTransmission Company inspected and accepted rance of occupational safety practice, July 28 th the newly built ±500kV Niuzhai Converter inadequate of operational regulations, We have improved the availability rate of synchronous compensation Within CSG Station, one member of the information inspecand ill poor safety management. or, and voltage and reactive power automatic control devices, and are tion team member fell and died. Economic Properly adjustment of gradually eliminating ed the phenomenon of longdistance and overPerformance the operating on mode load of power transmission and distribution lines, thus improving the voltage quality. When the Fangcheng Port Power Supply Bureau The outsourcing construction unit and of the Guangxi Power Grid Corporation changed its subcontractors ignorance of occupathe insulating ed conductor of some 3*10kV tional safety practice, inadequate knowledge of operational regulations September lines and carried out technological transformaWe have improved management of harmonic waves by organizing inveswere determined to be at fault. The Social harmony tion of power cable poles in Qisha district, the 18th proprietory unit’ s safety management Improving management tigation and analysis programs of power facilities and power loads, findconstruction unit and its subcontractor violated operation regulations, which led to two deaths and supervision was evaluated and of harmonic waves ing out identifying interference sources of power quality and building a Relevant found to be ineffective. database for to resolve interference sources found. by electric shock. Units An operations worker of the outsourcing When the Sanya Power Supply Bureau of the construction unit was without technical qualifiHainan Power Grid Corporation organized the cations to work at a critical level and operated against regulations; without qualification to November outsourcing construction unit to repair a 10kV work at high place; the construction unit lacked We have provided specialized training, technological diagnosis and Nanbin line damaged by Typhoon “Haiyan” , Improveding training on other services for to our customers, improving their ability to prevent 15th efficient organization and effective supervision at the construction site; and the proprietors one newly set pole fell down, causing one worker power quality problems of power quality from developing. to die, which was listed as a general personal supervisiory unit lacked effective coordination and supervision experience in post-disaster accident. repair. Frequency and voltage are main indicators for power quality. In 2013, the passing rate of 50±0.2Hz frequency and 500 kV voltage for the entire grid were 100% and 99.9999% respectively, ranking top in the country. Reflection on Accidents and Improvements Made and In Process The passing rate of 50±0.2Hz frequency The passing rate of 500 kV voltage The three accidents noted claimed the lives of four people, bringing great sorrow to families of the dead and causing great loss to the enterprise, for which CSG expresses its deeply felt grief. We have organized and implemented an investigation and analysis of causes of the accidents, held responsible the units accountable for the breaches in safe production and severely punished the related persons in charge. We have also initiated a 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 99.9999% 99.9999% process of continual reflection on problems shown by the accidents and implemented strict, corresponding 99.9997% prevention measures to improve our both production and safety management. 99.9999% 99.9999% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) CSG as the proprietor unit Identification of the hidden dangers of Poor execution of access to systems for by outside accidents of the same type to prevent units recurrence of similar accidents Ineffective Safety supervision of construction sites and areas needing management focus and establishManagement improvement of exterment of stricter control procedures for of areas where nally commissioned projects and strict construction quality is critical. examination and verification of power Lack of safety awareness on the part of some staff. construction contractor’ s ability in safety management and construction Problems Measures organization; contractors who with a bidding with the record of contract Relevant units breaches ing will be un disqualified from or future bidding opportunities. Poor safety management; chaotic construction sites Enhanced safety supervision of construction sites; intensive training Inadequate education and skills trainon safety regulations for on-site working of workers on related to occupaers and staff in charge of the projects tional health and safety practices. Lack of safety awareness and training Application of Safe Production and Risk Management systems, improving of contract workers; unqualified conrisk management and heightened tract workers controls to achieve safer production Reliable quality power supply supports modern industrial production 17 Power Supply Power Supply 18 Enhanced Power Supply Reliability Strategies for Enhancing Power Supply Reliability After years of efforts, the power supply reliability in a number of CSG’ s service areas has been close to, or Reducing the System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) is the core competency of CSG. We have Power Supply reached, the international advanced level. There are major differences within the five provinces and regions in tried our best to reduce the SAIDI ratios by formulating strategies scientifically designed to ensure reliable South China in terms of the mix of urban and rural areas and sectors. It is becoming more challenging to enhance power supply and improve management to maximize reliability of power delivery. power supply reliability through management and technical means. To some degree, higher levels of power supply reliability requires more investment in both management and hardware. CSG has balanced numerous restricting In 2013, CSG’ s annual SAIDI in urban areas was 2.31 hours/household, decreasing by 28.04% year-to-year. In rural factors and formulated strategies for enhancing power supply reliability, with the aim of meeting the demand of areas, SAIDI was 5.77 hours/household, decreasing by 27.79% year-to-year. Correspondingly, the reliability rating for local economic and social development and people’ s production and lives. service in urban areas (RS-1) was 99.9736%, while RS-1 in rural areas was 99.9341%. Having learned from the experience of leading internationalpower enterprises, CSG has summarized the successful Green Energy According to statistics released by the National Energy Administration and China Electricity Council in June, 2013, practices of its units at grassroots levels and identified 25 key measures, in six aspects, designed to enhance power among the 2012 National Best Power Reliability Companies, Foshan Power Supply Bureau, Guangzhou Power Supply supply reliability. Bureau, Zhongshan Power Supply Bureau, Dongguan Power Supply Bureau and Jiangmen Power Supply Bureau were listed as Grade A, while Zhuhai Power Supply Bureau, Huizhou Power Supply Bureau and Zhanjiang Power Supply Bureau, were Heightening staff awareness the importance Enhancing comprehensive outage managelisted as Grade B. of reliability; ment; Intensifying the mechanisms ofor coordinaEnhancing management of power supply Economic tion and specifying responsibility for delivery with backup transmission lines; Key Factors in Foundation Performance ofor the power supply and its reliability; eaus in Foshan Enhancing outage rationing and manageBur Operational ,G National Best Power Reliability Companies up ply ongguan and ua Standardizing reliability management ment; Management Management Pow n,D Jia ou, processes and implementation; er a zh Zhon S ng Enhancing pre-control ability of the grid’ s men gs ng Strengthening training of on-the-job skills; operational risks; h ngzhou Pow Gua y Su ppl Burea uv er S 50% Enhancing statistical analysis and application of key data sources for the purposes of Enhancing lean management procedures and practices of facility operation and maintean Power Social harmony gsh enhancing power delivery reliability; Foshan Power nance; on pply Burea Zh pply Bureauv Enhancement and support of key information Promoting rapid power restoration in the Su 60% Zhon gs Supp han uv u systems; case of distribution grid malfunction. ly we r Promoting reliability management among Decreasing the influence of outside forces Po uv rea end users Bu 40% In 2012, there were ten companies selected Key Measures Achieving and implementating lean grid for Reliable Enhancing management of client equipnationwide, among 20% In 2011, there were which five were from the CSG group. planning; Optimizing grid structure; Power Grid Power Supply Power Supply ment; Enhancing demand -side management; Planning Service five companies selected Enhancing grid’ s ability to resist the effects Improving management of emergency nationwide, among of natural disasters power supplies which three were from In 2010, there were the CSG group. five companies selected In 2009, there were five nationwide, among companies selected nationwhich two were from Promoting the technological application of wide, among which one was the CSG group. on-load operations for optimization of from the CSG group. Power Grid Technological Accelerating construction of power grids power distribution grids; and ensuring project quality; Promoting the inspection, maintenance Construction Innovation Enhancing management of supplies and restoration of distribution grid facilities; CSG’s annual SAIDI in urban area (Unit: hours/household) CSG’s annual SAIDI in rural areas (Unit: hours/household) Enhancing automation of power distribution grids 15 30 11.22 22.64 10 20 CSG has organized nine National Best Power Reliability Companies in the eastern region to communi6.66 14.87 cate with fourteen Power Supply Bureaus in the western region. In 2013, SAIDI in the western region was 5.20 12.07 7.99 15.58 hours, decreasing by 24.71 hours year-on-year, down 61.33%, surpassing the eastern region for the 5 3.21 10 2.31 5.77 first time. 0 0 CSG has paid attention to client experience in outages. As the first enterprise to carry out management 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) of power supply reliability for low voltage clients, too, CSG has included low voltage switches in SAIDI systems and calculations and has formulated the concept of Evaluation Regulation of Power Supply Reliability for End SAIDI of Major Cities in CSG's Service Area vs. SAIDI of Internationally (Unit: hours/household) Year 2012 Year 2013 Users, providing a comprehensive reflecting of SAIDI for various types and categories of clients. Developed Regions/ Countries Further Reading 10 SAIDI measures for 7.97 8 Guangzhou and 7.29 The Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Has Established its Service Area as the Shenzhen was very close The international stanto that of international 6.00 Largest Demonstration Zone for High Power Supply Reliability in China. developed cities and are dard for outages 6 improving year-by-year. 4.80 excludes the following Aiming to reach international standards, the Shenzhen Power 4 Supply Bureau has built the largest demonstration zone for high situations: outages 3.26 power supply reliability with 93 square kilometers in four core caused by major 1.79 2 1.47 areas (Nanshan, Futian, Luohu and Yantian) and including the events or power gen1.11 0.72 0.73 1.12 0.83 0.25 Qianhai Development Zone, gradually rolling out the system to eration system failreach a city-wide level. SAIDI, in the demonstration zone will be 0 ures, outages due to SAIDI of National Average internationally Paris London Milan Guangzhou Shenzhen Haikou Kunming in 2013 reduced to 27.6 minutes, reaching the international advanced clients’ fault, and developed cities level; SAIDI in Futian District will reach 8.6 minutes, ranking top outages/problems internationally. Due to the different foundation, investment levels and developmental phases of the power grids in different cities, SAIDI should only be analyzed based on the real situation resolved within five Note and conditions. The statistics used in this page are from the parent company records. With further integration, CSG will gradually use statistics from the overall all assets. There are two minutes. sources of statistics, . Tthe reason is being that in the rural power sector reform, CSG has gradually taken over 225 county-level power supply companies whose power supply reliability was relatively low, making statistics from the overall assets appear apparently higher than that from those of the parent company. According to statistics from overall assets, SAIDI for urban clients was 3.52 hours/household, and for rural clients, the figure is 12.67 hours/household. CBD Night View in Futian District, Shenzhen 19 Power Supply Power Supply 20 Comprehensive Outage Management On-load Operation CSG has carried out comprehensive outage management analyses and program development, intensified Abiding by the principles of safety and reliability, CSG has made detailed plans according to specified manPower Supply statistical analysis of outages, and spotted major outage factors at the source, avoiding repeated, tempoagement models and promoted on-load operations, step-by-step, continuously reducing SAIDI. rary and prolonged outages. Analysis of Scheduled Outages and Outages Due to Malfunction from 2011 to 2013 (Statistics from the Parent Company) (Unit: Hour) In terms of on-load operation of transmission On-load Operation in of SAIDI Reduction (10,000 Subsidiary the Distribution Grid (Time) 25 lines in the main power grid, CSG has improved the hours/household) Percentage of major factors for scheduled outage technical level and has carried out operations such Guangdong Power Green Energy as on-load altering of monolithic and insulator Grid Corporation 14724 136.63 Power distribution grid Power supply ration: 2.54% renovation: 42.08% strings, on-load processing of overheated drainage Guangxi Power Grid boards and on-load inspection of faults. Corporation 1613 12.00 20 Main power grid renovation: 6.26% Yunnan Power Grid In terms of the on-load operation of the power 6394 49.17 Corporation Inspection and maintenance distribution grid, CSG has carried out 36,730 Economic of main power grid: 6.76% Guizhou Power Grid on-load operations, representing a 48% increase and Corporation 4838 10.90 Performance 15 Power adjustment: has reduced outages by about 2.8725 million Inspection and maintenance of Hainan Power Grid 12.44% power distribution grid: 29.92% hours/household, equivalent to a SAIDI measure of Corporation 618 1.03 2.54 hours. Guangzhou Power 6928 69.06 37.80% Supply Bureau Social harmony CSG has introduced advanced technology, meth10 ods and facilities, making breakthroughs in numerShenzhen Power 1615 8.46 4.11 28.77% ous facets of on-load operations. Supply Bureau Total 36730 287.25 2.53 5 6.34 1.81 On-load Operation with Big Bypass On-load Operation though On-load Operation of 500kV 3.97 Valve for Power Distribution Grid Helicopter at High Altitude Compact Transmission Lines 2.82 0 2011 2012 2013 (Year) Outages due to Scheduled outage malfunction CSG has carried out off-load inspection and maintenance when clients take a rest, without influencing their life and production. CSG has standardized compilation of the annual comprehensive outage plan, coordinated management of infrastructure construction, renovation, maintenance of the main power grid and revision of the power distribution grid to reduce repeated outages. CSG has strictly implemented the annual outage plan, and has carried out strict inspection and approval of temporary outages. Every measure has been taken to minimize temporary outages . CSG has enhanced analysis and evaluation of outages; carrying out a monthly statistical analysis of repeated, prolonged and temporary “Special Forces” on High Voltage outages, fulfilling company social responsibilities and continuously improving outage management efficiency. The Kaili Power Supply Bureau is carrying Voice out inspection and maintenance late at With a complicated occupational environment and threats to night to minimize disruption of client services. personal safety, on-line operations demand good skills, physical fitness and a sound psychological nature on the part of operators, and they are a team who are honored as “power special forces” . SAIDI of the Guizhou Power Supply Bureau Dropped by 22-odd Hours I am very proud of myself ZHENG Ruidong, leader of Operations Team Three for the when I land safely after a On-load Operation Subsidiary of the Yunnan Power Grid Corposuccessful on-load operaration, has been engaged in on-load operations for more than tion. Based on the analysis of reliability index, the Guizhou Power Supply Bureau has strengthened the process 20 years. He has successfully solved many emergencies involvmonitoring of comprehensive outages, attaching great importance to the monitoring of time, range and times of ing high voltage transmission lines with his team ensuring outages. It has established a regular tracking mechanism, publishes a monthly reliability index and monitors the successful operation of the “west-to-east” plan and “power situation of all units and analyzes operations time and links of major outages so as to improve actual delivery transmission from Yunnan to Guangdong” . He was honored as By ZHENG Ruidong rates. The SAIDI from the overall assets was 12.64 hours, decreasing by 22.07 hours, with a reduction rate of the “Walker on High Voltage” and “Special Doctor at High Places” . Winner of the 3rd “Touched 63.58%. by CSG” Award ZHENG Ruidong changing the insulator on 500kV high voltage transmission lines. 21 Power Supply Power Supply 22 Rapid Power Supply Restoration Protection of Power Facilities Abiding by the principles of “power supply restoration first, then quick repairs” , CSG will replace dysfunctional lines Criminals frequently and maliciously steal and sabotage power facilities, posing threats to the safety and Power Supply with backup power transmission lines. CSG has always made great efforts to repair lines and restore power Further Reading stability of power grids. CSG has cooperated with public security departments to establish an integrated supply within the shortest time possible. prevention system. We have created and carried out a special campaign and have called for support of the public, firmly cracking down on power facility larceny and sabotage. The number of cases have been decreased year-by-year. The Maximum Penalty for Rapid restoration enhancement at six linkage points: fault reporting, diagnosis of faults, fault location, fault disconnecLarceny and Sabotage of tion, restoration of faults, and power restoration. In 2013, there were 4,773 cases of power facility larceny and sabotage, representing a year-on-year decrease of 42.2%. Still, Power Facilities is a Death Sentence CSG has promoted information integration and has built a pilot platform for monitoring of services and dispatching this figure resulted in the direct economic loss of RMB 38.72 milliondespite achieving a36.2% reduction. There were no cases Green Energy appropriate personnel, achieving visualized monitoring of the entire outage process and power restoration, and enhancing involving 100kV-and-above power facilities. The Criminal Law of the restoration efficiency. People’ s Republic of China stipulates that whoever CSG has rolled out centralized monitoring of outages. CSG 95598 Customer Service Call Center is supported by power Cases of Power Facilities Sabotage Case Number Damage to Power Facilities Direct Economic Loss (Unit:Case) (Unit RMB10 thousand ) sabotages any power supply bureaus at the prefecture/municipal-level cities and carries out centralized monitoring of outages, delivers malfunc20000 10000 facility , but causing no tion information, provides timely information to clients and organizes power supply restoration. The timely restoration rate 8379 16256 8120 serious consequences, Economic 14964 7714 36.2% Voice of restoring service has been raised to 95.4% from 82.6%. 16000 12907 8000 shall be sentenced to a Performance 42.2% 6068 12000 6000 fixed-term of imprison8258 3872 ment of not less than 8000 4000 “Tailor-made” Toolbox Saves Time for Repair Work 4773 three years but not 4000 2000 more than 10 years; Social harmony Every household will be those causing serious worried when an outage Finding the right tools in a complex tool box can be 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) consequences shall be occours so we must tedious and time-consuming. To better serve clients, always act with efficiency the Inspection and Maintenance Team of the sentenced to fixedand speed! Qingxiu Subsidiary of Nanning Power Supply term imprisonment of Bureau tailor designed special toolboxes with not less than 10 years, drawers, making it easier for staff to check and find Ensuring the Power Supply for Major Events life imprisonment or tools. This innovation has helped emergency teams save eight minutes in average on repair/restauration By summarizing the experience of power supply for major events, CSG has improved the process, institudeath By LIANG Weihai assignments. tionalized procedures, developed and put into use standards and manuals, and established norms and award winningmember/leader Guangxi Power Grid Corporation uses this innovaspecialized mechanisms for ensuring power supply for special events. of the Inspection and Maintetion as a case study and encourages staff, at all nance Team of the Qingxiu The whole grid Qionghai, Hainan levels, to make suggestions and to take solid and Power Supply Bureau innovative measures to reduce SAIDI. December April “嫦娥三号任务” The Boao Forum for Asia Chang’ e-3rd mission (12 years in a row) Emergency Vehicles Before and After Renovation Reliable Distribution Grid Construction Nanning, Guangxi Guiyang, Guizhou Because of the complexity and precision required in their design, the distribution grid has historically been October Ensuring the Power May short of investment. Urban and rural distribution grid construction needs to be strengthened. CSG has optiThe 9th Cross-Strait Supply for Major The 15th Annual Economic, Trade, and Events in 2013 Meeting of The China mized the investment structure and attached greater importance to clients’ consumption demand and to Culture Forum Association for Science power supply reliability. Priority has been given to prominent problems influencing the distribution grid. and Technology CSG has invested RMB34.5 billion in construction of new distribution grids. In 2013, the company built, and put into operation, 35 kV-and-under transmission lines with a total length of more than 70,000 km and capacity of 7 million KVA. CSG has upgraded the distribution grid and has enhanced capacity of the grids . In 2013, the coverage rate of loop network in Kunming, Yunnan Nanning, Guangxi The 1st China-South Asia Expo the distribution grid reached 57.4% and the rate of supplying power with backup transmission lines was 47.5%. September June The 10th China-ASEAN Expo, The whole grid China-ASEAN Business and The launch of Shenzhou Investment Summit, and Nanning 10 spacecraft Kunming Power Supply Bureau Builds Reliable Distribution Grids in Main Urban Areas International Folk Song Festival (two meetings and one festival) The Kunming Power Supply Bureau CSG has used new facilities and mechanisms such as the magnetic flywheel UPS power generation vehicle and satellite has invested RMB 233 million to replace 108* 10kV overhead lines in communication vehicles to ensure power supply for major events. major urban areas with underground CSG has complied the Power Supply Manual and Regulations of Risk Assessment of Power Supply for Major Venues. Having made detailed plans for cables, in two batches. The Bureau has built 185 new switching stations, ensuring power supply, CSG has carried out on-site risk assessment for major venues and clients. Plans have been formulated to installed underground cables spanensure power supply and standardization of the power supply management process. ning the equivalent of 119.42 km and has installed 36 new power distribution CSG has successfully fulfilled five special tasks such as ensuring power supply for summer peaks, the Hainan Boao Forum, the transformers. As a result, area SAIDI “two meetings and one festival” in Guangxi and the Chang’ e-3rd mission as well as 17 first-class power supply tasks including the has been reduced by 1.57 hours. 9th Cross-Strait Economic, Trade, and Culture Forum achieving the target of “zero mistakes and zero complaints” . Before Renovation After Renovation 23 Power Supply Power Supply 24 In the Global Village, We are Changing for You Rapid Power Supply Restoration In today’ s world the global mobile Internet business is booming. In 2013, the number of smart-phones owned Customer Complaint Management Power Supply by Chinese people reached 580 million, representing a year-on-year increase of 60%; the number of WeChat app users was over 500 million. According to the data released by People’ s Bank of China, the electronic paySG has perfected customer opinion feedback mechanisms, collecting customers’ opinions and suggestions via channels such as hot-line 95598, third-party satisfaction surveys, discussions with major customers and represenment had a 29% year-on-year increase in 2013 within China among which online payments rose by 28% and tative user/client surveys. CSG has carefully analyzed and solved the problems with which customers are faced mobile payments by 300%. According to the data released by China Internet Network Information Center, avermost often and we work continuously to identify other points with which customers are not satisfied. In 2013, age time Chinese netizens spend on the Internet has reached 21.7 hours per week with 79% of mobile users the number of complaints decreased to 25/million customers compared with that of 2012, with a count of using their mobile phones to surf the Internet. 62/one million customers. Green Energy In 2013, the mobile Internet has entered the 4G era, with more information, faster transfer and wider applicaAnalysis of Factors Influencing Customer Satisfaction tion prominent features. Thanks to the new scientific technology, our life is easier and more convenient. We Year2013 Year2012 Reasons for satisfaction （%） Reasons for dissatisfaction （%） can have instant communication in this global village. Customers look forward to better power services: twoway interaction and point-to point communication with power supply companies whenever and wherever pos51 Instability of the power 27 Stable power supply supply 30 ssible; quick settlement of the electricity bills and clear and speedy information access. With the increasing 46 25 Economic influence of new We Media and other new media, every one all of us is aare “news agenciesy” and therefore, 29 Payment 26 Payment/cost power services are facing greater pressure ofrom collective public opinions 29 Performance Customer communication 19 Customer communica25 21 Opportunities Challenges tion 24 Electricity pricing 16 Maintenance, quick 15 21 Maintenance, quick repair Complaints from customers spread repair and malfunction 10 25 and malfunction 13 more quickly and widely; flaws in response time response/treatment Social harmony Channels are information is 3 9 more diversified more transparent. services are likely to cause trust Staff and others Business 2 process/services 8 crises. 2 Business hall services 5 Hot-line services 4 3 Complaints handling and Power services have more diversi4 2 other problem solving fied channels, cover wider areas Electricity pricing 2 services Costs are lower response is faster. and face more complex and difficult 3 Complaint handling Safe power supply 4 management challenges. 2 and other problem 2 Hot-line services solving services 3 Service information is more trans2 1 Communication is Safe power supply Staff and others Communication is parent; information security risks, 2 2 more environmentallymore smoother friendly such as disclosure of business secrets and customer information, are increasing. Note Analysis data are based on the results of a 2013 Gallop customer satisfaction survey. Facing various challenges such as disclosure and misuse of customer information in the Internet era, we have Customer Satisfaction Evaluation carried out customer information management and privacy protection programs to ensure information secuCSG has collected customer satisfaction data from various channels and multiple perspectives so as to objecrity . tively and authentically understand service quality, analyze customer comments and address customer probWe have attached greater importance to service innovation, strengthened efforts to expand remote service lems. In 2013 the third-party satisfaction index was 81 points, 4 points higher than that of 2012, and CSG’ s channels, and enhanced channel management. A service model with the feature of ” informative, graphical, customer service is ranking top internationally. mobile and intelligence ” has been established to provide a more convenient and better consumer experience as related to electricity consumption. CSG has strengthened the diagnosis and analysis of customer satisfaction measures. It specifies satisfaction diagnosis from the perspectives of eight indices related to power services as well as four customer types; namely industry, commerce, residents and others, and analyzes and ranks customers’ issues to establish response priorities. Achievements According to the priority of customers’ issues, CSG maps out action plans for targeted rectification and improvement, and assigns responsibilities to specialized departments such as planning and construction, production and operation, as well as marketing and services, to ensure satisfactory levels of rectification. The number of entity business halls has 客服中心 decreased from 4652 to 4531 in recent times. Third Party Customer 服务永无止境 Eight Index in Customer Satisfaction Satisfaction Indices (Unit: point) (Unit: point) Customers can easily handle 85 their businesses from home via Increased by Remote services share has increased from 38% 81 3 points mobile Internet service channels to 44%. 80 79 100 such as hot-line 95598, self 77 service terminals, online 75 90 91 92 business halls, palm-top Remote visits by customers has reached 6.20 75 90 87 Increased by 4 points business halls and WeChat million. 84 86 84 84 applications. 79 80 70 80 77 78 75 71 73 The number of electricity bills paid by remote 71 payment has reached 112,000. 65 70 Gallop CSG CSG Stable power Safe power Bill Business Business Hot-line Customer Problem CLP Benchmark Year2012 Year2013 supply supply payment process hall services 95598 communication solving Year 2012 score Year 2013 score 25 Power Supply Power Supply 26 Emergency Management Response to Natural Disasters In response to snowstorms, sleet, an earthquake in Diqing, Yunnan, and strong typhoons such as Usagi and Due to the complex population distribution and mixed environment and impact of the events of nature, these five Power Supply Haiyan, CSG was prepared in advanceand issued warnings in time and simultaneously initiated emergency provinces and regions in CSG's service area in South China (Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan)are frequently struck by extreme weather and natural disasters. For example, high temperatures, drought, low temresponse measures to ensure power supply to key clients and places. CSG repaired facilities quickly and in peratures, rain, snow, frost, rainstorms, typhoons and earthquakes … all posing huge threats to people's lives and a planned, orderly manner, restoring power supply to stricken areas. property safety…making the and safety and stability of the power grid critical as well. Confronted with serious disasters and emergencies, CSG has given top priority to public safety and other consumer Dec ember, interests by enhancing the disaster prevention and emergency management capacity of the power grid through new Snowstorm and 2012-January, Earthquake March technology, thus the company has minimized the damage resulting from natural disasters to both the power grid Frost 2013 5.5-magnitude earthquake in Green Energy and the public. Northeast Yunnan, Central and Eryuan, Yunnan West Guizhou (Bijie and LiupansComprehensive Emergency Management Improvement hui City) April 5.0-magnitude earthquake On the basis of newly developed emergency management platforms within its service areas, CSG has ensured the along the border of Eryuan efficient and orderly operation of emergency response mechanisms and continues enhancing its emergency Strong Typhoon Utor August and Yangbi, Yunnan management capacity. Economic Maximum wind force of 13 Guangdong, Guangxi and August Performance 5.9-magnitude earthquake Enhancing cooperation for Hainan were seriously hit; Formulating The CSG Emergency along the border of Ganmei handling emergencies among and Diqing, Yunnan Manual; clarifying responsibility between departments, power grids, provincial units and September local units; through realizing Strong Typhoon Usagi systems initiation and proceinitial information sharing within Social harmony dures Maximum wind force of 15 CSG and with governmental agenEast Guangdong was most Drought All Year ‘Round cies seriously stricken; Yunnan: Central and West November Yunnan were subject to medium-and-above droughts Strong Typhoon Haiyan Southwest Hainan was inflicted Guizhou: 78 counties (cities Having experience sharing Organizing cross-functional emerby strong winds measuring and districts) were subject to meetings and emergency gency rescue teams by taking into force 12. droughts of various degrees drills against wind, earthaccount local circumstances; quake and frost emergencies; improving 24-hour service hot CSG staged 1,568 emergency line mechanisms; and enhancing drills in 2013, with 36,053 emergency response capacity by Initiating the emergency warning in advance can help prepare against and response to earthquakes, personnel participating. having needed supplies at-hand. Prevention frost, typhoons and loods; this also facilitates preparing rescue team and emergency pplies Standardizing emergency response procedures according to the requirements of the contingency Before plan; enhances response capacity Disaster Doing preparations, including spotting hidden dangers, carrying out special inspections and maintenance, strengthening poles and towers, removing fallen trees and illicit buildings Tracking real-time meteorological information and adjusting power grid operation Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau Joins the First Large-Scale Outage Drill in Guangzhou Safeguards modes to ensure stability During Cooperating efficiently with governmental agencies Disasters Learning from safety drills and assessment of the experiences of the U.S Department of Homeland Security, Guangzhou orgaInforming clients of repair progress through various channels Voice nized the first large-scale outage emergency drill in China on October 30th (YEAR?). All governmental agencies cooperated to restore social order and reduced simulated losses within the shortest possible time. Deploying rescue teams, vehicles, emergency power generation vehicles and generaSuch a drill had enhanced cooperation between CSG and governments at various levels in emergency response, improved the Quick tors for quick repair and power restoration The Governor of Guangcontingency planning system in Guangzhou and strengthened emergency response capacity to large-scaled outage. Repair After Ensuring power supply to disaster shelters and key clients; carrying out safe power dong spoke highly of the Disaster utilization in disaster stricken areas and providing essential services to the locals for power supply restoration their convenience Power supply was restored efforts of CSG during his 500kV Guangzhou South Railway Drill Process Station, 220kV Guangruibing Line for the seriously stricken inspection visit to Shanwei, and Guanghuajia Line were subject Road traffic was areas. Emergency power a city stricken by typhoon to practice chain trips. chaotic. Tackling Typhoon Usagi in Guangdong generation for key clients, Usagi. Most traffic lights in Tianhe, Yuexiu, Subway stations no longer needed, ceased. Liwan and Haizhu District were cut; were crowded with Subway Line 3 was suspended. passengers. At 19:40 on September 22 nd , 2013, a very strong typhoon, Usagi, struck Shanwei. It was the strongest one ever recorded and left a devastating trail across parts of China. It was the strongest one hitting I thought it would be After two After three East Guangdong over the past 40 years. It brought severe damage to pitch-black. It turned out to 9:00 9:05 9:10 9:12 be brightly lit (link this to hours hours the power grids in coastal areas, including Shanwei, Jieyang, Shantou and Huizhou in Guangdong. As many as 2.82 million clients lost the next part of the compower as a result of Usagi. ment that follows) Emergency 1.32 million clients TheGuangzhou The Emergency Command Center took Power supply Power Supply immediate action to distribute resources The Guangdong Power Grid Corporation set out to restore power drill started. were influenced by was completely Bureau informed and deal with the various emergency supplies in an orderly way by taking the planned measures of the drill, taking up restored for the the clients of situations. “prevention before disaster, safeguard during disaster and repair 28% of total clients impacted area. outages via webThe Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau in Guangzhou. after disaster” . Power supplies were restored for over 80% of clients site, microblog repaired dysfunctional facilities as commented HU Chunhua rapidly as possible. within 48 hours after the typhoon hit; while power supplies were and text messages. The Transportation Department sent restored for over 95% of clients within 72 hours. By September 30th, Member of Political Bureau of buses to evacuate passengers trapped in power supplies were restored for the whole of the impacted area. CPC Central Committee & the subway and sent those injured to the hospital. Guangdong CPC Provincial Committee Secretary during his Rescue Vehicles Rushing to the Disaster Stricken Area inspection visit to the city. 27 Power Supply Power Supply 28 Power Grid Construction Communication with Stakeholders about Power Grid Construction Power grid construction involves many issues and often problems related to land use, such as site selection and Power is indispensable to people's productivity and lives. However, many people have misunderstandings Power Supply cable tunnels. CSG has engaged in communication with stakeholders in terms of construction project approval, about power facilities, a number are unwilling to have transmission lines close to their houses. CSG has land expropriation and compensation, and communication with communities. Power construction tasks have actively communicated with stakeholders in terms of problems in this regard, responding to their expectaThe Accumulated Power been fulfilled in ways designed to ensure power supply for production and life. tions and demands in the hope of winning their understanding and support. Grid ConstructionInvestment in 2013 Power Grid Planning and Investment Communication with Stakeholders about Construction of the 110kV 63.8 billion Yuan According to the CSG Development Plan (2013-2020) formulated by The National Energy Administration, CSG has identiFlower World Power Transformer Substation in Shenzhen Green Energy fied a west-to-east technological road-map and main grid frame scheme while taking into consideration sustainable development factorsincluding power grid safety and optimal allocation of energy and environmental resources. Stakeholder Expectation and Demand Communication and Response Result By 2013, CSG has implemented 21,496 projects with 45.51 million kVA of newly-increased transformer capacity, and There were fears that a substation We had door-to-door communication installation of 11,814 km of transmission lines. might damage the natural landscape; with the residents and have optimized possibly not being in harmony with the facilitys’ design to accommodate Economic Key Project Construction the surroundings; it was also felt that the facility would have negative residents’ interest. Citizens Living next to Optimal design of Performance CSG has strengthened standardized management of power grid construction to ensure that projects are safe, the Substation impacts on the environment. the substation won high-quality and environmentally-friendly. In 2013, 12 key projects were put into operation on schedule. Systematic survey of the area to be built recognition from has been done for site and transmission the government They expect the substation 2013 CSG's Award-winning and High-quality Projects planning to be reasonable line selection completed. Wasteland and and citizens. fertile land have been utilized whenever and save precious urban possible; we have tried our best to Project Award Awarded by Social harmony land resources. ensure that the substation is in harmony National Excellent Project The Examination and Approval Committee for Governmental with the environment, minimizing A 500kV Zhenzhou Power Transformer National Engineering Construction Quality Awards Planning negative impacts on the ambient Substation Project in Guangdong The China Electric Power Construction Excellent Project in the Departments environment. Power Sector Association Examination and Approval by The Committee for A 500kV Liupanshui Power Tansformer A National Excellent Project National Engineering Construction Quality Awards Groups may have many We have reassured Substation Project in Guizhou On the basis of green power grid Excellent Project in the The China Electric Power Construction misunderstandings about commercial tenants philosophy, we have highlighted energy Power Sector Association of the safety of the power grid facilities, for conservation, environmental protection, A 220kV Nianhe PowerTransformer SubstaExcellent Project in the The China Electric Power Construction instance, the substation may high efficiency and harmony in planning substation. Citizens tion Project in Guangxi Power Sector Association and visitors are be felt to be dangerous in and design.The substation was open to The 220kV Qinyun Power Transformer Excellent Project of Power The China Electric Power Construction the citizens, media and other stakeholdimpressed by the that it has high levels of Substation Project in Zhuhai,Guangdong Sector Association Social Groups ers, effectively giving reassurances to the design of the substaradiation and will cause tion. The 220kV Ecun Power Transformer SubstaExcellent Project in the The China Electric Power Construction stakeholders. Power Sector noise pollution. tion Project in Foshan, Guangdong Association Nuozhadu and Xiluodu DC Transmission Projects Completed Ahead of Schedule Q： Is it necessary to build a power transformer substation in down town? On September 3rd, the first phase of the Nuozhadu DC Transmission Is it possible to build it in remote areas and transmit power from there? Further Reading Project was completed and put into operation well ahead of schedule. It spans three provinces, namely Yunnan, Guangxi and Guangdong, with transmission lines running 1,413km, and a transmission capacity With the improvement of people's living On The Electromagnetic of 5 million kW. It is CSG's second ultra-high voltage DC transmission A： line. standards, urban power demand is on the Environment of Power On October 12th, the Xiluodu DC Transmission Project was put into rise. Power from a 110kV transformer Transmission and Transforoperation, also well ahead of schedule . It runs from Yunnan to substation can only cover an area of 2 mation Facilities Guangdong via Guizhou and Guangxi, with transmission lines running square kilometers. It is difficult to meet Transformer substations 2×1,251km, and a transmission capacity of 6.4 million kW. As a and transmission lines citizens' demand for power if substations are ±500kV Common-converter-station and Double-circuit DC Project, it built on the periphery of the city. Those in exert influence on the boasts the largest capacity in the world, with a facilities automation ambient environment by rate of 100%. urban load center ensure voltage quality, their electromagnetic effect The two projects shown in the accompanying photographs have reduce investments from clients and better rather than by radiation. It transmitted clean power to the Pearl River Delta area from the Jinsha serve citizens in their life and work. River basin and Lancang River Basin in Yunnan, playing an active role has been proved that the in optimal allocation of resources between West China and East environmental protection China, thus easing power shortages in Guangdong Province. standard values of our on-site electromagnetic Construction Workers Seizing every Opportunity to Construct the effect is much lower than Nuozhadu DC Project Have a free visit to the Shenzhen Power recorded international and Supply Bureau CSR Demonstration Base, a national values. It is up to 110kV Flower World Power Transformer Subthe national and internaOur power transformer tional standards of envisubstations are in station! harmony with the ronmental protection. environment. Address: Nantou Street, Nanshan District, ShenCan you spot them? zhen; intersection of Shennan Avenue and For more information, Yueliangwan Avenue please visit CSG website and click on Electromagnetic Ambient Environment: Shenzhen Flower World Radiation under the Feature For the answers, Commissioning Time: Year 2012 Report on Power Science please refer to P.48 http://www.csg.cn/dlkpg/ind Contact: 0755-88938708 ex_1111.html 29 Power Supply Power Supply 30 Technological Innovation Technological Innovation System CSG's power grid is of large scale and ultra-high voltage, covering long distances, with a mixed operation of CSG have established and applied an innovative technological management and R&D system composed of Power Supply AC and DC. Eight AC and seven DC cable tunnels of 500kV-and-above have been built for the west-to-east CSG research institutions, power science (on a trial basis) research centers in different provinces, and proplan. The power grid spans nearly 2000 km from east to west, with the maximum transmission capacity of fessional technological departments. CSG works closely with famous universities, research institutions and over 26.5 million kW. As the most complex of modern power grids it boasts various kinds of power, such as industrial groups in China so as to enhance technological innovation capacity in an all-round way. hydropower, thermal power (including coal, oil and natural gas), nuclear power, pumped storage power and wind power, very complex and thus difficult to harness. CSG has engaged in independent research to achieve the technological innovations needed to ensure the safety and stability of the grid and promote its A staff technological innovation system has been Headquarters Technology Department Technological innovation decision-making, transformation into a smart, efficient, reliable and green power grid. CSG was awarded the 3rd Session guidance, allocation and management center Green Energy built as part of CSG. On the basis of such a system and Technological Innovation SOE Prize in 2013. with the support of special funds, staff are encouraged Subsidiaries to engage in technological innovation by means of QC Management executor and Technological Innovation Achievements teams and staff technological innovation communities. performance promotion players Power Research (on trial Grassroots units basis) Institute at Key Manufacturers CSG invested RMB 2.628 billion in R&D in 2013, taking up 0.59% of revenues gained from main business Domestic Universities Technological Innovation R&D Partners R&D Partners Players Economic sources and representing a year-on-year increase of 51% in the area. Achievements with independent IPRs Performance and patents are on the rise year-by-year, earning CSG the China Patent Award for three years running. Technological Platform for Cooperation Among Industry, Academia and Research Institutes, and Resources Sharing The ±800kV Ultra-high Voltage DC Transmission Technology Technological Innovation Team and Facilities Development and the Application Project won the CSG focuses on talent developmentboasting a team of talented experts consisting of academicians and other 2013 China Power Technology Prize. Social harmony similarly qualified experts enjoying national allowances and other full-time researchers. The AC and DC Parallel Operation Key Technology R&D and Application Project won 2013 Guangdong Best Technological Innovation Prize. Two One High-level academicians of The national candidate of the In 2013, CSG played the leading role in the National Key technological Chinese Academy of National Pacesetter Project Smart Grid Project—The Wanshan Island New Energy Micro-grid “Talents” Engineering Demonstration Project, with an aim to build the smart micro-grid (personnel) for Guishan Island, Dong'ao Island and Dawanshan Island. The The Five 75 experts Project has coordinated various energy sources on the island, Thousand-Talent Project who enjoy special allowances experts from the Government including wind, solar energy, firewood and storage power so as to Electricity-Generating Windmills Connected to build an integrated and self-contained smart micro-grid system Smart Micro-grid System on the Island that can meet the needs for power on the island. Island power sources are composed of power generation, transmission, transStaff with professional Staff with professional Staff with Bachelor's expertise at senior level or formation, distribution and usage. Degree or above expertise at medium level or above above R&D Investment (Unit: 100 Million RMB) Patent Applications and Authorizations (Unit: Number) 23.23% 9.3% 24.6% 30 2500 26.28 2018 2052 2000 20 18.10 17.40 397 184 1,550 15.80 1500 1317 976 PhDs staff with senior senior technicians 10.50 professional titles 1000 10 533 500 231 112 422 6,436 7,225 10,348 140 133 0 0 Masters-degree staff with deputy technicians 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) holders -senior professional titles Patents owned Patents newly applied Inauguration of the World's First Multi-End Flexible DC Transmission Project Islanded Operation Mode of the First Ultra-high Voltage DC Transmission Line in the World On December 25th 2013,the first ±160kV Multi-End Flexible On September 11 th , 2013 the first ultra-high voltage DC DC Transmission Demonstration Project in Nan'ao County transmission line, the ±800kV Yunnan-Guangdong DC was put into operation, a symbol of success for China, as we Transmission Line, was switched to the “islanded operation conquered a number of challenges such as control and mode” for the first time, symbolizing that Chinese power protection of multi-end flexible DC transmissions and more. technology and management has reached new heights. China is the first country in the world that has mastered this Under the islanded operation mode, power can be transkey technology and that has applied it commercially. mitted from the generating side to the customer side The system has linked multiple wind farms located on the sea through a DC system, effectively reducing the influence of and on isolated islands bringing the electricity generated to the system on the main grid, thus enhancing the safety the continent. Such a DC transmission systems have enabled and stability of the power grid. Meanwhile, this methodolclean energy to be connected to the grid and improved its ogy has enabled Yunnan to improve its power transmission utilization efficiency. To achieve the project premise, that of capacity by 700 thousand kW, making a great contribution savings on investment, reducing the consumption of marine to the absorbtion and use of local hydropower. resources and meeting the demand of the islands for power, surplus power is transmitted to the continent. Multi-End Flexible DC Transmission System Converter Successful Full-Load Trial of The Yunnan-Guangdong DC TransValve mission Line under Islanded Operation Mode 31 Power Supply Power Supply 32 Green Energy Contribution to A Beautiful China Clean Power Comes for You ! CSG has contributed to National ecological preservation through green power programs. We have dedicated ourselves to energy conservation and emission reductions by taking responsibility for both the power generation side and customer side of the process. Energy conservation publicity, green development promotion, circular and low-carbon development are the means used , to measure our effort toward building a Beautiful China. Energy ConservaEnergy ConservaEnergy ConservaOverall Energy Golden Bee 2020 tion and Emissions tion and Emissions tion and Emissions Conservation and Reduction on the Reduction on the Reduction on the Emissions Power Generation Power Grid Side Customer Side Reduction Side Performance Energy-efficient power Fossil fuel consumption per unit West-to-East hydropower generation and dispatching power sold was reached saved 215 g standard oal/kWh 92 billion kWh, representing a year-on-year 5.61 million tons of standard coal, representing 18.3% lower than the National a year-on-year savings average. increase of 4.7%. increase of 9.4%. Trends In Fossil Fuel Consumption CSG Environmental Performance of Per Unit of Power Sold (Unit: g standard coal/kWh) China Each Kilowatt Hour/Unit 294 300 285 276 270 263 Fossil fuels are non-renewable. With the aim of 250 minimizing fossil fuel consumption per unit of power generated and sold, we have devoted 200 239 233 236 ourselves to ensuring a green power supply. In 220 215 2013 CSG's fossil fuel consumption per unit power 150 sold was equal to 215 grams of standard coal and 100 572 grams of CO2, lower than the National average of 263 grams and 700 grams respectively. 50 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ( Year ) Exterior View of the Huizhou Pumped Storage The Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau's Ring Main Unit Energy Conservation Education for Children Power Station Retrofit Integration into the Urban Environment Energy Conservation Publicity Climate We care about climate change in the hope that the earth will be our shared home We are concerned about emissions and smogy weather; we hope that soon, we can Change Smog Power Supply well into the future. all breathe freely. Global climate change has triggered increasingly severe extreme weather globally. According to the World Wide-spread smog is attracting increasing attention from the public. According to the 2013 China Bank 2013 Report, extreme weather change, over the past decade, has led to annual economic losses of USD Climate Bulletin issued by The China Meteorological Administration, there were 36 days of inclement 200 billion, and the trend is continuing to grow. weather inflicted by smog in 2013 … on average; 27 days more than in previous years, reaching an Green Energy historic high surpassing all measures in the past 52 years. PM2.5 can be inhaled through the respiratory Outdoor air pollution causes system and deposits damaging materials in the human pulmonary alveoli. Long-term exposure in smog 350,000 to 500,000 people will damage people's health. in China to die prematurely 24-hour Smog Forecast annually. 8 a.m., December 23rd to 8 a.m., December 24th The National Meteorological Statistics issued by The China vMeteorologiEconomic Center of The China cal Administration revealed that Smog prePerformance Meteorological Administravailed in 25 provinces and 100+ small-andtion Statistics by CHEN Zhu Blizzards hit many European counTyphoon Haiyan inflicted heavy Summer saw unprecedented high medium-sized cities in December of 2013. tries, resulting in traffic tie-ups and casualties with over 6,000 lives lost temperatures and drought in many Visibility in some areas was less than 10 Academician of The Chinese claimed over 260 lives. and loss of about 10 billion USD in places in South China, causing the Academy of Sciences meters. PM 2.5 in many cities was seriously the Philippines alone. loss of over RMB 48 billion. Social harmony excessive. PM 2 . 5 of Shijiazhuang was as Published in Lancet, an According to the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report:Climate Change 2013 (AR5) issued on September 27th 2013, much as 653 mcg/m3 and air quality fell into internationally authoritative global warming is an undeniable fact. Since the beginning of the 20th Century, global temperatures have the category of serious pollution . medical magazine risen by 0.85℃. Human activities are the major cause for global warming. Greenhouse gases emitted from the burning of fossil fuels have reached record highs. (Reference: PM 2.5 less than 10 mcg/m can 3 Light Smog be counted as safe according to The World Global Temperature Change Medium Smog Health Organization. The daily average of and CO2 Concentration Trends Heavy Smog PM2.5 concentration in the U.S. is 35mcg/m 3, Scientists believe that the risk of water shortages and flood increases with the rise of average global temperature China, 75mcg/m3.) by 1℃to2℃. If temperatures rise by over 2℃on average, the world will face many problems, such as reduction in crop yields, water shortages, rising sea levels, species extinction and an increase diseases/disease types. Temperature Departure for the Period 1850-2012 CO2 ( PPM ) in Relation to 1961-1990 (℃) “The furthest distance in the world is that where I cannot see 0.6 400 2012 393ppm your face when I take you by the hand.” 2012 0.6 C 0.4 380 Posted by netizens who complained about smog 0.2 360 HADGL JMA 0.0 340 NAS -0.2 NOAA 320 On the one hand, each and every one of us is the victim of smog. On the other hand, due to the present “We will make great efforts -0.4 300 production and consumption patterns, we are also smog producers . It takes time and concerted efforts to tackle air pollution with from society to effectively deal with the problem and to achieve an approach to solving the problems. effective measures, which is -0.6 280 1850 1870 1890 1910 1930 1950 1970 1990 2010 1850 1870 1890 1910 1930 1950 1970 1990 2010 the common concern of the The Central Government attaches great importance to smog ,,, it is a National concern. The Government general public . We will get Note Departure refers to the difference between a certain numerical Data source:Fifth Global Environment Outlook (GEO-5) has announced that it intends to wage war against smog in the Report on the Work of the Government 2013. In rid of this devil.” value and the average value within a series of figures. It includes issued by the United Nations Environmental Programme September, 2013, the State Council printed and distributed the Air Pollution Prevention and Control Action Plan, positive and negative departures/differences. (UNEP) where goals and measures were put forward. China's energy China is at the lower end of the industrial chain in terms of economic globalization. It has consumed masCSG has implemented The National Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Policies by playing the consumption per Quoted by LI Keqiang sive resources and provided quality products at reasonable prices to the world, which has caused lifeguiding role among the upstream and downstream firms in the industrial chain, promoting green power unit/GDP is threatening air, soil and water pollution and threatened people's health, both mental and physical. The grid construction, coordinated development of companies, development of goals for society and the enviPremier of the State Council 2.5 times Central Government attaches great importance to climate change by virtue of reducing carbon emissions ronment in order to contribute to the ecological and environmental improvement in the five provinces and of the world average. through such measures as industrial restructuring, promotion of independent innovation, optimization of region in CSG's service area. energy utilization and improvements in energy efficiency It is estimated that, from power generation to consumption in the five provinces and regions in CSG's service area, the energy Sustain“Sustainable development is defined as a development plan/process which meets the needs CSG conservation and emission reduction potential … on the power grid side … takes up a total of 8% overall; on the power generation able of current generations without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their Takes side, 39%; and on the customer side, 53%. (Note: these % are NOT expressed in a way that makes sense) As an important Developown needs” . Action platform for optimal regional energy allocation, CSG has not only fulfilled its responsibility in energy conservation and emissions ment Quote from Gro Harlem Brundtland, ( former Prime Minister of Norway and Chairman of the reduction, but also contributed to reductions on the power generation and customer sides as well. World Commission on Environment and Development ) 39% Power Generation Side 8% Power Grid Side 53% Customer Side CSG's major measures of energy conservation and emissions reduction on the power generation side: Green power grid Line loss CSG's major measures of energy conservation and emissions reduction on the customer side: construction reduction Power mix optimization West-to-East plan Energy-efficient power Support for new Proper disposal of Green Support for customers Support for electric Energy conservation publicity development generation and ching energy development wastes offices in energy conservation vehicle industry 35 Green Energy Green Energy 36 Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Power grid operatAClean Thermal Power on the Power Generation Side Development Promotiones stably Power Supply Power generation plays an important role in energy conservation and emissions reduction in China. By Production and consumption of coal in manufacturing and power generation are main causes for environenhancing power generation efficiency and increasing the clean energy sources employed by our power mental pollution and greenhouse gases thus the resource mix of China has resulted in the fact that coal will plants, we can effectively reduce the emission of greenhouse gases and air pollutants. be the major fuel for power generation for a long time into the future. CSG has promoted the rapid development of clean coal-fired power for a reduction of greenhouse gases and pollutants. 2013 saw CSG's thermal power unit desulfurization of 5.118 million tons, representing a year-on-year reduction of -19%. Power grid operates stably Green Energy Thermal power plants will also be connected to an on-line supervision system to track desulfurization and coal consumption as planned. Five provinces and regions in CSG's service area boast abundant hydropower resources, with huge developCSG has been helping thermal power units in its service area to reduce coal consumption to 301g/kWh, representFurther Reading ment potential existing for new energy … and considering the relative scarcity of coal … on which CSG has ing a 1g/kWh year-on-year reduction. based plans to optimize its energy portfolio, CSG can increase use of clean energy for power generation and CSG has been urging power plants in Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou and other areas to conserve energy by buildgrid connections … for example, increased use of hydropower, nuclear power and new energy. As of 2013, ing efficient power consumption management systems and upgrading to energy-efficient technologies including To know more about the CSG's installed capacity of non-fossil energy use has accounted for 46.5% of the total newly installed capacvacuum pump systems and big cold-end technologies. Economic resources in the five provity, 30.9% higher than the National average. inces and regions in CSG's Performance service area, please refer t o P . 4 5 o f t h e C S G 2 0 11 Coal Consumption for Power Supply (Unit: 100 Million kWh) China CSG service area 2013 National Power 2013 CSG Power Corporate Social Responsibility Generation Constitution (Unit: 100 Million kWh) Generation Constitution (Unit: 100 Million kWh) Report. 350 Power generated reached 5.3474 trillion kWh. Power generated reached 904.3 billion kWh. 340 Social harmony Power generated from non-fossil energy Power generated from non-fossil energy 340 335 accounted for 21.65%. accounted for 37.74%. 330 330 337 326 331 321 320 325 323 321 310 1490 1121 464.8 90.8 300 2.79% 2.10% 5.14% 1.00% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) 8963 41900 2857.2 5630.2 Note Data for 2013 are preliminary statistics. 78.35% 62.26% 16.76% 31.60% Coal-fired Power Generation, an Important Means of Clean and Efficient Utilization of Coal Hydropower Hydropower Thermal Power Thermal Power Nuclear Power Nuclear Power Wind Power Wind Power and Others and Others Greenhouse gases such as Technological means have been adopted Coal transportation by means of in coal-fired power plants to reduce the train, car, ship and so on is CO 2 , SO 2 and NOx, and PM 2.5 Note Data in the tables are preliminary statistics. impact of the use of coal, for instance, being replaced by power transare produced when coal is desulfurization, de-nitrification, smoke mission from source to burned directly, exerting removal and dust removal, all designed consumer, significantly reducing to reduce emission of greenhouse gases loss and pollution caused when negative impacts on the atmoand pollutants, have met with tangible transporting coal to the power sphere and human health. results. generating site. West-to-East Plan Development Hydropower Generated in CSG's Service Area (Unit: 100 Million kWh) West-to-eEast power transmission has Nuclear Power Connected to the Grid enabled energy in West China to compleTotal: 2646 Total: 2857 After the Fukushima nuclear accident in Japan, the international community is paying increasing attention ments that produced by of the east, all of to nuclear power safety. China has become more strict and prudent in the development and use of nuclear which is significant for regionally coordiHainan 24 power . Newly-built nuclear power units in China must meet third generation safety standards and all new nated development, stable power sup24 Hainan nuclear power projects have to meet the highest global safety standards. 422 pliesy and ecological preservation. Guizhou Guizhou CSG has provided grid-connecting services for the qualified and newly-constructed nuclear power projects. 560 In 2013, The Nuozhadu DC Transmission In 2013, nuclear power generated in CSG's service area reached 46.44 billion kWh, accounting for 41.45% Project and The Xiluodu DC Transmission of the National total. Projects were completed … in advance of schedule termination dates … for power 1631 Yunnan generation in advance, greatly enhancing 1240 Yunnan CSG's capacity to transmit power from west to east. Previously West-to-eEast power stood at 92 billion kWh for the whole year, resulting in an equivalent to a reduction of 27.79 million tons of stanGuangxi 524 Guangxi 462 dard coal, 73.91 million tons of CO2 and 540 thousand tons of SO2. Guang dong 298 Guangdong 318 In June, 2013, the 500kV Nuclear Power Transmission and In March, 2013, the 500kV Fangcheng Port Nuclear Power 2012 2013 (Year) Grid-connecting Project in Taishan was completed and Plant Transmission Project in Guangxi was initiated. connected to the grid. 37 Green Energy Green Energy 38 Energy-Efficient Power Generation and Dispatching Energy Conservation and Emissions CSG’ s average Fossil Fuel Consumption per Reduction on the Power Grid Side CSG has been dedicated to energy-efficient power generation and dispatching for three years, giving priorPower Supply coal-fired unit in 2013 As a platform for optimal allocation of regional energy, CSG has done its utmost to reduce power transmisity to renewable energy, nuclear power and efficient thermal power in power generation, through which was sion loss, conserve energy and reduce emissions to ensure the power supplied is environmentally-friendly. CSG tries its best to supply power for the economic and social development of Chinas’ citizens with mini215g/kWh, mum consumption of primary energy and with lowest emissions of harmful residues. 3C Green Power Grid Construction Equivalent to the CO2 Thanks to the completion of the smart technological system for energy-efficient power generation and dispatching in 2013, CSG decreased fossil fuel consumption by an equivalent of 5.61 million tons of standard coal, or an emisemission of CSG has made great efforts to build 3C (Computer, Communication, Control) green grid programs. Systems, Green Energy 572g sions reduction of 14.92 million tons of CO2 and 110 thousand tons of SO2. technological R&D and other factors are taken seriously to work toward the most-efficient, resource-saving and environmentally-friendly power grid possible. 18.3% l o w e r Environmental Performance Trends of EnergyConsumption Reduction in Emission Efficient Power Generation and Dispatching (Unit: 10,000 tons) the use of Standard Coal Reduction of CO2 Green power grid construction standards have been formulated based on the issuance of The Power Grid Standard than the national averDesign and Typical Construction Costing V1.0. age consumption 1600 1492 The Green Power Grid Construction Guiding Principles and Action Guidelines have been formulated and are being imple1365 Economic mented. Performance 1200 74 projects and 345 models have been selected for demonstration. 800 675 We have maintained sincere and close relations with resident consumers. Environmental impact assess604 561 513 ments on facilities, including power transformer substations, have been carried out before construction. 450 400 Social harmony 258 227 169 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ( Year ) The First 3C Power Transformer Substation Built in Guizhou The first 3C power transformer substation in Guizhou, a 110 kV Qingshan Substation, was put into operation … with optimal internal layout of facilities … and it is of the enclosed type, Q： In 2013, five provinces and regions in CSG's service area reduced redundant covering an area 37% less than other transformer substations power by 19 billion kWh. How did CSG deal with such an amount of of its kind. It has employed heat insulating materials, hydropower? environmentally-friendly tubes, rain recovery devices, Gas Insulated Switchgears (of low consumption) and, additionally, The year 2013 witnessed the declining growth of power demand and commissioning of large hydropower A： stations. Therefore, hydropower supplies will exceed power grid demand and, during the flood season, noise reduction facilities. The perceived noise of the main transthe situation will be worse. In early 2013, we predicted that the redundant hydropower in Yunnan would formers has been reduced by 20%. reach 20 billion kWh based on the hydrological forecast and digestion capacity of the power grid. CSG has made full use of the west-to-east platform under the framework agreement, and has taken different The 110 kV Qingshan Power Transformer Substation factors into account , such as the supplyanddemand balance Protection of Biodiversity in the five provinces and regions, cable transmission capacity and water supply forecasts. In addition, CSG has adopted such measures as west-to-east power increments, DC project commissioning acceleraCSG has adhered to the principle of environmental protection in power grid construction by adopting varition, river basin terrace optimization and optimal hydropower and thermal power dispatching. In this ous measures to preserve biodiversity, including along transmission lines, to preserve the harmony way, CSG has made great efforts to maximize transmission of redundant hydropower from Yunnan insofar as is possible. The year 2013 witnessed the a reduction of 19 billion kWh of redundant power from between power grid construction and ecology. Yunnan, an equivalent of saving 7.6 million tons of standard coal, or a reduction of ing118.93 million Power Grid Planning Post Construction tons of CO2 reduced. When planning, CSG has tried its best to avoid ecologiHoles are refilled with stones and cal reserve areas. soil so as to restore the vegetation CSG has taken biodiversity preservation and natural and ecological balance of the landscape restoration into consideration in the community. decision= making process of transmission line direcSupport for New Energy Source Development tion, materials selection and facilities design. CSG has supported the development and utilization of new energy sources by increasing new energy and renewable energy in installed capacity locations. With the construction of supporting projects, power generated from new energy, and connected to the grid, has been secured. The installed capacity of new energy in 2013 reached 5.81 million kW, making up 2.86% of the total. Guiding principles, service manuals, detailed rules and standards have been issued to support new energy development. Additionally, tariffs of power generated from renewable energy have been strictly applied. Convenient and efficient gridconnecting service has been provided for new energy sources, distributive photovoltaic power, in particular, has been a focus of this effort 2013 saw the newly-installed photovoltaic (solar) power capacity of 300 thousand kW, and the newly-installed wind power capacity of 1.1 million kW. Before the Project Power Grid Construction The first citizen-invested distributive photovoltaic project in Guilin, Guangxi,was successfully connected to the grid and An environmental assessment was underMany advanced technologies have been generated power for the community. taken. All power grid construction projects employed such as airship wiring in materials The CSG Synthesis Energy Corp … —a 35 MW Roof Photovoltaic (solar ) Demonstration Project at the Shunde Midea passed the environmental protection assesstransportation and high-security type wiring, Refrigeration Plant, the biggest one of its kind in Asia, was successfully connected to the grid and put into operation. The ment upon completion, with a pass rate of effectively avoiding logging along the transmispower generated is mainly consumed by the plant itself, while a small amount of surplus is transmitted to the CSG power 100%. CSG saw no breach of laws and regusion lines. Construction wastes and grid. lations regarding environmental protection bio-impact/life wastes are classified and stored to throughout the year. reduce the impact of human activities on the environment. 39 Green Energy Green Energy 40 Energy-Efficient and Environmentally-Friendly Operations Green Office Line Loss Reduction CSG has taken solid measures to save energy and reduce emissions Power Supply CSG has strengthened lean management of line loss from the perspectives of planning, management, and technology to operations. CSG has calculated and supervised statistics of office energy consumption. Energy conservation The number of power supply enterprises at the county-level, with a line loss rate of over 10%, has been renovation rate of office buildings reaches 12%, reduced by 25. Green Energy while 25% of lights and all bulbs have been replaced by LED lights. A total of 14 power supply bureaus at the prefecture/municipal level have passed the line loss evaluation test. Purchase of high emission vehicles is With measurement of the automation system, CSG has equipped all its direct supply areas and direct managestrictly controlled. CSG gives priority to ment areas with power plants, distribution transformers and user-invested transformers. vehicles that meet emissions standards. he temperature of office air condi2013 witnessed the procurement of 20,796 amorphous distribution transformers, making up 65.8% of the tioners in summer shall not below total installed. 26�, and shall not be above 20� in winter. Economic Thanks to optimal operation, energy storage loss was lowered by 390 million kWh, and line losses in the westPerformance to-east plan, by 200 million kWh. Office files have been reduced. The number of meetings planned and held by CSG headquarters Line Loss Rate of Major Countries (Unit: %) declined by 15%, with video conferences increasCSG prefers green office facilities with 15 ing by 75%; paper files have been reduced by National certification. Social harmony The overall line loss 11.67 10%, and briefings by 53%. 10.28 rate for the whole 10 6.67 6.98 7.37 grid (statistics from 6.28 3.78 the parent company) 5 was Application of Energy Monitor TM is Used For Building Energy-Efficient Supervision Analysis 6.02%. 0 Korea The U.S. China France The U.K. Russia Canada Systems for the CSG Headquarters Building Apart from energy conservation/ renovation, CSG has applied the Energy Monitor TM Building Energy EffiNote Line loss of China, in the data tables. was based on the data from a 2013 survey, while other countries used data from 2010. ciency Supervision Analysis System developed earlier by CSG Synthesis Energy Corp. to its headquarters buildData source: The China Electricity Council ing for scientific power utilization management. The result has been a, savings of 23% in terms of power consumption … of 2.776.3 million kWh, or a sum equal to 1,111 tons of standard coal and a CO2 emissions reduction of 2,768 tons. CSG Comprehensive Line Loss Rate (Unit: %) 7 6.35 6.28 6.06 6.02 6 5.35 A B C 21 3 A B C 21 3 5 主页 能耗概览 电能分项 室内环境 能源效率 排名对标 节能潜力 测量验证 能源模型 报表账单 建筑评价 能耗地图 主页 能耗概览 电能分项 室内环境 能源效率 排名对标 节能潜力 测量验证 能源模型 报表账单 建筑评价 能耗地图 4 节能措施管理 节能效果验证 能耗目标 节能成果 最大需量 碳指标 能源趋势 3 起始日期 2013-01 结束日期 2013-12 查询 项目名称 请选择 介质类型 电 开始时间 2013-01 结束时间 2013-12 查询 2 节能改造预测电量与实际电量值对比 碳减排趋势图 2013-01至2013-12 1,200 1 节电率 1500k 1,000 0 23.0% 1000k 单位：kWh 800 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ( Year ) 500k 600 相当于节省标煤 电 0k 400 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 1111吨 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 10 11 12 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 预测用电量：1216万千瓦时 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 13 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 减排二氧化碳 1. The years 2012 and 2013 saw a notable increase of west-to-east power transmission and inter-provincial transmissions gave rise to an increase of 实际用电量：938.37万千瓦时 2768吨 Note 常规值 实际值 Further Reading 预测用电量 实际用电量 comprehensive line loss compared with the previous year. 节省电量： 277.63万千瓦时 2. In 2013, the overall line loss for the parent company was 6.02%, representing a year-on-year decrease of 0.04%, while the rate based on the statistics of the overall assets was 7.20%, representing a year-on-year decrease of 0.05%. The two figures are different for the reason that, in the rural power Energy Conservation Verification Carbon Emission Reduction at the sector reform, 255 power supply enterprises at the county-level were being taken over by CSG, whose line loss rates are higher, consequently, when the at the Headquarters Building Headquarters Building Transformer oil is the prodrates for subsidiaries are taken into consideration, the rate for the overall assets is conspicuously higher than that for the parent company. uct of distilled oil, mainly 3. With the furtherance of CSG's integration, we will adopt solelystatistics from the overall assets of the major entity in future calculations of line loss. composed of alkanes and aromatic hydrocarbons, with the functions of insuProper Disposal of Waste lation, heat dissipation and Index Express arc suppression. It will In line with the principle of circular economy, CSG has abided by national standards and has properly cause serious soil and disposed of, recovered and re-used waste to the maximum extent possible. Index Accomplishment water pollution if it is handled without care. CSG's waste emission is strictly limited to/by National Standards so as to reduce environmental pollution. Percentage of Suppliers with ISO-14000 Environmental Management Systems Certification 74.0% Waste oil can be reused Nearly 100% of waste oil from transformers is recovered and reused. by the transformers after Energy Saved from Business Trip Reduction Equal to CO 2 Emission Reduction of recovery and treatment, all 100% of SF6 gas is recovered and reused. 37,875 Tons conducive to resources conservation and environPercentage of New Projects Subject to Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 100% mental protection. 41 Green Energy Green Energy 42 Energy Conservation and Emission Energy Conservation Publicity Reduction on the Customer Side CSG has publicized various energy conservation policies to the public through such channels as media, Power Supply Energy conservation potential on the customer side occupies 50% of the life cycle of power. CSG has taken internet, microblogs, WeChat, seminars, energy conservation exhibition halls and business halls. In 2013, the initiative to raise the energy conservation awareness of customers, provided comprehensive services so CSG's A Beautiful China a public service announcement that was broadcast 881 times on CCTV, sharing our as to help them save energy expenses and enhance energy efficiency efforts. philosophy and ideas with about 134 million people. Support for the Customers in Energy Conservation in an All-around-Way Green Energy Voice Energy-efficient service platforms, such as those of the CSG synthesis Energy Corp. and power-saving centers at various levels, have integrated advanced energy-efficient technologies from home and abroad, Spreading the Concept of a Green Philosophy carried out emission reduction projects and spared no effect to provide services to customers. In 2013, CSG provided energy conservation diagnoses to 1,473 enterprises and visited over 200 major customers. Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau billboards dotted bus stops with 3,000 “Thanks to CSG's energy environmentally-friendly reminders. The promotion was interactive and conservation services, our Economic once citizens took away all of the temporary materials posted, a screen of company has been revitalEnergy Conservion ConsultanComprehensive Utilization of For A Blue Sky would be unveiled, spreading the CSG energy conservaPerformance ized, bring us more capital cynd Diagnosis Energy tion philosophy and calling on citizens to save power. sources and energy In-depth diagnosis has been CSG has worked with The Jiangtian concepts for R&D on new provided to the food and beverCement Company in Bijie, Guizhou, age sector and household applion its power generation needs along products nd company ance sector. Energy conservation with investigations of the residual upgrading.” services have been provided to industrial heat and pressure. CSG has Social harmony many famous companies such as applied an installed capacity of six Swire, Coca-Cola Co. Ltd and MW and annual power supplied of others in Guangzhou. 31.80 million kWh. Promotional Tips For Family Energy Conservation Noted by LU Xiaojun Building Energy Conservation The Zhongshan Power Supply Bureau initiated the Family Energy ConservaGeneral Manager of the Industrial Energy Conservation tion Tips Campaign, where humorous and lively Kungfu postures were CSG carried out R&D projects Dongguan Zolly Molding CSG has upgraded 99 injection employed to explain/demonstrate energy-saving tips in the hope that each focused on a new generation of Co. Ltd molding machines for Midea, Energy Monitor TMs Building family would find energy conservation interesting. reaching savings of 50% in power Energy Efficiency Supervision Analyuse, saving over 7 million kWh sis System, which has been applied annually. successfully to energy conservation demonstration projects including CSG's headquarters building as well as a big hotel in Jiangmen. Lighting Energy Conservation Energy Efficiency Management Promoting Energy-Saving Technology CSG has renovated 200 thousand CSG has undertaken the Foshan The CSG Synthesis Energy Corp. had advanced green and low-carbon techLED street lights and 1.5 million Power Demand Management Project nologies, products and services on displayand it was felt that putting these LED lamps. to realize digital, on-line and visual power management experience for together with over 400 companies from more than 10 countries at the future use. China International Green Innovative Products & Technologies Show that some wide-ranging ideas for energy promotion might arise. Nandudu Energy Saving Service Website 1000 Enterprises Energy www.nandudu.com The Energy Conservation Agreement with Shaoguang Iron & Training Series (Unit: Session) Conservation Campaign (Unit: Number) Steel Co. Ltd of Baosteel 240 210 9000 8390 In August, 2013, CSG Synthesis Energy Corp entered into a framework agreement on an energy conservation 185 190 7135 172 6587 180 project implementation with The Shaoguan Iron & Steel Co. Ltd so as to build the latter into an exemplary com141 6000 pany in the sector. The project combined other aims with that of saving 100 million kWh and reducing energy 120 3179 consumption by 10% . 3000 60 1473 0 0 The more power we save, the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ( Year ) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ( Year ) greener and more beautiful the world will be! An idea from Nandudu.com Support For The Electric Vehicle Industry A Win-Win Solution for Clients and Companies In response to the governmental policy, CSG has actively supported the development of electric vehicles. CSG has built nandudu.com, a one-stop and comprehensive energy conservation service website, dedicated to providing information and services to the industry and the public in entertaining and informative As of 2013, CSG has built and operatesd 18 charging stations locations and battery replacement ing ways .The services include:energy-saving technologies and product promotion, product certification and stations, one experience center, and 3,256 charging posts, all serving over 750 thousand vehicles, with a training. Optimal solutions are provided to power-consuming clients, promoting mutually-benefical coopthe power charged value of 23.40 million kWh and a mileage count of 94.40 million km, saving a total of eration with energy-saving companies and, as of 2013, there were 220 registered members and 102 con9.44 million tons of standard oil and reducing 15 thousand tons of atmospheric CO2. tractual members. 43 Green Energy Green Energy 44 Golden Bee 2020 Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Performance Bees have been living in harmony with the environment and society on the earth for 120 million years. They Power Supply collect honey and spread pollen, serving as an excellent example of harmony with nature. The Golden Bee 2020 CSG's Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Performance with Upstream and Downstream Firms in 2013 concept was born in China as a visionary and sustainable action plan encouraging the development of a vision based on the concept of the labor of the Golden Bee and the inspiring spirit of the benefits the example of this Power Standard Coal CO2 SO2 Item (100 million kWh) (10 thousand tons) (10 thousand tons) (10 thousand tons) type of collaboration could bring to our community. Power Increment Generated by Non-fossil Energy 1134 3413 9079 66 Green Energy Why CSG joined Golden Bee 2020? What are the benefits for CSG's energy conservation and Q： emissions reduction? How to they relate to the concept? What benefits might they bring to society? Replacing the non-efficient 27 71 0.5 Generator with efficient Ones It is the common aspiration of the Golden Bee 2020 program that Energy-efficient Power A： Generation and Distribution 561 1492 11 Collaborate Collaborate scale effect can be realized with the same responsibility and with with power governments plants to innovative action, which promotes CSR awareness of Chinese Economic to support enhance power companies and enables an increasingly number of them to be Golden Bee EnterPower Grid Loss Reduction 20 61 163 1 low carbon generation Performance pilots efficiency prises all aiming for a sustainable earth and for the enlightment and benefit of human beings. Energy Conservation 9.3 30 80 0.6 Collaborate Collaborate CSG, as a Golden Bee Enterprise with the spirit of bees, of the Customers with research Golden Bee 2020 with customers launched the Golden Bee 2020 Initiative along with the China institutes to conserve to promote Green Action energy and 4092 10885 79.1 WTO Tribune in June, 2011; as the Chairman of the Company Total Social harmony low carbon Cross-industrial achieve emission technology Cooperation reduction noted when speaking to the Low Carbon and Efficiency Management Special Committee, CSG has actively promote the cross-sector cooperation in this regard. Collaborate Green with auto Since we joined the initiative, we have worked with upstream Overview of CSG’ s Total Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Performance with Upstream and Downstream Firms Procurement in industry to collaboration support electric and downstream companies for a green industrial chain, a with suppliers vehicles low-carbon society, green life, sustainable future and green Item 名称 Power 电量 （亿千瓦时） Standard 标准煤 （万吨）Coal CO（万吨） 二氧化碳 2 SO2 （万吨） 二氧化硫 (100 million kWh) (10 thousand tons) (10 thousand tons) (10 thousand tons) and efficient development models. Power Increment Generated In June, 2013, CSG and China WTO Tribune co-organized a by Non-fossil Energy 5653 17756 47231 341 panel discussion on Green Forces for A Beautiful China at the Eighth International CSR Forum . The forum offered an arena Replacing the non-efficient for in-depth discussions on green and sustainable developGenerator with efficient Ones 1196 3134 23 ment, and practical approaches for A Beautiful China . Energy-efficient Power Generation and Distribution 2001 5312 38 Accomplishments of Golden Bee 2020 Power Grid Loss Reduction 302 943 2508 18 Based on the development and goals of CSG, we have made a list of concrete actions related to the power generation Energy Conservation side, power grid side and customer side. We have spared no effort to realize the goal of Golden Bee 2020 with a of the Customers 83.6 277 694 5 number of measures, including optimal resource allocations, development of green service quality practices and standards, providing assistance to companies in development of their green production policies and projects and cooperaTotal 22173 58879 425 tion with them in both joint and independent low-carbon industrial program development. Goal: 689 billion Goal: An increase of Accomplishment: kWh (2020) Note Data have been collected since 2002. Data on incremental power generated by non-fossil energy combined with power grid loss reductions in the 10th Five-year Plan Period used 2002 as a benchmark. Whereas data of power increments 545.3 billion kWh 277.2 billion kWh generated by non-fossil energy and power grid loss reduction in the 11th Five-year Plan Period used the year 2005 as a benchmark, and data of power increment generated by non-fossil energy and power grid loss reduction in the 12th Five-year Plan Period used the year2010 as a benchmark. (2013) generated by clean nergy compared with 2005 Action 1: I've got it! The Clean Goal: Coal consumption Year 2013 Year 2020 Energy reduction of 305g/kWh Campaign 34 g/kWh 301g/kWh Action 2: Reduction of Coal for Power Generation Consumption 110kV Junjing Substation Reduction Compared with 2005 GoalsReduction for Zhonglv Substation Power Generation Year 2013 Year 2020 Under the Football Action 3: Campaign Goal: Comprehensive line Line Loss loss of 6.02% 6.10% Reduction 6.10% Campaign Year 2013 Year 2020 Surpassed the goal of 2020 45 Green Energy Green Energy 46 Economic Performance CSG has ensured a totally professional focus on the maintenance and appreciation of State-Owned assets. Power Lights Up the City-Glittering Huangchen Square in Guangzhou In adherence to all legal compliance standards outlined and provided for our operation, including reflection of all cost reduction and efficient improvements of assets invested/used, we have striven to make steady progress for the maintenance and appreciation of assets designed to assure steadyand sound development in our responsible areas and to create more value for stakeholders at all levels. Operation Performance Law Compliance Cost Reduction and Efficiency Improvement Power Market Development Promotion Regional Economic and Social Development Promotion Total Pre-tax Profits of RMB Power Sales of Business Revenue of RMB 7433 (unit: hundred million kWh) 4482 (unit: hundred million) 40.7 (unit: hundred million) Billion Up by 6.03% Compared with 2012 Up by 6.46% Compared with 2012 Up by 6.54% Compared with 2012 Contribution of 1 Kilowatt Hour to GDP in 2013 (Unit: RMB) Economic Value of 1 Kilowatt Hour Electricity is seen as the foundation for economic and social development, while 40 35.4 power consumption is the barometer of regional economic and social 28.6 30 development/growth. Each kilowatt hour in the five provinces and regions in CSG's 21.7 20.0 service area contributed to RMB 11.2 of GDP output in 2013. 20 12.9 13.6 Compared with similar data of developed countries, the contribution of each CSG 11.6 10.7 8.0 7.1 kilowatt hour to GDP is relatively low, for the reason that our regional economy is 10 located at the lower end of the global industrial chain. To create more economic 0 value with each kilowatt hour, we must rely on economic restructuring and Guangdong Guangxi Yunnan Guizhou Hainan Guangzhou Shenzhen National The U.S. Germany innovation in attracting new users to our, now, innovative and attractively priced Total facilities positioned to help them grow via new ‘win/win’ concdpts. Note 1.GDP of 2013 was calculated from preliminary data. 2.The American data on ratio of output value of unit electric energy consumption were Abundant Power Enables and Secures Industrial Development Quality Power Secures Economic and Social Development Reliable Power Supply Facilitates Inward Business calculated on the exchange rate of USD/$1 to RMB 6.2 , the German data, 1 Investment Attractionfor/in Guangzhou Euro/RMB 8.5 . CSG has been rated Operational Performance Legal Compliance “Grade A” in Against the backdrop of a declining economic growth rate and power consumption, CSG has accelerated CSG has been operating in accordance with relevant laws and regulations, promoting the integration of legal Power Supply operations performance economic development mode transformation and ensured growth with meticulous operation and work and business operations and management. We have set up an “overall auditing” system, pressed ahead evaluations by SASAC management, and the company has passed the annual operation performance evaluation by SASAC. Year with an anti-corruption philosophy, monitoring system and a clean operations action plan, carried out for seven years in a row. 2013 witnessed CSG's EVA of RMB 4.14 billion, and debt asset ratio of 65.6%. It is important to note that the efficient supervision in all areas and have received responses, supervision and support from stake-holders. company has been listed in the Internationally recognized Fortune 500 list for the past 9 years in a row. CSG has received the highest credit rating AAA+ for four consecutive years and there has been no major incidence of misconduct,tax evasion or other allegations of misconduct in 2012. Green Energy Further Reading Legal Risk Management CSG's Ranking in Fortune 500 Companies CSG has established and continutally improves its’ long-term legal risk prevention system by identifying legal “Legal Clinic” is a platvulnerabilities in key areas. Making use of “legal clinics” to ‘project’ possible problem areas, we have provided No. 134 134位 innovative legal evaluations and services and have enhanced our legal risk evaluation and prevention capabilities. form for legal risk management, solving major Economic No. 149位 149 No. 152位 152 legal issues, legal consulNo. 156位 156 Improvements to the Legal Risk Prevention System Performance No. 185 tancy services and provision of/training in Carrying out legal risk examinations in all areas … especially key ones; aligning legal risk legal matters to assure Integration into prevention with the key links in business process and integrating legal risk prevention into key business links knowledge at grassroots business operation levels. The clinic aims at Social harmony Integration of a enhancing legal perforIdentifying business areas with high legal risks; formulating legal risk awareness, prevention, consciousness of mance at grassroots 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) the“legal-risk”concept counseling and creating a control handbook for 41 posts designed to provide information, raise awaress and improve legal risk management system levels through regionalinto job responsibilities ized management, professional division of Integration into Development and implementation of stringent contract management to exercise whole-process contract management contract legal risk assessment and management responsibility and networked service. Power Sales of 743.3 Billion kWh Business Revenues of 448.2 Billion RMB (Unit: 100 Million kWh) (Unit: 100 Million RMB) Strengthening the brand, building of “legal clinics” , carrying out legal consultancy tours of the Integration into the legal clinics and solving the major legal issues at grassroots levels by informative and participative grassroots work means. 8000 7433 5000 4482 7010 6668 4210 3912 6027 4000 Integration into the Launching the inclusion of practical legal culture construction campaigns to promote the legal 3697 6000 5239 Corporate culture culture of “acquiring sound legal knowledge and acting by law” ; providing training to 61,814 3136 building process people in 2013 3000 4000 2000 Proper Settlement of Legal Disputes 2000 1000 CSG has made significant efforts such as signing com0 mitment letters and adopting a specific strategy for each 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) case and successfully has reduced the number of legal disputes in which it was held responsible by 25.52%. Up by 6.03% Compared with 2012 Up by 6.46% Compared with 2012 New major cases of legal dispute caused by breach of laws or regulations have been brought under effective control. The Chaozhou Power Supply Bureau of CSG held a moot court practice session to spread legal knowledge Total Pre-tax Profits of 40.7 Billion RMB Total Assets of 587.2 Billion RMB (Unit: 100 Million RMB) (Unit: 100 Million RMB) Improved Internal Auditing 407 5872 In accordance with the principle of auditing and rectifying at the same time, CSG has adopted an innovative 382 5556 400 6000 auditing concept and made full use of auditing’ s supervision, guidance and service functions to enhance 5275 337 4908 320 standardized management and business efficiency. We completed 3,575 auditing projects in 2013, propos4404 300 4500 ing 5,829 pieces of management advice, and, in the process, rectifying misused capital of RMB 120 million while adding revenue and saving expenses of RMB 140 million. 208 200 3000 Development History of the “Overall Auditing” Model 100 1500 Year 2013 Year 2012 Year 2011 Achieved basic auditing objective: 0 0 Year 2010 Established Auditing Association Promoted transformation of Conducting auditing for Provincial 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Year) of CSG internal auditing Formally initiated the “overall companies every year, the Power Implemented “overall auditing” Up by 6.54% Compared with 2012 Up by 5.69% Compared with 2012 auditing” concept Supply Bureau at city level every for the first time two years and the Power Supply Received the title of “Leading StateStarted publication of CSG Auditing Owned Enterprise in Internal AuditBureau at the county level every Compiled “CSG Internal Auditing magazine ting three years Handbook” 49 Economic Performance Economic Performance 50 A Clean, Corruption Free and Self-disciplined CSG Cracking Down on Power Larceny In recent years, power larceny is increasingly characterized by large-scale crimes, smart and complicated technologies Power Supply The Central Committee of the Communist Party of China has attached great importance to clean practice and inclusion The first working and a growing number of cases. There have even emerged professional power theft groups sometimes using the name agenda in a new year of integrity in the construction of programs and entities; too, it has deepened the presence of anti-corruption and clean of “power saving companies”. We face increasingly greater challenges in cracking down on power larceny. Disciplinary education practice work ethics. Following the “eight regulations” put forward by the Central Committee of CPC, CSG carried out and mobilization meeting education campaigns among CPC members and improved the rules and regulations on clean practice and integrity. It Power Larceny Causes Harm to Oneself and Others has also set up a long-term anti-corruption mechanism to prevent and deal with corruption at the source. Green Energy The first class Causing loss to public resources and infringing on the Highly dangerous and likely to cause personal CSG has carried out discipline and integrity education, organized clean practice seminars interests of users injury or death for a new employee and held pre-assignment conversations. It has enhanced clean practice and integrity Clean practice Corruption Self-rejection awareness by using various media and launched a discipline-focused education month Endangering the security of power grids, damaging Liable to a fine of three times of the bill to respore orientation is resisted of corruption themed as “Be Down-to-Earth and Clean to Better Serve the People’ in order to educate all CPC power supply equipment and affecting customers of the power members whole line Economic Subject to legal punishment when the case is Infringing the lawful interests of business operators serious Performance Identifying the primary CSG has effectively set up rules and regulations to prevent corruption. An accountability responsible person for Institutional system was introduced to strengthen enforcement. We gave priority to rectification of clean practice and defense against “four malpractice” possibilities as examples, standardized operation through self-discipline corruption has institutional building of vigilance and have tightened the loopholes where corruption Power Larceny Prevention Needs Extensive Participation Signing commitment been implemented might take hold. Suspected lettersat every level corruption Social harmony Power larceny prevention is a long-term and arduous task, one which requires the awareness of integrity in is monitored power use and of the illegality of power theft. Only by pooling the efforts of everyone can we eventually succeed Preventing CSG has consolidated the function of Monitoring and Management Committee to monitor corruption through and inspect the implementation of “eight regulations”, strengthen corruption risk in preventing power larceny. In 2013, CSG handled 5,576 power larceny cases, collecting evaded power bills of monitoring and prevention and control, and intensified the supervision of the leader’s decision-making RMB 46.03 million and reclaiming RMB 86.82 million in power tariffs derived from illegal power use. inspection process and main business operational activities. Line loss Cooperation Public CSG has punished corruption cases in strict accordance with laws and regulations. We surveillance with police participation Corruption Accountability made greater efforts to investigate cases and rectify malpractices, punishing typical system for ones. We conducted in-depth analyses to identify the institutional cause/s so as to is punished Facilitating precise line loss Carrying out random inspections with Carrying out publicity campaigns corruption eliminate the root of corruption. via monitoring with informalocal public security departments and against power larceny and illegal tion technology and conductconstructing a work network to crack power use and distributing ing real-time monitoring to down on power larceny publicity materials to enhance identify power larceny public awareness Efficiency Supervision customer suspects Launching special campaigns against power larceny and punishing power Exposing major and serious power Launching surprise, spot larceny crimes in strict accordance with larceny cases through various According to the system of “3Is &1L” (the management of important events, important cadres’ appointments inspections and strengthenlaws and regulations media to foster a social atmoand dismissals, important project arrangements and large amounts of fund). Too, CSG has incorporated ing inspection tours so as to sphere against power larceny supervisory efficiency in key fields and major links where such points as fixed asset investment and find loopholes in a timely Promoting power safety and anti-crime construction and supplies procurement bidding may open opportunities for corrupt practice. By taking into manner legislation at local levels and strengthening power law enforcement by administraconsideration the actual needs of reform and development to improve the development quality and tive means efficiency of the company, CSG can better monitor concerns in this area. CSG has assigned ombudsmen for key projects of fixed asset investment and construction to standardize key project management procedures. They identified 589 problems and put forward 460 supervisory proposals. Discovery of Power Larceny Report Award CSG has sent supervisory committees to provincial companies, an act which has strengthened overall supervisory A reward valued at capacity and ensured the sustainable and stable growth of the company through measures such as examinations, Dial 110 电 5% to 20% of inspection and monitoring. evaded power bills CSG has created an indirect economic benefit of 357 million RMB through efficiency supervision. 奖 The maximum reward Dial 95598 is RMB 500,000 Building Mental Defenses Against Corruption Through Warning Education Power Larceny is Illegal and Costly In August of 2013, CSG launched a discipline education month themed as “Be Down-to-Earth and Clean in Our Work to Better Serve the People”. To better guard against corruption, the Qujing Power Supply Bureau of the Yunnan LAI from Dongguan City, Guangdong Province and WU, the manager of a fruit and food trade market Power Grid organized 115 CPC cadres, newly appointed officials above in Wanjiang District, Dongguan City committed malicious power larceny. From Mar 22, 2010 to Oct the section chief level, staff working in important posts and some of the 31, 2011 when they were arrested, they had, altogether, stolen power measured at 1.55 gWh. In Oct heads of Power Supply Bureaus to visit the anti-corruption and integrity 2012, LAI was convicted of larceny by the First People’s Court of Dongguan City, Guangdong building education base in Qujing. They listened to the confessions of Province and sentenced to 13 years in prison with a fine of RMB 200,000. WU was convicted of prisoners and watched education videos on corruption cases, which larceny and sentenced to 9 years of imprisonment with a fine of RMB 80,000. Because power theft helped them to enhance clean operation and integrity awareness. was illegal, LAI and WU received their due legal punishments. 51 Economic Performance Economic Performance 52 Cost Reduction and Efficiency Improvement Power Market Development Promotion Power Supply Maintaining the power market order, CSG has conducted an in-depth analysis into unstable factors in the power Confronted with complicated economic situations at home and abroad, as well as sluggish power market, has ensured open, fair and just trade practices and constructed healthy business relationship to promote consumption growth in the five provinces and regions, CSG has adopted the intensive growth pattern and a sustainable and harmonious power market development. carried out steady steps to cut down on costs and improve efficiency. We have focused on cost efficiency and management, preventing waste from the outset and enhancing operation efficiency. Our Challenges Green Energy The reduced economic growth rate has led to slower power consumption growth Reducing power CSG has increased hydro power amount used thereby reducing power purchasing costs. grid-wide. This points out that we cannot develop the power industry by relying solely purchasing costs The proportion of hydro power as part of the total power purchase was 30.2% in 2013 Slower power consumption on high power consumption growth rates growth experienced Cost Management CSG has optimized investment structures and kept power grid investment at a Controlling power reasonable scale. We have cut down non-productive outlays, reducing official Economic supply costs reception expenses by 20.5% and meeting-related expenses by 22.3% and saving Customers now require more professional, diversified and personalized services Performance power supply cost of RMB 1.45 billion in 2013 Higher customer expectations Idle goods CSG has improved inventory management mechanisms and control strategies achieving Problems such as the conflict between hydro and thermal power and unbalanced growth management a turnover rate of 70.7%, resulting in a reduction rate of idle goods by 58.5% saving in the West and East still exist. Increased new energy investment demand sets up a higher RMB 325 million in 2013 standard and requirements for the power grid company to integrate its resources. Transformed power Social harmony source structure Goods Scrapped goods CSG has managed disposal of, and cleared scrapped goods periodically, generating an Management management Stakeholders Our Actions income of RMB 280 million from their recycle CSG intensified its efforts to expand the power consumption market in coordination with provincial Centralizing CSG has expanded the range of primary procurement With a Centralized procurement and regional governments to promote regional industrial structure transformation and upgrading procurement rate reaching 80.45% and with significant improvements in the accuracy rate of demand Government CSG carried out West-to-East power transmission project smoothly management planning at 99.72%. This achieved an annual procurement savings of RMB 1.748 billon CSG has improved communication mechanisms between power plants and power grids to strengthen their communication at various levels. It also organized situation briefings and liaison Faced with money shortages in the financial market, CSG has strengthened centralized meetings to enhance the efficiency of their communication and coordination efforts. Capital Centralizing capital capital management and centrally operates 97% of all company/corporate capital. CSG took active steps to help power plants with their difficulties, supporting them in the units’ Management management Intra-CSG capital surplus was centrally adjusted and, as a result, a capital savings of RMB Power Plant grid-connected power generation to ensure safe and stable operation of power grids. 2.05 billion was realized in 2013. CSG maintained smooth and efficient operation of power grids and ensured power supply for household use and important customers CSG innovated customer service channel and provided better customer power use service Q： How does CSG establish an efficient logistics management system to cut Customers CSG provided energy-saving services to customers and helped them to enhance their energy efficiency costs and improve efficiency? CSG unleashed its potential by optimizing deployment and making use of resource allocation platform. It coordinated the supply between the North and South, transmission between the East and West, and promoted cross-region and long-distance power trade. A： We have cancelled the practice of using secondary warehouses and transformed the hierarchy Further Reading of “primary and secondary warehouses+first aid kit” to “regional logistics platform warehouse cluster+first aid kit” to CSG integrated new energy sources into the power grid network and deepened energy-saving power coordinate the operation of all warehouses. We carried out the pilot program of Society generation dispatch methods to promote sustainable social development. replenishment procurement and set up “fixed storage and dynamic replenishment The first-aid kit is an mechanisms” and supplies accounting systems to enhance management efficiency of supplies. CSG carried out the national power pricing policy strictly and operated in accordance with laws and important part of CSG’ s regulations and under the supervision of power supervisory body “big warehouse and big distribution” logistics Power CSG observed power market order and ensured open, equal and just trade practices. system. Borrowed from Supervision Body the medical concept, it The First Warehouse Built According to New Standards Was Put into Operation refers to small wareIndex Express houses where the emergency repair and mainIn Marchof 2013, the first primary warehouse designed and Index Performance Index Performance tenance goods are built according to “Warehouse Construction and Equipment stored. It provides Standards of CSG” was put into operation by the Zhuhai Power Economic Contract Supply Bureau. Based on a supermarket-type management Fulfillment Rate 100% Efficiency Auditing Items 601 24-hour goods collecmode, it introduced bar code scanning for stock location and tion and return service. stock in and out to achieve visualized monitoring and Economic Contract Legal Review Rate of Major Legal Review Rate 100% Business Decisions 100% The design of each kit is IT-enabled storage. The role of the warehouse has been different in each of the transformed from inventory keeping to logistics operation. Legal Review Rate of Legal Review Rate of Rules With goods collection time shortened to eight minutes, the Bidding Documents 100% and Regulations 100% logistics distribution goods operation efficiency was greatly enhanced. systems and aims to Integrity and Clean Practice Net Value Rate of Retired Education for Cadres Over 8000 people Assets 15.5% satisfy the actual needs. 53 Economic Performance Economic Performance 54 Regional Economic and Social Development Promotion Enhancing Cooperation with Hong Kong and Macao CSG has set up deep-level cooperation mechanisms with Hong Kong and Macao for exchange of visits among Power Supply In line with the strategic positioning of each region where CSG branches and subsidiaries are located, CSG has made full use of its’ resource allocation platform to coordinate power supply in the East and the West and to senior executives, for personnel training and for technological exchanges and cooperation. provide power support aiding the economic and social growth of the five provinces and regions. CSG set up power industry summit mechanisms across the Mainland, Hong Kong and Macao and participated in the 3rd CSG, CLP & CEM Power Industry Summit to jointly discuss efficient, reliable, green and low-carbon power supply Assist Guangdong to become the first means. Green Energy “one trillion US dollars” regional CSG attended the 18th Canton, Hongkong and Macau Power Service Workshop, and exchanged ideas on E Channel, economy Guizhou New Experience on Customer Service and Energy Saving Service. The Guangdong Power Grid has constantly CSG has worked with the Macao Government to set plans for advancement of its’ power grid structure and to reinforced power infrastructure facilities to provide Guang improve services. zhou Guangdong safer, steadier, better and cleaner power. It offered Yunnan Guangxi support to Guangdong’ s strategy of industrial and Economic Promotion of GMS (Greater Mekong Sub-Region) labor force transfer, making contributions to its Shenzhen growth as the first regional economy in China with Performance an economic size of over one trillion US dollars. The Power Cooperation Guangdong Power Grid’ s fixed asset investment totaled RMB 23.74 billion and power supply was CSG has played an active role as one of China’s executive parties in the GMS cooperation. By taking part in 409.79 tWh in 2013. Hainan various works of the GMS Power Trade Coordination Committee, we intensified the power grid interconnectivity with GMS countries and optimized the electricity resources in a greater area. Social harmony Support Guangxi to develop the Facilitate Yunnan’s In line with the status quo of power cooperation Northern Bay and Xijiang River development as a bridgehead in GMS, CSG completed a “Study on Problems Related to Economic Belt Power Cooperation in GMS”. Some of our proposals were According to the features of important areas like the Carrying out the strategy of “going global” , the adopted by the relevant departments in charge Northern Bay Economic Zone and the Xijiang River Yunnan Power Grid has facilitated Yunnan’ s growth Economic Belt, and the inclusive numbers of important as a “green economy; a province with distinct ethnic CGS carried out the application process for customers, the Guangxi Power Grid customized its service culture and a bridgehead opening to Southeast Kunming to be the permanent office location of the strategy for each market segment. It has promoted the Asia” . It properly handled power shortages in dry GMS Regional Power Coordination Centre (RPCC) diversification of power source structures and reasonable seasons and power surpluses during the rainy power structures in Guangxi and has built reliable green seasons and helped with Yunnan’ s project of “Prospower grids covering the urban the rural areas in the pering border area and benefiting people” to build Vietnamese Minister of Planning and Investment Bui region by coordinating with various parties. The annual the open economic zone in the border area. The Quang Vinh presented the investment license for the power supply totaled 172.06 tWh in 2013. first phase BOT project of Vinh Tan coal-fired power power supply topped at 96.34 tWh. plant to ZHAO Jianguo, Board Chairman of CSG. Promote the rapid economic Facilitate Hainan’s Development CSG traded 1.89 tWh electricity with Myanmar in 2013 and social growth of Guizhou as an International Tourism Island CSG provided assistance to the CPC Central Committee External Liaison Department in hosting Sino-Myanmar The Guizhou Power Grid strengthened the construction The Hannan Power Grid sped up urban and rural People-to-People Communication Roundtable Forum in of West-to-East energy passage to support the steady power grid upgrading and transformation and Kunming to boost economic and trade cooperation enhanced power supply reliability to satisfy the between the two countries, laying a solid foundation for growth of coal and electricity industries in the province Myanmar the cooperation in the power sector so that Guizhou’ s resource advantages can be translated Province’ s demand for power to support its’ into economic benefits. In 2013, the Guizhou Power Grid position as an international tourism island. It made Laos Voice Voice sold 133.2 tWh electricity and completed 32.42 tWh a fixed assets investment of RMB 3.12 billion and Vietnam power transmissions in the West-to-East project, making sold 18.86 tWh of electricity in 2013, thus facilitatactive contributions to local economic growth. Guizhou ing the Province to attain its strategic objective of ranked No. 1 in terms of its’ economic growth rate in the “green rise through scientific development” . Thailand country and attained its objective in the 12th Five-Year CSG set up regular communications mechanisms with Vietnam and has accumulatively exported a total of 3.27 plan a full two years ahead of schedule. Whenever there is a In last year, the Yunnan tWh power to the country Power Grid delivered The Vietnamese government issued investment licenses to power failure, the employservices to Yunnan to the first phase BOT project of Vinh Tan coal-fired power ees of China Power will plant (the first overseas BOT cooperation project of CSG) Deliver service to Guangzhou’s Support of Shenzhen’s come to make the repair support its growth. I mission of building itself into a effort to become a modern CSG signed strategic cooperation agreement with Vietnam immediately, even during highly commend its national central city international city Power Group efforts to ensure power the night. It is really conThe Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau has been dedicated Centering on Shenzhen’ s mission of becoming a venient to use “Chinese supply and accelerate modern international city, the Shenzhen Power to Guangzhou’ s mission of building the city into a power grid development. Supply Bureau has taken steps to speed up power electricity” . national central city featuring a low-carbon economy, the image of a smart city and a high living quality. It accelergrid construction area-by-area in the city. It enhanced the power supply service quality to CSG signed a Memorandum of Understanding on a ated power grid infrastructure construction and Power Purchase Project with the Thai National Power CSG supplied 204 gWh of electricity to Laos in 2013, constantly improved and innovated power supply become an “outstanding power grid operator for an Generation Bureau in Kunming a-year-on-year growth of 100% services. It delivered a world-class power supply network internationally advanced city” . It delivered service and services to assist Guangzhou’ s transformation and to accelerate Shenzhen’ s economic transformation With CSG’s efforts, the Sino-Thailand 500 KV Power The stone-laying ceremony for the Nam Tha 1 hydro——QIN Guangrong and upgrading so as to guarantee the “Shenzhen Connection Project was listed as a prioritized project power project was held ——Meng Yan upgrading. The annual power supply delivered was 67.26 Secretary of the CPC tWh in 2013. quality” . Its power supply was 71.3 tWh in 2013. within the GMS 2012-2022 investment framewo Factory manager in Yunnan Committee Myanmar 55 Economic Performance Economic Performance 56 Social Harmony Creation of Win-Win by Joining Hands with Stakeholders CSG is responsible for delivering ubiquitous power services with an aim of boosting the coordinated development of both urban and rural areas. We The Dongguan Power Supply Bureau of the Guangdong Power Grid, carried out a volunteer activity “Caring for pay close attention to every cooperator and build an equal, coordinated and mutually beneficial platform for such cooperation. By putting people left-behind children of migrant workers” . After watching power emergency repair and experiencing meter readings, a child named Cai Nuo made up his mind to become an electricity engineer when he was grown up. first, we take care of every staff member and try to make the company a happy place for them. CSG has cooperated with all stakeholders to realize our “Chinese Dream” and bring light and happiness to our society. Public Welfare Cooperation and Win-Win Staff Development 50,029 96% 100% staff members have participated of staff have been of the workers of contractors in volunteer activities trained have received safety training CSG’ s Ecological Model for Stakeholders Social Harmony Mirrored in One KWh Electricity Share Other power Media Customers The whole journey of every watt of power, from production to consumption, holders companies would be impossible without the sincere cooperation and hard work of all stakeholders. As enterprises are cells of society, CSG is bonded with other social Staff Media sectors by electricity. We utilize the resources allocation function of power grid and build an electricity ecosystem in which such stakeholders as staff, clients, supply chain providers, community, and media, as well as government, conduct CSG Society Potential employees cross-sector cooperation, share values and coexist harmoniously. We do our utmost to send every watt of electricity to thousands of households, thus winning the awareness, recognition and support from our stakeholders and Financial Government institutions departments contributing more to social harmony. The Yixing Power Supply Bureau of the Guizhou Safety lectures were delivered at construction site to Experienced employees are coaching newcomers NGOs Partners uppliers and contractors Power Grid held a donation activity at the Dalu improve contractor ’ s on-site operational safety Primary School, Pomei Town, Ceheng County. practices Public Welfare Cooperation and Win-win The power grid has linked CSG to thousands of households. With a sense of responsibility, we consider it Sticking to the principle of equality and mutual benefit, CSG actively builds up platforms for cooperation, Power Supply The Annual Donation amounted to our priority to improve people’ s living standards. By visiting communities, rural areas, schools, hospitals, broadens cooperative channels, achieves common development and creates value together with our partRMB 47.9 enterprises and low-income families, we try our best to repay society for its support of us and our efforts. ners. There was no complaint from our partners during all the past year. million in 2013 Poverty Alleviation Intensifying Cooperation with Power Plants Green Energy CSG has widely taken part in economic and social reconstruction of impoverished areas by focusing on povWe conduct deep and pragmatic cooperation via our power plants by implementing “open, fair and just” erty alleviation, partner assistance and the combination of development and collaboration. Additionally, we dispatching. We continuously improve dispatching information disclosure and ensure the safe and stable operawork to enhance the utilization rate of poverty alleviation goods and constantly help recipient areas to tion of related power systems. The satisfaction rate of “open, fair and just” dispatching was 94.8% in 2013. enhance their self-developing ability. CSG attended the Second China Charity Fair (CCF), displaying the achievements in “Electricity to Every HouseUrging Contractors to Enhance Management Levels Further Reading holds” project, in ensuring power supply for disaster relief and poverty alleviation and made exchanges on charity Economic We work to strengthen contractors’ safety management and control. The “5S” management model was introduced into innovation and ecological welfare. Performance the construction of power grids, encouraging contractors to enhance the ability of their staff to better manage the CSG provided 15 KWh free electricity to 1.38 million disadvantaged families in rural areas and low-income construction site, improve the level of safe on-site operation, perfect the engineering quality of their work and reduce The “5S” management households in urban areas, repairing circuits and fitting lights for low-income families free of charge. In 2013 we the negative impact of construction on the surrounding communities. model includes arrangesupplied 2.48 tWh electricity for free. ments (seiri in Japanese), Volunteer Activities Increasing contractors’ self-governance of safe operation by rectification (seiton), Social harmony Safety and risk sweeping (seiso), cleaning awarding them additional points in construction project bidding CSG set up a young volunteer team which has carried out themed volunteer activities to pass awareness of system certification (setketsu) and quality The Comprehensive Contractor and other measures our care and love to society. Altogether 50,029 staff members have participated in volunteer activities and (shit-suk), all aiming at reducing the construction we have provided service up to 153,423 volunteer hours in 2013. Implementation of a working license system for all employees. Working license projects consumption of All those participating in the engineering work of CSG should system materials and energy with pass an exam before they get a license zero waste; application of Management System smooth engineering Introducing a driving license point-deduction system Point-deduction processes with zero delay; Electricity Tour visiting Perfecting contractors’ point-deduction system through daily system preventing toxicant leakinspections age with zero incidents; For many years, volunteers have regularly helped Granny LI, who Evaluating contractors in terms of their comprehensive strengths, and standardizing lives in financial difficulty Evaluation project fulfillment appraisals and point deduction status through daily construction practice with inspection zero misconduct. communities and on campus system Setting up an elimination system for contractors according to theengineering quality of their final work Protection of Supplier Interests Children signed on the proposal of “Using electricity safely and CSG strictly observes all the laws and regulations on bidding. We put in-place a transparent purchasing economically, building platform and established a market bidding mechanism facilitating fair competition, standardization and harmonious campus together” efficiency, all designed to help suppliers strengthen their core competitiveness. Support for Disaster-Stricken Areas We have gradually adopted a random expert selection system for major project bidding, providing technical guarantees for all-around assurances of equal and just bidding evaluation. Facing such catastrophes as drought and earthquake and other unexpected emergencies, CSG tries its best We carry out credibility evaluations and set up a dynamic blacklist of suppliers to improve management at Voice to repair and restore electricity, give donations and help with the reconstruction of disaster-affected areas. various stages, including bid invitation, purchase, along with contract signing and fulfillment to enhance suppliers’ When the Ya’ an earthquake occoured on April 20th, 2013, we called on all our staff to make donations and the total donation awareness on the importance of credibility. was up to RMB 7.41 million. We have set up a stringent quality assurance system throughout the project/products’ life cycle for all suppliAfter the Yushu earthquake on April 14th, 2013, we donated RMB 5 million to establish the second ethnic middle school in ers. By coordinating the monitoring process with them, we develop core technologies, equipment and skills.Too, we Yushu County, Yushu Tibetan autonomous prefecture to help resume education for 2,700 students. strive to enhance suppliers’ quality assurance levels to promote the localization of core electricity equipment. “In the past few years, electricians have visited our village frequently. They never cold-shoulder us and Spreading Our Love to Every Corner——CSG’ s Sends Envoys to a Leprosy Village 寻找好设备，汇聚金点子 Finding Good Equipment, Collecting Golden Ideas they do help us with a lot of work. Before they came, we didn’ t know what a At the mention of leprosy, many people might feel scared CSG organized the second “Gold Dot Award” competition with birthday celebration was. and try to avoid the patients like avoiding a plague. However, the theme of “finding good equipment/collecting golden ideas” . They care about us like our staff from the Xindian Power Supply Station and the This competition was passed to suppliers to communicate the own families.” Xingyipuan Power Supply Bureau of the Guizhou Power Grid message “good suppliers manufacture good equipment” . The have insisted on helping with the 39 patients in Xindian’ s program drove them to enhance their innovation so as to leprosy village for over a decade. Every week they pay a improve the quality of grid equipment. Among all the works, visit to the senior citizens in this village and provide help by 40 were awarded the Golden Idea Prize, two the Special checking circuits, changing light bulbs, raising funds to Prize for Good Equipment and another 15 the Good EquipLIUiu Shiguo establish a “CSG pool” and have set up a care fund. Villagment Prize. Those awarded works were likely to be some Resident in a leprosyvillage ers call them “the envoys of CSG” in appreciation. favorable consideration in future bidding. 59 Social Harmony Social Harmony 60 International Communication and Cooperation Staff Development CSG has been actively building its’ international exchange platform, establishing collaborative relationships CSG considers staff to be the most important asset. They light up every household and create value for stakePower Supply with world-leading power companies and international organizations to enhance technological communicaholders through their hard work. CSG values every staff member: Offering them clear development options tion, working to achieve information sharing and to improve CSG’ s global influence and soft power. and channels, we work to help balance their work and life, and to endeavour to enhance their happiness Gary Locke, then US and sense of belonging. Ambassador to China, visited CSG to explore CSG considers “establishing a happy CSG, increasing staff’ s happiness and creating an atmosphere of mutual caring between potential cooperation leaders and staff” a priority effort. CSG conducts research and assessments on the the happiness of Company employees so as to Green Energy in new energy develdevelop a happy workplace. opment and exploitation, UHV power transmission and other areas. Creating the Source of Happiness, Striving to Develop a Happy Workplace Economic ERDF visited CSG. Performance Both sides exchanged Pakistani Premier Nawaz Sharif and the Pakistani government delegation visited the CSG Power Dispatching and Control Center Besides enhancing the material basis and confronting social and economic stress inherent in the views on better Improving workplace environment working world, CSG has set up an improved and more reasonable salary distribution system and communication and CSG Board Chairman ZHAO Jianguo held August and atmosphere improved the frontline working environment. CSG has also strengthened the communications further cooperation in mechanisms to create a harmonious workplace atmosphere. smart retrofitting of talks with Pakistani Premier Nawaz Sharif to October enhance communication related to energy distribution networks, themes and cooperation between asset management, CSG pays attention to staff’ s physical and mental health we strive to lower staff risks/chances of the two sides. Social harmony distributed power Enhancing staff’ s individual suffering from sub-health events/conditions and work to enhance staff’ s resiliency.Too, CSG connections and other happiness helps staff to evaluate their individual contributions objectively, establish correct values and areas. May CSG attended the 22 n d increase their happiness with the resulting conditions. January July World Energy Congress June to discuss topics includCSG presented the 2nd Senior Executives Harvard TrainCSG participated in the 3 Global Think Tank Summit rd ing energy industry CSG cares about staff with relatively less happiness, such as middle-aged and young backbone staff and hosted the sub-forum “Global Energy, New Era” to reform, renewable Paying more attention to staff as well as those who must work over 60 hours per week or have an unbalanced family life. We ing Program which was held to cultivate personnel discuss low-carbon developments, effective energy energy development and with relatively less happiness help staff balance their work and life by lowering their work burden and by launching the staff recognized as “all-round talents with global vision and mentoring program. international strategic thinking” . supply and efficient energy utilization. their solutions. In 2013, CSG conducted the second “Happy CSG” evaluation. According to the results, the company’ s happiness index and individual happiness index, respectively, increased 5 points and 2 points compared with those of 2011, showcasing the initial positive result of the “Happy CSG” measures. Company’ s Happiness Index (unit: Scores) Individual Happiness Index (unit: Scores) 80 80 80 78.7 80 78.7 76.8 Trainees of the CSG 2nd Senior Executives Harvard CSG leaders and guests present in the Training Program “Global Energy, New Era” sub-forum 75 73.9 75 70 70 Power Industry Events Participated by CSG in 2013 2011 2013 ( Year ) 2011 2013 ( Year ) International Power Electronics and Motion Council Meeting and Annual Meeting of AORC-CIGRE Technical Meeting and Annual Staff Structure Control Conference GO15 Meeting By the end of 2013, the total number of staff in CSG was 316,000, among which 24.1% were females, showing a more reasonable staff gender structure. Rio+20 Corporate CEPSI Sustainability Forum Asia Staff Age Patterns Staff Education Level Pattern 14.4% 12.3% 2.2% Main Organizations in Which CSG Holds Membership 32.7% 21.5% 21.1% 39.5% Organization Qualification Organization Qualification China Electricity Council Member at Deputy DirectorGeneral Level Member AESIEAP 31.4% 24.9% Power Sector Branch, China Institute of Internal Audit Member at Vice Chair Level National Committee of China Member Master’ s Degree Bachelor’ s College Labor Security Below 29 30~39 holders and above Degree holders Graduates Boao Forum for Asia Diamond Member 50 and above Technical School 40~49 Graduates High School Graduates and below 61 Social Harmony Social Harmony 62 Staff Rights and Benefits Management of Executives Complying with China Labor Contract Law and other relevant regulations, CSG always respects human rights, CSG has been strengthening the leadership and executive structure at all levels, selecting and training “outPower Supply encourages diversity, offers staff clear channels to express their opinions and concerns, and protects staff’s standing executives” , and improving the leadership assessment mechanisms to support the privacy, rights and benefits. In 2013, there were no major labor dispute within CSG. implementation of the company’ s strategies and its scientific development. Focusing more on frontline, continuing to improve employment management in rural areas, and standardizing Selection of Training of Management Evaluation of both business and employment management. Executives Executives of Executives Executives Improving the executive selecEnhancing the work style of execuDeveloping specific post responStrengthening the assessment methods Green Energy tion mechanisms, optimizing tives at all levels through activities sibility systems including the based on the company’ s strategies and the leadership and executive focusing on the Party’ s grassroots basic principle of “setting up a post-responsibility system guideline team structure in multiple post, offering a mission and aspects, and forming a more defining a responsibility” helps Enhancing the application of evaluation Strengthening the education, results as well as their guiding, motivatbalanced executive structure is training and practice of executives guide executive selection and ing and supervising role. Standardizing Labor Salary Management a constant goal. to enhance their capabilities training. Management Respecting Holiday, Annuity and Human Rights Medical Insurance Economic Performance Staff Training Based on the competence of employees, CSG makes great efforts to develop training and assessment systems, improve the facilities of training centers all designed to unleash the potential of employees. In 2013, 644,700 CSG employs the In the past three years, CSG formulates a unified 100% of staff within the staff received training, including 6,112 team leaders at grassroots level. disabled, forbids hiring 16 home offices of CSG’ s salary distribution system labor contract system have Social harmony branches and subsidiarsocial insurance and a children as labor and ies as well as 320 under which salaries of housing fund. An addiStaff Training Covering Four treats all staff equally frontline workers take up a regardless of their sex, contracted companies larger share than before. tional 57,000 staff memLevels: Grid, Province, City and have all standardized bers were given annuity age, race and religious staff management to insurance in 2013, the County beliefs in accordance build up a harmonious percentage of staff with Platform construction Various forms of training with Chinese laws. employment relationannuity insurance ship. currently reaching 98%. Completing construction of 273 Offering training of different kinds skills training centers (platforms) and at different levels Developing 20 safe operation Organizing 8,324 training sessions for somatosensory training programs and 9 647,700 employees in 2013 Occupational Health & Safety Chinese patents for utility models CSG pays great attention to occupational health and safety and the establishment of a unique safety culture, Training materials development Teaching staff pooling having provided a safe and healthy work environment and actively working to prevent personal safety accidents Formulating plans to compile and Setting up teaching staff pools, including and occupational hazardous accidents. There were no occupational disease cases reported toCSG in 2013. improve training materials for 6,912 from within CSG and 554 froout technical staff side Enhancing performance of the safety risk system, innovating safety training methods, hosting safety skills competitions, and building a safety culture of “risk awareness, whole staff participation, sharing, mutual help and continuous improvement” . In 2013, 157,000 staff were trained in safety skills. Organization of regular staff health checks, setting up staff health archives and strengthening the emergency response Career Development mechanisms for serious diseases of employees has been implemented. CSG has set up an enabling environment for career development of its employees, guiding them and helping to match their career development plans with their own strengths and personal interests. CSG emphasizes Democratic Management non-material incentives to staff and recognizes staff value. CSG holds staff representative conferences regularly to pursue transparency of company affairs as well as to CSG has broadened development channels for technical staff. We largely modified the Technical Experts Manageassure democratic management and to protect staff’s rights to make decisions, manage and to supervise ment Rules and improved the recruitment and administration mechanisms for technical and skilled staff. In 2013, eight employees were appointed as senior technicians, six as senior skilled staff with 95 model worker workshops and QC corporate affairs. Staff are encouraged to play an active role in the company’s affairs. teams were established. Holding staff representative joint meetings and approving three management systems…including the CSG Labor ManageCSG organized “To-Top Cup” skills competitions which are aimed at enhancing the skills and job performance of CSG was awarded “the ment Method…has been accomplished. employees through learning and training. During each competition, 15 staff are selected as CSG’ s staff of outstanding National Advanced Unit for Establishing the system of Trade Union liaising with staff representatives and Trade Union leaders liaising with grassskills, and nine of them are awarded the title of “Outstanding Technicians of Central Enterprises” Open and Democratic Management” roots units, setting up the Trade Union President’ s mailbox and establishing an effective staff communication platform and CSG has honored outstanding employees by carrying out “Moving CSG” selection campaigns for three consecutive mechanism to respond to staff requests on time has been effected. years. 安全体感实训 Somatosensory Training for Operational Safety Career Development Plans 公司举办首届表扬立功一等功年度评选 Five-step Career Life The Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau has established the The Dongguan Power Supply Bureau adopts the “three trees” first national operations safety somatosensory room to model for career development planning. The plan specifies enhance staff’ s safety awareness. Staff can experience the nature and requirement of three development paths: Special Grade Skill Expert Senior Skill Expert electric shock, electrified wire-cutting, flash burn and other administration, technology and skills. It maps out five steps in First Grade Skill Expert Chief Technical Expert Director Second Grade Skill Expert 6 training situations in the room. This simulation environcareer development: deciding career development path, drawSenior Grade Technical Expert Vice Director Third Grade Skill Expert First Grade Technical Expert Manager Assistant Skill Expert ment was built in accordance with international, industrial ing job-specific development map, filling in a career developSecond Grade Technical Expert Vice Manager Leader Third Grade Technical Expert Section Chief Vice Leader and company safety standards. The somatosensory trainment guiding card, drawing the blueprint of staff development Assistant Technical Expert Vice Section Chief Team Operator Project Chief Senior Operator ing experiences not only strengthens staff’ s self-protection and integrating all elements with training and assessment Assistant Project Chief Intermediate Operator Staff Primary Operator abilities, but has also lowered the accident rate. systems. 63 Social Harmony Social Harmony 64 Caring about the Staff Origin of responsibility CSG cares about its staff, carrying out staff mentoring programs and organizing regular activities to promote Power Supply their physical and mental health. We endeavor to establish a “Happy CSG, Home of Staff”. Organize model youth selection activities Visiting and expressing regards to workers in Returning the support like “the Most Handsome/Beautiful Young Worker” the engineering sites where urgent, difficult, Serving the customers Building Youth Visiting frontier of the local society Green Energy and “Ten Outstanding Youths” . We presented dangerous and important works are under way, League work workers and the inventions and innovations from like the X ilu od u ±500KV DC t ransmission young workers publicly to encourage into a brand relieving their project. We endeavored to relieve frontier Customer-centered, power supply reliability Shouldering social responsibility and young staff to take part in the “To-Top” difficulties workers’ concerns and difficulties so that they improvement is the foundation building a green power grid A myriad of campaign of the company are better supported in their work twinkling lights, great Happy CSG, rapport of CSG Home of Staff Economic Following the concept of ‘China Dream’ and ‘CSG Formulating the “Guideline on Establishing a Commitment of CSG Staff Caring about the staff Performance Dream’ , we carried out “Voice from a Dream, Happy Happy CSG, Home of Staff (trial)” , we tried to Enriching Organizing CSG” singing competition. After several rounds make CSG a happy and harmonious corporate culture quality cultural People-oriented, common development of of competition, nearly 100 staff entered the Lighting up thousands of homes and bringing workplace by integrating a homelike though special and recreational staff and the company, establishing a final round and sang to celebrate the 64 t h brightness and happiness to society atmosphere with the corporate culture programs activities happy CSG. anniversary of the founding of the People’ s Republic of China Social harmony Corporate core values are the long-term and fundamental belief of a company; they are the touchstone of a company’ s decisions 粤 Guangdong Power Grid 桂 Guangxi Power Grid 滇 Yunnan Power Grid and actions. CSG has identified the core values as; “A myriad of twinkling lights, great rapport of CSG” . This concept which conveys the company’ s commitment to serve the customers, care about the staff, protect the environment and return the support of the sociA 24-hour psychological consultancy Personnel carry out “home culture” The Yunnan Power Grid carried out a ety, is also meant to communicate the nature of our intention to treat all stakeholders responsibly – including the government, cushotline for staff and their family programs to foster safety culture, themed activity, “sunny mindset and members has been set up which tomers, staff, business partners, environmental agencies, our various communities and the public. build up the staff culture center and enjoyable career life” , hiring profesprovides free consultancy on stress organize featured cultural and entersional psychological consultancy management, relationships and marriage, childrens education and tainment activities to enrich stafflife. organizations to provide one-to-one CSG’ s corporate culture has played a pivotal role in the integration and development of the company. CSG has developed a psychological health service to staff. other areas. corporate culture that emphases safety, service and responsibility. This is done under a process in which a staff team with a commitment of “devoting myself to the brightness of thousands of homes” , is formed and an environment of actively fulfilling social responsibility is created. This then becomes the origin of CSG responsibility and guides CSG to conquer various difficulties and to 黔 Guizhou Power Grid 琼 Hainan Power Grid continuously create value for stakeholders. Is implementing a staff care project Established a mental health/self-help Happy Wand called “Green Leaves” , The Bijie website for staff, giving lectures at Power Supply Bureau organized a remotely located companies and communications day when company organizing seven sessions of psycholeaders had face to face communicalogical lectures entitled “bring happiCSG corporate culture tion with employees to solve their ness to yourself” concerns and difficulties. Mission Actively shouldering social responsibility; making every effort to ensure a dependable power supply 穗 Guangzhou Power 鹏 城 Shenzhen Power Core value A myriad of twinkling lights, the great rapport of CSG Supply Bureau Supply Bureau Is launching eight activities themed on Personnel are carrying out “Let’ s Play “realizing CSG’ s dream together and the Game Together” , a family activity Strategic objective To be a world-leading power grid company that excels in service, management and corporate image creating a happy Guangzhou Power designed to support emotional Supply Bureau for everyone” , exchanges between staff and their presented through organizing ten family so that staff could enjoy the CSG spirit Devoting myself to the brightness of thousands of homes sessions of the “Experiencing Happicare from both the company and the ness” lecture tour family side Corporate lifeline The safety and stability of power grid Safety principle Any accident is preventable Index Express Operation principle Social benefit is the priority; business benefit is the focus Index Performance Index Performance Service principle The customer comes first; achieving win-win in harmony Percentage of employees 100% Financial aid for RMB14.15 million Behavior principle Be an honest person and do appropriate things joining the Labor Union disadvantaged staff Staff turnover 1% Physical examination rate 100% Team principle Insist on principle and value friendship; build a happy CSG Average annual paid leave per capita 9 Days Social welfare coverage 100% Dealing of employees’ Labor contract signing rate 100% complaints/number of letters 307 letters Satisfaction rate of company Number of Model Workers For details of CSG corporate culture, please log on http://www.csg.cn/qywh/nwwhln information disclosure 99% of Central Enterprises 20 people 65 Social Harmony Origin of responsibility 66 Responsibility Management Responsibility Convergence CSG practices social responsibility using a strategetic CSG incorporates social responsibility practice with its CSG takes concrete measures to implement the Harmonious Development Strategy Guidelines for Central Enterprises in the 12th Five-Year-Plan Period to management approach. It formulates a social responsispecific business operation, and advances its social enhance social responsibility management and promote grassroots execution. CSG branches and subsidiaries have carried out their bility work plan and management regulation, implements responsibility, responsibility practice, responsiresponsibility practice in a comprehensive manner. own distinctive social responsibility practice with focuses on ten priority areas including reliable power supply, quality service, energy bility convergence, responsibility communication and CSG’ s practice is worth learning. conservation and emission reduction. responsibility research. Its social responsibility assists and complements its regulation management and —— PENG Huagang assessment. The closed-loop approach effectively faciliDirector of Research Bureau, Hand-In-Hand campaign, Guangdong Party branch cooperation by Guangxi Lighting up the Dulong River by The Yunnan tates corporate responsibility practice and boosts the SASAC, State Council Power Grid Power Grid Power Grid company’ s reputation and soft power. CSG strategy-driven social responsibility execution path Responsibility Governance Mission Social responsibility governance is based on a three-tier Strategy-driven To-Top strategy Philosophy-led Core values linkage mechanism. The CSG headquarters leads Social Responsibility Steering Committee;the Strategy Department The Yunnan Power Grid made painstaking efforts sets up a Social Responsibility Execution Division; CSG Strategy objectives The Hand-In-Hand Campaign, by Guangdong Power to build a physically-independent power grid for branches and subsidiaries have established their own Social Grid, enabled the company to identify partners and Responsibility Dulong township and has established the Dulong Responsibility Sub-Steering Committees and Social Respongovernance deliver timely assistance to stakeholders with an Power Supply Office to light up this snow-capped aim to deliver better services. The campaign helps The Guangxi Power Grid carries out an assistance sibility Execution Sections, and power supply bureaus have and remote place inhabited by ethnic minorities. Strategy implementation Responsibility convergence Translate philosophy the Guangdong Power Grid to strengthen cooperacampaign and has signed Party Branch Cooperation appointed a social responsibility coordinator. Responsibility into action tion with the government, media, community, Agreements with 215 villages in the region. The management CSG has formulated Execution Working Plan for Harmonious DevelopRegulation mechanism Practice orientation industry and consumers. company has invested RMB 6 million in poverty Regulation and plan Performance assessment ment Strategy Guidelines for Central Enterprises in the 12 Five-Year-Plan th alleviation and has introduced nearly 200 Period and the Working Plan for Social Responsibility Management projects for the partners. Assessment criteria Enhancement to advance social responsibility practice in a Strategy assurance Communication and participation of stakeholders based on stakeholders’ Guard the Remote Corner of the Country systematic manner. satisfaction Campaign by The Hainan Power Grid Joint Development by The Guizhou Power Grid Honors and awards The CSG 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Social responsibility Ltd. was rated five stars by the rating panel for three consecutive years. practice with CSG The Guard the Remote Corner of the Country Campaign by The 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. characteristics The Sansha Power Supply Bureau, Hainan Power Was awarded the Special Memorial Award for Corporate Social Responsibility Reports Grid, aims to deliver quality services to local and ranked number one among 1,084 reports by the 2013 White Paper for The Guizhou Power Grid has launched the Joint communities on the island. The bureau has set up Chinese Enterprises’ Corporate Social Responsibility Report . Development Campaign in remote villages. The a 7/24 hotline to answer inquires and address company sets up service centers with the assistance pressing issues of the local community. Consumers of local village party branches. The service centers gave a 100% applause rate for their services. According to the 2013 Blue Paper for Corporate Social Responsibility Report deliver speedy and quality services to local people. The Shenzhen-Hong Kong Charity Event released by The Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, CSG ranked by The Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau second in the Top 100 Corporate Social Responsibility ratings, moving up one place compared to that of 2012. Energy Saving Steward by The CSG Synthesis Energy Corporation CSG was awarded The Innovation Award for Responsibility CommunicaThe Smart Power Consumption Pioneer by tion, Top 50 Chinese Enterprises in Public Transparency at the CorpoThe Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau rate Sustainable Competitiveness Annual Meeting and the 2013 Rating Reports Release Conference for the Top 50 Chinese Enterprises in Public Transparency. The CSG Synthesis Energy Corporation (CSG The Social responsibility report by The Guizhou Power Grid Co.Ltd and Energy) gives full play to its technological expertise The Shenzhen Power Supply Co. Ltd were awarded 2013 Golden Bee and adopts ECM to help its clients to cut power The Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau works with bills. They introduced a number of leading energy Social Responsibility Special Awards for Outstanding Enterprises. The 2013 Social Responsibility Day and the 7 th CLP (HK) to carry out charity events for The saving technologies including Energy Watching, Smart Power Consumption Pioneer Campaign were Yantian Nursing Home. The company’ s volunGreen Building Energy Efficiency, On-line Monitororganized by The Guangzhou Power Consumption teers have made long-term service plans for the ing Analysis Systems. For the past three years, the Bureau. Volunteers led campus publicity campaign, including free hair cuts, quarterly CSG Synthesis Energy Corporation (CSG Energy) campaigns to raise students’ awareness of power birthday parties and festive parties for senior offered energy saving diagnosis services to 5000+ consumption and protection of electrical facilities. The 2013 Central Enterprise Corporate Social Responsibility Conference released the 2013 Top 50 list for Social Responsibility Practice of Central Enterprises. citizens in the nursing home. companies in CSG’ s service area. Two practice projects of CSG (the Strategy-driven social responsibility management and Putting public interest ahead of our own, Facilitating harmony by Party branch cooperation) won the Top 50. Strategy-driven social responsibility management was selected as the best of Top 10 Best Practice. 67 Responsibility Management Responsibility Management 68 Responsible communications Communication with Stakeholders CSG’ s first Social Responsibility Week, with the theme of Responsibility Relay, is the largest campaign since the founding of the comExpectations and Communication and pany. A Responsibility Survey gives the public a panoramic view of CSG, from its reliable power supply, to its quality services, environStakeholders Practice Requirements Response Approaches mental protection programs to activities promoting social harmony. The company makes use of video clips, mass media, microblog articles and comments and other message formats to improve operational transparency. Compliance management and active submission of Pay taxation in accordance taxes. ; The Guangdong Power Grid signed the 12th with the law. Five-Year-Plan Power Grid Construction Strategic National energy and electricity tariff policy execuSafe power supply. tion; Cooperation Agreement and the Strategic CooperaMaintenance and appreciaPromotion of grid construction with governments; tion on Renewable Energy Project Construction with tion of the State-Owned Daily management enhancement; the Zhuhai Municipal Government. The Theme: Responsibility Relay The CSG First Social Responsibility Week 2013.5.15-2013.5.21 assets value. two agreements secure the construction of Be subject to supervision and inspection; Continuous and steady the Zhuhai Power Grid and assures power Be open to suggestions ; supplies to the city. Government return on investment. Management structure improvements. Timely and sufficient payrolls and social security 15 May: The Guangdong Power Grid Leg 16 May: The Guangxi Power Grid Leg Salary and welfare guaranfor the staff. The Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau impletees. Staff involvement in the management process; ments a motivational program to reward Staff’ s health and safety. Provision of a healthy working environment; outstanding staff performance. Staff shall 17 May: The Yunnan Power Grid Leg receive badges from the company for their Equal opportunities for Assurance of health and safety training and physical examinations; outstanding performance on customer promotion and development. Fair promotion mechanisms; service, and power grid construction. Staff Support for staff in needs; can redeem the badge(s) in exchange for Love for the staff. Staff-counseling schemes; 12 benefits including free film tickets, paid Employees Create and maintain a happy atmosphere; leave and a free tea set. Special protection of female staff. A Green Power Grid lights up the Future Campaign and was held at 11 Power A reliable power supply; Guangdong Power Grid held an Electricity Customer Service Campaigns were held at Reduction of outages. The Foshan Power Supply Bureau initiated Supply Bureaus, including Nanjing, Management of services to achieve customer Photo Exhibition and used a Mobile BusiKunming, Qujing and Honghe, with the High quality power supply. tariff guarantee measures. The company Liuzhou and Guilin. satisfaction; ness Office to offer on-site business applicompany leveraging the opportunity to signed a three-party agreement with enterConvenient service. Develop service innovations to enhance customcations and processing. raise the general public’ s awareness on prises and banks. Under the circumstances Guidance on energy conserers’ experience; economical and safe power consumption. that enterprises fail to pay power tariffs vation. Construction and improvement of the power grid; on-time, banks will issue advance technology and management innovations; payments. . Enterprises will pay capital Discussions and customer visits; and interest to the bank. Customers 15 May: CSG headquarters Energy conservation publicity. 18 May: The Guizhou Power Grid Leg The Guizhou Power Grid works with local universities and research institutes to establish Open procurement information ; the Guizhou Smart Grid Industry Technology CSG headquarters Commitment Innovation Strategic Alliance. The alliance shall Open to feedback. released The 2012 Open, fair and just procureformulate smart grid industry development CSG Corporate Social ment. Negotiation and communication; plans, launch pilot programs on key equipment Responsibility Report Cooperation on projects; Experience sharing. R&D and promote industrialization. The and launched first Strategic cooperation and accountable procureSocial Responsibilalliance is charged with the mission to develop The Power Consumption Publicity Camment ity Week. a smart grid able to combine with a comprepaign and “ Love Children and the Future” Partners hensive industry chain, and work toward an Campaigns were held at Guiyang, Zunyi impressive innovation capacity. and Duyun. Energy conservation and Open procurement information ; The company gives top priority to environemission reduction mental protection efforts, and sticks to Open to feedback. 21 May: May: The Shenzhen Power 20 May: The Guangzhou Power Resources conservation Negotiation and communication; eco-friendly construction in The Huizhou Supply Bureau Supply Bureau Pumped Storage Hydro Station, and will 19 May: The Hainan Power Grid Leg Response to climate change Cooperation on projects; continue to make every effort to remediate Eco-protection Strategic cooperation and accountable procurevegetation in nature reserve parks. ment Environment Utility service development Survey of communities’ needs and demands; The Guangxi Power Grid invested RMB 34.22 The 2013 Social Responsibility Relay Flag Education and publicity in communities; in communities. million in poverty alleviation programs in Presentation and the 7 t h Smart Power The company organized an Open Day to invite citizen observers to visit the Power Poverty alleviation. Discussions and workshops; Construction of an Donglan County. The funding provided has A Social Responsibility Communication Consumption Pioneer Launch Ceremony official website; helped the local community to upgrade rural were held by The Guangzhou Power Di spatching C enter a nd EV C har g in g Communication in commuConference was held in Shenzhen and Effective communication with the public during power grid and train peasants’ in productive Supply Bureau. The event was aimed at Stations in Haikou. Communications Camnities. Campus Cooperation projects were the construction of power grid facilities; skills. educating migrant workers’ children on paigns were held at Power Supply Bureaus activated on-site by live connection. Community and the Public welfare activities. safe power consumption and protection of in the province. general public power facilities. 69 Responsibility Management Responsibility Management 70 About us Overview: CSG and its Secondary Units China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as CSG) was established in 2002. CSG invests, constructs and operates Corporate Governance power networks in Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan provinces and region. The service area is of one million square kilometers, with a population of 230 million. The Company is headquartered in Guangzhou. CSG is a State-Owned Backbone Company. In accordance with Company Laws and the requirements of the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC), CSG has established a modern corporate Governance structure consisting of a board of directors, a supervisory board and Asset Turnover Number of an operations management team. The board of directors plays a key role in corporate governance. The board of directors exercises administration authority Secondary units Main business (unit: RMB (unit: RMB Number customers (unit: 10,000 Official website Company address Contact 100 million) 100 million) of staff house holds) in accordance with the Articles of Association. Guangdong No.757, Dongfengdong CSG’ s strategic orientation is: To be service-oriented, operations-based; conglomeration-type operations, and an integrated management approach. CSG Power Grid 2023.10 2448.78 102628 2750 http://www.gd.csg.cn Road, Guangzhou, 020-85121906 Guangdong specifies decision-making power and procedures, and maintains a sound system of checks and balances. CSG has always practiced a stringent adherence to Company Responsibilities include: regulations, procedures and operations. CSG is dedicated to providing a highly effective operational mode to assure State-Owned asset appreciation. Guangxi Power No.6, Minzhu Road, investment, construction, 550.29 502.37 49987 967 http://www.gx.csg.cn 0771-5692222 Grid Company Nanjing, Guangxi To establish a sound legal-person form of governance, CSG has established a board of directors and appointed a board of supervisors at the Guangdong operations, maintainance of Power Grid, the Guangxi Power Grid, the Yunnan Power Grid, the Guizhou Power Grid and the Hainan Power Grid and has formulated specific rules on board power grids in its service area. Yunnan Power Other main business scope 960.22 701.39 71255 1150 http://www.yn.csg.cn No.73, Tuodong Road, structure and responsibility. Kunming, Yunnan 0871-63165908 Grid Company includes: power trading, power dispatching, power resources Organizational structure Guizhou Power optimization, power market634.50 595.89 54008 1151.64 http://www.gz.csg.cn No.17, Binhe Road, Guiyang, Guizhou 0851-5592222 Grid Company ing, power equipment sales,commissioning, testing. Guangxi Power Grid, Yunan CSG headquarters has 21 departments, one institution and four branches, namely the Bidding Service Center; Education Training Center; CSG EHV Power TransHainan Power Haifu Road, Haikou, Power Grid, and Guizhou 175.66 111.20 11633 215 http://www.hn.csg.cn 0898-65317992 mission Company; and the CSG Power Generation Company. Too CSG has eight wholly-owned subsidiaries; namely the Guangdong Power Grid Company, the Grid Company Hainan Power Grid are responsible for Guangxi Power Grid Company, the Yunnan Power Grid Company, the Guizhou Power Grid Company, the Hainan Power Grid Company, the Guangzhou Power “West-to-east” power transmisGuangzhou No2, Tianhenaner Supply Bureau Co. Ltd, the Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co. Ltd, and the CSG International Company. Additionally, CSG is the controlling shareholder of the Power Supply sion plan project. 414.72 437.50 11360 483.20 http://www.guangzhou.csg.cn 020-87514281 Road, Guangzhou, CSG Financial Company, the CSG Research Institute, the CSG Synthesis Energy Corporation, the Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd, and CSG Media. Bureau Co.Ltd Guangdong Shenzhen No.4020, Shennandong Power Supply 360.80 488.70 5366 256.02 http://www.sz.csg.cn Road, Shenzhen, 0755-88938000 General Office Guangdong Other Affiliated Bureau Co.Ltd Assistant President, Chief Counsel, Chief Safety Officer, Chief the CSG Power Dispatching and Control Center (Share The company is responsible for Strategy and Policy Dept CSG Extra High Units include the office with the Systems Operation Department) construction, operation and manageVoltage Power ment of inter-provincial main networks No.116,Tianhe Road, and important connection lines of the 550.79 432.09 4872 http://www.ehv.csg.cn Guangzhou, Guangdong 020-38126666 Transmission China Southern Power Grid. It is a key Planning and Development Dept Company enterprise to implement the nation’ s Engineer, Head of Inspection Team, Discipline Inspection Team “west-to-east” plan. The EHV Power Transmission Company Personnel Dept CSG Power The CSG Power Generation Company is No.32, Longkoudong in charge of construction, operation Branch Generation and management of power plants for 188.39 31.70 1695 http://www.pgc.csg.cn Road, Tianhe District, 020-38128001 Human Resources Dept The CSG Power Generation Company Company CSG. Guangzhou Chief Economist, Chief Information Officer, Deputy Chief The Education and Training Center (CSG Companies include Finance Dept charge of operation of transnational Party School, Administration College) (cross-border) projects of power trans m iss io n and trans f o rm a ti o n; investment and management of Marketing Dept The Bid Service Center 42nd Floor, R&F Engineer、Deputy Chief Economist offshore power projects and equity, CSG offshore power projects contracts, 6.62 5.88 64 http://csgi.csg.cn Yinglong Plaza,No. 76, 020-85121088 Operations and Equipment International labor services cooperation, external Huangpudadao,Tianhe Co., Ltd. technical cooperation, and District, Guangzhou Management Dept import/export of new technologies, international trade, and consulting and information service. Infrastructure Dept The Guangdong Power Grid Company It is in charge of technical support to planning and construction, research, 13-20 Floor, West Materials Dept The Guangxi Power Grid Company development and implementation of Tower, Yuedian CSG Science key science and technology projects, Building, No6, Wholly-owned 3.20 3.68 234 http://www.sepri.csg.cn 020-38120516 Board of Directors Management Team Research new technology development on power Shuijungang, Information Dept The Yunnan Power Grid Company Institute grids, research and development of Dongfengdong Road, new products.It is the publisher of CSG Technology. Yuexiu District, Guangzhou Subsidiaries include The Guizhou Power Grid Company Its business scope covers: lighting, Safety Supervision Dept green building, coal mine gas, waste CSG Grid heat recovery and re-utilization, Yueneng Building, The Hainan Power Grid Company distributed energy, offshore wind 9.26 1.66 266 http://ny.csg.cn No.45, Tianhe Road, 020-38122715 Synthesis Technology Department Energy Co., Ltd power, development of industry zones Yuexiu The Guangzhou Power and PV panels in building, EV charging stations. District,Guangzhou Rural Electricity Supply Bureau Co. Ltd Administration Dept The Shenzhen Power Its main business covers deposits, Board of Supervisors Supply Bureau Co. Ltd 42nd Floor, R&F settlement, loans, and entrusted loans, CSG Financial Yinglong Plaza,No. 76, International Cooperation Dept Company its financial services cover securities 251.31 15.40 130 http://fc.csg.cn Huangpudadao,Tianhe 020-85121875 The CSG International Limited Liability Company investment and equity investment with financial institutions. District, Guangzhou (CSG International Hong Kong Co. Ltd) Audit Dept Its business scope covers: investment, management and operations within the Legal Dept The CSG Science Research Institute media industry, design, and producNo.846, Dongfengdong Limited Liability Company CSG Media Co tion, publication of advertisements, 1.42 1.57 160 http://cm.csg.cn Road, Yuexiu District, 020-38120932 Ltd advertising agent business, corporate Guangzhou image planning, film and television Inspection Bureau The CSG Energy Co. Ltd programming and production. Holding Party Work Dept The CSG Financial Co. Ltd Its main business covers property Subsidiaries 13-14 Floor, Building i n s u r a n ce , l i a b i l i t y i n s u r a n ce , Dinghe Property 1,Excellence Century Trade Union System Insurance Co., credit insurance, guarantee insur34.61 19.99 1430 http://www.dh.csg.cn Center,No.2030, Futian 0755-82522688 ance, short-term health insurance Operations Dept The CSG Media Co. Ltd Ltd. and accident insurance, etc. District, Shenzhen, Guangdong Share the office with CSG Power Dispatching and Control Center The Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd 71 About us About us 72 About this Report 2014 Outlook Dear readers, the Report reflects CSG’s CSR performance during the year 2013. We hope it will help you to better understand Power consumption in South China will grow relatively slowly in the forseeable future, compliance in resource develour commitment to our tasks and goals and win your support for our future development. opment and environmental protection will be more stringent, the power market will confront many uncertainties in This Report is the seventh in a series of Social Responsibility Annual Reports issued by The China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. The Year 2012 CSR 2014 and beyond and, still, the company will develop steadily, constantly boosting its core competencies to make a Report was released on 15th May, 2013 and the Year 2014 CSR Report will be published in May of 2015. All reports were originally written in greater contribution to the economic development and social harmony in its service area. Chinese and translated to English. Adhering to the principles of “objective, standard, transparent, and comprehensive”, the Report discloses the company’s safe and quality power supply, and its performance in ways relevant to the economic, environmental and societal responsibilities of CSG. The Chinese version will be considered as the final/authentic version and, should discrepancies occur On the strategic management front, the company will advance the To-Top Program and give full play to the function between the Chinese and English versions, the Chinese version is the authoritative one. of the eight Comprehensive Management Committee. The company will speed up the development of advanced management systems, standardized operational systems, and IT systems. Time Frame The time frame of the Report is from January 1st, 2013 to December 31st, 2013. Part of the content extends to other years’ performance reporting data designed to enhance comparability and to support the forward looking objectives of the Report. On the power supply front, the company will constantly improve power supply reliability and strive to reduce the 8% SAIDI grid-wide and the 10% SAIDI costs in the western region . Investment in power grid construction will also be Report cover Range enhanced with a budget of RMB 84.6 billion. The company will also enhance risk controls, optimize contingency “China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” is the principle part of the business mix presented in this Report, including its subsidiaries, plans, and will develop and install better communications and connections with emergency command platforms of branches and affiliated institutes. governments at all levels. The company will actively advance both technology and service innovation. Compilation Basis On the environmental protection front, CSG will leverage its green platform role of optimizing regional energy distriCSG Social Responsibility Index �CSG-CSR 1.0� bution and facilitate sustainable development of power supply source. The company shall achieve 161.3 billion Kwh “west-to-east” power transmission and 22.7% growth rate. The company will promote client-side energy conservation References and strive to achieve a line loss rate of 7.43% (based on the statistics about the total assets). CSG will take solid meaSASAC’s “Guidelines---About Central Enterprises’ Implementation of Social Responsibility”;( No1, 2008, Research of SASAC) sures to meet evaluation objectives and make its contribution to regional ecological protection and a beautiful China. CASS-CSR 3.0 of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Global Reporting Initiative’s Guidelines; GRI Version4 On the economic performance front, the company will vigorously explore the power market in order to achieve power “China Industrial Enterprise and Industrial Association Social Responsibility Guidelines” , China Federation of Industrial Economics’ sales, aiming at 780.9 billion Kwh, with main business revenues at RMB 463.9 billion , and EVA at RMB 4.72 billion. “Recommendations Standards on Social Responsibility of Chinese Enterprises and the Implementation Guide”, China Business Council for Sustainable Development. CSG is committed to long-term sound development and will boost asset management to realize a 16.6% net worth ratio of retiring assets and 66% debt/asset ratio. Sources On the social harmony front, the company will practice delivery of electricity as its’ universal service, strengthen Report are based on the officially published documents, statistics reports and other published data and information sources. rural power grid upgrading to meet the power demand driven by rural economy development and living quality Reliability improvement. CSG will continue its core talents development scheme and create promotional opportunities for professionals at all levels. CSG shall improve its communication with stakeholders, expand cooperation channels for a CSG guarantees there is no false record, misleading statement or substantial omissions in the Report. win-win situation. Title Description In the Report, “China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” is also referred to as “CSG”, “the company”, or “we”. Improvements compared to previous reports A How-to-Read Guide Expand coverage of index for better substantiveness The Value of 1Kwh acts as a clue Highlight key performance Disclose hot topics including mobile internet and haze weather Stakeholders’ comments in standardized style Further readings suggested New glossary index Further reading Should you wish to know more about social responsibility of CSG, please visit the official website at: www.csg.cn, and please refer to the Social Responsibility Report published by Guangdong Power Grid, Guangxi Power Grid, Yunnan Power Grid, Guizhou Power Grid, Hainan Power Grid, Guangzhou Power Supply Co., Ltd and Shenzhen Power Supply Co., Ltd in 2013. How to get a hard copy You can download an electronic copy from our official website. Should you have any inquires, or should you need a hardcopy, please send email to csr@csg.cn, or call us at (020) 38121917. 73 About this Report 2014 Outlook 74 Report rating Suggestions The Report should further disclose Key Performance Indices (KPI) to extend its completeness. Rating report on 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Rating Panel Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. Panel leader: ZHONG Hongwu, Director of the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center, Economics Department of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Entrusted by CSG, the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, EcoPanel Member: WANG Zhixuan, Secretary General, China Electricity Council nomics Department and selected experts from the China Corporate Social Responsibility Report Rating Panel will sit on the “Rating Panel of 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” to assess and rate the CSG CHENG Duosheng, Director of Innovation , China Electricity Council 2012 CSR Report. ZHANG Haiyang Rating Basis Procedural rating panel： Director of the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center ZHONG Hongwu CASS-CSR 3.0 and Rating Standards on Corporate Social Responsibility of Chinese Enterprises(2014) Procedural rating panel： Rating Division, the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center FANG Xiaojing Rating procedure 1. Rating panel interviewed departments responsible for CSG social responsibility. 2. Rating panel had an on-site review of relevant documents cited in CSG and its branches/subsidiaries. 3. Rating panel made comments on the management process of corporate social responsibility report. 4. Rating panel commented on content disclosed in the report. Chairman, Rating Panel Head , Rating Panel Executive Vice Consul, the Corporate Director of the Corporate Social Social Responsibility Research Center, Responsibility Research Center Rating conclusions Economics Department of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Process-oriented （★★★★★） CSG’s Strategy and Policy Department coordinated the writing process. CSG’s management team participated and were involved in the process. The writing team identified the stakeholders and did an in-depth analysis on key issues based on results generated from interviews, workshops and seminars. The Report was planned to be released at the CSG Responsibility Week and was presented in diversified forms including hard copies, electronic versions, 2D links and in Endorsements from a third party different languages. Substantiveness （★★★★★） The Report covers substantive topics including “Ensuring power supply”; “Ensuring power use in rural and remote CHI Xuping Deputy Director General of the Research Bureau of SASAC areas”; “Comprehensive outage management”; “Facilities Management”; “Improvement of power transmission efficiency” and “System and measures of green power supply”. The Report gives a detailed, substantive and well-versed analysis of CSG’s performance in the power supply sector. CSG’ s 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report comprehensively presented its CSR practice to the stakeholders. Completeness （★★★★☆） What impressed me the most is the enormous amount of data, and the high quality of data presented; The Report disclosed that 84.5% of core indicators in power supply sectors and demonstrated high-levels of being both authentic and convincing. completeness. Core indicators include: responsibility management, strategy management, power supply, economic performance assessments, green and environmental/social harmony measures. Topics on CSG’ s core business The Report has special topics on universal serviceand on its efforts to promote regional development and Balance （★★★★★） ethnic minority development. Special topics elaborated CSG’ s practice in addressing pressing issues The Report discloses a number of negative points relative to information involving topics on: major power safety emerging from power demand,and its commitment to universal service. accidents and equipment accidents, and presents all in a detailed manner; correction measures on regional casualty are put forward in a positive manner. The Report is an outstanding and well-balanced one in terms of disclosing both positive Communication on hot topics and negative information. The Report highlighted hot topics including climate change and smog, disclosed CSG’ s counter measures Comparability （★★★★★） and demonstrated its dedication to low carbon development and quality service. The Report focused on The Report disclosed 45 key performance indicators covering 5 years of past consecutive data and demonstrated changes driven by 4G era and systematically presented the measures taken and effects achieved . high-levels of comparability; the Report disclosed and compared indicators including SAIDI and line loss rate with domestic and international levels and, therefore, demonstrated excellent horizontal comparability. Sincere communication with the stakeholders is outstanding. Readability （★★★★★） Power equipment, hydro power and appreciation of State-Owned assets are topics of concern to the The Report is well structured, fluent, and concise. The Report is very well supported by a number of visual data stakeholders . The Report highlighted the topics and presented CSG’ s practice of social responsibility. presentations including tables and flow charts; in terms of layout, the Report is exquisite. The Report offered special I wish, too, that future Reports might address other stakeholders’ concerns and I encourage CSG to concolumns on Further Reading and Report Glossary Index. The Report performed very well in terms of readability for clarity tinue its open and transparent approach to making greater contributions to social and economic develof communication. opment. Innovation （★★★★☆） The feature report on responsibility elaborates on priorities of power sectors. The Report explains its innovation in compilations. It is, all-in-all, a very innovative report. Overall Rating （★★★★★） The 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of The China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. was rated at the five-star level by the panel. The materials submitted should be regarded as an outstanding example of corporate social responsibility reports. 75 Report rating Ecdorsements from a third party 76 Endorsements from a third party UN The Global Compact CSG has observed the Ten Principles in its decision making and operations process ever since its entry into UN Global Compact in 2010. The company actively participates and supports events held by the Global Compact in China YIN Gefei Deputy Director of China WTO Tribune, Director of Peiking University International Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development Research Center Ten Principles In the chapters of Compliance and progress CSG’ s 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report is a high quality report as it is timely and relevant. Firstly, the Report made in year 2013 the Report disclosed its practice in incorporating and respecting human rights and staff manageBusinesses should support Staff’ s Rights ment. The Report discussed priorities in the environmental protection sector (for example: smog and and respect the protection and interests Comply with laws and regulations, implement Labor Law and rules. biological diversity) and demonstrated CSG’ s commitments in diverse areas of environmental proof internationally proDemocratic tection. The Report reflected CSG’ s sincerity in its communication with its takeholders. What claimed human rights management Pay full respect to, and guarantee, staff’ s right to know, right Human impressed me most is the case study on 110Kv Huahui Substation. CSG had an equal, candid and to participate, right to supervise and right to express rights Staff’ s Rights effective communication with the stakeholders during the construction process and invited the stakeMake sure that they are CSG phased in standardized staff management . Guangdong and interests holders for site visits upon project completion. CSG adopted standardized process management in not complicit in human Power Grid, Guizhou Power Grid and Hainan Power Grid basiFeature topic cally realized equal pay for equal position under the same the Report writing process. rights abuses on responsibiljurisdiction. ity Businesses should uphold the freedom of associaCSG acts in strict compliance with the Labor and Contract Laws of Democratic People’ s Republic of China, and sticks to fair employment and tion and the effective recmanagement equal pay. Frontline staff receive preferential compensation ognition of the right to packages. collective bargaining ZHANG Haiyang Deputy Director of the Liaison Divison, China Electricity Council Every plant eligible for trade union establishment has established a trade union. Every staff at grass roots level is a trade Staff rights, union member. The elimination of all occupational forms of forced and comCarry out staff mentoring programmes, and help staff alleviate Labor safety and pulsory labor psychological pressures and strike a balance between life and health Corporate Social Responsibility Reports reflect a company’ s management capacity and demonstrate relations work. Staff’ s average paid annual leave is 9 days company commitment to society. CSG’ s 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report gave a complete picture of Improve management on staff representative meeting, and its years of social responsibility practice and dedicated power supply service. The Report is well strucThe effective abolition reinforce democratic management at four levels: grid , provStaff rights ince, city and county. Staff representative meeting, taskforce tured, well versed and is supported by a large number of accurate and convincing data. The Report of child labor meeting and joint meetings were held. Proposals made by staff responded to the community’ s concerns by explaining its efforts in addressing smog and other representatives were collected. The elimination of weather challenges. The Report inherited its innovative legacy and introduced cartoon images and Absolute elimination of child labor and CSG acts as an equal discrimination in respect voices from a third party. All in all, this is a sincere and innovative report. Staff rights opportunity employer, employ any qualified people regardless of employment and occuof his/her disability. pation Businesses are asked to Green and Envisupport a precautionary ronmental ProFossil fuel consumption for unit power generation is 215 approach to environmental challenges tection grams standard coal per kwh. West-to-east” power transmission hit 92Twh. EnvironUndertake initiatives to Green and Envi5.61 million tons of standard coal saving achieved by energypromote greater environronmental Prosaving power generation and dispatching. ment mental responsibility tection The average coal consumption of coal-fired power generation CHENG Duosheng Director of Enterprise Innovation, The China Enterprise Federation. Encourage the development Green energy was 301 grams/KWh, representing 1 gram/KWh reduction than that of 2012. and diffusion of environmenEnergy Efficient Operation Grid-wide line loss rate was 6.026% in 2013. tally friendly technologies CSG’ s 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report built on its past success and made new breakthroughs and innovations. Special topics on universal service and the Central Government’ s preferential policies on agriculture reflected Chinese characteristics and CSG’ s business nature. Further readings on the CSG actively facilitates Ethical Central Enterprise Initiatives and value of 1Kwh act as a storyline to reflect the relationship between CSG’ s operation and social avoids legal risks and works with a focus on internal control responsibility. The Glossary Index is reader friendly, it helps readers to better understand electricity enhancement, performance supervision, and puts supervision Businesses should work of important decision implementation in place. terms Antiagainst corruption in all Law Compliance corruption its forms, including CSG is dedicated to establishing itself as a zero-corruption and extortion and bribery. clean company. CSG’ s long term corporate credit rating is super AAA In 2013, no major law/regulation breaches happened. 77 Endorsements from a third party UN The Global Compact 78 Report Index Report Glossary Index Table of Contents GRI Benchmarking CASS-CSR benchmarking Terminology Meaning Page Number Availability Coefficient of A numerical reliability index of power transmission and transformation facility. The larger the coeffiPower Transmission and cient, the better the facility’ s reliability and operation. Facility Availability Coefficient = Available Page 13 Transformation Facility Hours + Planned Outage Hours + Unplanned Outage Hours Cover 3 Interview with the Board Chairman 1/2 P3.1/P3.2 Patrol of transmission lines and towers manually or with advanced equipment is constantly underway Transmission The Management Team 34/35/36/38/39 Line Patrols to see if area facilities are intact. In case of any damage, it shall be reported in time to the superior Page 14 departments for quick repair so as to ensure safe and stable power transmission. Guide to Reading the Report G1.3 Feature Report on Responsibility EC7/EC8/PR5 Feature report on responsibility –popularizing Discovery of facilities’ hidden dangers in operation to prevent accidents or damage. Facilities are power services in CSG’ s vast rural areas EC7/EC8 S4.4 Preventive Trial subject to inspection, trials or supervision, including oil sampling or gas sampling, as one of the effecPage 14 Implementing the Mid-to-Long-Term tive means to ensure safe operation of power facilities. 45/46/48 M2.12/M3.5 Development Strategy Major Repair and Major Repair refers to the inspection and repair of facilities after they have been operated for a Power Supply PR5 Technological certain period of time. Technological Upgrading means the optimization and technological transformaPage 14 Upgrading tion of power devices or facilities to remove hidden dangers or enhance operations efficiency. Safe Production LA6 G4.4/S3.1/S3.3/S3.4/S3.5/S3.6/S3.7 Reliable Power Supply Power Safety An “incident” is not deemed as serious as an accident, but incidents will have negative impacts on Quality Service PR1/PR3/PR5/PR8/PR9 M2.1/M2.2/M2.5/M2.6/M2.7/M2.13/M2.14 normal power supply, can threaten safety and stability of power systems and might trigger accidents Page 15 Incidents or major social impacts. Emergency management S3.2 Power grid construction S01 G5.3/S4.3/E1.9 Technology Innovation M2.8/M2.9/M2.10 Power Supply Generally presented with the index of reliability on service (RS), corresponding to the index of SAIDI. Reliability RS�(1-customer average interruption duration/time period�100%. SAIDI emphasizes customers experiPage 19 ence and orientation. Environmental Protection EC2/EN5 M3.5/E2.1/E2.2 Energy Conservation and Emission Reductions During Power Generation EN6/EN15/EN17/EN18/EN19/EN21 E2.5/E2.6/E2.18 Planned outage in certain places due to transmission line maintenance, peak load shifting, power Scheduled Outage rationing and other reasons to avoid unnecessary loss resulting from sudden outage Page 21 Energy Conservation and Emission EN2/EN6/EN8/EN11/EN12/EN13/EN16/EN17/ S4.1/S4.2/E1.4/E1.8/E1.9/E1.10/E1.11/E1.12/E1.13/E2.7/E2.11/ Reductions During Power Generation EN18/EN19/EN23/EN30/EN31/EN32/SO1 E2.12/E2.13/E2.14/E2.18/E3.1/E3.5/E4.1/E4.2/E4.3/ Energy Conservation and Emission EN6/EN16/EN17/EN19/EN27 M2.2/E1.6/E1.7/E2.18/E3.4/E4/5 On-Load Operations Electric facilities require frequent testing, inspection and repair during long-termed operation. Reductions on the part of the Customers On-load operation refers to the inspection, repair and testing of high-voltage electric facilities without Page 22 Green Energy/Golden Bee 2020 EN5/EN17 G1.2/M3.6/E1.3 cutting off the power, done as an effective means to ensure normal power supply. Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Performance EN7/EN19 E2.8/E2.19 Power Supply for Important Events Safe and reliable power supply for important events or venues. Page 24 Economic Performance Operations Performance EC1 M1.4/M1.5/M1.6 Ultra-high Voltage Voltage grade in China for AC of 1000kV and above, and DC of ±800 and above Page 33 Law Compliance 57/58/SO3/SO4/SO5 M3.2/M3.6/S1.1/S1.2/S1.3/S1.4/S1.6 Cost Reduction and Efficiency Improvement Water is pumped from downstream reservoirs to upstream reservoirs with off-peak power at night, Power Market Development Promotion EC7/EC8 M3.1/M3.3/M3.4 Pumped Storage Power which is released back to downstream reservoirs for power generation during the peak hours of power Regional Economic and Social M3.1 consumption, balancing power consumption and applying to power grid frequency modulation and Page 36 Development Promotion reservation for accidents. Social Harmony Redundant Hydro Power Units driven by river water are lying idle or generate less power than capable of due to the lack of power demand or poor power transmission. Page 41 Community Service EC1/EC7/EC8 S4.4/S4.9/S4.12/S4.13/S4.14 Cooperation and Development of 12/13/16/EC7/EC8/LA14/LA15 P4.6/G3.2/M3.1/M3.7/M3.8 Win-win Situations Based on the premise of reliable power supply, renewable resources of power generation are given top Energy-Efficient priority according to the principle of energy conservation and economy. Resources are put in the Power Generation order of priority based on unit energy consumption and pollutant emission, serving as the basis for Staff Development 10/EC1/LA1/LA5/LA6/LA8/LA9/LA10/LA12/ P4.5/S1.6/S1.8/S2.1/S2.3/S2.4/S2.5/S2.6/S2.9/S2.11/S2.17/S2.19/ and Dispatching fossil energy selection for power generation so as to minimize energy and resource consumption and Page 41 LA13/HR2/HR4/HR5/HR6 S2.20/S2.21/S2.22/S2.24/S2.25/S2.26/S2.27/S2.29/S2.30/S2.31 pollutant emission. Effective combination of modern information technologies including Computers, Communications and Origin of Responsibility Control … and traditional power technologies, all to enhance safety, stability, economic operation, 56 G1.1/G6.4 Green 3C Power Grid customer service and energy conservation of the power grid so as to make it a smart, efficient, reliable Page 42 Responsibility Governance 42/43 G1.4/G2.1/G2.3/G2.4/G2.5/G4.2/G5.4/G6.1/G6.2/P5.3/G4.3 and green one. Responsibility P5.1/G3.1 Communication with Stakeholders 24/25/27 G2.2/G3.1/G5.5/G5.6/G2.2/G5.1/G5.3 Corporate Governance 4/7/34/35/36/38/39/40 M1.1 Power loss due to power conversion, resistance of power grid facilities and management during power Organizational Structure 17/18 P4.7 Line Loss transmission and distribution. Page 43 About Us/Overview: CSG and its Secondary Units 5/8/9 P4.1/P4.2/P4.3/ P4.4 About the Report 18/28/29/30/31 P1.1/P1.2/P1.3/P1.4/P1.5/G4.1 Ratio of Output Value Output value of each kilowatt hour. Ratio of Output Value of Unit Electric Energy Consumption=the Outlook for 2014 of Unit Electric Energy GDP of place where power grid is located/total local power consumption Page 49 Report Rating A1 Consumption Endorsements from Third Parties UN Global Compact 15 A2 Open Fair and Impartial Power Grid coordinates and communicates with power plants and dispatches power in accordance Report Index A3 Power Dispatching with the Open, Fair and Impartial principle. The principle enables reasonable power grid operation and secures a safe and reliable power system. Page 62 Report Glossary Index Feedback FormIndex A4 Innovative Report Compilation Model 19/20/21/25/26/37/47/48 P2.1/P2.2/P2.3/G4.1/G4.2/G5.2 A cycle of AC changes, i.e. a sinusoidal wave form. AC frequency refers to each second changes of AC. AC Frequency 2013 CSG Key CSR Performance P5.2 Countries in the world have adopted their own symbols of AC frequency so as to formulate standards for a certain kinds of electric devices. Back Cover 3/5 P4.1 79 Report Index Report Glossary Index 80 Innovative report compilation model Feedback form Process management added value to the report We adopted process management in the report compilation process. The Report helps disseminate philosophy, improve Dear readers: practice and enhance management capacity. CSG watches its own social responsibility practice and service closely, pursues timely understanding and responds to requirements and expectations of the stakeholders, strives to boost its Thank you for reading our Report. CSG will make every effort to improve the Report in the services and to meet its’ mission as a leading international power grid . future. We would appreciate if you could let us know our comments. The report spans 3 calender years, namely 2012, 2013 and 2014, and three stages; namely planning, writing and release. Nov 2012 Establish Report Writing Team Multiple choice questions: (please tick your choice) CSG Strategy and Policy Department coordinated and led the team, its main responsibilities include: report writing, coordination, summary and assessment. Other departments ,branches and subsidiaries participate on the team . Dec 1 You overall comments on the Report is: Excellent Very Good OK Poor Very Poor Launched report writing training The writing team held the report launch meeting and organized report writing training. The training provided the framework for social responsibility status quo and development trends in China and in the world, and it identified writing objectives. 2 You think the quality of the information Excellent Very Good OK Poor Very Poor disclosed is: Communications with Stakeholders. The writing team communicated with clients, suppliers, partners, media and the general public, Planning understood their expectations and requirements, and listened to their suggestions and comments. 3 You think the structure of the Report is: Excellent Very Good OK Poor Very Poor Identified Substantial issues In accordance with the mainstream reporting indices (GRI G4� CASS-CSR3.0� and CSG-CSR 1.0, the You think the layout design of the Report team sorted out issues that should be disclosed, and identified substantial and relevant issues that 4 is: Excellent Very Good OK Poor Very Poor concern the stakeholders and CSG most. 5 The readability of the Report is: Excellent Very Good OK Poor Very Poor Jan 2013 Preparation Stage The team identified a monitoring mechanisms to ensure the mechanisms meet the pre-set targets. Dec Monitoring Stage Open-ended questions Follow, monitor, and collect execution update of key performance index. Writing Support Stage 1 In your opinion, what improvements should the Report make? The team organized every department to collect and compare social responsibility cases and to provide professional service to departments. 2014 Jan 2 Please specify information you find useful. Data Collection Identified report focus and report content, optimized report framework. May Report Writing 3 What other social responsibility information should the Report disclose? Write , design and print the report Release Report Release Release the report at CSG Social Responsibility Week 4 Any suggestions on CSG’s social responsibility practice , please specify? We would appreciate it if you could fax the Disseminate philosophy, Improve practice, Enhance management completed feedback form to 020-38122187 81 Feedback form Innovative report compilation model 82 Key Corporate Social Responsibility Performance of CSG in 2013 230 million 316,000 1 , 000 , 000 134ths Population in CSG’s CSG staff square kilometers Ranking in service area Fortune 500 CSG Main Business Data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 CSG main business data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Electricity transmitted from the SAIDI of urban users (hours/ household) Power Generation Side 11.22 6.66 5.20 3.21 2.31 1156 1117 969 1243 1314 Customer side West-to-East of China (0.1TWh) Investment in power grid construction ( Helped Customers 100 million RMB) 915 833 697 671 638 10.2 22.4 19.75 8.12 9.3 save power (0.1TWh) Investment in R&D ( 100 million RMB) 10.50 15.80 18.10 17.40 26.28 Line loss rate（%） 6.35 6.28 5.35 6.06 6.02 Length of transmission lines of 110 KV Power saving through power generation and 139286 151899 163404 165563 182181 258 227 513 561 Year 2013 National and above ( km) dispatching (10,000 tons of standard coal) power source structure Capacity of transforming equipment of Power saving through Customer structure in year 2013 110 KV or above (10,000 KVA) 48513 57932 64389 68892 73099 48.5 70.7 66.0 16 20 line-loss reduction (0.1TWh) Maximum load of unified power generation management (10,000 KW) 9590 10436 11323 11966 12891 Electricity transmitted from the West-to-East Helped Customers save power (0.1TWh)  Investment in power grid of China (0.1TWh)    SAIDI of urban users (hours/ household)   construction ( 100 million RMB) 24 22.4  1600 1314 19.75  1243  12 11.22 1000 915 1156 1117 18   833 1200 969  9 750 697 671   638 800 12 10.2 6.66 9.3  6 5.20 500 8.12  400 6 3.21 3 2.31 250 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Line loss rate（%） Investment in R&D ( 100 million RMB) Hydropower 8 Primary industry 6.35 6.28 Secondary industry Environmental 32 6.06 6.02 Coal-fired power 6 Power supply 26.28 5.35 Tertiary industry Nuclear power 24 18.10 17.40 protection 4 15.80 Urban and rural New energy 16 10.50 2 residents  Other 8 Unit : 0.1TWh  0 Unit : 10,000 KW 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total power consumption Installed power in the five provinces and region in South China: 8,947 KWh generation capacity in China : 1,247,380,000 KW Investment in the construction and upgrading Total assets (100 million RMB) of rural power grid (100 million RMB ) 5872 260 6000 5556 280 5275 242 4908 230 4404 213 205 Power consumption structure Economic Social 4500 210 Year 2013 National in year 2013 power source structure 3000 performance harmony 140 1500 70 0 0      2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013     Power sales (0.1TWh) Ranking among the Fortune 500 (place) Voluntary activities participation (person-times) Staff training rate (10,000 RMB)      8000 7010 7433 100 156 149 152 134 80000 100 96.4 96.3 96.5 96.0 96.0   6668 63889   185 61203  6000 5239 6027 200 60000 58000 75  50029 4000 300 40000 50 Non-CSG 16780 2000 400 20000 25 Key industry 0 500 0 0 Special industry 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Hydropower Commercial  Bulk sale Coal-fired power  CSG main business data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 CSG main business data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Nuclear power Resident Investment in the construction and upgrading Total assets (100 million RMB) 4404 4908 5275 5556 5872 260 230 213 242 205  Agriculture New energy of rural power grid (100 million RMB )  Other Power sales (0.1TWh) 5239 6027 6668 7010 7433 Other  Voluntary activities 16780 61203 63889 58000 50029  participation (person-times) Unit : 10,000 KW Ranking among the Fortune 500 (place) 185 156 149 152 134 Unit : 0.1TWh Staff training rate (%) 96.4 96.3 96.5 96.0 96.0 Business revenue (100 million RMB) 3136 3697 3912 4210 4482 Installed power generation capacity for the five provinces and regions in CSG’s service area: 225,390,000 KW Total profit and taxation (100 million RMB) 208 320 337 382 407 Staff training rate (RMB10,000) 6712 23274 8280 3093 4790 CSG power sales : 7,433 KWh 83 Key Corporate Social Responsibility Performance of CSG in 2013 Key Corporate Social Responsibility Performance of CSG in 2013 84
