K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About this Report Awards Purpose of Publication This is a retrospective report on the performance of K-water’s sustainable management which is mainly based on stakeholdApr. 2007 The Most Admired Company in Korea (The Federation of Korean Industries, Seoul Economic Journal) CONTENTS As We Proceed K-water, a Water Specialist Corporation 4 ers' issues of concern. As well, the future direction in which K-water ought to May 2007 Global Standard ‘Grand Award’ and ‘Chief Executive Officer Award’ Corporate Overview 8 take as a global water management company and a state-owned company (Korea Management Association) May 2007 Enterprise with an outstanding performance in family-friendly management, Creating Sustainable Values 10 for the public is reflected in this report. ‘Prime Minister Commendation’ (The Ministry of Gender Equality) CEO Message 12 Publication Cycle K-water 2014 Sustainability Report is the 10th report. Jul. 2007 Enterprise certified to display outstanding performance in service quality Sustainability News for 2013 13 K-water has published annually since 2005. (Korean Agency for Technology and Standards) Oct. 2007 ‘Award of Excellence’ in the field of Digital Knowledge Management Sustainable Management Reporting Standard This report has been drafted in accordance with the (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Nov. 2007 ISO/IEC20000 Certification (LRQA) Corporate Governance 16 G4 Guidelines (Core option) of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) which is the most recent international reporting standards and have included KNov. 2007 Sewage Treatment Technology, ‘Presidential Award’ (Ministry of Environment) Vision and Strategy 17 water related-indices among the disclosure indices of the Electric Utilities Nov. 2007 LOHAS Management Awards ‘Grand Award’ (Environmental Foundation) Sustainable Management System 18 Sector Supplement. Dec. 2007 Sustainable Management ‘Award for Highest Excellence’ Developing Together with Our Stakeholders 20 (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry) Selecting K-water’s Matters of Materiality 22 Reporting Period The reporting period is from January 1 to December Apr. 2008 Korea Management Innovation ‘Grand Prize’ (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Maeil Business Newspaper) Ethical Management 24 31, 2013 and qualitative performance partially includes performance up to Oct. 2008 Korea Social Contribution ‘Grand Award’ (Korea Journalist Forum) Environmental Management 26 June in 2014. Quantitative performance primarily reports the figures of the last five years from 2009 to 2013. Oct. 2008 Sustainable Management ‘Award of Highest Excellence’ Risk Management 28 (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry) Reporting Boundaries This report contains information on the performance Oct. 2008 Korea Eco-Friendly Company ‘Grand Award’ (The Ministry of Environment) 4 Focus Issues and current status of management practices for the head office, 8 regional Oct. 2008 Asian MAKE* Award (Teleos, *Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise) Jan. 2009 Continuity & Creation Management Award (Environmental Management) Focus Issue 1 Creative Management 34 divisions, 1 business division, and 28 regional offices along with the performance of 24 overseas projects in 18 countries. This report does not include (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy, UN Global Compact) Focus Issue 2 Smart Water Services 39 invested entities or subsidiaries. With regards to some materials in connecOct. 2009 Low Carbon Green Growth Commendation Focus Issue 3 Society Prospering Together 52 tion to education, support performance, etc, we have included the contents (Green Growth Association, the Ministry of Environment) Focus Issue 4 Creating a Happy Workplace 58 of partnering companies within our corporate supply chain. Financial perforOct. 2009 New Regeneration Energy Awards ‘Prime Minister Commendation’ mance have been calculated based on standards that comply to international (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Oct. 2009 Asian MAKE* Award (Teleos, *Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise) Economic, Environmental and Social Performances for 2013 accounting standards (K-IFRS). (G4-17b, 23) Dec. 2010 National Green Technology ‘Grand Award’ Economic Performance 66 Amendments There were not any significant changes in terms of size, (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy, the Ministry of Education) Environmental Performance 69 structure, base year, ownership structure, etc during the reporting period Jun. 2011 Korea Green Management Award Social Performance 77 when compared to the previous year. Some data were compared with (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy, the Ministry of Environment) the report published last year and were re-calculated according to the Jun. 2011 Eco-Star Eco-technology Award (The Ministry of Environment) changes that occurred with the calculation and application standards. (G4Jan. 2012 The first public company to be awarded the ‘Smart Work Superior Institute Award’ Appendix 22) (The Ministry of Public Administration and Security) Sustainable Management Performance Data for 2013 84 Feb. 2012 The most admired Company in Korea (KMAC) GRI G4 Index 92 Verification by Third Party The report and the materials that were inJun. 2012 Environmental Impact Management ‘Grand Prize’ (The Ministry of Environment) Jun. 2012 Global Social Contribution Institute of Excellence Commendation Third Party’s Assurance Statement 94 cluded have been verified by Korea Management Association Registration (The Ministry of Health and Welfare) ISO 26000 96 Inc. Jun. 2012 Selected as an excellent company with an outstanding performance in Publishing the 2014 Sustainability Report 97 ‘Labor and Management Relations’ (The Ministry of Employment and Labor) Code of Ethics Preamble, Green Management Policy, Jul. 2012 Korea Digital Innovation Award ‘Public Sector Grand Prize’ Customer Charter Statement, Mission Statement for Innovation Vision 98 (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy) UN Global Compact 100 Sep. 2012 Excellent enterprise with an outstanding performance in purchasing goods from small and medium enterprises (The Small and Medium Business Administration) Glossary 101 Membership Activities Oct. 2012 Family-Friendly Enterprise (The Ministry of Gender Equality and Family) Voice of Readers 103 Oct. 2012 Top 100 Enterprise selected as ‘Great WorkPlace’ (GWP Korea) Nov. 1971 Korea National Committee on Large Dams Oct. 2012 Asian MAKE* Award (Teleos, *Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise) Jan. 1976 Korea Electricity Association Nov. 2012 Sustainability Grand Award, Innovation Management Award Dec. 1985 Korea Energy Foundation (The Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Mar. 1997 Korea Electric Engineers Association Dec. 2012 State-owned Company Award ‘Grand Prize’ (Sisa Journal) May 2001 Korea Power Exchange Jul. 2013 13th Korean Digital Green Management Award (MSIP) Sep. 2001 Korea New & Renewable Energy Oct. 2013 Korea Green Architecture Competition ‘Award of Excellence’ Jan. 2002 Korea Water & Wastewater Works Association (Presidential Commissions on Architecture Policy) Mar. 2004 Korea Environmental Impact Assessment Association Oct. 2013 ‘Commendation for Service’ in Renewable Energy Supply Obligation System Sep. 2004 Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development (The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Oct. 2005 Korea Engineering and Consulting Association Nov. 2013 The Natural Environment Grand Award (The Ministry of Environment) Jul. 2006 BEST (Business Ethics and Sustainability Nov. 2013 Asian MAKE* Award (Teleos, Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise) management for Top performance) Forum Dec. 2013 Global MAKE* Award (Teleos, Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise) Feb. 2007 UN Global Compact Feb. 2007 U-City Association Mar. 2007 International Water Association (IWA) Mar. 2007 American Water Works Association (AWWA) Jan. 2012 Korea Environmental Policy and Administration Society Mar. 2014 Korea Society for Quality Management 2 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 As we We proceed Proceed K-water, a Water Specialist Corporation As an integrated water management organization, K-water endeavors to improve the safety of the public and heighten national competitiveness through safe water management practices to mitigate the effects of climate change. As well, we are commitSustainability Management ted to playing a vital role as an anchor that facilitates the growth of the domestic water industry. The Water Crisis In recent years, the damages from droughts and flooding have been increasing rapidly. The severity of climate change could not only demolish entire ecosysWater is a precious resource that is essential for the survival of all organisms. Without clean and abundant water, we cannot ensure individuals' health, national tems but also cause negative impacts to a wider range of areas including water resources, food, industries and human health issues. On September 2013, IPCC development or better living conditions for our citizens. Our country has been striving to secure adequate water resources year-round and to improve the quality (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) published its 5th evaluation report and it forecasts that the average temperature of earth will increase about 3.7 of water in various ways. Population growth, however, has led to increased water consumption. It is a proven fact that we are currently facing a water resource 4 Focus Issues degrees Celsius by the end of the 21st century (year 2081~2100) in comparison to the average temperature of the earth during 1896~2005, and the sea level is crisis due to the effects of climate change such as more intense droughts, floods, and water pollution. also expected to increase by 63cm. As the world population increased twofold over the last century, water consumption has increased by nearly 6 times during the same period. Based on this trend, WEF (World Economic Forum) selected water shortage and extreme climate change along with the global financial crisis and structural unemployment as the the demand for water in 2030 will amount to approximately 6,900㎦. This exceeds the supply of sustainable water by about 40%. In addition, the rapid urbanizatop 10 global risks in its “Global Risk 2014 Report”. Also, “UN Future Report 2040” warned that issues such as prolonged drought caused by climate change will tion of approximately 3.5 billion people, which is roughly 50% of the entire world population, has resulted in severe water-related environmental damages and be a catalyst to trigger wars in Southeast Asia, Middle East and Africa by 2022. This acutely depicts the severity of the water situation. these damages are expected to increase. Total renewable water resources, 2011(㎥ per capita per year) Our country has also been encountering damages such as flooding, droughts and algal blooms. In some mountain sides and islands, we are already facing a water shortage issue which is causing an imbalance between water supply and demand. Thus, the voice of the public is demanding that the government provides high level water services such as sustainable water management, a healthy supply of water and the realization of welfare in relation to water. Economic, Environmental International Community’s Efforts to Resolve Water Issues The international community adopted “The Right to water” at the UN General Assembly held in July 2010, and the universal rights for all humans to have access and Social Performances for 2013 to safe drinking water which is essential to sustain life and health were recognized. The UN Human Rights Council is demanding each nation to legalize and implement policies regarding water-related human rights. The concept of water-related human rights approved by the UN Human Rights Council consists of the availability of sustainable water supply, quality that guarantees safety in health and hygiene, acceptability that guarantees privacy and dignity, accessibility which enables easy and secure access ubiquitously and a reasonable and affordable price for everyone to use water. As such, stricter human rights regulations regarding clean water and hygiene have been established as fundamental rights constitutionally, and the national government is responsible for supplying water and sewage of which its responsibility used to be that of local governments. Appendix As mentioned above, worldwide environmental changes such as climate change have augmented the seriousness of water-related issues including the worsening of water insufficiency, increased frequency of water related disasters, water contamination, and the degradation of the aquatic ecology. Such crisis situations threaten the public's safety on a national level and the lives of all mankind on a global level. This is why the importance of water security is becoming a big issue recently. On a global level, phenomena triggered by insufficient water supply such as climate change, desertification, population increase, etc are resulting in increased water disputes among countries. Thus, many nations are establishing and implementing polices to acquire water resources to secure the public safety Absolute scarcity Scarcity Stress Vulnerability and well-being while achieving economic and industrial growth. 0 500 1,000 1,700 2,500 7,500 15,000 50,000 Source : The United Nations World Water Development Report 2014 4 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 As we proceed Opportunities in the Water Market Sustainability Management While the severe effects of rapid climate change have created adverse conditions from a water management perspective, there is still great opportunity from In the midst of changing circumstances where water management is becoming more complex due to the impact of climate change, K-water is makan industrial perspective. A water research organization in the UK, GWI (Global Water Intelligence) estimated the size of the global water industry to be approxiing a transition in the paradigm through Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) and Smart Water Grid (SWG). In addition, as a water manmately USD 557.8 billion as of 2013, and the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry forecasted that the size of the global water industry will grow to agement organization which possess global competencies, K-water leverages upon its strengths as the nation's sole state-owned company in the approximately USD 865 billion by 2025. field of water resources, water and sewage in order to provide a foundation for fostering the growth of the water industry. As part of K-water's efforts to prepare for the future, centering on the following 4 major issues, we have included the results of our efforts to address Also, OECD (The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) forecasts the investment demand for global water-related infrastructure to be apthe issues which our stakeholders regard as important in this Sustainability Report. proximately USD 1.37 trillion in 2025. This rapid growth trend in the water industry offers new opportunities for the local water industry. Global Infrastructure Investment Demand Forecast 4 Focus Issues 2010~2020 Investment Demand (vs. Total Global GDP, %) Unit : USD billion 2020~2030 Investment Demand (vs. Total Global GDP, %) Water 772 (1.01%) 1,037 (1.03%) Focus Issue 1 We will pioneer new businesses and markets with financial stability, technologies and know-how accumulated to date, and contribute to the Creative Management growth of developing countries. Telecommunication 646 (0.85%) 171 (0.17%) Electricity 180 (0.24%) 241 (0.24%) Focus Issue 2 We will endeavor to manage water resources efficiently and supply Economic, Environmental “Healthy Tap Water,” containing balanced minerals, through the Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) and the Smart Water Grid Smart Water Services (SWG). Roads 245 (0.32%) 292 (0.29%) and Social Performances for 2013 Railroads 54 (0.07%) 58 (0.06%) We will do our best to win the trust of the public by strengthening social contribution activities that fit with the characteristics of K-water, Focus Issue 3 strengthening interaction and cooperation with local communities, creatSource: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) ing jobs in the private sector, supporting SMEs (Small and Medium EnSociety Prospering Together terprises) and venture technology companies, and through efforts in joint growth such as establishing fair cooperation relationships with SMEs. Appendix K-water is Preparing for the Future We have been actively researching and developing advanced IWRM (Integrated Water Resources Management) and SWG (Smart Water Grid) as more specific and practical measures to respond to climate change. In order to resolve issues such as flooding and droughts which are becoming worse day by day and to We are planning to increase our corporate productivity through impartial settle water related conflicts between districts that arise as a result, we have decided to adopt IWRM through which we set forth to consider not only the technical Focus Issue 4 human resources management which centers on capacity and performance, open communication, vibrant organization culture through work aspects but also the economy, society, and environmental issues in order to realize water management which maximizes both the national economy and social and life balance, and effective human resources development and manCreating a Happy Workplace agement. welfare. Also, it is essential that we diversify the sources of water through use of ICT technologies in order to more securely and efficiently supply and manage water, and furthermore to adopt SWG (Smart Water Grid) which can increase the efficiency of the water supply while consuming less energy. 6 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 As We Proceed Regional Offices and Overseas Projects As the sole state-owned enterprise Corporate Overview (as of 12.31.2013) specializing in water in Korea, • Company name K-water (Korea Water Resources Corporation) Seoul Metropolitan K-water sets the goal of making Regional Division Gangwon Regional Division • Location of head office Sintanjin-Ro 200, Deadeok-Gu, Daejeon 306-711, a happier world with water by Republic of Korea Gyeong-in Ara Waterway managing the nation’s water • Incorporation date November 16,1967 Business Division Mongolia Sustainability Management resources efficiently to securely • Institution type Semi-market type state-owned enterprise Sihwa Regional Division • Basis of establishment Korea Water Resources Corporation Act Daegu-Gyeongbuk protect the public from waterRegional Division China Chungcheong Regional Division Georgia related disasters such as floods and to supply clean water to • Business portfolio Head Office (Daejeon) Algeria Kuwait Pakistan Nepal Laos ensure that there are no districts ① Construction, operation and management Iraq India Myanmar Jeonbuk Regional Division Thailand Philippines that fails to receive water benefits. of the water resource facilities. Gyeongnam-Busan Cambodia ② Construction, operation and management of multi-regional Regional Division Equatorial Guinea Indonesia waterworks, local waterworks and sewage. Rwanda Gwangju-Jeonnam Regional Division ③ Development of complexes and special zones Tanzania 4 Focus Issues ④ Installation and operation of renewable energy facilities Investment Business ⑤ Overseas business, business in North Korea, etc. Technical Service ODA (Official Development Assistance) Business • Employees : 4,265 people • Organization system Head office: 1 vice president, 4 business divisions, and 24 departments Regional office: 1 business and 8 regional divisions, and 28 regional offices Overseas business: 24 projects in 18 countries Corporate History • Total assets : KRW 25.6 trillion • 1990s Constructed waterworks in metropolitan areas (ie: Ulsan, Gumi) Economic, Environmental • Sales : KRW 3.6 trillion • 2000s Entered the local waterworks business (ie: Nonsan, Jeoneup) • Total liabilities : KRW 14.0 trillion • 2010s Completed Four Major Rivers Restoration Projects • Credit rating : Domestic AAA, Opened Gyeong-in Ara Waterway and Social Performances for 2013 Moody’s A1, S&P A+ Completed installation of Sihwa Tidal Power Station Expanded overseas businesses (ie: Pakistan, Philippines, etc) • Composition of investors: Korean government 91.1 % Korea Finance Corporation 8.8% • 1967 Established as Korea Water Resources Development Corporation Local government 0.1% • 1970s Changed the company name into Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation in 1974 Appendix • Subsidiaries and Affiliates (G4-17a) Constructed multipurpose dams in Soyang River & Andong Waterway plus Co., Ltd. (Ownership 100%) Constructed industrial complexes (ie: Changwon & Yeosu) and new cities (ie: Sihwa & Ansan) Korea Construction Management Co., Ltd. (Ownership 18.9%) • 1980s Changed the company name into Korea Water Resources Corporation in 1988 Prunjangryang Co., Ltd. (Ownership 5.0%) Constructed multipurpose dams in Daejeon, Chungju, Hapcheon, Juam, Imha, and Namgang P-Waters Co., Ltd. (Ownership 2.0%) Constructed Nakdonggang Estuary Barrage KDS Hydro Pte., Ltd. (Ownership 80.0%) K-water Thailand Co., Ltd. (Ownership 99.9%) Jiangsu Shenshui Water Co., Ltd. (Ownership 32.5%) 8 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 Creating Sustainable Values As We Proceed K-water participates in the making of a sustainable society through its management activities. K-water supplies “Healthy Tap Water,” high quality tap water that contains naturally balanced minerals, clean Safety from water -related disasters energy, and high class urban waterfront and industrial complex to our society. K-water’s business cre▶ ates economic value which is allocated to partnering companies, local communities, etc, and thereby (society) contributes to the making of a society in which we jointly grow and create social, environmental values Efficient climate change by providing a safe and clean water environment for everyone. response ▶ Sustainability Management (society) Clean water environment ▶ ▶ Socio-environmental value (society) ▶ Relieving imbalances Controlling flood Power Dam reservoir generation of regional water supply Distribution and drought in 2013 ▶ 3,040 GWh (society) 4 Focus Issues Clean energy Social contribution KRW 74.8 billion for 2013 Power generation Total amount of ▶ (local community) waterfront & industrial complex sales in 2013 Taxation KRW 562.3 billion KRW 138.3 billion for 2013 Urban ▶ waterfront Economic, Environmental (government, & Industrial Prevention and processing of local government) complex Economic environmental pollution Construction value KRW 196.3 billion for 2013 and Social Performances for 2013 ▶ (local community) Operating cost: purchasing cost and etc. Tap water production KRW 2.2 trillion for 2013 in 2013 ▶ Appendix (partnering 3,709 million ㎥ companies) Salary and welfare Tap water manufacturing Healthy KRW 377.4 billion for 2013 and supply Tap Water ▶ (employees) 10 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 CEO Message Sustainability News for 2013 As We Proceed This report discloses both good and bad information pertaining to K-water for the purpose of mainBased on our taining a balance in the provision of information in order to make it possible to enable an objective evaluation of K-water’s sustainable management performance. 47 years of history, we will start anew with “Brand New Smart Management” heading foward Good News 12 Sustainability Management Not so Good News December the centennial K-water Others Decline in the level of corporate integrity 11 • MAKE Award for the most admired knowledge enterprise in the 2013 evaluation on public corporations' integrity by Nobember in Asia (awarded for 6 consecutive years, 2008~2013) government • Completed construction of GimcheonBuhang The 40th Anniversary of completion of 10 Multipurpose Dam October • The world’s first water service enterprise that achieved ISO22301 certifiSoyang River Dam cation 09 • Awarded Korean Internet Communication Social Media Grand Award • Inauguration of 13th CEO, Gye Woon Choi September 4 Focus Issues 08 • Held a symposium to resolve issues of algal bloom in streams We would like to express our sincere gratitude to the stakeholders of K-water for pursuing our vision, making a happier world with August • Won the lawsuit against local governments on dispute of water pricing with local governments, operating rights of local waterworks, and etc. water, and it is the pleasure to publish the 10th Sustainability Report which contains information on our sustainable activities and performances. • Awarded the Republic of Korea’s SNS Grand Award Creating a cleaner water environment for 47 years As the only integrated water service company in South Korea, we have been supplying clean and safe tap water to the public and also carrying out our mission to protect the lives and wealth of the public from disasters arising from water such as flooding and drought. First algal bloom warning in Nakdong River in 2013 07 Retirement of the 12th CEO, Geon Ho Kim July Economic, Environmental Preparing for the next half century In this, the 2014 Sustainability Report, we classified K-water’s sustainable management activities to prepare for the next half century into 4 themes based on our 06 • Selected as a preferred bidder for 2 projects of June Thailand water resources management program stakeholders’ interests: “Creative Management”, “Smart Water Services”, “Society Prospering Together”, and “Creating a happy workplace”, and endeavored to and Social Performances for 2013 (9 projects) worth of USD 11 billion in total. make a concrete reporting on each of the themes. 05 • Selected as an excellent public organization in labor-management relation characterized by May By strengthening its financial solvency and initiating strategic water-specific businesses, K-water pursues creative management and creates a sustainable driver Mutual growth and cooperation of growth. Through IWRM (Integrated Water Resources Management) and SWG (Smart Water Grid), K-water is increasing the level of safety and efficiency of water management, delivering smart water services which manufacture and distribute “Healthy Tap Water,” which is high class tap water that contains naturally balanced 04 • Declared the new catchphrase for shared growth with April cooperating companies, ‘Horizontal Shared Growth and minerals. We contribute through joint efforts to develop our nation by sharing with social communities and supporting the growth of our partnering companies. As Vertical Growth’ 03 Appendix well, we set forth to compete fairly, establish a balance between work and life, and create a workplace environment where we can learn and develop. Lost the lawsuit for damages resulting • Registered Pakistan Patrind Hydropower Project awarded from the outage at Gumi in 2011 March to K-water as a Clean Development Management project to As we have been doing for the past half century, K-water promises that we will continue to secure the public safety from water crises and uncertainties and UNFCCC. 02 maintain a sustainable growth through creative and smart water services. Thank you. February K-water CEO Choi, Gye Woon 01 January 12 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 Sustainable Management 미리내를 품다 Embracing ‘Mirinae’ Sustainable Management Corporate Governance 16 Based on the traditional concept of ‘Mirinae’, which means everything Vision and Strategy 17 in the galaxy, K-water sets forth to manage the entire water cycle by Sustainable Management System 18 Developing Together with Our Stakeholders 20 initiating the new ‘SMART Management’ practices. Through the creSelecting K-water’s Matters of Materiality 22 Ethical Management 24 ation of sustainable values and creative water management, we will Environmental Management 26 achieve our vision of making a happier world with water. Risk Management 28 As We Proceed Corporate Governance Vision and Strategy K-water aims at productive management by reinforcing not only the executive directors’, but also the K-water’s sustainable management aims to create ‘a happier world with water’ by contributing to non-executive directors’ participation in management and sharing their expertise. public welfare; it aspires to create sustainable values and pursue a balance of environmental integrity and social responsibility based on economic efficiency. Composition of investors Board of Directors’ remuneration policy Declaration of the new directions, K-water clarified its determination to practice the new SMART Sustainability Management K-water’s main tasks are to construct and maintain dams and water supply sysK-water’s Board of Directors is objectively evaluated on various fields including ‘SMART Management’ system Management. tems for comprehensive use and the development of national water resources, management proposals, system operations, attendance rates, and remarks In order to secure new growth power for the future after the national projboth of which have a significant impact on the quality of life and public welfare. according to the government’s management evaluation and K-water’s interect and to take full responsibility as a the nation’s only water-expert public Sustainable management strategic directions Thus, the Korea Water Resources Corporation Act limits K-water's investors to nal evaluation every year. In addition, the outside (non-executive) directors corporation which offers nation-wide services, K-water declared the new the national government, local governments, and the Korea Development Bank and executive directors receive performance-based payments according to 'SMART Management' system and established the new midand long-term Through the new SMART Management by ICT (Information & Communication (KDB). The law also states that “the national government must invest more than the results of government evaluations, which consist of quantified and non(2014~2023) Strategic Management Plans in January 2014. Technology)-based water management (Smart Water Grid, Integrated Water 50% of the total capital.” As of 2013, K-water's shareholders are comprised of quantified outcomes, implementation outcomes, and efforts. Based on this By making a new vision slogan , setting new Resources Management), K-water will play a pivotal role in solving the dothe national government (91.1%), KOFC (8.8%), and local governments (0.1%). remuneration policy, K-water’s CEO was paid with about KRW 230 million 3 management policies and 3 strategic goals as well as selecting 9 strategic mestic and overseas water problems. Implementing its roles, K-water aims at in 2013, three times more than the average employee compensation and tasks and 115 detailed tasks accordingly, and reorganizing its business realizing its vision, ‘a world leader in water management services.’ Board of Directors’ composition and operation seven times more than that of a new employee. 4 Focus Issues K-water's Board of Directors(BoD), the highest decision-making body, deliberates and passes resolutions on K-water's major issues for its management Non-executive Directors’ roles and strengthGlobal water management (Smart Water) Safe water service (Smart Welfare) Open and Customized service (Smart Services) goals by taking into account economic, social, and environment alterms. It also ened professionalism checks and supports the executives at the same time. K-water’s Board of DirecK-water’s Board of Directors has selected outside directors that have experLeader in the global water management market Safe water service for all the citizens Management to meet customers’ expectation level Moving beyond ‘a supply of clean and safe water’ as K-water will achieve ‘Water Welfare’ through exK-water will sufficiently communicate with stakeholdtors is comprised of 15 directors: 7 Executive Directors and 8 Non-executive tise to solve management issues such as improving financial soundness and ers through various communication channels such we have been doing so far, K-water is pursuing‘a suppanding tap water service and developing water inDirectors, and a stakeholder who has direct interests with K-water cannot be developing waterfront areas. As a result, financial and urban experts make ply of healthy water in which the mineral balance is take source plants for water shortage areas such as as SNS, etc., and form a friendly common ground preserved and be beneficent for human body,’ thereisolated regions, islands, farm areas, etc., and realize with customers through social outreach activities appointed as a non-executive director. The position of chairman is served by a up 38% of the entire outside directors. More than half of the members of the by, making a landmark in the water management a society safe from water-related disasters such as and cooperation with a private sector. We will also paradigm. We will also realize the Integrated Water floods, drought, etc., by enhancing the risk manageestablish a transparent and smart corporate culture senior non-executive director, thereby, contributing to checks and balances in Board, Executive Recommendation Committee, and the Audit Committee while strengthening a debt management for the firm’s Resources Management from the source to the ocean ment. the Board. In 2013, a total of 13 general meetings of the Board of Directors were are the outside directors to guarantee their independence and reinforce the by cooperating with stakeholders. financial stability. held, in which 176 major management directions were reported. 64 managerole of checks and balances. Also, K-water has enhanced the reporting to the Economic, Environmental ment proposals that came up within the Board of Directors were reflected 100% BOD, focusing on current issues and major events; it strategically supports Mission We make a happier world with water Strategic goals for 2023 and contributed to the improving of K-water’s management. non-executive directors' activities by arranging their offices in each area and matching each of their professional skills with appropriate departments. Such Mission We make a happier world with water Current status of the Board of Directors (As of september, 2014) reinforced roles and responsibilities of the outside directors have led them to and Social Performances for 2013 Water leader in water management services We make a happier Vision Position Name Title be more active in improving management and contribute more to K-water’s world with water Choi, Gye Woon President major issues such as overseas projects. Core Values Management policies Kang, Dae Ka Auditor General Lee, Hak Su Senior Executive Vice President Internal & external audits Smart Smart Smart Executive Purity Passion Creativity Han, Kyu Beom Vice Presidentof Management Support Division In order to supervise the appropriateness and impartiality of the works carWater Welfare Service Director Choi, Byeong Seub Vice Presidentof Water Resources Business Division ried out, K-water operates an internal audit committee and an independent Kim, Jae Bok Vice President of Water Supply Business Division Wo Appendix Audit & Inspection department, which inspects public officials’ disciplines, r Seo, Eul Seong Vice President of Urban Waterfront Business Division wa rld lea ate KRW 7.5 trillion sales 86.2% debt ratio USD 10 billion conducts regular audits, and performs comprehensive audits. Furthermore, ter de m r art Welfare winning overseas Noh, Joo Seok Chairman / Senior Reporter, Editorial Department at Seoul Newspaper ser anagein m • S art W rvices K-water is being supervised by external auditing institutions such as the vice me m t Se Enterprise Yoon, Ee Sook Professor, Division of International Cooperation, Kwangwoon Univ. s nt S • ar Global Best in 5 sectors (START) m Strategic Kong, Myung Jae Professor, Department of Business Management, Keimyung Univ. Board of Audit & Inspection, Fair Trade Committee, Parliamentary Inspec•S Goals NonKim, Kab Sung Professor, Department of Urban Engineering, Yonsei Univ. tion, the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs, and the Prime S T A R T executive Safety Technology Ability Responsibility Teamwork Kim, Won Tae Professor, Graduate School of Public Policy, Hanyang Univ. Minister’s Office. Director Park, Seung Ki President, Hyundai SNC. Co., Ltd Lee, Won Suk Committee Member at the Federation of Happy Smart Exercises Strategic Global water Open and Customized Advisor, Policy Advisory Committee, Yeouido Research Center of Safe water service Kim, Keun Sik Direction management service Saenuri Party 16 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 As We Proceed Sustainable Management System Key performance indicator for K-water’s midand long-term sustainable management Strategy Direction Key Performance Indicator (KPI) 2013 (Performance) 2014 2023 Note K-water manages 23 Key Performance Indices (KPI) in order to systematically implement sustain• Dam water supply (billion ㎥) 5,503 5,516 6,569 able management; its excellence was proven by receiving the highest grade in the Sustainable Management evaluation of Korean Business Ethics IndeX (KoBEX SM) by the government. • Flood control capacity (billion ㎥) 49.3 49.5 54.6 • Industrial water sales (KRW billion) 198 243 2,282 • Urban waterfront & Industrial complex sales Sustainable management system organization operates the Corporate Partnership & Diagnosis Team under the Water Leader of global water (KRW billion) 5,623 9,915 148,933 Sustainability Management management (8) The Management Services Department under the Office of the Senior Supply Business Division to strategically promote shared growth with part• Clean energy supply (GWh) 3,040 2,854 3,050 Executive Vice President is in charge of overseeing K-water’s sustainable nering companies within the enterprise supply chain. Third, K-water foundmanagement, and has been annually publishing a sustainability report with ed the Conflict Management Team under the Office of the Senior Executive • Overseas sales (USD million) 986 5,801 11,072 third-party verification since 2005. In 2014, K-water reformed its organizaVice President in order to build a sustainable relationship based on mutual • Index for fostering human resources (%) 40.5 40 45 tional structure in accordance with the new SMART Managemen system. trust with its stakeholders. Lastly, K-water operates advisory committees • Secured 'Star Brand technologies' (fostering KeyFirst, K-water established the Future Technology & Safety Division in order and councils that encompass economic, environmental, and social matters in technologies) (number of cases) 4 4 31 to enhance safety services and future technologies. Second, K-water also order to accompany the stakeholders’ various opinions. • Water supply (billion ㎥) 3,709 3,772 4,499 • Global Water Quality Standard achievement rate (%) 99.99 99.98 100 • Retrofitted water pipes (㎞) 32.7 35.5 79.1 4 Focus Issues Board of Auditor Water welfare services CEO Directors General with national safety (6) • Flow rate in local waterworks (%) 81.4 80.0 83.0 • Level of risk management effort (points) 93.5 95 or above 95 or above Management Services Advisory Council Senior Executive Vice President Department • Rate of accident prevention efforts (%) 0.52 0.46 0.10 Sustainable manage• Level of corporate integrity (grade) Unsatisfactory Outstanding Outstanding ment supervisory K-water Management Advisory Council Mutual Growth and Cooperation Committee • Debt ratio (%) 120.6 121.6 86.2 Customer Service Committee Except construction profit of Tap Water Customer Council Overseas Business Gyeong-in • Sales increase rate (%) 19.7 6.7 9.7 private investment businesses Regional Council of Dam Constructed Region Ara Waterway Division Business Division Except construction profit of Economic, Environmental • Profit rate (%) 22.5 12.5 15.9 private investment businesses Open and customized service, empathizing with • Trust management index (points) 66 69 84 customers (9) • Environmental Performance Evaluation index (points) 151 150 or above 154 and Social Performances for 2013 Administrative Services Water Resources Water Supply Urban Waterfront Future Technology Regional Division • Social contribution activity index (points) 89.6 90 or above 90 or above Division Business Division Business Division Business Division & Safety Division • Customer satisfaction rate of public corporations (grade) Highest Highest Highest 90 points or above • Level of creativity and innovation (σ) 2.96 3.10 6.00 CEO Business Executive Director Regional Executive Director Director General Employees Appendix Lay a foundation for K-water’s next Secure the foundation for sustainable Facilitate the businesses under Priority placed on generating perPursue higher efficiency and 100 years and form internal and management by generating business jurisdiction by strengthening regional formances and ensuring customers’ competency through creativity Highest Grade for 3 consecutive years in Sustainable Management Evaluation (KoBEX-SM index) AAA external consensus performances community and networking safety from disasters • Concretize future development • A supervising leader in charge of • Solve current issues by thoroughly • Build a safety-conscious organizational • Carry out given tasks with trust and assignments through communication, realizing divisional responsibility understanding all works of the regional culture based on fundamentals and cooperation that overcome distrust encouragement, and support management division compliance of principles. and conflicts • Focus on solving current management • Strategic approach with a strong • Handle and select all decision-making • Implement and feedback on CEO’s • Innovate an organizational culture and K-water received the highest grade (AAA) for 3 consecutive years (2011~2013) on the Korean Business issues through company-wide competencies determination to be responsible for K-water’s future development of the regional division based on customers’ standards management policies based on authenticity ways to work with open-minds Ethics indeX-Sustainability Management (KoBEX-SM) evaluation, an investigation on the level of • Focus on improving self and the sustainable management by the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy. K-water endeavors to practice • Build an energetic and cooperative • Support employees to generate • Expand consensus of and promote • Improve organizational productivity organization’s competitiveness with organizational culture based on trust performances by utilizing internal and K-water’s future development tasks through efficient and performancepassion sustainable management. Highest grade in the level of external network oriented minds Sustainable Management 18 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 As We Proceed Developing Together with Our Stakeholders K-water has been securing transparency and credibility while preventing conflicts that might occur Transparent information disclosure to stakeholders during project implementation through stakeholders’ participation in decision-making and projects. K-water expands the public announcement of management and strengthens the disclosure of information that influences people’s lives in order to practice open and transparent management. By analyzing public opinion and the claiming condition of information disclosure in 2013, we disclosed in advance the state of how we handle the algae bloom in reservoirs and the state of information disclosure on our official website, as they are deemed of high demand by customers. On top of this, K-water posts information on source water quality and tap water quality from production to supply on its website on a real-time, and offers an electronic display of water quality for apartments that take tap water. Furthermore, K-water has simplified its information announcement website to be more image-based so that cusStakeholders’ communication and participation Sustainability Management tomers can check notices on mobile, and has improved the website for them to access and find information more easily. K-water’s stakeholders are defined directly as the customers who receive K-water’s services, and indirectly as: a regional community that exchanges influences through K-water’s projects; academia, civic groups, and the government who influence the direction of project implementation; participating partnering compaOpen disclosure of company’s rules and an enhanced communication system with stakeholders nies in projects; and all employees carrying out the projects. K-water draws stakeholders from 5 strategic businesses: water resources, waterworks, urban enWe institutionalized the prior notification of enactments or legislation of company’s regulations, so that we can more fully reflect various opinions regarding the vironment, renewable energy, and overseas and North Korea. It also operates various communication windows per stakeholder group such as advisory councils, company’s rules in civil service. As of June, 2014, you can access the firm’s 94 regulations on K-water’s website. In 2013, we heeded diverse opinions and encustomer service committees, regional councils, etc. so that all stakeholders can directly and indirectly participate in all process of management. In particular, hanced transparency through a prior notification of the amendment of “Lots sale and rent regulations.” Moreover, in order to improve the fairness and transparK-water has been running the Mutual Growth and Cooperation Committee consisting of stakeholders for true communication that accommodates critical opinions ency of K-water’s civil service as well as to heed people’s opinions or experiences regarding corruption, we operate “Integrity Happy Call” and “Integrity Postcard” since 2014. There is also a Voice of Customer bulletin board and customer suggestion system on K-water’s official website, through which customers and stakearound the clock. Through these programs, we can effectively communicate with the stakeholders. Such interactions enable us to better understand and solve holders' diverse interests and opinions are continuously collected and actively reflected on management. Anyone can participate, and outstanding suggestions can whatever discontent that the stakeholders may have throughout the work process. lead to rewards up to maximum of KRW 5 million. (G4-25) Cooperative governance among stakeholders 4 Focus Issues The business of K-water has both direct and indirect impacts on the stakeholders and in turn, the stakeholders exercise large influence on K-water’s policies. ThereK-water stakeholder groups (G4-24, 26) fore, K-water pursues the shared growth between the firm and the stakeholders by trying to understand and respond to potential risk factors in advance. It highly values communication with stakeholders, and considers such communication to be indispesnable for K-water’s sustainable growth. K-water also maintains coopJoint Labor-Management Council (4 times/year) VOC (Voice of Customers), erative governance with local communities, NGOs (Non-Governmental Organizations), academia, local governments, the central government, and individual water Corporate intranet (at all times) Customer Service Committee management organizations. Through this cooperative governance, K-water aims to realize IWRM (Integrated Water Resources Management) centering on regions The council is striving to lower the walls of authority Customer suggestions (at all times) among its members through various internal Based on the CEO’s strong determinaand basins in connection with coexistent local development through cooperative governance, in which local community, NGO, academic circles, local government, r Prov perio communication channels and to enhance all tion, K-water thinks about customers i central government and individual water management organizations participate together. For this purpose, it is important to construct continuous relationships with employees’ communication. This is a major of su nt Best Cu sion o first in all of its management activities driving force to create a vibrant and autonomous n n e m stom f th and strives to improve customer services iv sio enviro stakeholders on the basis of trust; in this context, K-water is developing its efforts for a long term stakeholders trust construction by assigning the Conflict Manageorganizational atmosphere. er S e ro ing erv ment Team in exclusive charge of stakeholders under the Office of the Senior Executive Vice President. P k ic or Economic, Environmental w s Custo es yee me plo rs Em Cooperative governance based on IWRM ution of Government Dispatch to the Ministry of Land, T Policy switch in water management Operation of Infrastructure and Transport, Ministry of Environment, and the and Social Performances for 2013 Exec : KRW138.3 b Policy Civil Rights Commission of Korea Government Academia / (when necessary) K-water cooperates closely with govultative committees Local community Civic Groups ernmental agencies such as the Ministry cons of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, ▶ ax il the Ministry of Environment, etc. to successfully execute government policies Development Application li o n and work towards national economic recovery. NGO Co Regi ing ▶ ner ies Appendix mm ona rt Cooperative uni l Pa pan ip rsh ducts State District Mutual Growth and ci ties Com e governance Soal tn ro o par ss P n Cooperation Committee (6 times/year) Mutual Growth Council with partnerRW utre tive usine billio Open Forum (often) ing construction companies (every 7 ach K era ▶ Policy Forum (4 times/year) Tap Water Customer Council, 4.8 activit Coop Small B .3 month), Operation of Mutual Growth and Cooperation Website (at all times) bill ies f 4 Government Academia Natural Science Humanities se o 74 Regional councils (1~2 times/year) ion Purcha RW K-water’s suppliers and partnering comK-water resolves environmental conflicts K panies are its partners for sustainable and forms social trust by gathering opinions management. K-water leads the way of academia, civic groups, and regional toward sustainable growth for K-water’ ▶ community leaders. K-water also builds sentire supply chain by establishing an Center Local cooperative local governance for mutual eco-friendly supply network. Local government growth with regional communities. 20 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 As We Proceed Selecting K-water’s Material Issues Importance test matrix Through a ‘Materiality Test’, an investigation on stakeholers’ interests based on the GRI G4 frameH ■5 ◆ 3 ●1 work, K-water investigated stakeholders’ interests from various angles and tried to provide suffiNumber Issue Issue boundary ★2 1 Awareness of sustainable management (initiative) In-organization, partnering companies, customers, local communities, NGOs □ 29 cient information about them in this, the 2014 Sustainability Report. 2 Mutual growth and cooperation In-organization, partnering companies ▵ 28 ● 13 ◆4 3 New market and new business In-organization ● 14 ◆7 4 Financial performance In-organization ★6 5 Response to climate change In-organization, partnering companies ■ 17 ★9 K-water’s 2014 Sustainability Report addresses important issues that are Step 3: Selecting the material issues 8▲ Sustainability Management 6 Contribution to local communities In-organization, partnering companies, customers, local communities, NGOs ★ 15 selected by reflecting internal and external stakeholders' interests. The Integrating both external and internal concerns in relation to the selected 42 7 Financial soundness In-organization ● 10 25 ● 16 8 Fairness of HRM (Human Resources Management) policy In-organization □ issues were drawn through a 3-step process: collecting pertinent informaissues, we were able to analyze and prioritize the issues. We categorized 20 11 ● 9 Social contribution activities In-organization, partnering companies , customers, local communities, NGOs ○ 26 tion, understanding interests of both the people in and out of the industry, high-ranked issues, which are placed above the threshold**, into ‘4 Focus ● 18 ▲ 20 External interest 10 Ethical management In-organization, partnering companies 12 ▲ and selecting material issues. Material issues were selected in accordance Issues,’ and made efforts to make a concrete reporting of them in this re11 Corporate governance In-organization ■ 19 ○ 27 12 Employee benefits (work-life balance) In-organization with ‘4 Reporting Principles for Defining Content’ in the GRI Sustainability port. ★ 30 Threshold 13 Sustainable management system In-organization, partnering companies Reporting Guidelines: Sustainability context, Materiality, Completeness, and ▵ 31 ▵ 22 ● 21 14 Environmental management system In-organization, partnering companies ● 23 Stakeholder inclusiveness. [G4-18] 15 Subcontractor selection and impartiality in dealings In-organization, partnering companies ○ 39 ● 24 16 Risk management In-organization ★ 41 ★ 38 ▵ 37 17 Improve recognition on tap-water quality In-organization, partnering companies , customers, local communities, NGOs ○ 34 Step 1: Collecting issues that stakeholders concern Process of identifying material issues 18 Stakeholders’ participation (communication) In-organization ★ 42 □ 35 ○ 32 We examined the K-water 2013 Sustainablity Report, firm’s policies, KPI (Key 19 Energy efficiency and resource saving and recycling In-organization, partnering companies ○ 40 ○ 36 □ 33 4 Focus Issues Identifying and Performance Indicator), and legislation. We, thereby, garnered 42 relevant 20 Global class HR (Human Resources) cultivation In-organization Collecting issues prioritizing the L Internal interest H Selecting the issues from benchmarkings of advanced companies within the same field, that stakeholders ▶ interests of people ▶ material issues □ As we proceed ▲ Focus issue 4 Creating a Happy Workplace concern in and out of the ● Sustainable Management ▵ Environmental Performance media reports, and surveys targeting both people in and out of water reindustry ◆ Focus issue 1 Creative Management ○ Social Performance ■ Focus issue 2 Smart Water Services □ Economic Performance source industry. ★ Focus issue 3 Society Prospering Together Internal Interests External Interests Step 2: Identifying the interests of both the people in and out of Number Issue Number Issue Number Issue the industry K-water’s in-house policies 21 Complying with government policies 29 Brand value 37 Preserving biodiversity External stakeholder survey 22 Disposing industrial and waste water 30 Partnering company satisfaction 38 Social contribution implementation system K-water implemented ‘Materiality Test*’ in order to grasp internal/external KPI Benchmarking 23 Preventing bribery and corruption 31 Green purchase 39 Customer communication level of concern targeting the selected 42 issues. The materiality test reNorms and laws Media research 24 Accounting transparency 32 Labor-management relationship 40 Female leadership Employee survey flects the 6-step test results: in-house policy, KPI, norms and laws, survey 25 CEO leadership 33 Innovative management (organization & system) 41 Spread and support of sustainable management in supply chain Economic, Environmental 26 Workplace safety and health 34 Customer satisfaction 42 Subcontractor communication on stakeholders, benchmarking and media analysis. K-water grasped the 27 Service improvement and responsibility 35 New technology R&D (Research & Development) internal level of concern by combining survey results with K-water’s in28 Waste discharge and recycling 36 Childcare and women’s health support house policies, KPI, and review of related norms and laws, while grasping Method of identifying material issues per stakeholder the external level of concern by combining the survey result on external and Social Performances for 2013 Stakeholder Issue approach 4 Focus Issues stakeholder, benchmarking of business circles of the same category and Customer, K-water ranked 4 Focus Issues integrating the stakeholders’ interests investigated in the materiality test, and defined Aspect and Aspect boundary of advanced corporations, and media search analysis results. Press reports, homepage VOC, Customer Service Committee, etc. Local community the issues based on GRI G4 Guideline. (G4-19, 20, 21, 27) Academia, Analysis on the minutes of 2013 Management Advisory Council NGO and Policy Forums, Surveys, etc. Rank Issues G4 Aspect Aspect boundary Share strategies Analysis on 2013 Government Evaluation Report about K-water’s Focus Issue 1 Government performances Financial performance Economic Performances, 1 New market and new business Indirect Economic Impacts In-organization Creative Management Financial soundness (p.34~38) Appendix Employee K-water’s in-house policies, KPI, Surveys Fair HRM (Human Resources Management) policy Employment, Training and Education, Focus Issue 4 Analysis on the minutes of 2013 Mutual Growth and Cooperation2 Employee benefits (work-life balance) Equal Remuneration for Women and Men, In-organization Creating a Happy Workplace Partnering Company Committee, Surveys, etc. World class HR (Human Resources) cultivation Labor Practices Grievenss Mechanism (p.58~63) Mutual growth and cooperation Focus Issue 3 Contribution to local communities In-organization, Partnering companies, 3 Social contribution activities Produrement Practices, Local Communities Customers, Local communities, NGOs Society Prospering Together Subcontractor selection and impartiality in dealings (p.52~57) * IPS Materiality Test Model : Developed by The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 to develop sustainable management strategies and sustainable report, it is a 6-step test model to draw out materiality issues of a corporation based on corporation’s characteristics and its current status. Response to climate change Focus Issue 2 ** Threshold: The GRI G4 guideline directs a company to set a threshold for significance of economic, environmental and social impacts by company’s sustainable management Energy, Water, Emissions, Customer Health and In-organization, Partnering companies, 4 Energy efficiency and resource saving& recycling Safety, Proudct and Service Labeling Customers, Local communities, NGOs Smart Water Services Improve recognition on tap-water quality (p.39~51) and stakeholder assessment based on the result of IPS Materiality Test, and to report issues above the threshold as major ones. 22 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 As We Proceed Ethical Management Formation of employee consensus for ethical management prevailed in its management system; and implementing the ‘Advance Notice A corporation where personal ethics and business ethics stand upright is the core value that K-water Item Content of Audit’, etc. pursues. Anti-corruption education through innovation workshop for exEstablish a leadership of integrity ecutives and special training for directors Business ethics that put emphasis on the stakeMake customized, regular clean education compulsory for new holders Customized anti-corruption employees, promoted employees, and the management group K-water fully understands that ethical management is essential to earn the education Clean communication and community workshop between deA clean corporation that produces clean tap water partments trust of its stakeholders: employees, customers, and business partners, etc. Sustainability Management Vision Sustainable corporation through transparent and ethical management “We emphasize the fact that an organizational climate with Ethical Practice Manual Put information on the importance of clean ethics, Q&A, violation With this understanding, K-water carries out programs to enhance cooperacases, related regulation, etc. to be used easily transparency and integrity is more important than anything tion and communication with its stakeholders. •Employee’s pledge of ethical management practice else.” (CEO inauguration speech, November 2013) Strategy •Operating the ‘Corruption Report Center’ and ‘Voluntary ReturnFirst, K-water improved its electronic procurement system to preclude illegal A transparent public corporation that empathizes with customers Lead the self-directed practice of ing Job-related Gifts Window’ direction K-water is aggressively pursuing ethical management in accordance with its ethical management •Raising funds by collecting and selling all employees’ wreaths bidding and enhance transparency in bidding process and simplified requirefor congratulating promotion or transference, and using the creed that ethical management is the most fundamental and serves as the Resolve public confunds toward social contribution activities (2007~) ments for bidding documents to protect customers’ privacy and mitigate their Build a corporate culRemove any of barristrongest competency. In 2009, with a strong determination to pursue honesty cerns about financial inconveniences. Second, we pursue a win-win relationship with our partnering Strategies ture based on honesty ers for communicaunsoundness and and integrity tion and cooperation and practice public values through water services, K-water included “Purity” moral laxity corporations. K-water expands a sustainable partnership with its small and Ethics and integrity monitoring in one of its three core values. K-water is also putting efforts toward clean and medium-sized partnering enterprises through ‘Green Partnership Program,’ Enhanced impleImprove corporate Prevent laxity in Ethical management practiced in K-water’s overall businesses is monitored ethical management by creating a transparent organizational climate in its Goals menting platform of culture toward trust management which supports financially its partnering enterprises ‘achievement of ISO ethical management and communication through ‘K-water Ethics indeX (KEX),’ which is evaluation indices developed midand long-term Strategic Management Plans and emphasizing on basic 14001 (Environmental Management System) certification. Third, K-water car4 Focus Issues based on K-water’s business features, and surveys on employees’ ethical principles. In order to internalize ethical enterprise culture, we have enhanced ries out an equitable HR management of its employees, systematic accident awareness. The results of monitoring feedback into each department’s manour ethical management system centering on ethical norms, implementing Implementing organization prevention programs in its workplace, thereby ensuring that K-water’s ethical agement and the future K-water Ethical Management Implementation Plans. organization, Employees’ consensus, monitoring, etc. In order to implement ethical management, K-water operates with the Ethimanagement steps are leading to high quality water service. In addition, KK-water has advanced its own intelligent monitoring system, WARN (Wide cal Management Committee, whichis the highest decision-making body water makes its best to implement low-carbon management, expand renewAudit & Risk Network), which utilizes the Computer Assisted Audit Techniques Ethical norms supervised by the CEO. Under the control of the Ethical Management Comable energy business, and fulfill CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) through (CAATs); 93 risks in 43 management systems are monitored on daily basis K-water’s ethical norms consist of Code of Ethics, Employees’ Code of Bemittee, K-water constructed an implementing organization systematically its community services at both home and abroad. and fed back for corruption prevention (real-time remedial actions for 200 haviors, and Regulation of Occupational Integrity Pact. In 2013, K-water exfor its ethical management; it operates supervising bodies: Management abnormal conditions in 2013). Furthermore, K-water has established and tended the Code of Ethics to be applied to temporary workers and declared Services Dept. and Audit & Inspection Dept., and practicing bodies: Ethical Excellent organization in anti-corruption efforts for operated ‘Corruptibliity Assessment’ program for identifying and removing “establishing of a fair cooperation relationship with subcontractors” as a Practice Task Manager (who leads each department’s implementing ‘Ethical any corruptibilities embedded in the internal regulations, thereby, heightening 8 consecutive years & Highest-rated organization in mandatory duty in its Employees’ Code of Behaviors, thereby strengthening Practice Task,’ a key task for the ethical management and ‘Anti-corruption accountability and transparency in its management activities. work ethics and discipline Economic, Environmental its responsibility as a state-owned enterprise. Leader’ (who leads each department’s anti-corruption activities). Under the CEO’s strong initiative for ethical management, all the employBoard of Efforts to discover and remove corruption inducing factors ees of K-water have participated in anti-corruption programs actively. Directors By improving corruption-vulnerable factors in the management system K-water’s anti-corruption efforts earned “Excellent” grade in the evaluaand Social Performances for 2013 and implementing the ‘Self-regulating System Improvement Assignments,’ tion by Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission of Korea, which evalK-water heightened its work transparency and strengthened the internal uated anti-corruption efforts and transparency of 225 public institutions CEO control for anti-corruption. In 2013, K-water carried out a total of 39 Selfnationwide. K-water is one of the four organizations in the nation to be ratK-water Management Advisory Council regulating System Improvement Assignments including instituting the esed as excellent for eight years in a row. In addition, K-water’s strong work Auditor General (external experts / executive directors tablishment of the ‘Promotion Screening Committee’ to ensure the fairness ethics and discipline made K-water the highest-rated public corporation Management Services Dept. in the promotion. K-water especially has focused on identifying customary for 2 consecutive years in MOLIT(the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Ethical Management Executive Audit & Inspection Dept. (Senior Executive Vice President) and structural corruptions in advance and eradicating them. Transport)’s evaluation on work ethics and discipline of 14 MOLIT-affiliated Appendix Ethical management and public announcement of management information supervisory Ethical Management Committee In addition, the company runs a confidential in-house reporting system public corporations. Anti-corruption and corporate integrity supervisory called ‘Integrity Help-line’ to encourage the reporting of corruption cases; it Although K-water received positive reviews on its anti-corruption efforts, Headquater department also has responded strictly to corruptions by strengthening standards and its corporate integrity was rated as “Unsatisfactory” in 2013. We humply Integrity-Ethics CountermeaSelf-regulating System Imsure Team provement Team adhered to zero tolerance policy. Along with this, K-water has put tighten listen to this critical opinion and admit that our work ethics might not sufCustomers Employees Environment Society work discipline continuously: operating the ‘Joint Inspection Team’ to monificiently reflect the customer perspective. Through seamless self-scrunity, tor work discipline of each department; strengthening a close monitoring K-water will make more efforts to put customer-oriented corpo8 departments 3 departments including 3 departments 5 departments Each regional division Each department including the Managethe Administrative including the Space including the Public at corruption-vulnerable period; executing a monthly self-inspection by a rate ethics into practice. ment Services Dept. Services Dept. Environment Dept. Relations Dept. Operating Anti-Corruption Leader Program in headquater director of each department; inspecting to identify unreasonable practices Implementing the Ethical Practice Task centering on each stakeholder group / on-site department 24 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 As We Proceed Environmental Management K-water reinforces environmental management in all of its production processes, and builds ecoISO 9001/14001 & KSI 7001 Certifications Cultivation of certified ISO 9001/14001 auditors (2007~): 134 people friendly its supply chain by supporting its partners and suppliers. K-water is pursuing the advancement of its management system through • Establishment of Global Green Management via Fostering Professional Personnel maintaining ISO 9001/14001 & KSI 7001 Certifications. In particular, in ac• Fostering Program & Diversified Utilization Plan cordance with ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) and KSI 7001 (Green Management System), K-water has put efforts to establish and Select candidates Complete a training by a certified institution, Provide internal and through internal job improve an eco-friendly way of working. K-water has introduced the cyclic Strengthening environment management of all processes of K-water’s production Apply for a test, and external audits offerings Sustainability Management Obtain a qualification process of the Plan-Do-Check-Action (P-D-C-A) to its all departments, and Environmental pollution influences not only polluters but also all members of a society. K-water has enhanced environmental management in its entire process of implemented internal management system audits and the audits by an production ranging from raw materials to waste disposal, and been pushing its direction toward increasing environmental integrity of the entire corporate supply external accreditation body (every year). In order to instill the environmental network. K-water’s push towards environmental integrity includes the investment to environmental management of small & medium businesses which are raw management practice into the employees, K-water has fostered certified ISO materials or equipment makers, the strengthened oversight on on-site environmental management of construction companies, and supports to eco-friendly agriInternal audit 9001/14001 auditors among its employees on a regular basis for the past 7 Conduct ISO internal culture, thereby building an environmental business system within the entire corporate network. Through promoting purchase of green products, applying resource audits on all sites Partner years (2007-2013), and the number of the certified ISO 9001/14001 auditors Management support recycling and saving technologies, and maximizing reuse and recycle of water and wastes, K-water will increase environmental integrity of its business. quality innovation Advisory service reached 134 in 2013. Their inspecting and improving the quality of each departProvide on-site on the establishment of ment’s management facilitates the internalization of K-water’s environmental training and consulting, environmental management Environmental management and performances and Guide innovation Internalization system for partnering Environmental Management Environmental Performances management. activities companies • Green product purchase • Promotion of recycled products supply • Source water quality management • Improvement of source water quality Environmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) 4 Focus Issues Status of EPE Since 2003, K-water has been implementing the ISO 14001-based EnviRaw materials • Eco-friendly planning and construction • Preservation and improvement of Unit : points (Purchase, Intake of water, etc.) ronmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) program. The EPE program is 51% UP • Environmental education to environmental values of project areas (p72~76) construction companies to induce continuous improvement by regularly measuring and diagnosing environmental management performances of a corporation. In 2007, K-water • Minimize energy, resources, and • Enhancement of profitability obtained a patent for an EPE computerized system for the first time in Korea, labor force allocation through the by saving resources 151 improvement of facilities and techniques • Reduction of greenhouse gas and has been managing its environmental performances utilizing this sys145 • Manage discharge water quality • Mitigation of environmental effects 141 tem. The EPE index represents relative improvement level of environmental 137 • Low-carbon green production of tap water through light weight packaging, etc. performances compared to that of the base year (2006), and is managed as 100 • Invest the production of ‘Healthy Tap K-water’s KPI. In 2013, the EPE index was 151 points, showing that the enviConstruction, Production, and Distribution Water’ containing balanced minerals ronmental performances improved by 51% compared to that of the base year Economic, Environmental (2006). • Minimize waste through the • Enhancement of profitability improvement of facilities and techniqies by saving resources • Recycle waterworks sludge into green • Reduction of environmental effects Environmental accounting 2006 2010 2011 2012 2013 and Social Performances for 2013 soil and cover-soil materials K-water has adopted and run environmental accounting to enhance environWaste Input mental investment efficiencies and environmental performances. K-water established the concepts and standards of environmental cost and investment Green purchase in 2013 Energy consumption in 2013 Water use in 2013 on its own, and has been calculating environmental cost and investment an199 12,955 (TJ) 56,711 (MWh) 40,995 nually since 2000. The calculated environmental cost and investment help Environmental Investment Ratio vs. Total Investment (%) Green purchase amount Percentage of Consumed water 34,616 K-water consider environmental impacts by its business in major decisionEnvironmental Cost Ratio vs. Total Cost (%) (KRW 100 million ) (thousand ㎥) green purchase Consumed Saved making process. In 2013, the total environmental cost was KRW 196.3 billion 180 Appendix Total purchase amount vs. total purchase Recycled water Total Investment (KRW 100 million ) 90.6% (thousand ㎥) and the total environmental investment was KRW 147.1 billion. They are used 9.11 KRW 1.6 trillion 8.97 toward operating environmental pollution prevention facilities and activities 7.33 Output Environmental as well as ecological recovery to contribute to the enhancing of our society’s Investment Waste materials in 2013 Greenhouse gas emission in 2013 Discharged water quality in 2013 environmental soundness. KRW 147.1 billion 96.8 6.8 10.03 10.87 6.0 100 631,406 5.4 Total Cost 490,260 9.42 49 KRW 1.8 trillion Total waste 110,017 3.3 3.0 63,480 materials (ton) 39,565 Emission (ton Co₂) Water treatment plants (㎎/L) 2011 2012 2013 Environmental Cost 2.0 2.4 Reduction Sewage treatment plants (㎎/L) KRW 196.3 billion (ton Co₂) Rural sewage treatment facili1.5 Percentage Waterworks Sewage sludge Construction ties (㎎/L) recycled (%) sludge waste materials BOD COD SS 26 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 As We Proceed Risk Management time broadcasing on emergency sites with mobile broadcasting equipment Real-time Emergency Management Center (EMC) Based on its own unique risk management system called ( ), K-water predicts and manages poand the real-time commanding without spatial constraints, integrating the tential dangers of management and respond to risks on real-time. information of: emergency response experts, recovery equipment, emerEmergency response experts Real-time broadcasting gency response team, and status reports. In addition, K-water operates the ’IT (Information Technology) Emergency Reponse Center’ in the office of its Chungcheong Regional Division in case Recovery equipment Status reports Risk Management System its major computer centers’ functions break down by disasters such as a Sustainability Management SMS K-water responds to risks through its own, distinct risk management system Risk type fire or an earthquake. K-water also conducts a recovery simulation exercise Emergency response team called KRM (K-water Risk Management). K-water’s risk management sysonce a year to activate the facilities of the IT Emergency Reponse Center Affected customers Category Danger Crisis tem is divided into preventive activities and risk response activities, managwithin four hours after a disaster occurs. Currency rate, Interest rate, Credit, Financial risks Currency rate fluctuations, Strikes, etc. ing four areas of risks: financial risks, conflicts, disasters, and publicity. The Corruption, etc. These efforts in risk management led to K-water being selected as the most preventive activities involve to prevent potential risks (dangers) from evolving Conflicts Conflicts Lawsuits, filing of civil complaints outstanding institution for 2 consecutive years (2012~3) in the ‘Safety Korea into actual risks, and the risk response activities handle the risks actually ocStorm and Floods, Draughts, Accidents, Pipeline break, Tunnel collapse, InterrupExercise (SKX)’ held by the National Emergency Management Agency. Disasters tions in source water-intake, Inundation, etc. curred (crises) with prompt recovery activities. etc. When a risk is realized, K-water takes immedient recovery steps that include Publicity Press reports Negative reports the deciding of a risk alert level and the setting up of ‘Emergency Response Head Office’ in accordance with its risk response manual for each area of risks. on-site departments to respond to risks promptly and efficiently according to 4 Focus Issues Company-wide Critical Risk response K-water’s response to risks differs depending on the alert levels of risks: risk types and alert levels. K-water Risk Management System management risks manuals Moderate, Substantial, Severe, and Critical, thereby, facilitating prompt and efficient response; in case of a risk occurrence that needs company-wide reAudit risk management through K-water Risksponse, K-water calls the Emergency Response Head Office with the Senior based Internal Audit Preventive management Identification Evaluation Effects/ Possibility of occurrence Response to Risks Monitoring & Reporting Executive Vice President as the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) which oversees the Through its own risk management method called KRA (K-water Risk-based entire recovery processes. The Construction Technology & Safety DepartInternal Audit), K-water manages and mitigates audit risks in advance by ment is supervisory of K-water’s risk management; establishing risk maninvestgating audit opinions by the internal audit. Audit risks are defined as Department-unit KRI Automatic sensing agement strategies, organizing risk management systems, and governing ‘inherent risk’ and ‘control risk’; audit risks are evaluated as high/medium/ management low, depending on the impact and potential of reoccurrence for the inherent Risk concept outline risks and on the inadequacy of the internal control system for the control Economic, Environmental risks, respectively. For ‘high’ inherent risks, on-site audits and prevention Vulnerable Inspection & activities are conducted, and for ‘high’ control risks, efforts to lower the defacilities Management Risk is a concept gree of danger through system improvement are made. In 2013, the audit Danger including danger risks were assessed in the perspectives of: the strengthening of manageand Social Performances for 2013 Risk and crisis, where crisis refers to the ment support, quality assurance and safety prevention, and the prevention Realization of risks Crisis realized danger. of lax management 19 cases of audits were conducted in order to mitigate the risks in advance. Sensing the Deciding an PostRisk response risk occurence alert level of Risk response management risk Real-time response to emergency Response Activities K-water has established risk management processes in stages to prevent Risk Risk management from company-wide perspective occurrence Critical • Head office control tower : Executive Director Appendix risks from spreading, reflecting the public service risk management stan(ie: accidents) Corporate-wide • On-site control tower: Regional Executive risk management Director Financial risk dards of the government. Employees utilize the risk response hands-on • Organize an emergency response team Danger/Crisis management Severe • Set up the Emergency Response Head Office integrated management manuals in regards to 297 cases in 4 areas of risks (financial risks, conflicts, • Response to risks under the lead of a governdisasters, publicity) on-site. Moreover, K-water developed a model of realing head officie department Publicity Disaster Accomplish time Emergency Management Center (EMC) based on in-depth interviews management management management goal of the employees who experienced water-shortage crises, which facilitates Substantial Enhance corporate • Department control tower : Director General a prompt recovery. This real-time EMC model installed on KRM helps to reDepartment-unit values risk management • Organize an emergency response team Conflict port and respond to emergencies more promptly, and organizes and sum• Support of aid personnels management Moderate by a regional division mons an emergency response team more easily. It also facilitates the real28 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 As We Proceed Prompt recovery of water supply after the helicopter crash in the Imha Dam Material issues per each stakeholder group On May 9th of 2013, a helicopter operated by Korea Forest Service crashed into the Imha Dam. The fuel tank of the helicopter was filled with approximately According to the survey result on K-water’s sustainable management (April~May, 2014), top 5 material issues selected by each stakeholder group were 5,000 liters of aviation gasoline. If the fuel was leaked into the Imha Dam Reservoir, which supplies source water for tap water to the Pohang city and other significantly different, while four (customers, local communities, NGOs, and academia) out of six stakeholder groups showed interests in improving recognidownstream regions, it could have caused a long-term suspension of the water supply. However, a prompt and efficient response by K-water Andong Office tion on tap water quality in common. Those who are supportive of K-water’s business, such as its employees, answered that a ‘fair HRM (Human Resources minimized interruptions in the water service to the downstream regions by the accident. As soon as being informed of the accident, the Andong Office promptly Management) policy’ is the most significant issue for K-water’s sustainable management. On the other hand, those who are critical such as customers, losent aid workers for search of missing people, and immediately ceased the hydropower generation in the Yeongcheon Waterway, which is connected to the cal communities, and NGOs responded that a ‘contribution to local communities’ is the most pivotal. Both the government and academia (which are neutral) Pohang region, in order to prevent water released through the hydropower turbins from contaminating the Pohang and downstream regions. At the same time, priotized a ‘financial soundness’ and a ‘contribution to local communities’, respectively. the office promptly notified the Pohang Office of the accident and requested to take the source water from the Yeongcheon Dam Reservoir instead of the Imha Sustainability Management Dam Reservoir. In addition, it installed 2 or 3 layers of oil fences around the accdent site, removed the leaked oil with absorbent papers, and monitored the water quality to prevent the fuel from spreading on the surface of the reservoir. K-water provided 150 aid workers for the recovery activities during four days after the Supportive Group accident, removing approximately 700 liters of the leaked gasoline with 2,000 meter long oil fence and 200kg of absorbent papers. Soon after its throught water Fair Employees HRM policy quality examinations confirmed that the water in the Imha Dam Reservoir was safe for the source water, K-water resumed the water supply from the Imha Dam Employee benefits Reservoir to the downstream regions on the morning of May 15th. 1 (work-life balance) Helicopter crash Salvage of the wrecked helicopter 2 World class HR cultivation Labor-management 3 relationship Workplace safety and 4 health 5 Critical Group Contribution to local Customers communities Social contribution Local Communities 1 activities Improving recognition NGOs Contribution to local 2 on tap-water quality communities Customer Social contribution 3 Satisfaction 1 activities Service improvement Improving recognition 4 and responsibility 2 on tap-water quality K-water’s risk response system achieved ISO 22301 Certification for Preserving 5 3 biodiversity the first time across the world in the field of water resource business Social contribution 4 implementation system K-water is the world-first corporation in the water resource industry that achieved ISO 5 22301 Certification (certified by Norway DNV in 2013). Adopting the concept of BCM Neutral Group (Business Continuity Management), K-water has advanced its risk response system, Financial Government soundness applying its risk response skills and know-how to the emergency situations. The Financial risk response system thereby earned world recognition for K-water’s ability of risk 1 performance Complying with governresponse. K-water will continue to strengthen its risk response system, securing the ceaseless water service against any of accidents, natural disasters, and terrors. Academia Contribution to local 2 ment policies communities Preventing bribery and 1 Social contribution 3 corruption activities New market and new 2 Improving recognition on tap-water quality 4 business 3 Preserving biodiversity 5 Social contribution 4 implementation system 5 30 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 4 Focus Issues 두물머리를 맞대다 ‘Dumulmeori’, Inspirational Convergence 4 Focus Issues Focus Issue 1 Creative Management 34 Just like two streams of water converging at one place called ‘DumulFocus Issue 2 Smart Water Services 39 meori,’ K-water will make reciprocal efforts for making a society prosFocus Issue 3 Society Prospering Together 52 Focus Issue 4 Creating a Happy Workplace 58 pering together, a happy workplace, and a happier world through creative management and smart water services. As we proceed Focus Issue 1 Economic Performance and Tasks Creative Management Since the completion of major national projects, K-water has recognized the current situation as both a risk and an opportunity, and been pushing ahead with its plan to achieve Sustainable growth by securing financial integrity and restructuring business strategies. Creation and distribution of economic value Sustainability Management K-water is creating economic value by constructing, operating, and managing water resource facilities such as dams, weirs, local waterworks and sewage faciliDMA (Disclosures on Management Approach) ties. As well, K-water is constructing industrial complexes, waterfront spaces, and is developing and applying renewable energies specialized for water. Economic value created in 2013 decreased compared to the previous year because major national projects such as the Four Major Rivers Restoration Project and 1. Importance of the the Creative Management the Gyeong-in Ara Water Project were completed. Distributed economic value, thereby, decreased; Over 83% of economic value created in 2013 was used for K-water is facing contrasting tasks of securing financial health caused by an increasing debt with the completion of major national projects and discovering new operating cost, labor, and capital cost, etc. In 2013, investing KRW 2.5 trillion in total into constructing and operating social infra structures, we, thereby, contribbusiness areas caused by the growth stagnation of the domestic water market. The interest groups of K-water are giving weight to financial performance and uted to revitalizing the economy of our society and producing indirect effects that increase socio-environmental values such as safety and environmental soundfinancial health of K-water as well as business opportunities in new markets. ness. Unit: KRW million 2. Approaches of K-water towards the Creative Management Classification Distributed to 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 4 Focus Issues Since the completion of major national projects, K-water has recognized the current situation as not only a risk but an opportunity and been pushing forward to bolster its Created economic value (1) 2,032,624 2,167,345 6,354,088 3,694,659 3,682,884 financial health and expand its business scope by focusing on five major business strategies. For more detailed information, please refer to page 38 in this report. a) Net sales 2,005,384 2,144,750 6,325,786 3,668,445 3,645,388 b) Interest income, rental, asset sales, etc. 27,240 22,595 28,302 26,214 37,496 Others (government subsidies) 3,150 4,309 236,679 298,786 309,286 Strengthening financial soundness Restructure business structure Distributed economic value (2) 1,511,841 1,678,756 6,139,990 3,492,452 3,259,297 ▼ ▼ a) Operating cost: production cost, asset purchase price Cooperative companies 1,160,601 1,077,896 5,260,373 2,493,275 2,128,902 b) Wage and welfare: labor cost Executives and Employees 285,818 341,990 357,221 360,591 377,361 • Extension of business areas focusing on 5 strategic businesses (water resourcc) Capital cost: paid interest, dividend Others 63,971 160,662 399,552 501,674 541,310 • Restructure management structure • Improve management efficiency es management, waterworks, urban planning & development, clean energy, d) Tax: corporate tax, local tax payment, etc. Government, local governments 26,176 37,708 68,159 73,677 138,349 • Sale of assets • Create profit e) Investment to local community: donation, share of expenses Customers, local community 61,051 60,500 54,685 63,235 73,375 oversea businesses) • Cost Reduction • Debt management system • Innovation of water services using information and communication technoloSurplus (1-2) 520,783 488,589 214,098 202,207 423,587 gies (ICT) ※ Consolidated standard as per application of K-IFRS since 2011 Economic, Environmental Sustainable growth Financial performance K-water’s assets at the end of 2013 totaled KRW 25.6 trillion and the debt was KRW 14.0 trillion [debt ratio 120.6%]. The financial status of the past five years is shown in the table below. The total amount invested in private construction works decreased because of the completion of national projects such as the Four Major Rivers 3. Performance management for the Creative Management and Social Performances for 2013 Restoration Project. Thus, the total sales amounting to KRW 3.6 trillion decreased by 0.6% compared to the previous year. However, the net profit reached KRW 348.1 billion which is an increase of 12.9% compared to the previous year because K-water increased the amount of water supplied and electricity generated. Pioneering into new markets Performances in 2013 Goals for the year 2014 Goals for the year 2023 K-water financial status Unit: KRW billion , % Industrial water sales Clean energy supply capacity Overseas sales Dam water supply Urban waterfront & (KRW billion) (GWh) (USD million) (Million m3) Industrial complex sales K-water financial status 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (KRW billion) Classification 132,770 184,844 234,259 250,164 256,039 Asset 102,814 105,237 108,450 112,385 116,054 2,282 148,993 Appendix 11,072 6,569 Capital 29,956 79,607 125,809 137,779 139,985 243 9,915 198 3,040 2,854 3,050 986 5,801 5,503 5,516 5,623 Debt 23,601 70,601 112,986 118,689 116,034 Financial debt 29.1 75.6 116 122.6 120.6 Debt ratio 816 1,421 2,933 3,083 3,481 Securing financial soundness ※ Consolidated standard as per application of K-IFRS since 2011 Sales increase rate (%) Profit rate (%) Debt ratio (%) Tasks for the Creative Management By building a stable financial structure and maintaining future growth engine investments, K-water Securing financial soundness 19.7 22.5 will accomplish its financial goals which are to increase the sales rate by 9.7% and the operating 9.7 15.9 121.6 121.6 6.7 12.5 86.2 profit rate by 15.9%, and decrease the debt ratio to 86.2% by 2023. Pioneering into new markets 34 K-water 2014 Sustainability Report 35 As we proceed Securing Financial Soundness New Businesses in New Markets As a state-owned enterprise, K-water sets forth to secure a sound financial structure through stringent selfWe are advancing the capabilities of foundational fields such as water resources and waterworks efforts to accomplish its goal of debt reduction. Also, information on the financial status, performance of immanagement, and initiating the expansion of business areas that require specialized expertise in proving the financial structure, and debt reduction fulfillment will be disclosed transparently. water services. Causes of increase in debt Sustainability Management K-water’s debt has increased by approximately KRW 12 trillion from KRW 2 trillion at the end of 2008 to KRW 14 trillion at the end of 2013. The causes of debt Business visions and strategies increase are as the following. K-water has designated water resources management, waterworks, urban planning& development, clean energy, and projects in foreign countries including North Korea as its five major strategic businesses. As well, K-water has a long term plan to convert to an integrated management on a river basin unit, covering National projects K-water’s own businesses the whole water circulation based on the Smart Water Grid (SWG) in order to realize the Integrated Water Resource Management (IWRM). The significant increase in debt can be attributed to the investment cost for the A total of KRW 2.8 trillion of debt was incurred as a result of the investment costs of For the water resources management business, we will conduct the Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM), which considers both water quantity and national projects such as Four Major Rivers Restoration Project and Gyeongexisting businesses. This amount accounts for 23% the total debt increase, among in Ara Waterway Project. Since 2009, investment costs totaled KRW 9.2 trillion, which K-water’s industrial complex construction business has a structural characquality of the basin connecting the operating and monitoring systems of dams, weirs, and streams. For the waterworks business, we will realize the supply of accounting for 77% of the total debt increase amount. teristic requiring significant pre-investment with long-term profit collection. high quality tap water that contains balanced minerals healthy for the human body using advanced water management technologies including the Smart Water Grid (SWG), and will utilize existing waterworks facilities and alternative water resources in order to improve the conditions of areas suffering from water supply and water quality issues. For the urban planning & development business, we will construct eco-friendly urban complex that incorporates water-friendly dePlans for debt reduction 4 Focus Issues signs such as waterfront parks and water leisure and tourism facilities. For the clean energy business, we will lead the way in the domestic market by developing K-water will reduce KRW 1.7 trillion by 2017 through self–efforts for debt reduction such as business restructuring, asset sales, production cost reduction, and investing in clean and renewable energy sources such as tidal power, solar power on the surface of dam reservoirs, and wind energy. Lastly, for overseas management efficiency improvement and profit creation. Through financial management planning and stringent self-efforts, we plan to reduce 32% of the debt business ventures, K-water has set its goal to accumulate orders worth USD 10 billion by 2023. To achieve this, K-water is creating a business-friendly environincrease amount by 2017 and stabilize the debt ratio to 140%. ment to widen its business scope to new market as well as preparing the foundation for conducting a business in North Korea. Business restructuring Cost reduction Existing Water WaterIndustrial Through the scrutiny on all businesses from the beginning stage, we will reduce While consistently cutting costs, we will ensure that water services are not resources works complexes investment amount & period so to secure the financial health as long as these negatively affected. As well, we seek to reduce costs by expanding the application businesses measures do not damage the quality of public services that we provide. Along of new technologies in the construction stage. with this, we will continue to the investment for new strategic business areas. Economic, Environmental Profit creation We will expand our sales through marketing campaigns to promote K-water’s Sales of Assets water services and will make additional profit through measures such diversifiExternal environment Internal capabilities and Social Performances for 2013 Although K-water is limited in terms of improving its financial structure through cation of renewable energy sales. asset sales because 90% of the total assets consist of mandatory assets for Environmental Profound climate change Various business performance capabilities and experiences businesses that cannot be sold, we will push forward with asset sales by actively change Expansion of global water industry Leading technology in water resources management discovering assets that can be sold such as marketable investment shares and Expansionary policies of renewable energy Abundant potential of market opening non-business sites. Debt management system We will continuously push ahead with activities such as the establishment of a systematic debt management system, creation of a debt management council, and unification of company-wide capabilities to systematically and effectively Management improvement Appendix implement the debt reduction plan. We also created a new team, under the We will consistently discover and proceed with management improvement tasks Office of the Senior Executive Vice President, which has the sole responsibility that meet the expectations and demands of the public. For example, the high-level of improving K-water's financial structure. As well, tour briefing sessions for officers have pledged to return a portion of their 2013-2104 wage increase. The resharing and expanding the efforts to reduce debt to the regional offices are being turned funds will be designated for social activities that benefit the public. conducted along with open communication. Urban Water WaterPlanning & Clean Overseas/ Strategic resources works energy North Korea Development As a part of our commitment towards financial integrity, all of the executives and senior officers participate in returning 16% of their total wage increase amount in 2013business 2014. Also, we plan to place a freeze on the wages of senior officers for 2014. The outside directors have unanimously agreed to reduce their 2014 wages by 36%. The Major business Growth engine business funds raised by our commitment towards financial health will be used for social contribution activities. As seen from this example, we will make efforts seamlessly to secure financial health by putting the debt reduction plans into practice. 36 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 As We Proceed Focus Issue 2 5 major businesses of K-water Vision Strategy Direction Smart Water Services • Construction/operation/management of Through smart water services combined with Information and Communicafacilities for using and developing water Water resources • Strengthen functions and roles for tions Technology (ICT), K-water is pushing ahead with its goals to mitigate • Taking charge of 95% of the national Realization of IWRM realizing of IWRM over a river basin resources flood control capability, 65% of the preparing for unit the effects of climate change, improve energy efficiency, to secure resources management tap water supply, and 63% of the climate change • Discover new businesses options in hydropower generated • Management of 17 MULTI-PURPOSE preparation for climate change year-round, and to supply “Healthy Tap Water.” Sustainability Management dams and 34 weirs and dams DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach) 1. Importance of the Smart Water Services • Construction/operation/management As water is a necessary resource for securing living organisms, safe water management and the securement of clean water by responding to climate change, of multi-regional waterworks and indu shortage of energy and resources, and environmental pollution are becoming more important than ever before. As the World Economic Forum selected shortage strial water purification facilities • Supply high quality tap water based Waterworks • Supply of 48% of tap water used of water and radical weather phenomenon as parts of the ten global risks, to which the world should pay attention, international as well as domestic societies are High quality tap water on SWG applying ICT nationwide through 48 multi-regional business production and supply • Pioneer the businesses of local concerned about the increasing uncertainty in water resources management. In relation to the water services of K-water, its stakeholders have shown interests in waterworks waterworks commissioned operation • Commissioned construction and man responding to climate change, using energy efficiently, saving resources, and improving publicperception on the quality of tap water. agement of 21 local waterworks and 12 sewerages 4 Focus Issues 2. Approaches of K-water towards the Smart Water Services K-water is promoting the Smart Water Services for securing safe and effective water management and supply of high-quality tap water even under the future water conditions threatened by climate change, shortage of energy and resources, and environmental pollution. K-water seeks to actualize the Smart Water Services through the Smart Water Grid and the Integrated Water Resources Management that utilizes ICT. We will supply “Healthy Tap Water” that preserves • Development of urban waterfront & well-balanced minerals for the human body through maximizing the circulation of water resources and minimizing energy consumption. Also, by realizing the Urban industrial complex • Timely adjustment of investment Planning and Creation of high class urban plans considering financial burden Integrated Water Resources Management over a river basin unit that encompasses water quantity, water quality, and water related natural disaster prevention, • Construction of six eco-friendly urban complex and eco-friendly and business value Development complex such as Sihwa, Songsan, and we will efficiently respond to climate change, effectively use limited water resources, relieve imbalance of regional water supply, and secure the stability of water waterfront spaces • Building of the plan for maximizing Business Gumi, and operation of Gyeong-In Port and Ara Waterway profit through scrutiny supply. Smart Water Grid (SWG) Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) Economic, Environmental ▼ ▼ • IWRM on a river basin unit that takes economic, social, cultural, and • Diversification of water sources, and maximizing water reuse and circulation environmental problems into full consideration. • Water supply with minimizing of resources and energy consumption • Regional water dispute prevention and Social Performances for 2013 • Operating of 25% of the renewable energy • Phased approach to solar power production facilities in South Korea business through scrutiny on busiClean energy • Operating of a total of 84 facilities utilizing Pushing ahead with ness value “Healthy Tap Water” supply business diverse clean energy sources that include renewable energy business Mitigation to climate change Adaptation to climate change hydropower, tide, water temperature • Development of new business models that reflect governmental policies through intelligent pipeline* Preventing of water disasters and precautionary difference, wind, and solar power, etc. *An advanced pipeline system that applies Minimizing of resources and energy consumption managing of the source water automation and instrumentation 3. Performance management for the Smart Water Services Performances in 2013 Goals for the year 2014 Goals for the year 2023 Appendix Providing clean, safe and healthy tap water service Strengthening of abilities to respond risks • Shift the weight from proposalto bidding-type businesses such as ODA, 54.6 79.1 • Proceeding with 24 water resource Investment business bidding-type 99.99 99.98 100 3,040 2,854 3,050 0.52 93.5 95이상 95이상 Overseas/ Exploring and promoting 49.3 49.5 0.46 business projects in 18 foreign countries business (ODA, investment) 0.10 North Korean • Operating of waterworks at the Gaesong opportunities for investment • Timely adjust the business goals in business businesses 35.5 Industrial Complex in North Korea the light of financial conditions 32.7 • Develop advanced strategies to pioneer business opportunities in North Korea Global Water Quality Standard Retrofitted water Flood control capacity Clean energy supply Rate of accident prevention Level of risk management achievement rate (%) pipes (㎞) (billion m3) (GWh) efforts (%) effort (points) 38 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 As We Proceed Water Management Conditions and Intelligent Water Supply Network Smart Water Services Smart Water Grid Through the Smart Water Grid, K-water provides tap water that is constant in quantity and quality and thereby, customers can trust. Water management conditions Smart Water Grid has already started Sustainability Management South Korea has a fundamentally disadvantageous water management condition. Because of high population density, the amount of usable water resources per person Smart Water Grid (SWG) is a next-generation intelligent water management technology that increases stability, safety, and efficiency through an intelligent water is 1/5 of the world average. Also, the rate of the water amount actually used (intake amount) over total usable water amount still remains at 34% because the precipitation supply network, which combines the water supply network and communication network by connecting existing water grids with information and communication varies by periods and regions, and rainfall rapidly runs off into the ocean due to steep slope and relatively short length of river reaches in Korea. This makes water managetechnologies (ICT). The attempt to improve efficiency and functions by integrating ICT to the water management industry has been consistently carried out interment in Korea difficult, and makes Korea internationally recognized as being a “water scarce nation.” The Flood Risk Index of Korea is three times higher than that of Japan, nationally, and various forms of approaches to the SWG for advancement, informatization, and intellectualization of water services are being made. So far, on one which has similar water resource conditions to ours, and the water self-sufficiency was once evaluated to be the fifteenth lowest out of 100 countries (UNESCO-IHE). hand, K-water has initiated rearrangement of the water supply networks to relieve water shortages and retrofitting of the waterworks to secure supply stability in the aspect of advancement. On the other hand, K-water has also pursued integrated operation of waterworks and establishment of intelligent management system, which utilize ICT, in the aspects of informatization and intellectualization. Rate of water actually used (intake amount) Comparison of Flood Risk Index (UNDP) Egypt 119% Canada 2.31 Existing water management Information and communication technology Smart Water Grid 4 Focus Issues Germany 0.25 (Water Grid) (SMART) Iran 68% (SWG) France 2.90 34% South Korea 34% Italy 4.50 • Diversification of supply routes 6.86 • Individual supply system • Smart measuring devices • Integrated operation of infrastructure India 34% United Kingdom 0.23 • Water and energy loss • Real-time information • High efficiency, and reduction of energy Rate of water actually used • Supply-side, and unilateral transmitting and receiving • Consumer-centered, and Japan 2.81 Flood Risk Index [FRI] of South Korea in South Korea multi-directional Singapore 32% The highest amongst the OECD USA 2.28 countries Spain 32% South Korea 6.86 Number of deaths per one million people South Africa 25% due to floods and storms (UNDP) K-water’s Smart Water Grid Economic, Environmental Italy 23% Smart Water Grid can be applied across all areas of water services such as management of water sources, production and transport of water, reuse, etc., and Canada 0.05 can be applied in various forms according to water management conditions. K-water is pursuing SWG, especially focusing on the transport process from water China 22% Germany 0.01 treatment plants to consumers, and is targeting to supply tap water to consumers without changes in water quantity or water quality. K-water's approach to SWG includes the bolstering of real-time monitoring on every unit of the entire water supply networks to stably supply water without both loss in quantity and and Social Performances for 2013 France 0.09 2.86 Denmark 21% change in quality, and the actualization of intelligent pipeline network through the establishment of a sensor network, which collects and analyzes various water Italy 0.24 Denmark 20% data in pipes such as quantity, quality, pressure, leakage, etc. SWG, thereby, makes a timely and optimal operation possible. As well, it enables customers to acUnited Kingdom 0.01 Deaths per one million people in South Korea cess to real-time information about tap water over the whole transport processes, which results in strengthening of customers' trust on tap water. Japan 20% Japan 0.57 Five times higher than that of Japan USA 0.95 USA 16% South Korea 2.86 Appendix Network integration Information integration Next generation water management Sensor Sensor network water Smart water services pressure Networking repair management water leak arrangement • Flux information discussion management • Water pressure • Increase of supply stability Recent climate changes are affecting nations across the globe as water related issues such as water shortages, water disasters, water pollution, and ecological degradainformation • Water quality diagnosisOperation of water quality • Securing of water quality safety tion continue to intensify. These water issues have been becoming threatening since the uncertainty in rainfall pattern has increased and water related natural disasters Smart-meter water quality information decision making intelligent pipe network management AMI measuring device • Water leak • Improvement of water supply efficiency information occur more frequently due to climate change. Moreover, due to the recent complex nature of society and the industrial structure, the management of water resources is • information Facilities condition facility energy management crisis management becoming more difficult. Therefore, K-water seeks to respond to the increasing uncertainty of water management with the Smart Water Services, which maximizes autoWater Grid management mation and instrumentation, enhances real-time monitoring and inspections, and minimize resources and energy consumption over the whole business cycles. 40 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 As We Proceed NotaChoice,butaRequirementforFutureWaterResourcesManagement, K-water’s Smart Mitigation Integrated Water Resources Management To Climate Change We are pushing forward to implement the Integrated Water Resources Management in order to realize As Korea’s No.1 corporation in the field of renewable energy, K-water is actively participating in sustainable water use and management by improving the efficiency and safety of water management. global carbon emissions reduction efforts and is responding to climate change through smart water services that minimize energy and resource consumption. Why is the Integrated Water Resources Management needed? On one hand, the Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) refers to water resource management led by an integrated governance of stakeholders rather South Korea’s No.1 corporation in the field of renewable energy generation Sustainability Management than individual interest groups, and on the other hand, water resources management that integrates the economy, society, culture, and environment in a compreOperation and development of renewable energy generation facilities hensive perspective of basins and regions as well as technological aspects. Water resources management has been becoming more difficult since the uncertainty K-water is actively participating in the developOperation and development of renewable energy status (2013.12.31) about rainfall has increased and water related natural disasters occur more frequently due to climate change. Moreover, water management conditions are worsenment of renewable energy opportunities in Current status Total Amount of energy Classification Development status Note ing due to conflicts and disputes between stakeholders with the increasing social diversity. IWRM is considered to facilitate more effective water services through the order to respond to the global risk caused by of operation (MW) (MW) produced in 2013 (GWh) integrated management of upstream regions, dam reservoirs, and downstream regions to prevent water disaster and secure usable water resources. Also, it could climate change and use this move as a stepping Large 9 sites including hydroSoyang River dam 1,000.6 1,000.6 2,162 minimize and prevent water disputes between regions or stakeholder groups through the participation of stakeholders in decision-making on water issues such as stone to make a new leap. K-water's capacity Hydropower power Small quantity, quality, water-related disaster response, etc. Since individual approach by single interest group has a limit to counter these water issues with increasing of hydropower generation by 2013 is 1,070MW hydro43 sites including 69.8 Construction of five sites 8.0 77.8 384 Andong hydropower including Sungduk dam power uncertainty of water condition and deepening social conflicts, IWRM is thus not a choice but a must. which accounts for 61% of domestic hydroSihwa tidal power power facilities (1,767MW). As well, we are in the Tidal power (World’s largest) 254 254 484 process of constructing five facilities including Realization of the Integrated Water Resources Management SihwaBangh4 Focus Issues Wind power wameori, Gyeong-In 6 Gampo dam wind energy 2 8 6 Sungdukdam hydropower plant. On the other harbor wind power K-water has implemented IWRM within its management scope: eg. inteHydrological Topographical hand, we finished the construction of Sihwa tidal 19 sites including 2 sites including grated operation of an upstream dam and a downstream dam, and that Solar power Bonpo solar power 4.7 Miryang filter plant 0.4 5.1 4 power plant (254MW), the largest tidal power of an upstream dam and downstream weirs in a river basin. However, it Integrated consideration of rainfall, runChungchung Integrated management of water plant in the world, in November, 2012, and are Temperature offs, evaporation, and other processes Integrated Operation 1.9 Second Lotte World 10.5 12.4 has not reached the level of the integrated management that covers the sources, valleys, streams, and estuaries difference center, etc. supplying clean electricity to society. As well entire water system of a river basin unit. As the only state-owned proTotal 1,337 Total 22.9 1,359.9 3,040 as consistently developing and running clean fessional water service enterprise in the country, K-water is leading the energy facilities such as the Four Major Rivers realization of a country wide IWRM. We plan to form a consensus with hydropower (51MW), Sihwa-Bangahmeori and Gyeong-In Harbor windpower (6MW), we are leading the development of clean energy industry by succeeding policy-making organizations by establishing IWRM master plan cusin the development of water surfaced solar power plants. K-water built the world’s first solar power test-plant (100kW) on the surface of a dam reservoir in Notomized to the nation and to organize social and political driving forces IWRM vember, 2011 and the world’s largest commercial water-surfaced solar power plant (500kW) in October, 2012, which secured economic value and safety through for IWRM through policy forums. As well, we are proceeding in stages Economic, Environmental Functional Social the standardization of constructing materials and optimization of a constructing method. Also, through technology development related to water-surfaced solar with the establishment of an integrated governance with water-related power, we have accumulated core technologies, registering six intellectual properties (5 patents,1 design), and made headway into the overseas market. organizations, residents, environmental groups, and professionals. With Integrated consideration of water quanGovernance that all water-related tity, quality, ecology, disaster prevention, entities in the basin participate in In 2013, K-water produced 3,040GWh in 84 facilities using hydropower, tidal power, wind power, solar power, and temperature difference power generation, the integrated governance, we also move towards the sharing of water and other factors which has an equivalent effect of replacing 5.19 million barrels of crude oil and CO2 emission reduction of 1.35 million tons. The water-surfaced solar power, esand Social Performances for 2013 related information and data with related organizations. pecially initiated by K-water, is a true eco-friendly technology that does not damage vegetation and has a generating capacity which is 10 percent point greater than that of land-based solar power. This new business option contains vast potential to expand power generation (2,937 MW in 31 dams). Mitigation and Adaptation to Climate Change CDM businesses and carbon emissions trading K-water is making profits by trading carbon (greenhouse gas or CO2) emission reduction effects (Certified Emission Reductions; CER) from its renewable energy Creating new growth engine through responding to the risk of climate change Appendix businesses based on the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). In May 2005, it began CDM business for the first time as a government-invested organizaCountering climate change has rapidly emerged as a top priority task in the international society after international organizations such as IPCC (Inter-governmental tion and has registered a total of 12 CDM businesses by January, 2013, including Sihwa tidal power plant and small hydropower plants of 16 dam reservoirs, to Panel on Climate Change) have published prospects on the acceleration of global warming. In order to join in the global effort for climate change response and to UNFCCC, which are the most in the nation (534 thousand tons CO2 emissions in total). Since selling 6,782 CERs acquired from the CDM business at small hydrorealize sustainable growth, the government has established a comprehensive plan in response to climate change (September, 2008). In order to counter the risk of power plants (Group Ⅰ) to Dutch ABN/AMRO Bank in September, 2008, we have traded 470,537 CERs so far and raised KRW 1.14 billion of carbon profits (acclimate change and to convert it to an opportunity of creating new power for growth, K-water established the strategy master plan for responding to climate change cumulated to June, 2013). K-water will continue to create economic values through strategic CERs trading from CDM businesses with the diversification of sales (December, 2009), and has focused on enhancing the stability of water services to counter the uncertainty and complexity by climate change. As the Korean governnetworks. ment is committed to start carbon (greenhouse gas or CO2) emissions trading in 2015, a risk and an opportunity coexist in the perspective of corporations. K-water plans to participate actively in the efforts made by government such as a pilot emissions trading project, thereby creating a growth engine. Also, as the representative corporation of the nation in renewable energy field, K-water is investing for the development of related technologies to play a vital role in the national low-carbon growth. 42 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 As We Proceed CDM businesses registered to UNFCCC (as of July, 2014) Greenhouse gas emissions reduction UN registration Energy generated CO2 reduction amount Business name Target date (MWh/year) (ton CO2 / year) Systematic efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Sihwa tidal power Sihwa tidal power 2006.6 507,629 315,440 The Korean government has set a national goal of 30% reduction in green2020 national greenhouse gas emissions reduction target Small hydropower I Andong, Jangheung, Seongnam 1 2006.10 15,473 9,689 house gas (GHG) (carbon or CO2) emission compared to BAU (Business As 2005 569.0 Small hydropower II Daechung, Juahm, Dalbang, 2007.2 13,944 8,664 Usual, estimated emission volume) by 2020 in order to respond to climate Sungnam 2 change. As an implementation measure of this goal, the government has 2020 emission Sihwa wind power Sihwa wind power 2007.11 6,293 4,013 776.1 Sustainability Management forecast (BAU) Small hydropower III Gosan, Pangyo 2009.11 5,557 2,987 set a GHG emissions reduction goal management policy and the emissions Small hydropower IV Sungduk, Buhang 2010.10 4,963 2,759 trading policy. K-water was designated as a company to comply with the GHG Industry 81.3 Small hydropower V Angye, Hoengseong 2 2012.04 4,603 3,100 emissions reduction goal management policy in 2010 and is implementing it Water efficiency Paldang 3 2012.08 7,044 to fulfill the national demands to mitigate the impacts of climate change. Apbuilding 64.9 improvement plying the corporate GHG inventory system certified by the world-renowned Water power VII Sejong, Gongju, Baekjae, Sangju 2012.09 57,541 38,237 accreditation agency, DNV (Det Norske Veritas, Norway), K-water has manconversion 45.0 Nakdan, Gumi, Chilgok, Water power VIII 2012.09 58,170 38,654 Gangjeonggoryeong aged an annual GHG emission statement and reported the GHG emissions to Dalseong, Hapcheonchangnyeong, transportation 34.2 the government. K-water operates both the EPE system and GHG inventory Water power IX Changnyeonghamahn, Seungchon, 2012.09 79,597 52,892 Juksan system to monitor its GHG emissions at all times. Along with this, the compublic others 4.5 Water powerⅥ Ipo, Yeoju, Gangchun 2012.10 76,406 50,772 pany, especially in January, 2013, connected the inventory system with FMS Total 830,176 534,251 4 Focus Issues (K-water Financial information Management System), ensuring reliability of wastes 1.7 energy usage data and convenience of data collection. In addition to these, Kforestry and fishery 1.5 R&D activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development water is mitigating the effects of climate change, by nurturing “Carbon ManA million ton CO2e -30% Although the size of the local hydropower production market seems to be agers” among its employees, expanding education and workshop programs Status of national R&D 2020 target consistently expanding, current hydropower facilities are highly dependent which invite external professionals for its employees, and publishing and 543.0 emission amount on foreign technologies. Approximately KRW 250 billion has been spent for Participating Research sharing of casebooks on exemplary GHG emissions reduction initiatives. Name of task Research period companies cost importing foreign materials which were required for the Four Major Rivers 7MW hydropower turbine generator KRW 17.9 7 companies 2011.12 ~ 2015.02 Restoration, Sihwa Tidal Power Plant, and other major projects. Therefore, development and 30MW basic design billion K-water’s Response to GHG Emissions Reduction Goal the needs for the localizing of core technologies and nurturing of domestic High-efficiency hydropower turbine 3 companies KRW 7.9 2013.06 ~ 2016.05 generator under 1MW development billion small and large professional hydropower businesses have risen. To fulfill Micro hydropower system KRW 5.6 5 companies 2011.07 ~ 2014.06 these needs, K-water is initiating a national R&D project to domestically development billion Economic, Environmental produce hydropower facilities and materials, thereby, creating new growth engines for the future. K-water plans to modernize its facilities with the doPast (before 2010) Present (2011-2015) Future (after 2016) mestic technologies by investing a total of KRW 630 billion by 2032. Current2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 and Social Performances for 2013 ly, K-water is designing the modernization project of Nam River hydropower • 100% reliance on foreign • Substantiation of 10MW • Substantiation of 50/100MW materials (Four Major Rivers design production plant of which capacity is 8MW (including a basic design for tidal power plant Restoration Project, Sihwa • Acquisition of 30MW basic design production • First company desig•2007~2010 Statement verifi•2011 Statement verification/ •2012 Create statement and •Implement emissions trading • Acquisition of local technolof 30MW) as the national R&D project, and is also initiating the domestic tidal power) design nated as the managed cation/submission submission performance plan ogy capacity • Technological limitation for • Insufficient accumulation of company •2012 Submit implementation •2013 Submit implementation •2013 Create performance • Pioneering into overseas production of small capacity water-turbine generator such as high-efficiency localization technology for localization markets plan (first) plan plan water-turbine generators of under 1MW, and micro water-turbine production systems (Yongdam Dam). Appendix Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce Designated as the Create statements Create implementation plan Report implementation plan managed company Although K-water has outsourced the maintenance and inspection of its energy production facilities, it has started conducting facilities maintenance and inspection with its own workforce since the completion of Sihwa tidal power plant in order to achieve technological independence from and venture into the oversea • June of every year: announce the next •March, every year: create and verify • December of every year: create • March of every year: reporting businesses. We have employed 20 technicians with experience in related business for regular inspections and maintenance of the facilities of Sihwa tidal power year’s managed company statements implementation plan implementation performance • Announce the managed company in • Report GHG emission volume from • Create an implementation plan according • Report a company's implementation plant, and have been conducting in-house facilities inspection beginning in May 2012. In May 2014, we converted all of Sihwa’s facility inspectors to unlimited conpertinent fields in each responsible January 1 ~ December 31 of the prior to GHG emissions reduction and energy performance with statements using an tracts, and have established a human resource development program for nurturing outstanding facility inspectors as inspection administrators. For example, department year savings from the previous year electronic method to the directors of according to internal employment procedures and conditions, a unlimited contract can be converted to a regular position, being promoted from a 8th level to a • Report 4 consecutive years worth of GHG • Announce a managed company for each responsible departments emissions including the year appointed area by responsible departments first-level worker. In addition, we are nurturing skillful facility inspectors as facility super intendants and giving them various privileges for technological advanceas the managed company ment. 44 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 As We Proceed Low-energy and low-carbon production efforts ❶“Carbon Labeling” tap water Achieving the carbon emission reduction goal for two conBy 2013, 10 K-water waterworks have been qualified for “Carbon Labeling.” “Carbon Labeling” certification is granted for a product that has been proven to minimize secutive years Direct energy consumption (TJ) Indirect energy consumption (TJ) the emission of GHG in the entire cycle of its production. K-water’s waterworks have reduced the use of packing materials or water-purifying substances, thereby, Saving energy reduces GreenHouse Gas (GHG) emissions and cost for tap 70 72 12,833 saving energy and minimizing the emission of GHG. As a result, in 2011, the tap water produced at Cheongju waterworks has succeeded in being qualified for the 66 62 66 11,939 10,072 10,543 water production. The energy consumed by K-water in 2013 is 12,955TJ 9,652 nation-first “Carbon Labeling” tap water in Korea, and the certification of “Carbon Labeling” has been extended to 10 K-water waterworks by 2012. which is an increase of 8.1% from that in the previous year, and the electricity spent on waterworks services such as water intake, transport, ❷ Energy efficiency improvement of dams and waterworks facilities Sustainability Management and booster of station pumps accounts for most of it. In 2013, the direct K-water mitigates the impacts of climate change not only by expanding the supply of renewable energy through the performance improvement of hydropower facilities, consumption of energy, which is by fuel use, was 72TJ, while the indirect but also by improving energy efficiency in dams and waterworks facilities. K-water’s measures to minimize the electricity use include retrofitting to high-efficiency devices 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 amount of consumption, which is by electricity use, was 12,833TJ. Electricthat have less energy loss, using LED light facilities, and optimizing operating methods. Waterworks operations are being improved and optimized in the direction of ity used at K-water’s worksites does not come from self-produced electricminimizing the energy consumption by monitoring, analyzing, and remotely controlling on a real-time basis by the Energy Management System (EMS). For this, we are Total energy reduction amount (MWh) ity, but is purchased from the national electricity supply network of Korea Waterworks business introducing and developing technologies for optimal operation of pumping stations based on tap water demand predictions over time and optimal control of transport energy reduction amount Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), which is the state-owned corporation flow rate, etc., and for increase of flow rates and reduction of water losses in pipes of local waterworks. Also, we are regularly diagnosing the performance of the main that monopolizes the sectors of power generation, transmission, and dis56,711 50,073MWh parts of waterworks such as pumps and converting the parts to high-efficiency and low-energy-consuming ones, thereby, saving energy in the whole production cycle. Energy reduction amount in tribution. About 97% of the electricity supplied by KEPCO is produced from 32,494 power generation section In 2013, we replaced pipeline pumps with low efficiencies to ones with high efficiencies (KRW 1.14 billion/year), installed ball valves that minimizes the resistance of pump non-renewable energy sources such as fossil fuels (Source: 2013 Korea 18,994 21,654 18,364 25,362 6,638MWh station leakage valves (KRW 250 million/year), and converted transformers to high-efficiency ones (KRW 50 million/year). Strategy Statistics). Total energy reduction amount ❸ Lower cost and higher quality tap water supply through cooperation with local governments 4 Focus Issues K-water is making diverse efforts to save energy, which include analyzing the amount of energy consumed in each unit of its business cycle such as water 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 56,711MWh The binary tap water service system of the nation, which consists of multi-regional waterworks (K-water) and local waterworks (local governments) have caused intake, tap water production, transport, etc., and developing energy saving inefficiencies in water service (limitation of prompt responds to pipeline accidents, increase of expenses from electricity use by uneven water supply, etc.). In order to measures and technologies customized to each facility and process. As a reDirect greenhouse gas Indirect greenhouse gas improve the inefficiencies, K-water has initiated a cooperative operation of 52 main distributing reservoirs of local waterworks linked to 17 multi-regional waterworks sult, the amount of energy consumption was reduced by 56,711MWh in 2013, emission amount (ton CO2) emission amount (ton CO2) along with 25 local governments in 2013. This cooperation has facilitated the integrated management of multi-regional waterworks and distributing reservoirs of loand K-water achieved its carbon (GHG) emissions reduction goal allocated by cal waterworks, thereby, increasing the cost-efficiency and the stability of tap water supply (Previous: temporally uneven supply, increased water supply in day time 5,641 5,639 581,034627,000 the government for two consecutive years from 2012 to 2013. The total amount 522,000547,434 when the electricity price is expensive → Improved: temporally well-proportioned supply). This makes it possible for us to reduce the electricity cost of KRW 3.3 bil4.349 4,431 499,819 of GHG emissions from K-water’s worksites in 2013 is 631,406 ton CO2 (Sum 3,961 lion every year, strengthen the ability of prompt recovery in times of pipeline accidents, and secure the stability of water quality and quantity in tap water transport by of the emissions from each site after eliminating numbers in decimal) which equalizing the flow rate and pressure. is an increase of 7.9% from the previous year, and this increase is analyzed to be caused by the increased sales of tap water and by the operation of newly Current system (temporally uneven supply) Improved system (temporally well-proportioned supply) Economic, Environmental constructed waterworks facilities. According to the national policy on carbon 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Jointly operated by K-water (GHG) emissions reduction goal management, K-water’s GHG emissions in Operated by K-water Operated by local government Operated by K-water and local government *Baseline year: average of the past three months (Reason: to increase credibility of calculating amount of emission) Local government A Local government A 2013 was calculated by adding the direct emission of 4,431 ton CO2 by the fuel and Social Performances for 2013 use to the indirect emission of 627,000 ton CO2 by the electricity use. Most of GHG are emitted by the electricity use for running of pumps to transport tap water, while Water-intake ▼ Water-intake ▼ ▼ ▼ source source there is no biological GHG emission from K-water’s production processes. As well, there is no production process that emits substances such as Freon that destroys Local waterworks Local waterworks the ozone layer, and K-water regularly performs safety inspections on its air-conditioning facilities in order to prevent the leakage of Freon. Local government B Local government B Water Water 2013 achievement estimation of carbon emissions reduction goal of K-water treatment ▼ ▼ treatment ▼ P ▼ Reduction performance plants P Distributing reservoirs plants Distributing reservoirs Expected emission Allowed emission Goal reduction Classification amount (A) amount (B) amount 2013 Emission amount Early reduction Appendix Emission amount (D) Total (E+F) (E=A-D) performance*(F) Separated operation Integrated operation Individually operated Multi-regional, local connected Greenhouse gas by local government operation 634,126 570,646 63,480 590,313 43,813 19,667 63,480 (ton CO2) ㎥/ h KRW/kWh ㎥/h KRW/kWh Sharing of information such as * Voluntary reduction of greenhouse gas emission through self-initiated efforts prior to greenhouse gas & energy target management system took effect : Yongdam & Daegok Dam small hydropower project 100 150 100 150 water level 200 100 ▼ ▶◀ Consumer 200 100 ▼ ▶◀ Consumer 300 50 300 50 Nighttime Daytime Nighttime Nighttime Daytime Nighttime Manual valve Manual valve 0 12:00PM 00:00AM 0 12 24Hr High electricity cost Low electricity cost Equal water pressure and flow rate P Pump station ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ P Pump station ▲ ▲ ▲ ▲ 46 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 As We Proceed K-water’s Smart Adaptation To Climate Change Based on the water resources management technologies accumulated for the past 50 years, K-water is providing stable water services against climate change by constructing a national water disaster prevention system and by precautionary acting to preserve the water quality of drinking water sources. Precautionary management of water quality in Measures taken for upstream pollution sources per year drinking water sources against climate change 800 Rate of measures taken (%) 100 Rate of measures taken (%) Stable water management and supply to prepare for climate change Global warming may change weather patterns, thereby causing large scale ty700 Upstream polluting sources 98.7 90 Upstream pollution sources (numbers) Sustainability Management 98.1 (numbers) 92.1 80 As the complexity and uncertainty of water management increase because of climate change, K-water is making efforts to prevent disasters concerning waphoons and regionally concentrated. These extraordinary changes in weather pat600 70 ter and to improve the supply stability of tap water. With regards to water resources management, K-water is preventing water disasters such as floods and terns are contributing to water pollution problems such as long-term turbid water 500 60 68.8 400 50 droughts and securing usable water resources through the integrated management of upstream regions, dam reservoirs, and downstream regions based on and frequent occurrence of algal bloom. Through scientific and precautionary wa58.9 300 40 accurate predictions of weather and floods. For the monsoon season in 2013, which was the longest (49 days) in history, K-water prevented flood damages in the ter quality management of dam reservoirs and basins, K-water is overcoming the 30 200 downstream regions (reduced the damage cost of over KRW 900 billion) by controlling 94% of incoming flood waters. In 2013, although the rainfall was just 78% limits in ex post facto responding, and is making efforts to secure drinking water 20 100 10 of the previous year, K-water secured water storage of 104% compared to that of the previous year and generated hydropower of the second highest in history (3.04 sources that are essential for our lives. 0 0 billion kWh). Moreover, K-water is establishing a flood disaster integrated prevention system customized to local regions by integrating local flood characteristics 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and K-water’s operation technologies, thereby, contributing to the water disaster prevention. In addition, K-water is preparing for climate change by improving the Enhancing water quality management performance of old dams and by acquiring sufficient water sources. With regards to tap water supply, K-water is focusing on enhancing of the tap water supply stafor upstream catchment of pollution bility nationwide just in case that the climate change may affect precipitation and water quality, thereby, threatening the water availability. K-water established a waAs an initiative to reduce pollution loads into dam reservoirs from upstream catchment, K-water is participating in national businesses to control the upstream polluting sources 4 Focus Issues terworks facility stabilization business plan in 2011, and in accordance with this plan, it has reinforced vulnerable facilities, secured emergency water supply facilities, such as the construction of an ecological wetland at So-ok Brook in the upstream of Daechung Dam Reservoir. Also, K-water is constructing a wastewater treatment facility on the and retrofitted pipelines in stages since 2012. Also, K-water strengthened the risk management for waterworks facilities and accidents preventions by introducing its upstream of dam and operating 115 facilities (in 7 districts), thereby, reducing non-point pollutant loads such as domestic sewage and livestock wastewater. The efforts by K-water own risk management system, KRM (K-water Risk Management), and global water safety management tool, WSP (Water Safety Plan). As a result of these efforts, make a foundation for the integrated management of water quality over the entire river basin that connect upstream regions, dam reservoir, and downstream regions. K-water has reported zero water supply stoppages for two consecutive years of 2012 and 2013, ensuring the stability of tap water supply. Advanced water quality management in dam reservoirs Water quality prediction modeling State-of-the-art flood prediction technology Water quality management requires reliable and accurate scientific models capable of predicting future water -4.3 -0.9 2.7 4.3 9.9 Prompt and accurate predictions of hydrologic conditions are critical for stable flood control and water supply. Therefore, K-water has taken the lead in developing quality. Because many variables such as local flowrates, temperatures, topotraphy, etc. involve into water quality, and applying advanced technologies. K-water developed K-HIT (K-water’s Hydro Intelligent Toolkit) in 2011, which is the domestically first brand of advanced water K-water developed an advanced three-dimensional prediction model integrating the diverse variables that affect management system, integrating weather forecasts and real-time observation, rainfall-runoff and flood analysis, water usage, and energy production systems. In the water quality. Since the construction of a pilot model in 2009, a total of 11 dams have been analyzed using this addition, K-water has strengthened and renovated its all management systems by reflecting the newly constructed facilities in the Four Major Rivers Restoration supercomputer-based water quality prediction model (SURIAN), which integrates models of upstream runoffEconomic, Environmental Project and the recent flood control abilities strengthening projects, and has developed and applied its own next-generation water quantity and quality integrated dam reservoirs-streams by 2013. models (K_DRUM, SURIAN). * SURIAN (SUpercom based River Analysis Network): Frontier of understanding the principle of water Cooperation between local governments and K-water for preventing flood disasters Developing algal bloom control technologies and Social Performances for 2013 Algae occurrence (chl-a(mg/m³)) K-water is playing a leading role in protecting the lives and properties of citizens by providing advanced water management prevention technologies Generally, in summer, algal bloom occurs in eutrophic reservoirs and streams, causing water quality pollution and waterworks system interruptions. In order to efficiently control algal blooms, K-water is operating algal 2008~2012 (January~June) 39.7 to local governments. Local government may have difficulties in preventing floods because of the lack of ICT professional workforce and sufficient 2013 (January~June) technologies. For example, K-water successfully established flood disaster management systems for the city of Namwon in 2011, and Mujubloom prevention facilities such as anti-algal bloom fences, water circulation system (submersible aerator), se30.7 Gun and the city of Gunsan in 2013, and contributed to the flood damage prevention during the previous monsoon seasons. In 2013, it launched lective water intake facilities. As well, various research activities have been conducted along with the effect analy27.6 developing of a flood disaster monitoring system (Smart TM) for local governments as a ‘Star Brand’ project, which means a key fostering sis of anti-algal bloom facilities’ operation and the creation of algal bloom response guidelines in order to increase 22.3 technology, and this project was selected as an exemplary works of a state-owned enterprise by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. the effectiveness of anti-algal bloom facilities operation. Also, through the collaboration with related institutions, Local government flood disaster management system developed by K-water 13.5 Appendix we are making efforts to prevent algal bloom fundamentally by reducing polluting sources or pollutant influx in • Minimization of the Local government Project cost (Completion year) Business content loss of human lives and upstream catchment. Moreover, government-wide joint research is being undertaken to improve the accuracy of 6.0 Expansion of Establishment of property damage algal bloom prediction and to develop customized control technologies according the stage classification of algal • Establish flood monitoring standards of flood forecast integrated platforms City of Namwon KRW 900 million (2011) warning facilities • Realization of trusted important streams and control facilities • Improve hydrologic observation facilities local government bloom. In addition, K-water is taking efforts to reduce the influx of pollutants to drinking water sources by extendin the countryside Han River Nakdong River Gum River • Remote monitoring of drainage pump flood disaster integraing voluntary pollutant control agreements with local governments (4 agreements in 2012 → 32 agreements in Muju-gun KRW 500 million (2013) stations and rainfall sites tion management • Realization of 2013) and performing the integrated operation of dams and weirs. K-water’s efforts to counter algal bloom re• Establish Disaster Status Control Center Sharing of Government 3.0 Flood analysis and integrate traffic control with videos informationwith technology • Reduction of disaster duced 25% of algae concentration (based on Chlorophyll-a concentration) in the dry season from January to June City of Gunsan KRW 2 billion (2013) • Connect hydrologic information with related organizations restoration cost related organizations in 2013 compared to that of the previous year. 48 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 As We Proceed Smart Water Services providing “Healthy Tap Water” K-water is building public trust through supplying “Healthy Tap Water” that has balanced and healthy mineral components which are both safe and clean. Main contents of the pilot project 1. Improve supply stability • Strengthen water quantity and quality monitoring Paradigm shift in tap water service Water for drinking purpose K-water improves the stability by strengthening real-time monitoring • Organize pipeline networks (double Sustainability Management track system) As Korean average income and living standards continue to improve, the general Unit: percentage of population (%) on water quantity and quality in water-intake process and by establish• Diversification of water sources • Produce tap water with a suitable ing an emergency Macro/Micro Water Loop so that a tap water supply is (dams, underground water, streams) amount of minerals public has put more importance on their health, resulting in increased desire for 3.7% seamless even in case of accidents. 12.9% • Minimize disinfection by-products by drinking water with better taste and quality. Developed countries and some domeschlorination (DBPs), taste, and odor tic local governments are making efforts to provide tasty and healthy tap water by 2. Produce tap water that is healthy for the human body reflecting the needs of consumers regarding drinking water. For example, Japan has developed and applied mineral-related indicators such as OI (tasty water index), • Tap water 48.9% K-water is conducting cooperative research with medical institutes in order to produce ‘Healthy Tap Water’ containing adequate amounts of KI (healthy water index), etc. Although K-water has made much effort to improve • Bottled 34.5% minerals. Also, K-water plans to improve purifying process to minimize spring water the quality of tap water through the introduction of advanced water treatment systaste and odor that deter people from drinking tap water. tems, and multi-item quality inspections, the percentage of population using tap • Water quantity/ qual• Automatic blockage water for drinking, 5% is still low compared to that of developed countries such as • Re-treated 3. Strengthen water quality management in all ity monitoring and control and drainage when the 4 Focus Issues USA (56%), Canada (47%), Japan (33%), etc. The tap water satisfaction investigation • Others tap water by processes throughout the supply of tap water (‘Water-NET’ system) turbidity exceeds to a (Boiled tap water, etc.) a personal guideline level report published in 2012 by the Association of Tap Water Initiation found that people water purifier • Maintain required residual chlorine think the quality of tap water is not satisfactory for drinking because of obscure concentration (re-chlorination in distributing reservoirs/pipelines) anxiety (31.9%), taste and odor (15.0%), and etc. Considering the fact that the total Percentage of population using tap water for drinking We initiate real-time water quality monitoring on all supply processes, and establishing of the re-chlorination (re-disinfection) and automatic expense spent in the purchase of water purifier, bottled mineral water, and other drainage facilities in pipelines and at distributing reservoirs, as well as • Clear up gridlock water options in Korea amounts to KRW 2.25 trillion every year according to the flushing of pipelines, which ensure the quality of tap water during the 56% • Real-time transmission of 3.7% survey result in 2010 by the Ministry of Environment, improving public recognitransport. water quality monitoring data • Remove foreign substances by 33% pipeline flushing tion on the quality of tap water as well as improving tap water quality are required. ※ Source: Result of 2012 tap water satisfaction research • Investigate water quality in pipe• Investigate internal pipeTherefore, K-water seeks to actualize the Smart Water Services to earn public trust (Association of Tap Water Initiation) lines and water tanks of buildings line conditions and satisfaction by supplying not only clean and safe, but also healthy tap water that Economic, Environmental contains balanced minerals through stringent management on the whole producReasons of public distrust in Korean tap water 4. Enhance reliability of tap water tion and transport processes. quality at taps in buildings • Water quality display 2011 2012 • Tap water safety checking policy • Conduct water quality inspections boards Initiation of a pilot project to provide through home visitations and automation and Social Performances for 2013 ‘Healthy Tap Water’ for the human body 30.2% Obscure anxiety 31.9% • Tap water drinking fountains As the first step of its smart services in the production and transport of tap water, 17.7% Concerned about problems in 18.3% We are implementing water quality investigations in pipelines and wawater tanks or old water pipes ter tanks of buildings regularly as well as flushing, and providing realK-water is initiating a pilot project of “Smart Water City.” The project focuses time information of tap water quality at taps of buildings to customers on real-time monitoring and providing water quality information of tap water in 18.1% Taste and odor 15.0% via SNS and smartphone apps. • Water Care Potal Site the whole production and transport cycle using information and communication Water sources that • Smartphone apps, 14.3% might not be clean 14.6% technologies (ICT). K-water, thereby, seeks to produce and transport healthy SNS, etc. Foreign substances Appendix tap water that contains balanced minerals, addressing obscure anxieties about 11.6% such as rust 10.2% drinking tap water. Personal water purifier is more reliable 2.7% Future Plans 2014 2015~2016 Implement “Smart Water City” pilot • Promote extended application of 2.1% Negative media reports 2.1% Through the performance analysis of projects and R&D “Smart Water City” business pilot projects implemented in 2014, we • Establish “Healthy Tap Water” 4.0% Habitual 2.7% •Performance analysis and research on meawill develop and expand the Smart Water sures for its extended application (improve service model tap water quality and increase the population 2.1% Others 2.9% Services providing “Healthy Tap Water” percentage of drinking tap water, etc.) “Smart Water City” pilot project in the midand long run. initiation agreement with the city of Paju ※ Source: Result of 2012 tap water satisfaction research (Association of Tap Water Initiation) 50 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 As We Proceed Focus Issue 3 Making a Happier Society Society Prospering Together with Hearty Sharing K-water seeks ways to develop together with our society through K-water will come forward to outreach activities for local communities and society, which take adcommunity sharing activities and the supporting of growths of partvantage of its business expertise and are customized to the communities’ needs. nering companies. Social outreach that utilizes K-water's business expertise Sustainability Management DMA (Disclosures on Management Approaches) K-water has established and implemented a social contribution strategic plan with its own visions towards social contribution activities, three core values, and four strategic directions to create shared values for the society. K-water is making efforts to become a trusted company that leads to the development of the 1. Importance of a Society Prospering Together nation and local communities by providing practical benefits to beneficiaries through differentiated social contribution program in which its business expertise is Developing bilateral, constructive and cooperative relationships with stakeholders such as local communities, partnering companies, customers, etc., is a key applied. that enables a sustainable growth of a company. The stakeholders of K-water have interests in contribution to local communities, social contribution activities, mutual growth, and impartiality in selecting and dealings with subcontractors. Vision Making a happier society with hearty sharing 2. Approaches of K-water toward a Society Prospering Together K-water seeks to create shared values for stakeholders and communities, proceeding with its businesses. First, K-water initiated social outreach activities, taking advantages of its business expertise. It designs and implements local contribution programs customized to local residents’ needs that can bring desirable 4 Focus Issues changes to the lives of local residents. Next, we endeavor to construct cooperative networks in our supply chain, which bring a mutual growth to both our subCore contractors and us. For this, as well as securing the fairness in trading with subcontractors, we supports small and medium-size enterprises in our supply chain Participation Communication Change Value for their enhancement of technological competitiveness and expansion of businesses Social contribution that utilizes Local contribution customized to local Supports for technological competitiveness and Sharing the Sharing the Sharing the K-water's expertise residents’ needs sales expansion of small businesses Global sharing cleanness happiness warmth ▼ ▼ ▼ • Medical services to resi• Develop programs that Strategic • Expand “Water with Happiness Project” dents living around dams counter regional charac• Create a synergy with overseas businesses • A pilot program providing teristics • Secure the fairness in selecting and trading with subDirections • Clear up streams and oriental medical treatments • Promote programs for • Create a shared value • Retrofit water service facilities for socially disadvan• Create jobs for elderly in regions around dams brooks with global society contractors • Education programs in • Support residents’ living future generations • Expand participations by taged areas and/or people • Support local governance to improve local environment around dams • Support multicultural • Promote technology transfer to small businesses and water science employees • Provide water related education opportunities • Revitalize local villages around dams • Provide technical support families Economic, Environmental their sales expansion by commercialization • Invest to improve water services to regions suffering • Support youth experience study programs in rural for local waterworks • Provide education programs customized to small busiwith a water shortage such as islands and mountain areas around dams which have relatively poor educanesses’ needs sides tional resources • Jointly venture into overseas markets, etc. and Social Performances for 2013 Expanding social welfare Establishing bilateral cooperative networks 3. Performance management for a Society Prospering Together Enhanced communication with stakeholders Performances in 2013 Goals for the year 2014 Goals for the year 2023 Appendix Customer satisfaction rate of public corporations (grade) Social contribution activity index (points) 90 or 90 or Best Best Best 89.6 above above 52 K-water 2014 Sustainability Report 53 As We Proceed Sharing the cleanness Supporting of water related cultural events K-water is implementing “Water with Happiness Project,” which is the representative social contribution program that improves the quality of lives of socially K-water is supporting local cultural events such as “Clean Water Music Festival” to enrich the residents’ living around dams. In 2011, we fostered and supported disadvantaged people by retrofitting their water service facilities. As shown in the table below, we also endeavor to enhance social welfare by the activities such severely disabled athletes in water-related sports by employing them as rowers and synchronized swimmers. K-water also comes forward to increase public as protecting of the ecosystem in streams, clearing up of streams, and providing of free-of-charge drinking water for elementary and middle schools and water acknowledgement on the values of water by hosting cultural events such as “Water-Tour” and “Water-Love” contests. quality inspection for socially disadvantaged people, providing desalination services to regions with water shortages, so on. In addition, we are sharing our water related technologies and know-how through education programs with the society. Sustainability Management Sharing the warmth Water with Happiness Project Cultivating of clean streams Clean water service Water education Social contribution investment size per year K-water supports socially disadvantaged groups such as low-income families and youths for their health Ecology protection measures such as the Free drinking water for elementary and Unit: Hundred million KRW Retrofit water service facilities discharging of fry middle schools and emotional revitalization. Water related education opportunities 747.6 639.1 Relocate water sources Maintenance business of Free-of-charge water quality inspection for 551.9 downstream rivers disadvantaged groups Youth mentoring program, “Watering Your Dream” Retrofit pipelines, and improve water pressure Construct clean underground water Desalination services to regions with a water Water education for developing countries in pipelines environment shortage, and drinking water supply in emergency The concept of “Watering Your Dreams” refers to the relationship between mentors and mentees. While the mentees, who are youths in rural areas nearby to dams, are like seeds that require watering(supporting), the mentors, K-water employees, are watering (supporting) the mentees to reach their full potential. This mentoring program provides the multi-lateral mentoring among youths ↔ 2011 2012 2013 Sharing the happiness college students ↔ K-water employees, targeting the local youths in socially disadvantaged regions in 4 Focus Issues K-water is conducting customized social contribution activities that reflect the needs of local residents based on their life cycles. We are also maximizing values order to cultivate their leadership of sharing. of dams by creating eco-friendly dams so as to become tourist destinations. In addition, K-water is committed to the improving of the lives of local residents and increasing of public awareness on the preciousness of water by supporting or hosting water related cultural events as shown in the table below. Support for multicultural families Volunteer service hours per person K-water is supporting homeland visitation, home schooling to learn Korean language, and wedding Unit: hour Filial duty sharing service Cultivating of dams as tourism destinations Boosting of local residents’ income Supporting of water related cultural events 13.8 ceremony for multicultural families in order to facilitate their stable settlement and social and economic Host and support cultural events 13.2 Operate Filial Duty sharing service centers Create eco-friendly dams Job sharing projects independence. related to water 12.0 Provide “Water-Tour”, a tour program to dams Provide housing and medical services Operate Water Culture Centers and waterworks Build eco-friendly agricultural complex Community service group, “Water Love Sharing Team” and support market activities Host “Water-Love” contests of picture, essay, or Provide medical services Construct eco-friendly rest area In 2013, 4,348 employees, accounting for 99% of all employees, joined 106 volunteer service clubs and etc. carried out a total of 52,000 hours of volunteer services (12 hours per person). To support these services, 2011 2012 2013 Economic, Environmental employees have donated a portion of their monthly wage to the “Water Love Sharing Fund”, and the expenses for volunteer services of the community service Filial duty sharing service team are supported from matching grants provided by the company. K-water provides continual welfare services in order to stay connected to people's lives. Establishing Filial Duty Sharing Service Centers in rural regions around dams is one of K-water’s welfare services, which are elderly care centers with care-helpers and physical therapists residing on-site that provide physical and Social Performances for 2013 therapy, free meals, assistance to elders who suffer from mobility problems, and caring services for those who are sick (by the end of 2013, 8 centers in total Global sharing were built including one at Daechung Dam). Also, K-water has conducted “K-water Love Sharing Medical Service” since 2009 in cooperation with The Medical Every year since 2006, K-water has made a good use of its professionalism through volunteer activities to develop drinking water sources and living support Association for the public to provide free medical service for residents living nearby to dams with poor medical infra. This service was offered to 4,500 people in to local residents in the regions like Cambodia, Mongolia, Vietnam that have suffered from a water shortage. In 2013, we conducted four volunteer services in sixteen regions in 2013, contributing to the improvement of local medical welfare. In 2014, oriental medical service was added to the list of K-water’s Filial duty Manoharpervillage, Kathmandu, Nepal, and in Sungkon village in the state of Savannakhet, Laos. As well as the installation of waterworks facilities (tube wells, sharing services. water tanks, pipelines, purifying facilities, etc.) that could serve about 26,000 residents in villages suffering with poor water quality, K-water conducted customized volunteer services for local regions such as building of river embankments, repairing of public buildings, etc. Cultivating of dams as tourism destinations Appendix K-water operates Water Culture Centers nearby to multi-purpose dams to provide leisure and recreational space for residents. As well, we cultivate eco-friendly leisure space for all members of the society by forest nurturing in dam basins and planting rape blossoms, cosmos, and etc. in flood-control sites at up and downstream river-sides. Our efforts are contributing to increasing tourism and revitalizing the economies of local communities. Social contribution investment amount for 2013 KRW 74.8 billion (about 2% of total sales) Boosting of local residents’ income Being acknowledged of its effort to resolve global water problems that are affecting people around the world, K-water is initiating job sharing projects to provide employment for both the youth and elderly in regions around dams. In 2013, K-water gave priorities to 499 K-water was awarded “Happiness Sharing Enterprise Prize” in the field of global sharing by the Ministry of Health and Welfare for two consecutive years since 2012. local self-supporting laborers and hired them as care-helpers to improve welfare for senior citizens and as house renovators to improve residential conditions. *Detailed information about social contribution activities of K-water can be found in K-water’s website (http:// Also, K-water has promoted eco-friendly agricultural complexes in the upstream of dams which has a restriction in farming of agricultural products by the nawww.kwater.or.kr). tional water source protection policy. With this, it aims to both protect water quality and revitalize the local economy. 54 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 As We Proceed Mutual Growth Establishment of growth ladderto nurture small businesses in water industry K-water seeks shared growth that makes it possible to develop together with partnering companies K-water has established its unique performance sharing model called 'One-stop' which supports from technology development to the pioneering of sales channels according to its midand long-term build-up strategies for small busiwithin the corporate supply chain. nesses in its supply chain. First, it is providing on-site performance test-bed to small businesses in order to test their new technologies on-site, considering the fact that acquiring a test-bed is one of difficulties that small businesses face. Opening ceremony for the Performance Test-bed Center for new hydropower Moreover, K-water opens a market to small businesses by special contracts for their product or technology of which technologies K-water’s partnering companies are classified as material supplying companies, construction companies, and facilities inspection & maintenance companies. InSustainability Management performance is proven in the test-bed that K-water provided. K-water has especially established and operated the naspection and maintenance works on K-water’s facilities are mainly outsourced, and in 2013, 119 people from four external companies have carried out the inspection tion’s first performance test-bed for new technologies in the field of hydropower in order to support the development of and maintenance tasks in 16 water resource facilities of K-water, while the inspection and maintenance of Sihwa tidal power plant was carried out independently. domestic technologies, and thereby, has performed a leading role in enhancing technological competitiveness of small businesses. For example, K-water led the official performance certification of an industrial-purpose valve developed Fair and healthy mutual growth which protects socially Performance of the protection by a small business, using its world’s fifth best calibration ability accredited in the field of fluid and liquid measurement. disadvantaged groups policy for the socially disadvantaged Also, K-water is expanding the budget to support small businesses for R&D through raising a private-public joint Performance test-bed for an industrialK-water is expanding social cooperation networks through a scoring program that protects and benefits purpose valve developed by a small busi1,056 investment fund in addition to signing the MOU (Memorandum Of Understanding) for the establishment of a loan prothe socially disadvantaged (such as small businesses, local companies, companies run by females, ness gram for small businesses called ‘Water+Loan’ with major financial companies. Moreover, it promotes the technology and socially contributive companies) when selecting contractors. For construction contracts, K-water transfer to small businesses as well as providing education programs customized to small businesses’ needs. Being 61% set forth to subcontract to local businesses for the contracts which amount less than KRW 26.2 billion, acknowledged of these efforts, K-water achieved the highest grade in the evaluation on the small businesses support whereas the National Contract Law requires it for the contracts of less than KRW 8.7 billion. Along with 4 Focus Issues performance of state-owned enterprises in 2013, which was held by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy. Kthis, K-water gives extra points for subcontract with small businesses, and applies a mitigated evaluwater will continue to support small businesses for their self-sufficiency and market competitiveness so that it fulfills ation standard for newly created companies. We advantage especially local companies that locate in Evaluated 1,654 contracts out of a total of the social responsibility for mutual growth as a state-owned enterprise. Signing ceremony for the Private-Public construction areas by allowing them exclusive participation in bidding to contracts of less than KRW 2,710 contracts Joint Investment Fund 8.7 billion in order to achieve social equity. The amount of contracts with local companies in 2013 takes Cooperation with construction contract agencies about 11.5% of total contract amount (KRW 1.0 trillion). 1,654 K-water has obligated the use of standard contract to prevent unfair trading, and has installed and operated ‘unfair subcontracts report centers’ in the main In order to put our commitment towards a mutual growth into practice, we created performance evaluheadquarter and 8 regional division headquarters. It has also introduced and enhanced the oversight program on contracts to prevent them from the overdue ations on the socially disadvantaged scoring program and mutual growth index. As well, we are taking Number of contracts evaluated by the socially paying to subcontracts agencies, who are mostly small businesses. Along with these, K-water is making efforts to improve unfair practices and policies in its way an administrative measure to ensure that construction contract companies are paying social insurance disadvantaged scoring program of working through consistent communication with construction contract agencies. fees (health insurance and national pension) for construction laborers and have prepared an instituNumber of contracts not evaluated tional strategy called ‘distinction of labor expenses’ in order to prevent overdue wages for equipment/ Support for voluntary environmental management system of partnering companies Economic, Environmental materials-suppliers and day workers. For service contracts, we prepared a separate grade table for the evaluation of contract’s financial conditions that is used As K-water understands that the establishment of environmental management and clean production system of its partnering firms can contribute to the competifor small businesses, and increased extra points for a joint-venture with small businesses. In addition, we are prioritizing the products manufactured from tiveness of K-water, it endeavors to establish eco-friendly partnership with small businesses by providing various environmental management programs such as female-owned businesses and socially contributive businesses for small scale contracts, while this policy applies for general construction to the contracts of education, technological support for environment management, ISO 14001 certification expenses, etc., and by receiving eco-friendly products and services. less than KRW 200 billion, for professional construction to those of less than KRW 100 billion, for other constructions to those of less than KRW 80 million for and Social Performances for 2013 K-water’s support program for each partnering business to establish a customized environmental management system leads it to positive outcomes such as other constructions, and for service/products to those of less than KRW 50 million. On the other hand, as overseas businesses run by K-water are small amount establishment of law-abiding process, securement of risk management ability, establishment of environmental management infrastructure, improvement of investment businesses such as Official Development Aid (ODA) and engineering services (investigation, design, and construction supervision), it does not operate customer services, establishment of clean production and consumption system, etc. These achievements, thereby, will result in various benefits such as proprotection measures for the socially disadvantaged in regards to overseas businesses yet. We will consider the implementation of protection measures for the ductivity improvement, increase in profit through increased customer satisfaction, and reduction of production cost by reducing environmental cost. K-water has socially disadvantaged with the expanding of overseas investment businesses in the future. supported 17 companies through this program until 2013, and in 2014, is currently supporting the expense for the maintenance of ISO 14001 certification as well as environmental management educations to 8 partnering companies. As it has been doing so for, K-water will continue to make the efforts to improve environmental integrity in the corporate supply network. Appendix K-water’s model for the performance sharing with small businesses Task Apply a selected Performance On-site Assurance of Report and Signing for Contract Initiation of eco-friendly partnership Strengthening of eco-friendly partnership Settlement of eco-friendly partnership K-water task to K-water’s confirmation of performance selection test-bed test inspection special contract test results sharing authorized (~2011) (~2012) (2013~) KRW 3.31 billion • Supported 9 partnering companies that supply materials • Supported 12 partnering companies • Supported 17 partnering companies * 14 tasks were proceeded in 2013: 8 tasks – performance confirmed, 3 tasks – test ongoing, 3 tasks – reforming based on test results for waterworks • Strengtened self-capability for environmental • Insourcing of consulting and audit for environmental • Outsourced consulting and audit for environmental management management Signing for management • Enhanced green purchase, and initiated a life cycle assessment • Expansion of certified ISO 14001 auditors fostering Other Task Performance Contract performance • ISO 14001 certification and education • Provided environmental management educations to small * Completion of eco-friendly supply network organizations selection test authorized sharing • Started to foster certified ISO 14001 auditors businesses 56 K-water 2014 Sustainability Report 57 As We Proceed Focus Issue 4 Workplace where Fair Competition takes place Creating a Happy Workplace and Rewards are given for Performance K-water seeks to make a happy workplace creating harmony between work and life, providing opportunities for mutual growth of individuals and the company, and conducting fair evaluations of all employees. Rewards and Human Resources Management centering on performance and capabilities Sustainability Management DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach) The monthly wage of a new college graduate employees in 2013 is 221% of the legal minimum wage, and all employees go through regular performance evaluations. The executive directors are evaluated by performance, and other employees are also evaluated by internal management performance evaluations which 1. The importance of Creating a Happy Workplace reflect collectively business/regional-division-unit evaluation, department-unit evaluation, and team evaluation, which determine their wage and promotion. EvaluaThe productivity of a company consists in its employees' reinforcement and demonstration of their abilities. K-water seeks to recognize the members of the tion criteria consist of department core indicators and company-wide common indicators according to four perspectives (customers, finance, process, and learning organization as partners for sustainable growth and to create a happy workplace where individual members can develop and exhibit their potential abilities growth) of the Balanced Score Card. Differential rates of pay from these performances lead to motivation for the improving of employees' capabilities and contribute ethically, passionately, and creatively. The interested groups of K-water also showed interests in fair HRM (Human Resources Management) policy, employee to establishing of organizational culture which esteems ability and performance. Also, we are conducting the policy of intersecting employment between administrabenefits (work-life balance), and world class HR (Human Resources) cultivation. tive and technical jobs in order to provide opportunities for capability development through various business experiences, and are maximizing concentration at work through rewards for task achievements, exemplary employees, outstanding knowledge, and suggestions. 2. Approaches of K-water toward the Creating of a Happy Workplace In order to accomplish its new management strategy, ‘SMART Management’, K-water set a goal in 2013 to upgrade its managerial efficiency to a global level by Respect for human rights and diversity 4 Focus Issues focusing on 5 specific sections, which are safety, technology, ability, responsibility, and teamwork. In the aspect of teamwork, by introducing a new concept of K-water is conducting policies such as the expansion of employment, gender equality, and motherhood protection program in order to protect the rights of minoriwelfare called ‘Welfare 3.0’, which pursues customized welfare to employees’ needs, K-water is making efforts to build an organizational culture with balance ties such as disabled people, women, and non-regular workers in the workplace. The wages of men and women are equal if the position and length of service are between work and life as well as mutual growth of both individuals and the company. equal, and as well, we have eliminated discriminatory factors on women in the workplace. Since the introduction of gender equality policies in 2004, we have actively managed women in the workforce by focusing on addressing of grievances for female employees, strengthening motherhood protection, and etc. For human rights education, we are currently conducting company-wide sexual harassment prevention training and plan to implement an education for human rights protection in the Previous: Welfare with a focus on monetary value and quantity future. Based on Article 17 of Framework Act on Women’s Development and Article 27.2 of its enforcement regulation, we are reporting results of sexual harass▼ ment prevention education at least once a year to the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family. As well, a sexual harassment prevention monitoring officer has been Improved: Welfare that is non-monetary, family-friendly, designated for each department in order to create a healthy and bright workplace with gender equality by preventing sexual harassment. and customized (Welfare 3.0) Open employment Economic, Environmental K-water carries out the most transparent open recruitment program out of all state-owned enterprises in the nation. Anyone can apply for a position (except Smart Work Smart money specialized job positions) regardless of academic ability, major, grade, gender, experience, and certificates if one has the minimum standardized foreign lanSmart Health (Healthy life) (Balance between work and family life) (Wise personal financial management) guage test score at the time of employment. Also, we have increased the portion of career aptitude test to recruit employees based on work skills, not just based ▼ ▼ ▼ on their knowledge in college major. In order to fulfill our social responsibilities as a public enterprise, we are actively conducting socially balanced recruitment and Social Performances for 2013 by expanding employment of talented individuals from regions outside Seoul metropolitan region with the goal for the hiring of people from provincial regions of • Run a customized preventive health management • Ensure efficient work time by improving work habits program that considers the stages of life cycle the country, which increases the employment rate of individuals from outside Seoul metropolitan region up to 40%, and also supporting the social advancement and concentration at work • Establish a vigorous corporate culture through • Post-retirement preparation program including per• Increase work productivity by securing holidays for of women through the recruitment of female workforces with the goal for gender-equal recruitment, which increases the employment rate of female workers employees including long-term vacations and by preventive health management programs targetsonal finances, retirement pension plans, and etc. encouraging communication with family ing disease prevention, smoking cessation, and obesity prevention Sexual harassment prevention education status per year Employment status Rate of employees educated (%) Female (Number of people) Employed people from outside Seoul metropolitan region (Number of people) Number of employees educated High school graduates employed (Number of people) 161 97 Appendix 3. Performance management for the Creating of a Happy Workplace 128 88 104 107 Cultivating of a creative, productive, and happy workplace Performances in 2013 Goals for the year 2014 Goals for the year 2023 82 71 83.4 82 5,030 Level of creativity and innovation (σ) Index for fostering human resources (%) 80.9 51 47 4,012 40 3,671 3,503 30 36 32 3,272 20 19 13 6.00 45 2.96 3.10 40.5 40 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 58 K-water 2014 Sustainability Report 59 As We Proceed Fun Workplace with the Balance of Work and Life Employees communication The CEO and executives are regularly communicating online by using CEO SNS, video news (Force View), video meeting, and real-time broadcasting. After the appointment of new CEO in 2013, especially, open forums have been hosted by the CEO to communicate with employees and share management principles, and since 2014, ‘Talk-Talk Square’ (free message board) on the CEO's bulletin board of K-water Intra-net has been open and facilitated bilateral communication between the management and the employees. Through the two-way communication window between the top management and all of the employees in the organization, we are settling a sincere communication culture by searching for developmental solutions and proposing opinions freely about important decisions. Also, we are always Balance between work and life Policy for the improving of organizational culture Sustainability Management running grievances addressing window on HR-BANK (K-water human resources management integration system) to handle the grievances of employees. In 2013, We are consistently expanding the ‘Work Smart’ environment so that employees will secure more leisure we have addressed 53 grievances through online and face-to-face counseling. Unsettled grievances are continuously being considered and reviewed to be adtime through creative and efficient work. We are supporting the employees to work regardless of time and Policy Contents dressed later. places by installing and running 13 Smart Work Centers in regional division headquarters and overseas • Expansion of Smart Work Centers, and Support for remote working on a sandwich day places of business and by providing a tool for remote work such as VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure) flexible work • Running of short-time employment anddiverse types of flexible employment and VPN (Virtual Private Network) that are based on the cloud computing platform. As for policies, we are • Running of ‘Family Day (no overtime work Improvement day)’ initiative (every Wednesday) Bottom-up communication channel making efforts to facilitate flexible employment by introduction of short-time labor, expansion of telecomof work • Running of overtime work reduction initiapractices tives: Shut-down after 21:00 on week days muting, and etc., and are running various family-friendly policies such as parent-coaching education, ex(lights off), Weekend PC-off (electricity off) pansion of maternity leave, infant inspection leave, etc. Also, we are creating an organizational culture that • Maternity leave notice system • Labor and management mutual can balance work and family through improvement of working practices including meeting, reporting, and (which enables the securement of alterna• Youth board taskforce Childbirth tive workforce and budget) encouragement • Running of on-site daycare center for Window for management participation Pursue both company development and dining together, which, thereby, decreases overtime work. policy employees, and expanding of its maximum of young employees improvement of life quality 4 Focus Issues number by conversion of work facilities to caring facilities • Suggestion / learning club • Labor and management conference Operation of a welfare program that reflects the needs of employees • Education to improve family life such as Balance between couple coaching and father class Management improvement activities K-water bottom-up Sharing of pending issues work and family • Expansion of supports for the access to K-water's places of business are spread throughout the nation and basically operate in the framework life cultural performances and recreational of all employees communication channel and problem solving facilities of job rotation. In order to solve housing problems that employees experience because of this, K-water provides boarding houses and leased company housing for families, and provides loans to partially cover • Work facilitation and support team • Open forum/Discussions the cost of purchasing a house. Also, we are running family-friendly welfare policies such as supply of recAddresses complaints in remote Window for feedback from worksites Customized employees welfare programs areas or new business sites reational facilities, childbirth grant, operation of workplace daycare center, etc., and has been certified as a family-friendly corporation by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family. In the meantime, we support ClassificaProgram Contents tion retiring employees by preparing them for their second lives through professional education about personal • Run customized medical checkup Economic, Environmental Medical plans finances, real estate, and, etc., by conducting ‘Evergreen’ program for effectivee retirement preparation. • Provide discounts through arrangecheckup ments with dentists and ophthalRetirement pensions are accumulated by pension allowances according to the Labor Standards Act in Health mologists near the workplace • Cover fatal accident or death comTop-down communication channel Grievance settlement performance order to ensure the payment of pension that considers the tenure of office and the average wage of three Group pensation, hospitalization, medical insurance expense, cancer diagnosis expense, months before retirement. We introduced a pension policy for employees in managerial positions in 2012 etc. Total grievances (number of cases) and Social Performances for 2013 Settled grievances (number of cases) and is negotiating with the labor union to introduce it with other employees. Although we provide pension • Operate two recreational centers Recreational • Use recreational facilities at a Administrative Rate of grievances settled (%) Innovation workshop with equal standard for voluntary retirement or displaced retirement, we do not provide extra employment facilities discounted price by corporate membership council meeting 84.1 Leisure introduction or reemployment education. Employee welfare benefits are equal for regular and non-regular Leisure club •leisure Initiate voluntary club activities and employment. activities of employees 71.8 71.8 71.2 Directors Directors of all departments 68.4 • Run boarding houses for single Company employees Sharing experiences, policies & pending Inspection and feedback for housing • Provide housing support for emissues (8 times) management performance (4 times) ployees with families 98 Efforts to improve the health of employees Appendix Housing • Lend housing loan expense to sup/livingport residence of employees K-water pursues its vision of a great workplace (GWP) by healthy employees. The 2013 medical checkup expense • Lend ‘Living Stabilization Expense’ 78 78 in emergencies that need money 73 support classified 63.4% of employees as healthy and 36.6% as having some issues, which registered an increase 63 Stable • Operate day care centers in the Management meeting with residence Education workplace Management meeting for of 0.3 percentage points, but the increasing trend has abated since 2009. Also, the prevalence rate has and living for children • Tuition support for high school regional division major issues slightly decreased from 7.1% in 2012 to 7.0% in 2013. This can be seen as a result of consistent health children executives 67 management efforts such as smoking cessation, obesity clinic, sudden cardiac death prevention program, Expendi• Support expense for congratulations 56 52 56 53 ture for and condolences (fund), childbirth Executives / Executives and main congratulagrant, support expense for disabled and chronic illness management. In 2014, we plan to expand preventive health management to emotional children, etc. Regional executive directors department directors tions and • Support expense for flood and fire health diagnosis and thin obesity employee exercise care, and to improve the quality of the checkups with condolences damage, etc. Sharing pending issues in regional Discussing major management issues 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 divisions and worksites (18 times) (49 times) individually customized health checkups plans, etc. * 13 out of 22 unsettled grievances in 2012 were settled in 2013 60 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 As We Proceed Workplace that enables Learning and Development Career development plan for employees K-water Academy has constructed and operated a CRP system which supports its employees to develop their career in the company since 2003, and has sufficiently reflected the needs of the company for balanced work experience of its employees. As a measure of this, K-water abolished occupational limits in selection of training courses offered by K-water Academy in order to extend learning choice of its employees in 2010 and has extended employees' opportunity to participate in training courses by adopting a modular process. By introducing a learning credit system in 2011 where OJT (On-the-Job Training) and learning club research time are counted as learning time, we are making efforts to settle learning atmosphere of the corporation. In 2014, we are especially focusing on fostering of human resources that will lead future water management businesses. This fostering program aims at nurturing talented human resources that Global talent fostering roadmap Sustainability Management facilitate the integrated approaches to businesses, preparing for business convergence of the future. K-water is initiating strategic human resources management that focuses on talents of employees and performance of the corporate in order to achieve its vision and strategies, and is thus securing global competitiveness of its human resources. Needs discovery / Establishment and implementation STEP 2 STEP 3 ability diagnosis of education system Performance management STEP 1 Achievement of global competitiveness HRD tool Organizational needs Management strategies Capability GAP check Capability development Performance monitoring Operation of HR (Human Resources) (2013~) CRP system, K-water capability development model Individual Management Required capabilities Application to and feedback Advancement of HR management • HR composition optimized for new strategy execution needs goals Capability diagnosis on-site work focusing on performance (~2011) (~2012) • HR management based on HR allocation principal • Organization and distribution of workforce for • HR fostering according to business portfolio that reflects the characteristics of business successful completion of national projects • Bolstering of businesses for new growth and Common capabilities Leader capabilities Job Competence • Improvement of flexibility through occupation • HR allocation that reflects the characteristics of business global capability integration • Establishment of a fostering system targeting • Realization of respected company and GWP Newly-appointed Basics Job function professional • Establishment of K-water capability model First 4 Focus Issues Core director Organizational culture (Balance of work and family) quality HR (Great Work Place) • Establishment of CRP (K-water HR fostering level value • Establishment of a capability development model • Management oriented from global standard and Manager course(commissioned) system) K-water professional course • Steady supply of new recruits including high HR management according to the characteristics (Integrated Water Resources Management, Smart Water Grid, Clean energy Expert • Strengthening of support for national project Negotiation and of business Leadership academy through flexible HR management school graduates, etc. Newly-appointed production, overseas business, local waterworks business, strategic • Fair HR management based on performance • Establishment of performance-oriented HR mangeneral manager dispute investment decision-making) • HR management based on ability and Second management agement Innovation performance level Domestic and international commissioned training courses Newly-appointed Advanced manager Documenting Problem resolving course for pendFuture water management and reporting ing issue (water quality management, Human resources management based on capabilities Third Customer preparation course (global, core technology & policy) supply safety, crisis management, level satisfaction financial soundness) K-water is managing human resources for the employees to grow required capabilities by establishing a capability development model in regard with three types of Newly-appointed OS (Excel, Interme assistant manager PowerPoint, etc.) Courses targeting each of business areas according to business areas capabilities:common ability, leader ability, and job competence. The capability development model aims at the improvement of the current capability level to achieve -diate Fourth Job competence the capabilities that are necessary for performance creation in actual workplaces. It manages HR data in an integrated manner using HR-Bank, and has systemized level or Ethics Leadership Languages integrity Newly-appointed (administration, Cyber On-site OJT below Cyber / Reading all functions of HRM (Human Resources Management) and HRD (Human Resources Development) in order to fundamentally prevent errors. Senior clerk technology) Economic, Environmental Beginner Training hours per employee each year (hours) New recruit training program (Pre-cyber learning, group education, on-site OJT, follow-up) Management system (policy) Information system 71.0 69.0 69.0 63.8 60.5 Nurturing K-water core professional human resources and Social Performances for 2013 HRM based on capabilities HR-Bank K-water launched its water specialist training course in 2008 in order to achieve global competitiveness by nurturing quality human resources specialized for the • Establishment of capability model • Human resource management (Common, Leader, Job compeneeds of future water businesses. By the end of 2013, we have fostered 448 professionals from 43 training courses. Moreover, in 2014, K-water selected 75 emintegration system centering on tence) capabilities and businesses ployees for intensive training of over 200 hours per year of which level is equivalent to a master’s degree course, and is training the selected employees in order • Establishment of personnel policy • Personnel data integrated based on capabilities in case of em2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ployment, assignment, evaluation, HRM management, and Personnel policy to advance in core areas of the future water management businesses: Integrated Water Resources Management, Smart Water Grid, clean energy production, function support reward, promotion, and etc. overseas projects, local waterworks, and strategic investment. Information Average training hours per year and system ratio of receiving performance evaluation Appendix HRD based on capabilities CRP system Ratio of receiving performance evaluation (%) • Education system according to HRD • One-stop human resources develAverage training hours per year Strategic fostering of leaders capabilities, position, and level opment system, which covers from In 2011, K-water was the first public corporation to introduce the Developing Center (DC) technique to its HRD, and • Run career development routes, capability diagnosis to education connecting 324 courses of four performance evaluation 100 100 100 100 100 has since systematically fostered leaders through its unique leader-nurturing program, ‘Leadership Academy,’ which levels (beginner / intermediate / advanced / expert) with job Individual selection of 70 80 75 enables the development of insufficient capabilities based on the diagnosis by the subordinates. Also, we have been performance feedfunctions sets capability required Learning evaluation back 47 running ‘Leadership Workshop’ since 2012 for second-level or higher officers. This course consists of various learning diagnosis course 22 activities (role-playing, topic debate, etc.) and conversation with the management board, and is conducted quarterly with the purpose of recognizing the role of leaders in core businesses of K-water as well as enhancing the capacity of leaders Training time per person 69 hours Number of Trainees: 17,435 people Male female executive general function special function to communicate with and build a consensus with the subordinates. 62 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 Economic, Environmental and Social Performances for 2013 봇물을 이루다 Form a river As small streams come together to form a river, we are pulling together our Economic, Environmental and best efforts towards shared value creation in economics, environment, and soSocial Performances for 2013 Economic Performance 66 ciety to make K-water the most advanced and reliable water service enterprise Environmental Performance 69 that wins love and trust of people in the society. Social Performance 77 As We Proceed Economic Performance Creative innovation Performances a total of KRW 200 billion by 2020. Also, K-water defined the technology Overview The average number of annual protypes that could represent the features of technological strategies, reviewed K-water Research Institute Mission and Vision K-water’s innovation activities consist of CoP and collaboration activities. posals and knowledge submission implementation and resource allocation plans per technology type, and reSustainability Management CoP activities are intra-departmental, innovative activities, and the collabois about 3,500, resulting in a steady flected them in 'Core Tech 2020: New K-water's Technological Strategies'. Providing of professional knowledge services and advanced techration activities occur inter-departmentally or jointly with outside parties. financial achievement of more than Mission nologies to lead water industry by reinforcing research capacities and creatingtechnological values In order to encourage innovation activities, the management team is runKRW 20 billion annually through Investment Cost Incurred Each Year (Accumulated) ning an executive innovation office to support innovation task performers meaningful innovation activities. In A global water-management research institute that grows with while providing them with various services such as budgeting, training, and order to expand the sharing of its Unit: KRW hundred million Vision customers 2,000 manpower. Also, the team holds an annual competition for creative innovacreative innovation achievements tion performed by the employees in order to establish innovation as a part with more people, K-water annually holds the company-wide presentation Creation of Development of demand-oriented core technologies Efficient operation of of its organizational culture and spread its performance. Bonus points on of creative innovation achievements; it also publishes a panel for outstanding Strategies technological through selection organization values and concentration employees performance assessment, rewards, etc. are given to outstanding creative innovation cases to spread such achievements. K-water has been performers of innovative tasks who are selected through the competition. recognized externally as a world-class innovation company by receiving the 1,500 4 Focus Issues presidential award of Korea’s Knowledge Award, , Asian MAKE, and Global 26 MAKE (2013) which are reputed to be the best knowledge management 34 33 38 What is CoP (creativity practice club)? awards in the world. For Asian MAKE, K-water has been awarded for 6 con1,100 By job type By Degree CoP is a kind of a get-together session of employees who create results by shar(33%) (%) ing knowledge about common issues over a period of time through discussions secutive years (2008-2013). and research, which ultimately improve work processes and create positive 36 results. 33 Administrative Staffs Bachelor’s R&D, the key to sustainable growth 2015 2017 2018 Commissioned Researchers Master’s Promotion strategy Professional Researchers Doctoral K-water’s unique creative, innovative activity Technology Type system, “K-sigma” ✽ Rate (%) which sets the level of developed countries at 100. K-water has established its own techniques called JOA+ and 6 Sigma, as Technologies needed for newly growing industries (can be comR&D achievements Economic, Environmental Future mercialized within 7 years) on the strength of high potential of waterTechnologies well as a research club. JoA+ is used to solve qualitative and informal probrelated core technologies Technological K-water performs about 80 research projects by investing more than 2.2% lems and 6 Sigma to solve quantitative problems. The research club is a Goal in 2020 of annual sales to R&D budget. On average of more than 400 research paTechnologies needed to enhance existing business competitiveness voluntary research activity for gaining and creating new knowledge as well • Water resources – 95% Core Technological • Waterworks and and expand into new work field (intense, focused investment in budpers have been published annually through the projects, and the number of Technologies and Social Performances for 2013 as improving work-related competence. While training facilitateors per CoP Goal in 2015 Sewerage – 97% get and manpower for 4~5 years) • Water resources – 90% • Green Technology applications for intellectual property rights including patents continues to in order to increase the effectiveness of techniques, we have established the Technological • Waterworks and – 94% Level in 2011 Sewerage–93% increase every year. corporation’s own CoP brand called K-sigma to incorporate innovation into • Water resources – 87% • Green Technology Base Technologies that should be improved or advanced in order to • Waterworks and – 92% Technologies maintain business employees. Research Projects & R&D Budget Sewerage – 90% In particular, by including the ‘Knowledge Mileage’ which measures the per• Green Technology – 89% formances of CoP, knowledge and suggestion activities to KPI, K-water diNumber of Projects (cases) rectly linked the creative, innovative activities to its management strategies, R&D Budget (KRW hundred million) R&D development capabilities (R&D manpower as of May 2014) Appendix Intensifying Core Securing Core Innovating Structure for and endows yearly goals and systematically manage them. Meanwhile, the Competencies Technologies Technological Development 87 83 K-water has 228 professional researchers with a master’s or a doctoral de82 performances achieved through CoP activities under the K-sigma brand are 185 74 gree (including 77 commissioned researchers) that develop its core technol66 shared by all employees through knowledge management (KM) activities 143 144 After conducting the technology evaluation and analyzing the results in 2011, ogies. They conduct commercialization researches on low-carbon-emission and organizational culture improvement activities. Through these activities, 113 K-water set technological goals for 2020 that consider its management conenvironmental technology and renewable energy for climate changes with 91 a virtuous circle of knowledge sharing and innovation is established. ditions. It classified water resources, waterworks and sewerage, and green emphasis on the fields of water resources environment, infrastructure, watechnology into the technology take-off period (2012~2015) and the technolterworks and sewerage, green technology, policy & economy, and tap water ogy advancement period (2016~2020) by field. K-water then set a plan to quality analysis. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 secure developed country-level technological competitiveness by investing 66 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67 As We Proceed Environmental Performance Current status of Research Paper Publication (Unit : Number of Cases) Reduced environmental impact during the enWater reuse and recycling 496 480 tire production process K-water has been re-collecting the water used for filter backwash in the Resources saving and circulation treatment process of tap water and industrial purified water, and recycling Sustainability Management 390 365 To promote resources saving and circulation in the whole production prothem. The amount of recycling water in 2013 was 34.616 million m3, recy313 cess production to consumption, K-water encourages ‘Green Purchasing’, a cling 84% of the total water use of 40.995 million ㎥. Water recycling contribpurchase of green products (recycled or environmental-friendly manufacutes to environmental protection by reducing water intake, and in addition, tured products). K-water built an automation system to monitor the sales of the monitoring of changes in recycled water amount enables us to sense tap green products in real-time such as state-certificated Eco-Labeled products water backwashing rate. Internationally-certified Water-Quality Analysis Research Center and Good Good-Recycling-Labeled products, and is managing and promot2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ing the green purchase by inter-operating with K-water’s Environment Unit: thousand ㎥ Performance Evaluation (EPE) System. K-water’s green purchases totaled 40,995 34,616 KRW 18 billion in 2013, 90.6% of the entire purchase cost. K-water will make Current Status of Patent Applications & Registrations efforts to increase continuously the green purchase rate. 4 Focus Issues Used water amount Recycled amount Number of cases applied for patent Number of cases registered as patent Green Purchase Rate (%) 86 Green Product Purchase Amount (KRW 100 million) 79 90.6 Discharged water quality 67 88 81 Waterworks 65 76 81 Since the amount and quality of discharged water from water purification 80 Nationally-certified Flow-meter Calibration Center 64 189 49 177 180 plants can bring important effects on the water quality of rivers and the 70 ecological environment, K-water applies management standards that are 116 44 93 stricter than the legal requirements. In particular, to minimize the effects on Economic, Environmental 26 the ecological environment within discharged areas and preserve the water quality in rivers, Kwater is continuously monitoring the quality of discharged 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 water by a water quality remote inspection system. By selecting the quality 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 of discharged water as a green business goal and a core index of Environand Social Performances for 2013 mental Performance Evaluation, K-water has been doing its best to improve Efforts to reduce water intake impacts the quality of discharged water since 2004. In 2013, the average quality of R&D Infrastructure The total amount of tap-water K-water supplied in 2013 was 3,709 million discharged water from water purification plants was BOD 2.0mg/L, COD K-water operates Korea’s first internationally-certified national hydrograph ㎥. While residents in the downstream of the Nakdong River take most of Test plant within the Waterworks and Sewerage Research & Education Center 3.3mg/L, SS 2.4mg/L, which was only 10%, 8%, and 12% respectively of the calibration center in the water gauge field and a flow-meter calibration systhe water for living from the surface water in the Nakdong River, the downdischarge tax levy standard: BOD 20mg/L, COD 40mg/L, and SS 20mg/L. tem with Korea’s largest diameter (800mm), as well as a world-class Waterstream region of the Nakdong River is vulnerable to water pollution because works & Sewerage Research & Education Center. In addition, it possesses a of industrial and residential developments and slow flowrate of the regions. Waterworks discharged water quality Appendix professional quality-test certification agency and a safety inspection agency K-water is thus working on the Nakdong River Filter Water Project (2011BOD (㎎/L) COD (㎎/L) SS (㎎/L) that undertakes on-site investigations and safety examinations for repair of 2017) to supply filtered, clean water to Busan and Yangsan in the downfacilities, ports, bridges, and tunnels. With a goal to supply clean and safe stream of Nakdong River, which are both traditionally vulnerable to water tap water, the Water-Quality Analysis Research Center, a global top analysis pollution (phenol, benzene, etc.). However, in Changnyeong-gun, where a 4.3 4.1 4.14 3.8 institution, has analyzed and monitored 250 items by annually expanding the water intake system by this project will be built, there is a concern that its 3.3 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.2 2.4 tap water quality standards since 2002. underground water pool can be affected by this project. Thus, our company 2.0 2.1 2.1 2.0 1.8 has been striving to promote shared business interests with the local area by conducting an ‘Underground Water Impact Study’ with a research team Asia’s biggest centrifuge model tester of experts recommended by both residents and academia. 68 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 As We Proceed Sewage treatment facilities Hazardous material discharge management Recycling waste products Sewage sludge recycling rate In 2013, among 22 sewage treatment plants with capacities over 500㎥, Hazardous materials such as waste oil and chemical substances discharged Wateworks sludge Unit : % the average water quality of discharged water from 5 plants in Ⅰ~Ⅱ areas from project sites can bring serious adverse influences to the surrounding In 2013, the amount of sludge produced from purifying 1㎥ of water was ap49 Sustainability Management 46 where stricter discharged water requirements by the government are held environment, bio-diversity, and the health of local citizens. All hazardous proximately 54.2g. The total amount of sludge produced at waterworks in one 40 was BOD 1.3 mg/L, COD 5.8mg/L, and SS 2.7mg/ L, which were 13%, 29%, substances from K-water’s project sites are strictly treated according to year was 110,027 tons, 100% of this amount being recycled and reused as ce36 31 and 27% respectively of the discharge water quality standards for public related regulations, and there have been no accidents due to the leakage ment materials (83.8%), cover materials (12.1%), planting soil (0.9%), and potsewage treatment facilities: BOD 5mg/L, COD 20mg/L, and SS 10mg/L. of hazardous substances so far. However, K-water is enhancing its abilities ting soil (0.3%). Based on the London Dumping Convention (1996), banning the For 17 plants in Ⅲ~Ⅳ areas with less stringent discharged water quality to take preemptive measures against potential accidents by establishing a dumping of waste materials into the ocean, Korea amended the enforcement requirements,, they were BOD 1.7mg/L, COD 7.9mg/L, and SS 3.2mg/ L, manual and holding regular training activities to prepare for hazardous subregulations in the Maritime Pollution Prevention Law (Ministry of Maritime which were 17%, 20%, and 32% respectively of the discharge water quality stance leakage accidents. Affairs & Fisheries Regulations No. 330 on February 21, 2006). As a result, the standards : BOD 10mg/L, COD 40mg/L, and SS 10mg/L. Dr. Waste Water (Dr. disposing of sludge from waterworks into the oceans has been banned as of 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Response system to accidential leakage of chlorine gas) WW), an internally developed core sewage treatment program, has stood at 2007. Since 2006, K-water has been recycling all sludge generated from the *Chlorine gas: it is often used for disinfection in waterworks, but hazardous in case the forefront of improving the discharged water quality. waterworks, and no sludge has been exported. of leakage Construction waste materials 4 Focus Issues Sewage treatment facilities Waterworks sludge recycling rate The total construction waste generated in 2013 was 496,260 tons. 96.8% of Leakage of chlorine gas BOD (㎎/L) COD (㎎/L) SS (㎎/L) Unit: % the total, 480,366 tons was reused as road pavement materials, materials 100 100 100 100 100 for mounding and soil covering, recycled rocks and gravels, and wood chips. 7.7 Alert of chlorine From now on, K-water will try its best to minimize the generation of con7.2 6.9 6.8 gas leakage struction waste and create a resource-recycling green society. It will do so (emergency dispatch, site check) by “initiating an eco-friendly design that can coexist with nature” in the con5.4 struction business planning stage, and “realizing a productive construction 3.5 Initial response 3.0 site through the recycling of construction waste” in the construction stage. 2.6 2.8 2.6 (implement emergency responding checklist) 2.2 2.1 1.9 1.9 Current status of construction waste recycling 1.5 Economic, Environmental Whether there has been large YES Evacuate residents, Waste Combined 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Waste amount of chlorine gas leakage? execute dispersion Waste Waste Tree Waste Classification Total Synthetic 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Concrete Ascon and Materials Resins NO Plants and Others and Social Performances for 2013 NO Sewage sludge Total QuanRequires water outage when Emergency recovery, Wastewater treatment facilities undertaking emergency recovery? accident resolved Sludge produced at sewage treatment plants operated by K-water was tity Generated 496,260 255,578 121,827 69,669 1,314 47,873 (tons) The average water quality of discharged water from the wastewater treat39,565 tons in 2013. From the total amount, the amount of sludge recycled YES ment facilities of K-water is BOD 6.0mg/L and SS 5.4mg/L, which are within in 2013 was 19,191 tons, which was 131% higher than that of the previous Total Quantity Whether there is actual water YES 30% and 27% respectively of the legal standards of BOD 20mg/L and SS Rationed supply or complete year, and the recycling rate was 49%. Of the 19,191 tons of sludge, most Recycled 480,366 252,971 120,805 69,669 185 36,736 outage when supplying water water outage (tons) 20mg/L. for emergency use? was recycled for planting soil, fertilizer, earthworm breeding, etc. K-water NO will gradually increase the sludge recycling rate and actively recreate it into Recycling Appendix Wastewater treatment facilities 96.8 98.9 99.2 100 14.1 76.7 Supply water for emergency use Supply water for emergency use resources in strict compliance with the prohibition of ocean disposal. Rate (%) BOD (㎎/L) SS (㎎/L) + Execute emergency recovery + Execute emergency recovery 6.9 7.0 6.8 6.8 6.5 6.5 6.5 6.2 6.0 Recovery complete and Recovery complete and Management of air pollution substances 5.4 resume a supply resume a supply (check water quality to resume a supply) (check water quality to resume a supply) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Accident resolved 70 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 As We Proceed All of K-water’s project sites do not have a manufacturing process that Development of eco-friendly water resources Procedures of EA for water resources development projects Post environmental impact study directly emits air pollutants. However, air pollutants can be emitted while Construction of eco-friendly dam Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Study of post-environmental impacts by construction is an environmental using fuel such as diesel to operate the project sites and facilities. Since the In order to construct an environment-friendly dam, K-water has implemonitoring system which continuously monitors and evaluates environmenSustainability Management introduction of the green management system in 2011, each department in mented an eco-friendly techniques for the entire project cycle from initial tal effects, and arranges mitigation measures to reduce such impacts in Long-term Dam K-water has been working on various activities to minimize oil consumption, planning, designing, constructing, to management Stages. By doing so, KFeasibility case of unexpected occurrence in order to prevent environmental damage. Construction Survey Plan as the reduction performance of each department is reflected in its manwater is creating a balance of development and conservation by not only In 2013, K-water conducted a post environmental impact study for water agement performance evaluation. takings into account the preservation and restoration of the surrounding enresource development projects, and the result was that all project execution vironment but also the area’s unique social, cultural, and historical features. Notification of Strategic Environmental procedures satisfied the environmental standards. Air pollution discharge status Master Plans Impact Assessment Development of diagram of water resources harmonized with the environment Water quality PM-10 SOx CO HC NOx Unit: kg Implementation Notification of BOD (㎎/L) COD (㎎/L) COD criteria: 4.0 of Project Execution Plans BOD criteria: 2.0 226 244 3.0 3.5 t Plan 4 Focus Issues 2.9 men Env iro 2.5 velop nm Post Environmental Impact Study Environmental Impact Assessment e en sD 1,678 1.1 1.9 1.2 Wate nt 1.0 1,528 r Re sme sou ses 0.6 0.5 As Environmental mitigation measures rce tal In order to minimize various environmental impacts such as air pollution, water pollu4,568 Sustainable Development tion, noise/vibrations, etc. that occur at construction sites, K-water is executing an enHantan Kimcheon Seongduk Youngju Bohyunsan 3,533 (ESSD) me vironmental impact mitigation measures for construction business. The company reRiver Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam iron De quires installation of an auto-bike & vehicle washing facility, anti-dust fence to prevent Env vel Atmosphere Securing of 1,197 opm scattered dust, sand basin to prevent silt runoff from construction sites to streams ent PM-10 standard: 100 896 PM-10 (㎍) NO2 (ppb) nta dly from incurring turbid water in streams, and sound-proof panels to minimize noise and en NO2 standard: 60 lS -fri Economic, Environmental oun Eco vibration from construction equipment. Moreover, it is building ecology preservation dness 53 49 facilities such as animal pathways and alternative habitats in order to relieve discon11,566 46 45 nection between animals and their natural habitats. 9,235 39 ✽ ESSD : Environmentally Sound and Sustainable Development 19 and Social Performances for 2013 12 12 11 2012 2013 Preventing Air Pollution Preventing Water Pollution 7 Environment Assessments Hantan Kimcheon Seongduk Youngju Bohyunsan Compliance with environmental laws In order to predict and minimize environmental impacts that can occur durRiver Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam K-water supplies products and services in compliance with environmental ing the implementation of new water resources projects in advance, K-waNoise / vibration laws. It was once charged a by the Ministry of Environment for not appropriter conducts the Environment Assessment (EA) for each stage, such as the ately reporting the changes in discharged substances from two purification administrative planning, development planning, implementation planning, Noise dB [A] Vibration dB [V] Noise-Vibration Standard : 65 Anti-dust fence, sand basin for silt runoff Appendix Auto-bike & Vehicle washing facilities plants (Wabu, Deokso). However, K-water completed a licensing renewal etc. In 2013, the company concluded the strategic environmental impact protection 48 for all purification plants it manages through the inspections of entire disassessment and negotiation regarding: administrative plans for an local44 44 Preventing Noise / Vibrations Preserving Ecological Environment 42 42 charged water qualities. K-water has never been fined for violating other proposed dam, housing relocation and construction projects at the Youngju 24 23 23 24 18 environmental laws or regulations. Dam, water intake plans at the Seongduk Dam’s Hanbam-weir, urban management plans for the housing relocation and changes in the development plans of stony mountain for acquiring locks for construction at Hantan River Dam, implementation plans for river maintenance business of Unmun Dam, etc. Hantan Kimcheon Seongduk Youngju Bohyunsan Tempory sound-proof panels Animal pathways River Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam 72 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73 As We Proceed Constructing waterfront ecological and cultural Protection for bio-diversity Ecological environment study 2013 Bird investigation result Total Bird Species Legally Protected Species space Ecology restoration projects K-water regularly monitors the current status of animal and plant habitats 67 62 Dam facilities and its surrounding spaces are recreated as local tourist sites and K-water is undertaking various ecology-restoration projects in order to minand ecological environment in order to inspect changes in the ecological Sustainability Management economy-promoting spaces by reflecting each area's unique ecology, culture imize negative effects on natural environment due to the execution of water environment before and after the implementation of water resources devel52 and history. These efforts are contributing to expansion of opportunities for local resources development projects and to preserve the habitats of animals & opment projects. According to the research on ecological conditions of dam46 residents to enjoy leisure and improvement of the quality of life for all citizens. plants. areas, various living creatures such as 7 to 18 species of mammals, 14 to 31 37 species of fish, 10 to 26 species of amphibians and reptiles, and 31 to 67 Category Design Concept Construction Facility Plants Amphibians / Reptiles species of birds were found to be inhabiting the areas. 6 Gunnam Dam Crane’s love and peace Crane Theme Park • Plant side slopes and surface of • Create alternative habitats of 2013 mammal investigation result 4 3 3 Gunwi Dam ‘Samgukyusa (삼국유사)’storytelling Complex Cultural Space the slopes green Target species • Conserve protected trees/old Shooting star along Family Camping Site and big trees • Install slope ways (exits) Total Mammal Species Legally Protected Species Bohyunsan Dam 0 Bohyun Mountain Wildflower Garden Park • Make plans for transplant / 18 conservation with experts Hantan Kimcheon Seongduk Youngju Bohyunsan Naeseongchun sand Space for Cultural Experiences in River Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam Youngju Dam 15 and ‘Seonbi (선비)’ culture collaboration with ‘Sosu Seowon’ 4 Focus Issues 13 Kimcheon Reflect local legend Also, K-water conducts investigations once a decade on environmental imNature and Ecology Hiking Path 9 Buhang Dam (‘Halmibawee’) Plans for 7 pacts on major dams that are operating after construction in order to deterMammals Fish Water 1 2 1 2 2 mine species' current habitat status. It utilizes the investigation information • Create natural habitats for Resources • Make fish-ways and fish spawnlegally protected species Development ing grounds as basic data for establishing its ecological restoration plans. • Install animal corridors and • Maintain gene diversity of young Project and Hantan Kimcheon Seongduk Youngju Bohyunsan resting areas fishes (discharge fry) Ecological River Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam Restoration Ecological restoration and building of Crane Theme Park Complex Cultural Space Astronomy Study Space 2013 fish investigation result (Gunnam Dam)) (Gunwi Dam) (Bohyunsan Dam) ecological network Total Fish Species Legally Protected Species K-water has installed various ecological restoration facilities to protect habiBirds Land Insects 37 tats for major species such as mammals, fish, amphibians and reptiles, and • Build a plantation forest in • Create Biotope alternative Economic, Environmental bufferd areas habitats birds near dams. It focuses on installing ecological passages and alternative • Create habitats and cultivate • Provide microhabitats (natural 21 feeding places wetland) 17 habitats for legally protected species such as otters to prevent ecological • Make plans to manage night 16 14 collapse, and encourage ecological recovery. Furthermore, K-water has lighting Space for Cultural Nature and Ecology Hiking Path also been developing fish-ways and fish-spawning areas to protect fish and Social Performances for 2013 Experiences (Youngju Dam) (Gimcheon Buhang Dam) 5 resources in accordance with geographical characteristics. Particularly, 1 Selected as the outstanding work site in the 2nd construction environment the company built in 2013 a total of 3 fish-ways in Kimcheon Buhang Multi0 0 0 purpose dam and secured ecological connection of upper and lower water management evaluation by the ministry of environment in 2013 Hantan Kimcheon Seongduk Youngju Bohyunsan K-water’s Gunwi multi-purpose dam received the second place award and was recognized as a role model for new areas for fish species such as dark chub and minnows. River Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam concept-based eco-friendly construction site in an eco-friendly construction business competition for 1,500 development project sites throughout the country. 2013 Amphibian/reptile investigation result Appendix Being acknowledged of introduction of eco-bridge, first at home and abroad, realization of successful ecological Total Amphibian/Reptile Species Legally Protected Species restoration, and advancement of dam water quality management 25 16 14 10 11 3 0 0 0 0 Eco-Bridge Alternative Habitat Professional Pollution Sources Complex Cultural Space Management Hantan Kimcheon Seongduk Youngju Bohyunsan River Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam Dam 74 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 As We Proceed Social Performance Legally protected species inhabiting in major dams Alternative habitats (number of sites) Fish spawning grounds (number of sites) 21 5 Customer ous activities for customer satisfaction. Category Legally Protected Species Investigation Year Ecological pathways (number of sites) Customer Happiness management beyond cusStandardized service quality management and enhancement Artificial wetland areas (number of sites) 116 Total Sum : 239 tomer satisfaction of customer satisfaction competencies Sustainability Management Siniperca Scherzeri (golden freshwater mandarin fish) & 3 other Fish 84 Soyang Species, Paeonia Obovata Maxim (Obovata) & 2 other Plant Species, Fish-ways (number of sites) 77 River Dam Short-tailed Viper Snake & 3 other amphibians & mammals, leopard cat 2012 K-water has set forth the vision of its customer service, ‘Making Customer’ K-water has established the ‘Service Quality Index (SQI),’ an advanced 3 & 7 mammal 4 67 13 s Life Happier and the customer service values of ‘Comfort, Security, Trust, service evaluation system, to minimize customer dissatisfaction. K-water HoengOtter, Leopard Cat, Eurasian Buzzard, Striated Bittern, Long-Billed Ring 2 seong Dam Plover, Osprey, Hen Harrier 2011 One Step Aheaded Service’ based on an enterprise-wide participation and manages intensively 6 core indices including the satisfaction level on waterChungju Crassirhizoma & 4 other Plant Species, Shorttailed Viper Snake & 1 other consensus in order to differentiate customer services and secure competigauge reading service, the rate of services completed by the deadline, 2004 Dam amphibian & reptilian, Siberian Flying Squirrel & 2 other mammals tiveness. Under the vision, K-water set four strategic directions for customer addressing of dissatisfied VOC (Voice of customers). At the same time, it 46 Andong Korean Rat Snake, Siberian Flying Squirrel & 4 other mammals, 45 happy management: enhancing infrastructure for the Customer Happiness systematically manages customer satisfaction and service quality by shar2013 Dam Common Kestrel & 2 other Bird Species 31 Reeve’s Turtle, Leopard Cat & 3 other mammals, Mandarin Duck & 4 Management, consolidating customer-centered service capacities, developing SQI status on real time and receiving feedback with comparisons per Imha Dam 2013 23 4 other Bird Species 2 18 5 ing differentiated base for customer management, and activating CS (Cusemployee and project site. 6 16 1 Hapcheon Sparrow Hawk (Accipiter Nisus), Mandarin Duck, Leopard Cat & 2 other 1 5 tomer Satisfaction)-centered culture. K-water is then pushing 10 strategic Meanwhile, K-water provides higher customer satisfaction training to 667 2005 4 Dam mammals 6 1 1 6 7 22 1 22 tasks and 40 practical tasks such as the customer-oriented process innovaemployees in 27 offices annually for improving customer service quality and KAnax Nigrofasciatus Nigrofasciatus & 2 other Insect Species, Pseudo5 15 4 Focus Issues Nam River 8 7 11 Dam bagrus Brevicorpus & 1 other Fish Species, Otter, Common Kestrel & 1 2002 6 tion. enhancing all employees’ customer service competencies. Moreover, K-waother Bird Species Gunwi Dam Gunnam Hantan Kim-cheon Seongduk Youngju BoHyunter has strengthened the reward system for employee activities to motivate Miryang Milk vetch root & 4 other plants, Otter & 3 other mammal, Cinereous Dam River Dam Buhang Dam Dam Dam san Dam 2009 K-water Customer Happiness Management strategic implementation system Dam vulture & 5 other birds its employees for higher customer satisfaction performances and published Reeve’s Turtle & 5 other amphibians & reptilians, Yellow-throated Marten Gunnam Dam Fish-ways Gunnam Dam Crane Eco Marsh Juam Dam 2004 a “Customer Happiness Best Casebook” after collecting exemplary custom& 3 other mammals CS Vision K-water that helps a happier life of customer for customers er service cases through a contest. Also, it continually develops its customer Daecheong Mandarin Duck & 10 other Bird Species, Otter & 1 other mamma 2005 Dam service capabilities through various ways such as the monitoring of phone Yongdam Otter, Cobitis Koreensis Pumilus, Korean Rat Snake, Narrow-mouth Frog 2011 etiquette as well as the disseminating examples of customers’compliments. Dam & 1 other amphibia, Common Buzzard & 4 other Bird Species Service Water Pro (one-step ahead services, professional services) Acheilognathus Somjinensis, Fareastern Brook Lamprey, MicrophysoIdentity Seonjin Service quality enhancement process gobio Koreensis (3 Fish Species); Otter, Leopard Cat (2 Mammals); Lilium 2010 River Dam Distichum (Kochang Lily) (Total 10 Plant Species Kimcheon Buhang Dam Otter Habitat Gunwi Dam Ecological Path way Buan Otter, Cobitis Koreensis Pumilus, Korean Rat Snake, Narrow-mouth Frog Economic, Environmental 2006 Dam & 1 other amphibian, Common Buzzard & 4 other Bird Species Strategy Realization of the Customer Happiness Management Boryeong Direction that meets customers’ expectation Otter & 1 other mammal, Chinese Sparrow Hawk & 4 other Bird Species 2006 Dam Unmun Otter, Leopard Cat, Mandarin Duck, Northern Goshawk, Golden Eagle, 2010 Advance Dam Pied harrier, Cinnib Jestrek Consolidate Develop infrastructure for Activate and Social Performances for 2013 customerdifferentiated Installation plan for ecological restoration (Unit : Places) Customer CS-centered centered service customer Happiness corporate culture capacities services Management Successful execution of ecological network development project for Dwi-Tteul Bank in Jecheon In 2013, K-water promoted an ecology network development project in the Dwi-Tteul Bank area of Jecheon, Chungbuk Province, where water polluShared Customer-directivity / Professionalism / tion and disturbance of ecosystem created concerns due to the excess spread of vegetation, fishing, and illegal garbage dumping. Through the project, Values Reliability / Safety / Speed / Leadership Appendix an endangered plant species, Soon-chae, was restored, wild animal habitats were created, and an ecology network was created and is to be used as an ecosystem education site for local residents. Service Quality Index (SQI ; Service Quality Index) : Before Project After Project Branding of customer services A quantitative measurement index to comprehensively manage K-water's customer service quality For the first time among SOC state-owned enterprises, K-water branded the Service Identity (SI)’to efficiently deliver the characteristics of K-water's Service Manual Customer Service SQI (Service unique customer happy management and highlight its differentiations from (enhancement of Performance Process Evaluation) capacity) Evaluation competitors. WaterPro reflects the company's strong will to provide proacFeedback tive and professional services to its customers; the brand is being actively Complete View Making Habitats for Wild Animals Rest Area used in front-line employee's uniforms, business cards, banners, and vari76 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 As We Proceed inspect the personal information data spill. Reached the highest level in the customer serEmployee Efforts for reinforcing customers’ health and safety Customers’ personal information is protected by establishing customer data vices performance index Employment conditions K-water is increasing tap water safety by introducing the Water Safety Plan base security policies such as access restrictions, authorization controls, With the efforts for the customer happiness, K-water received the highest The total number of employees at K-water is 4,451 (based on full time posiSustainability Management (WSP) set by the World Health Organization for all the waterworks. WSP is and post audits. There has been no personal information-related complaint rating in the Survey of Customer Satisfaction level by State-owned comtions) including seven executive members as of December 31, 2013. This an internationally-certified technique to cleanly and safely manage all proby any customers so far. panies conducted by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance for 7 consecutive also includes those on maternity leave, military service, and workers of cedures of generating and supplying tap water. In accordance with K-water’ years. K-water leads the Customer Happiness Management in the public entrusted businesses that are excluded from ALIO official notice. In order s introduction of WSP, South Korea was officially registered as the 36th WSP Enhanced user convenience of VOC System enterprise field by achieving the highest level in major customer services to strengthen global competitiveness, departments with similar functions adopted country by the World Health Organization. K-water strives to provide answers to customers in a timely manner by opperformance indices by handling 100% of VOCs in a timely manner and rewere integrated or rearranged and a corporate hierarchy was simplified in Moreover, in order to verify water sources and tap water safety, the comerating a complaint filing window that is open and accessible at all times on ceiving 99.6 points in Service Quality Index. order to increase the efficiency of human resources operation. A total of 252 pany monitors and tests 250 water quality items, far exceeding the 84 items K-water’s homepage (VOC bulletin board). In 2013, K-water induced speedy new employees (205 males, 47 females) were publicly recruited in 2013 to State-owned company customer satisfaction required by the national law for reviewing water quality. K-water also manand reliable customer services by applying internally standards that are improve organizational activities for performing new growth engine industry ages tap water quality by monitoring it on a real-time basis by installing an more consolidated than the legal one for handing customer issues. K-water State-owned company average (points) in 2013. K-water (point) automatic water quality measurement device. uses the complaints received as important resources to discover manage4 Focus Issues 96.6 97.2 Employee & executive status per year (current personnel basis) Since 2003, K-water has been operating an internal water quality rating ment improvement assignments by sharing them throughout the company. 96.1 93.7 93.0 93.9 Unit: Number of People Employee Gender Composition in 2013 system in order to produce high quality tap water. For all multi-regional pu4,451 Males rification plants, K-water applies its internal standards that are stricter than 4,334 4,200 Females Number of complaints legal standards to review 13 items such as turbidity, residual chlorine, taste, 4,031 4,149 11.7% smell, and disinfection by products. In writing (Number of Cases) 2011 2012 2013 Electronically (Number of Cases) There were no cases of violation in 2013 while managing the number of in88.3% consistent water quality cases in accordance with the internal service impleLocal waterworks customer satisfaction mentation standard. 1,363 State-owned company average (points) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1,270 1,227 1,372 K-water (point) Guarantee of customer rights 786 80.3 80.4 79.1 Economic, Environmental As a public enterprise that implements social overhead capital (SOC) in73.0 73.0 Employee & executive status in 2013 (current personnel basis) 71.0 vestment by constructing dams, waterworks, and complexes, K-water General Specialized Category Total Executives inadvertently faces disputes with local residents during proceeding with 1,896 Positions Positions 1,551 1,414 1,011 922 Number of People 4,451 7 4,067 377 the projects. Most of them are related to property and land compensation and Social Performances for 2013 issues, and a total of 34 lawsuits (22 land compensation cases) occurred in 2011 2012 2013 20s 10.4% 11.4% Ratio per 2013. However, K-water strives to protect the rights of local citizens who Age Group 30~40s 62.7% 64.3% 47.6% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 VOC timely processing rate (%) (%) must leave their residences and resolve such cases expediently. As part of 50s or older 26.9% 100% 24.3% 52.4% support measures for local citizens forced to emigrate from their residencCompliance with laws on marketing communication and es due to the dam construction, Kwater provides benefits to local citizens supply of products and services 99.9 100 100 through various support projects for local residents. New employment and minority status in 2013 (number of people) All marketing influences customers’ decision-making, so K-water strives to 2011 2012 2013 Appendix Current provide them with accurate information. All sales activities including adverCategory 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Protection of customer’s personal information members tisements, promotions, sponsorships, and marketing communication must Service Quality Index (SQI) (Points) As seen from the massive leakage of customers’ personal financial data Total 158 212 173 222 252 ㅤcomply with related regulations and company-wide work principles. Also, from South Korean credit card firms, information security is emerging as Females 20 36 32 40 47 521 an internal standard is applied to all advertisements such as sales of land a very important issue in business activities. K-water develops and oper97.4 99.6 Disabled People 4 2 19 2 4 145 to ensure impartiality in selection of advertisement companies. In terms of ates high-tech infrastructures and regularly holds training on enhancing 90.8 Science and Technology 119 164 128 136 134 3,115 advertising, K-water follows the review regulations and laws of the Korea information security to protect personal information as well as establishing Regional Talents from Advertising Review Board. There has been no violation against marketing 2011 2012 2013 82 104 107 128 161 3,041 a personal information protection standard. Moreover, K-water operates Non-metropolitan Areas laws or fines charged for breaking products and services-related laws. a firewall system to block information leakage in addition to a solution to High School Graduates 30 19 13 51 71 575 78 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 79 As We Proceed Employee Turnover Rate and the number of female managers is steadily increasing. As of December Efforts to improve the efficiency of state-owned enterprise management 2012, the number of female employees is 521, making 11.7% of the total 0 Number of Labor Disputes of the LaborUnion in 2013 : Reinforced cooperation between the labor and were taken from 2009 to 2012. The employee turnover rate had been inemployees, and the number of female managers, including female departMembership Rate of the Labor Union in 2013 : 83% (March 2014) management for K-water’s next great leap Sustainability Management K-water received a creasing every year compared to 2008 before starting the efficiency efforts. mental directors, has continuously increased to reach a total of 48 women merit presidential In 2013, however, the number of employees switching jobs reduced by 66 by 2013. The male to female ratio of K-water executives is 88.3% (3,930) vs Bottom-up Communication citation for being compared to 2012 due to the extension of retirement age, which decreased 11.2% (521), with males still significantly out numbering females. However, selected as having the number of retirees. since the female employee target system was implemented in 2004, the Head Office: Labor and System the most outstanding female labor force is increasing every year. Management Council Improvement Employee turnover by year labor-management Department Opinions relationship as a state The figures in the brackets indicate the turnover rate over the entire workforce (%) Labor and owned institution in Unit: number of people (3.39%) Labor-Management relationship Regional Division: Labor and Management Council Management Joint TF 2013. This was pos(2.95%) (1.82%) In accordance with the Article 35 of the Labor Union & Labor Related Concili(2.20%) 147 + sible due to the mutual efforts by both the management and labor 124 ation Law, the rights to collective bargaining and to negotiate collective agree81 4 Focus Issues such as the declaration of labor-management mutual growth in 2012 93 ments are guaranteed for all employees. Based on Article 21 of the Collective Department: Labor and Briefing Session / Discussion / and the declaration of ‘One Heart’ partnership in 2013. These all have Agreement (Responsibility to Notify), any changes made to labor conditions Management Council 2010 2011 2012 2013 Meeting / Workshop become the foothold for K-water’s next great leap. or the Articles of Incorporation should be notified to both the management and employee without delay. Employees of third or lower level can join the Presentation of opinions and Employee turnover rate per gender / employment type Proposal problems of labor labor union that was established in 1987. It is a Union Shop system in which Category Total General Positions Specialized Positions Safety & health all full-time employees automatically become union members upon entering Total 81 49 32 Addressing by labor-management council the company, and 83% of the total workforce or 3,662 employees were union Male 68 38 30 K-water discusses workplace safety and health improvement plans jointly bemembers as of March 2014. On average, the ratio of personnel affected by the Feedback Female 13 11 2 tween labor and management. The Labor-Management Joint Safety & Health result of collective agreement in subcontracting firms that inspect and repair Committee was replaced by a Joint Labor-Management Council, which is power generation sector was about 59.4%. The labor-management attempts comprised of 8 members, each from labor and management. Economic, Environmental Employment of the disabled and local people to improve communication by operating a task force and building a top-down/ Top-down Communication Improve maternity protection system Improve childcare support system K-water has introduced and operates a policy that gives additional points to bottom-up communication system in which the labor union participates. Also, disabled people when hiring employees. While testing, additional 3~5% points K-water reinforces mutual trust and information sharing between the labor Enhanced medical check-up for workers Improve operation of medical CEO System Improvement in harmful environment facilities in the head office of the full score are given to applicants with disabilities, depending on their and management and also forms company-wide consensus. K-water’s laborand Social Performances for 2013 delivers level. The employment rate of the disabled reached 3.3% (178 people) in 2013, management cooperation body has been established since 2006 by performSharing which exceeded the legal employment rate of 3.0%. This was possible thanks ing practical tasks that fulfill employees’ needs, thereby reaching manageManagement Council Injury, occupational disease, job-related injury rate, prevato the implementation of the ‘Special Employment of Handicapped People Poment goals and increase work efficiency. In particular, in 2012 it ran a joint lence rate delivers locy’, and short-term employment contract priorities for the disabled in order ‘Water-Love’ Fund committee and secured more funds for social contribution The company reinforces various industrial safety education and safety to promote social equalities in employment. Furthermore, K-water hires local through increased committee participation of employees, expanding K-water’ Executives / Vice President CEO management at construction sites to prevent safety accidents. It also runs a people for the positions such as local water-gauge meter reading personnel, s social outreach practices. These collaborative activities of the management system to prevent safety accidents during sports events to help employees delivers Appendix waterworks operators, and youth internship and contributes to the local comand labor is fulfilling the corporate social responsibility and suggesting a new recover quickly from accidents and return stably to work. delivers munity. Since the initiating of local waterworks commissioned operating in vision of labor movement. Also, it improved labor conditions for temporary All Employees The company gives an additional 70% of monthly wage to an employee that 2004, K-water has hired 502 local waterworks-related personnel as of 2013. In staff to protect social minorities and promote organizational harmony. In becomes disabled since joining as well as three days of paid leave and encouraddition, K-water has helped relieve youth unemployment problems by hiring 2013, for the first time as a state-owned company, the labor-management agement gifts to registered disabled employees around Disabled People’s Day. a total of 1,268 youth interns from 2009 to 2013. established a loan system for temporary staff equivalent to that of full-time Furthermore, convenient facilities for the handicapped have been installed, staff. To create a sustainable work environment, K-water endeavors to reduce labor-management, including the sound establishment of a productive laborincluding designated parking zones, elevators, restrooms, stairways, and Female leadership unnecessary overtime work and promote efficient work processes, while management culture. Such efforts by the labor-management have become pathways. The company has implemented health check-up, a non-smoking Since the first female director (professional position) was selected in 2010, reinforcing disciplinary actions on sexual harassment to protect women’s a driving force to maintain the signing of agreement for 26 consecutive years program, obesity clinic and SCD (sudden cardiac death) prevention proa woman became a director in regular position in 2012 for the first time, rights. In addition, K-water has declared an ‘One Heart’ partnership of the without disputes. grams, which have been met with good results. 80 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 81 Injury and occupational diseases in 2013 • Operation of In-Company Childcare Center Injury Injury Rate Occupational Disease • Operation of Family Day Every Wednesday • Leave for Accompanying of Spouse Policy 10 people 0.2% of the total employees None Conditions for Leave: When spouse is working, training, or being on leave overseas Sustainability Management for over 1 year ※ Calculated on the basis of regular and fixed-term employees Leave of Absence Duration: Up to three years • Improved Parental Leave Policy For employees with children under 8 years old (For children in school, those under Annual industrial accident rate, prevalence rate 2nd grade in elementary school) • Childbirth Assistance Policy Appendix Industrial Accident Rate (%) Financial support for Childbirth Assistance, Work Relocation Exceptions for PregPrevalence Rate (%) 9.2 nant Employees 7.1 Breast Feeding Spaces, Parking lots designated for pregnant women 7.0 Increased Miscarriage / Stillbirth Leave Days: Provide sufficient time to recover 6.4 physically / mentally 0.25 0.22 0.12 Parental Leave Status per Year 0.08 Category Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 4 Focus Issues Number of employees 17 2 3 6 6 applied for leave 2010 2011 2012 2013 Personnel on leave (Number of people) 17 2 3 6 6 Male Re-instatement Rate (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Policies and education to ensure health and safety of all emMaintenance Rate (%) 82.4 100 66.7 66.7 100 ployees in the field of power generation and subcontractors Number of employees According to article 7 of the management regulations for hydropower plant applied for leave 78 6 21 20 31 being operated by K-water, power plant employees always keep their surFemale Personnel on leave (Number of people) 78 6 21 20 31 roundings clean, and maintain related manuals, safety equipment and tools Re-instatement Rate (%) 100 100 100 100 100 in order to prepare for emergencies. Also, article 8 (Device Controlling and Maintenance Rate (%) 88.5 83.3 81.0 85.0 96.8 Safety Management) states that power plant workers must follow safety Economic, Environmental rules when handling devices; it also ensures safe worksites by reminding ※ Maintenance Rate (%): Rate of people staying in the company for at lease over 12 workers of working methods, vulnerable factors in safety management, as months after re-instatement well as warnings. K-water is striving for all employees’ and subcontractors’ and Social Performances for 2013 health and safety by giving regular safety training to all employees (100%) and outsourced workers. Childcare and women’s Health support Appendix K-water has designated areas to enable breast feeding and female employSustainable Management Performance Data for 2013 84 ee lounges to provide maternity assistance for female employees as well as GRI G4 Index 92 an in-company childcare center. All employees who want a parental leave Third Party’s Assurance Statement 94 Appendix (100%) have been allowed for the leave and all of them, both males and ISO 26000 96 females, have been re-instating to their work after the leave. This is done Code of Ethics Preamble, Green Management Policy, in order to help relieve the childcare burden and create a balance between Customer Charter Statement, Mission Statement for work and family life. In addition, K-water is also operating various parental protection programs such as the notification system of childcare leave, the Innovation Vision 98 substitute employee support system, the optional shortened work hour, and UN Global Compact 100 the providing of equipment for pumps breast-feeding employees, etc. The Glossary 101 reinstatement rate of both females and males after the parental leave has Voice of Readers 103 been 100%. 82 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT As We Proceed Sustainable Management Performance Data for 2013 Creative Management 1. Sales (Excluding private investment revenue) 2. Water resource business revenue 9. Revenue operating profit rate 10. Employee wage raise rate Unit: KRW million Unit: KRW million 907,729 Unit: % Unit: % 3,127,978 14.6 814,308 4.1 2,612,719 11.8 Sustainability Management 2,486,505 789,374 3.9 5.8 2.8 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2013 sales (excluding private investment sales) increased 9.5% compared Increased by 15% compared to the previous year through increase of dam to the previous year through active extension of effort such as increased dam reservoir water sales through active marketing, offsetting the de2013 revenue operating profit rate increased by 2.8% compared to the Based on cooperative labor-management relationship, we have changed sales price of tap water and dam reservoir water, increased revenue in locrease in the unit price by increasing the amount of power generation, and previous year through the increase in revenue resulting from the increase and improved compensation / welfare systems to meet the expected stancal waterworks and overseas businesses, and strategic marketing. the effort to actualize dam commissioned maintenance cost. in dam reservoir water and tap water sales profit as well as the effort for dard of the public (complied to governmental guidelines). cost reduction. 3. Waterworks business revenue 4. Clean energy business revenue 11. Debt ratio 12. Efficiency of investment on facilities Unit: KRW million Large hydropower + Renewable Renewable energy Unit: % 122.6 Unit: % 133.5 1,071,776 543,560 120.6 4 Focus Issues Unit: KRW million 983,458 491,597 121.5 949,342 387,285 116.0 119.6 113,889 166,465 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2011 2011 2011 2012 2013 2013 waterworks business revenue increased by 7.8% compared to the 2013 clean energy business revenue increased by 10.6% from the previous By improving financial soundness through self-effort such as revenue exEfforts for minimizing new investments in tangible asset and making good previous year through sales extension and consistent efforts for customer year. Despite the increase in the power supply, power sales decreased pansion and production cost reduction, debt ratio decreased (2.0%) for the use of budgets in order to actively fulfill governmental policy increased the satisfaction, and achieved a goal of over KRW 1 trillion for the first time. slightly by 0.2% because of the decrease in the unit price. Sales of renewfirst time upon carrying out national major projects. efficiency of investment on facilities in 2013. (Increase of 13.9% from the able energy (small hydropower, solar energy, wind energy) increased by previous year). 46.25% through full operations of the four-river small hydro power and the trade extension of REC. 13. Construction cost reduction rate 14. Amount of dam reservoir water supply * 2011 revenue is combined because hydropower and renewable energy was not distinguished. Unit: % Unit: Million m³ 5,503 Economic, Environmental 5. Complex development business revenue 6. Overseas business revenue 4.4 4.2 5,443 Unit: KRW million 463,036 Unit: KRW million 7,389 5,330 4.1 7,178 222,934 and Social Performances for 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 137,846 5,733 KRW 41.6 billion (Overall construction cost KRW 987.5 billion, reduction rate 4.2%) Dam reservoir supply amount in 2013 increased by 1.1% compared to was reduced through design evaluation, internal evaluation, and performancethat of the previous year through converting local K-water multi-regional 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 based construction cost policy. waterworks, strengthening marketing, and expanding the base of midto 2013 revenue exceeded KRW 463 billion which is an increase of 108% from Overseas business revenue increased by 29% compared to the previous long-term sales. the previous year through early payment extension of cash flow and the year through ODA business and extension of technology export projects allowance for pre-use of territory. (Equatorial Guinea, etc.). 15. Amount of multi-regional waterworks supply 16. Local waterworks service population share Appendix 7. Net Profit 8. Added value rate Unit: Million m³ Unit: % 3,709 4.26 Unit: KRW million 348,118 Unit: % 48.4 3,603 4.23 308,295 43.9 3.94 3,507 293,267 22.7 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2013 tap water production amount increased by 3.0% compared to that of Local waterworks service population share in 2013 increased by 0.03% Increased tap water sales and power generation in 2013 resulted in the Main business revenue extension through tap water price increase, new the previous year through converting local waterworks into that of multicompared to that of the previous year through new consignments in the achieving of the highest net profit ever. local waterworks operation, etc., and efforts to reduce production cost regional, identifying new sources of demand, etc. Bonghwa County, etc. have improved the added value. 84 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 85 As We Proceed Sustainable Management Performance Data for 2013 Smart Water Service 1. Multi-regional waterworks water flow rate 2. Number of reductions in water outage 7. Water safety index 8. Dry season Algae occurrence reduction rate Unit: % Unit: Number of cases Unit: % 80.5 Unit: mg/m³ 27.3 99.8 99.9 99.8 40 20.4 Sustainability Management 77.8 16.8 19 18 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Water safety index increased by 2.7% compared to the previous year by Average Algae (Chlorophyll-a) concentration around 14 river weirs de2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 checking on 160 harmful materials in every process of water production creased by 25.3% compared to that of in 2012 by increasing dry season from intake to distributing, and by improving 187 risk factors through doudam discharging amount. The flow rate in pipeline in 2013 is maintaining high rate of 99.8% through Number of cases where water outage occurred in 2013 decreased by bling chemical facilities and installing water condition monitoring devices. systematic facilities maintenance such as pipeline internal investigation 5.3% compared to that of the previous year by expanding leak prevention and water-gauge accuracy improvement. devices and no-outage techniques. 9. Local waterworks tap water drinking rate 10. Local waterworks water flow rate Unit: % Unit: % 54.6 80.6 81.4 44.3 4 Focus Issues 77.0 3. Multi-regional waterworks supply rate 4. Global water quality standard achievement rate 35.2 Unit: % 49.5 Unit: % 99.99 99.96 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 48.8 99.83 We are making continuous efforts to improve credibility of tap water qualWater flow rate in pipeline of local waterworks improved by 0.8% com48.0 ity by providing free tap water quality check services. pared to that of the previous year through using systematic leakage * Free tap water quality check services: carried out 90,624 times over the past five years maintenance and pipeline water meter replacement by establishing block system, controlling water pressure, organizing policies, and expanding water-NET system (Leakage rate decreased by 1.9 million m³). 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 11. Power generation facility failure rate 12. Renewable energy production rate Tap water supply rate by multi-regional waterworks in 2013 improved by Global water quality standard achievement rate increased by 0.03% Unit: % 3.97 Unit: MWh 878,525 Economic, Environmental 0.7% from that of the previous year through the conversion local waterthrough water treatment facilities improvement and optimized operation works into multi-regional waterworks and new supply. such as making and running of new pH control facilities, and optimizing of 0.449 724,416 remaining chlorine. * Global water standard was measured for 58 items by comparing to the most strict water standards of Korea, and WHO and OECD countries (USA, Japan, EU, Australia). 0.243 0.219 155,251 and Social Performances for 2013 2011 2012 2013 Global 2011 2012 2013 Failure rate reduced by 50% compared to that of the previous year by Renewable energy production rate in 2013 increased by 21.3% compared improving the maintenance system for prompt recovery and failure reto that of the previous year through stable operation of Sihwa tidal power duction, securing performance self-diagnosis technology, and replacing plnat and river weir hydropower plants. 5. Old pipeline retrofit length 6. Flood control capacity depreciated facilities. Unit: km Unit: m³/s/million m³ 3.023 13. Water supply plant utilization rate 14. Number of star brand technology projects Appendix 33.2 32.7 2.631 Unit: % 58.8 Unit: Number of cases 2.269 56.9 21.5 55.6 4 2 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 The length of pipelines retrofitted by 2013 increased by 52.1% compared Flood control capacity by 2013 increased by 14.9% compared to that by the 2013 water supply plant utilization rate increased by 1.6% compared to that To lead the technologies of water industry and become a global company, to that by the previous year by replacement and repair of old water pipes. previous year through the flood control capacity enlargement businesses of the previous year through the increase in demand of waters for industrial we have implemented 6 key fostering technologies as a part of technologiat seven dams.. complexes, expansion of multi-regional waterworks supply areas, and excal innovation, and plan to develop 31 more technologies by 2018. pansion of multi-regional waterworks supply quantity due to drought. 86 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87 As We Proceed Sustainable Management Performance Data for 2013 Society Prospering Together 1. State-owned enterprise customer satisfaction level 2. Local waterworks customer satisfaction level 7. Social contribution index 8. VOC timely processing rate Unit: Point 97.2 Unit: Point 80.4 Unit: points 89.6 Unit: % 100 100 80.3 99.9 96.6 88 Sustainability Management 79.1 96.1 86 93.9 71.0 2011 2012 2013 Public enterprise average 2011 2012 2013 Waterworks average 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2013 customer satisfaction level increased by 0.6 points by improving The satisfaction level in 2013 increased by 0.1 points through outstanding We have exceeded the target society contribution index (89.4 points) by We have reached a 100% processing rate through running independent core-maintenance factors of customer service quality and strengthening efforts for local waterworks service quality improvement and obtained the implementing various social contribution activities that utilize our expercomplaint processing deadline (within 1~3 days through website, and 5 service quality monitoring.. highest point in local waterworks customer satisfaction level. tise and resources, which the employees actively participated in. days through visiting/mail) which is strengthened from the legal processing deadline (7 days). 4 Focus Issues 3. Number of cost-related complaints 4. Water outage notification satisfaction level 9. Small businesses product purchase rate 10. Information disclosure rate Unit: Number of cases Unit: Point Unit: % Unit: % 89.2 53.2 91.6 4,594 82.9 52.1 88.4 3,087 84.9 81.1 45 1,173 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 The number of cost-related complaints decreased by 62% compared to Water outage notification satisfaction level increased by 8.1 points by using We have earned the ‘Outstanding’ grade as a result of attaining 8.2 Information disclosure rate increased consistently through setting indethat of the previous year by preventing errors through checking QR codes no-outage techniques and using diverse channels for pre-notification (text Economic, Environmental percentage points performance improvement compared to that of the pendent information disclosure deadline (5 days) which is half the legal and bar codes, and by introducing new water-gauge reading post-it sermessages, voices, on-site broadcasting, etc.). previous year in the evaluation of the National Commission for Corporate disclosure deadline of 10 days, automatic deadline notification, and regular vice. Partnership. feedbacks of departments in charge. and Social Performances for 2013 5. Complaint processing satisfaction level 6. Dam residents support business satisfaction level 11. Management disclosure overall satisfaction level 12. Public sensory level Unit: Points 88.4 Unit: points 67 Unit: % 83 Unit: % 57.9 83.6 83.5 61 53.9 80 56.2 Appendix 78 55.2 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Complaint processing satisfaction level increased by 4.9 points through Satisfaction level continuously improved by creating jobs for local residents prompt processing using work-smart systems such as the use of SNS. to increase the incomes of residents living near the dams and by making Disclosure satisfaction level increased by expanding voluntary disclosure We have reached the highest grade of ‘Superior,’ which was 3.9 points the dams tourist attractions as well as filial duty-sharing center and Youth items for the public’s right to know (49 items in 2012 > 61 items in 2013), higher than the state-owned enterprise average, through customized promentoring program. and by the improvement efforts for the information accessibility. motion activities that consider generational characteristics. 88 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 89 As We Proceed Sustainable Management Performance Data for 2013 Creating a Happy Workplace 1. Performance evaluation policy acceptance rate 2. High school graduate employment 7. Employees’ vision/strategy recognition rate 8. Labor and management mutual trust level Sustainability Management Unit: points Unit: people 71 Unit: point 93.9 Unit: % 88 73.4 72.9 85 65.3 51 93.6 86.5 13 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 The preparing of performance improvement plans that employees can We are expanding the employment of high school graduates by developing We are maintaining high level of recognition rate by instigating participaThe trust level between the labor and the management is improving relate to, cultivating of culture focusing on performances and mitigatjobs and positions for high school graduates and by preparing policy fountion of all employees using department/focus group workshop and tour through the labor and management partnership activities as well as diliing corporate seniority, and expanding customized consulting for lowdation to improve job/promotion/ability development systems. debate for local officies and by establishing strategies and visions based on gent performance of collaborative tasks. performance departments increased the employees' acceptance on (Initiated to hire high school graduates two times a year in 2013 for the first time amongst statecommunication. 4 Focus Issues owned enterprises) performance evaluation policy a lot more than the previous year.. 3. Employment of local talents 4. Compensation/welfare satisfaction level 9. Labor and management relationship satisfaction level 10. Talent fostering index Unit: people 161 Unit: points 3.26 Unit: % 88 Unit: % 40.5 85 86 128 3.01 39.1 38 2.82 107 Economic, Environmental 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 We are actively promoting local talents from non-metropolitan regions, Compensation/welfare satisfaction level is improving by strengthening the After the new CEO was appointed in November, 2013, labor and manageWe are fostering talents of employees by efficient management of profeswho had relative poor educational options, for social equity. communication between CEO leadership and employees through open ment relationship satisfaction level has been consistently improving by sional talents through the re-establishment of midand, long-term talent * Until the local talent ratio of 1st and 2nd expected shortlists reaches 40%, additional local apdebates and briefing season tours. spreading cooperative atmosphere between labor and partnership mutual nurturing plans as well as managing of the talent nurturing performance and Social Performances for 2013 plicants who earned above the points of 5 points lower from the cutoff will passand be provided agreement. as the corporate performance index using profile match-up. opportunities to apply for the next step. 5. Communication satisfaction level 6. Corporate confidence index 11. Education application rate 12. Education hours per employee Unit: % 87 Unit: points 75 Unit: points Unit: hours 4.47 Appendix 4.39 71 83 69 65 4.35 69 69 2011 2012 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Communication satisfaction level improved by accepting the opinions of Although the index in 2012 decreased due to increased workloads from The rate of applying education performance for on-site work is improving We are maintaining consistent level of education hours per person through the employees through open management debate, youth board of direcnational projects, the index in 2013 greatly increased through overall effort consistently through expanding job experience and professionalism of continuous improvement efforts of education quality and voluntary educators, and etc. in improving the corporate culture and pushing work-smart systems. lecturer. tion participation 90 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 91 As We Proceed GRI G4 Index External Aspect Name of index Contents of index Page Note verification 2. Special standard disclosure Category: Economy G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 34, 39 94-95 External Aspect Name of index Contents of index Page Note Economic verification G4-EC1 Creation and distribution of economic values 35~38 94-95 performance 1. General standard disclosure G4-EC2 Financial effects, opportunities, or threats to organization due to climate change 42~44 94-95 Strategy and Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of G4-1 12 94-95 G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 52 94-95 analysis sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Indirect economic G4-3 Name of organization 8-9 94-95 G4-EC7 Providing investment and service for public benefit 35, 53~55 94-95 impacts G4-4 Main brand, product and service 8-9 94-95 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impact 35, 53~57 94-95 Sustainability Management G4-5 Location of head company 8-9 94-95 Procurement G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 52 94-95 Number and names of countries where the organization runs primary businesses or that are practices G4-EC9 Ratio of expenditure paid out to local suppliers in main place of business 56 94-95 G4-6 8-9 94-95 especially related to sustainable topics of the organization G4-7 Form of ownership and legal form of the organization 8-9, 16 94-95 Category: Environment Market domain (Includes geographical segmentation, service section, customer types, benefiG4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 39 94-95 G4-8 8-9, 20-21 94-95 ciary, etc.) G4-EN3 Consumption of energy in the organization 26, 46 94-95 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 8-9 94-95 Energy G4-10 Employment status 59, 79-80 94-95 G4-EN5 Degree of intensity for energy 46 94-95 G4-11 Ratio of laborers covered by collective agreement 80-81 Includes supplementary disclo94-95 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 26, 46-47 94-95 G4-12 Explanation about the supply chain of the organization 56 sure indices for Electric Utilities 94-95 G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 39 94-95 Organizational Important changes about the size, structure ownership, and supply chain of the organization Water G4-13 2 94-95 G4-EN10 Total amount and ratio of reused and recycled water 32, 69 94-95 profile during the reported period G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 39 94-95 G4-14 Approaches or principles for prevention in advance 98-100 94-95 4 Focus Issues Charters, principles, and other initiatives of external economy, environment, and society that G4-EN15 Direct emission of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) (SCOPE 1) 46 94-95 G4-15 98-100 94-95 the organization has joined or supports Emissions G4-EN16 Indirect emission of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) (SCOPE 2) 46 94-95 Status of association membership (industrial association, etc.) or current membership among G4-16 2 94-95 G4-EN18 Degree of intensity for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission 46 94-95 local or international sponsoring organizations EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 43 94-95 G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission 45-46 94-95 EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and regulatory regime 43 94-95 Category: Labor customs and labor rights EU3 Numbers of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts Electricity is supplied nationwide 94-95 G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 58 94-95 by Korea Electric Power through EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime national grid. 94-95 Employment G4-LA2 Benefit packages just for full-time laborers 60-61 94-95 Allocation of CO₂ emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading frameEU18 Ratio of subcontractor employees that received safety education 82 94-95 EU5 43 94-95 work G4-17 List of organizations for connection and excluded organizations 2, 8 94-95 G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 58 94-95 G4-18 Content of report and the process of deciding the boundary and application principles 22 94-95 G4-LA9 Average training hours for each employee per year according to type and gender 62-63 94-95 Economic, Environmental G4-19 All material aspects identified in the process of determining the content of the report 23 94-95 Training and Development of technology that supports consistent employment opportunities and career Identified Education G4-LA10 62-63 94-95 G4-20 Internal aspect boundary of organization for each material aspect 23 94-95 management and programs for lifelong education material aspects and boundaries G4-21 External aspect boundary of organization for each material aspect 23 94-95 Ratio of employees that received regular reviews on performance and career development G4-LA11 62-63 94-95 (per gender and type) The effects of amendments on information provided in previous report and the reason for and Social Performances for 2013 G4-22 2 94-95 G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 58 94-95 amendment Equal remuneration G4-23 Significant changes on range and aspect boundary that occurred after the previous report 2 94-95 for women and men G4-LA13 Average wage ratio of employees per type 59 94-95 G4-24 List of stakeholders related to the organization 20 94-95 Labor practices G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 58 94-95 G4-25 The standard of identifying and selecting stakeholders related to the organization 20 94-95 grievance mechaStateholder Number of complaints by labor customs and number of settled complaints through complaint G4-26 Participation methods of stakeholders per type, per frequency of each stakeholder, etc. 20 94-95 nisms G4-LA16 61 94-95 engagement settling mechanism Core topic, interest, responses of the organization, etc., that were suggested from the particiCategory: Society G4-27 23 94-95 pation of stakeholders G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 52 94-95 G4-28 Reporting period of the provided information (fiscal year or every other year) 2 94-95 Appendix Local communities Ratio of businesses that participate in local community, evaluate influence, and perform developG4-29 Publishing date of the most recent report (if it exists) 2 94-95 G4-SO1 53~55, 72~74 94-95 ment programs G4-30 Reporting period (Annually, every other year, etc.) 2 94-95 Report profile Category: Product responsibility G4-31 Contacts for questions regarding the report or its content 105 94-95 G4-32 ‘Agreement’ method chosen by GRI Index and the organization 20-23, 92-95 94-95 G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 39 94-95 Customer health G4-33 External verification of report 94-95 94-95 and safety Ratio of main products and services that were evaluated of their safety influences for improveProviding information G4-PR1 50-51, 78 94-95 ment about tap water quality Governance structure of organization including the committee of supreme governance orgaGovernance G4-34 nization. Committee that is responsible for making decisions on economic, environmental, and 16, 18-19 94-95 G4-DMA Disclosure of management approaches 39 94-95 social effects Product and Service Information on products and services of the organization and the information types of products Ethics Models of behavior such as the value, principle, and the standard of the organization as well as labeling Providing information G4-56 99 94-95 G4-PR3 and services that are required in the process of labeling, and the ratio of main products and 21, 50-51 94-95 and Integrity code of conduct and code of ethics about tap water quality services that need to have the pertinent information requirements 92 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 93 As We Proceed Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of K-water Sustainability Report 2014: Foreword Our conclusion Sustainability Management Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) has been requested by KBased on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with K-water on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the water to verify the contents of its Sustainability Report 2014 (the Report). K-water is responsible for the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. collection and presentation of information included in the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out asNothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data and information are not presented appropriately. surance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. Scope and standard K-water is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for K-water describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. KMAR performed a type 2, moderate level of assurance using the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder group left out during this procedure. AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. That is, the assurance team assessed whether inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness were observed, and verified the followings to assess the reliability of the data and information specified in the Report where professional judgement of the practitioner of KMAR’s assurMateriality 4 Focus Issues ance team was exercised as materiality criteria. Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. K-water is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and Assurance of the economic section: the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. Reviews whether the financial data and information have been extracted appropriately from K-water’s 2013 financial statements and public notification data Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and perAssurance of the environmental and social section: formance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Reviews whether the environmental and social data and information included in the Report are presented appropriately The assurance team could not find any evidence that K-water’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. “Appropriately presented” means that the original data and information are reported appropriately in the Report with consistency and reliability. We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4. The data and information related to the boundary outside of K-water such as suppliers, contractors, etc. are not covered by our assurance engagement. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4 which cover the followings. Economic, Environmental • G4 Reporting Principles Recommendation for improvement • General Standard Disclosures We hope K-water’s publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. • Specific Standard Disclosures • K-water should improve the process for preparing the Report, especially in the step of planning. Generic DMA of each of following material aspects and Social Performances for 2013 • K-water should consider making the Report more balanced. Economic Performance: EC1, EC2 Indirect Economic Impacts: EC7, EC8 Procurement Practices: EC9 Water: EN10 Energy: EN3, EN5, EN6 Emissions: EN15, EN16, EN18, EN19 Our independence Employment: LA2, EU18 Training and Education: LA9, LA10, LA11 With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other K-water business operations that are aimed at making profit in Equal Remuneration for Women and Men: LA13 Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms: LA16 order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. Local Communities: SO1 Customer Health and Safety: PR1 Product and Service Labeling: PR3 Appendix Our approach 27 June 2014 In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, KMAR’s assurance team visited Kwater’s headquarter and Chungju Office, and carried out an assurance engagement as follows: • Reviewed data management systems and reporting processes • Assessed internal documents and materials • Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances • Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report CEO Ki Ho Park 94 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 95 As We Proceed ISO 26000 Publishing the 2014 Sustainability Report ISO26000 is an international standard guideline on seven core topics about social responsibility based on basic principles using the method of integrating social responsibility throughout the organization with the recognition of social responsibility, identification, and participation of stakeholders. The following are reported contents of K-water about seven core topics of social responsibility. As we were publishing the report, we tried to contain The scope of the performance index report the voices of internal and external stakeholders of the This report contains the current sustainable management and business Sustainability Management performances of 28 local business sites and overseas businesses in 18 company, and the contents of the report were verified countries. Since the accounting period of seven subsidiary, affiliated comby a third-party organization. panies is the same as that of K-water, they do not affect the possibility of Core topics Issues Page periodic and organizational comparison. Moreover, either equity method or Governance Decision making process and structure 12, 16-19 cost-value method is used depending on the percentage of shares owned. Duties with special attention 56, 59, 100 Threats to human rights 28-30, 100 Avoidance to public participation 56, 82, 100 Performance data reporting standard Grievance settlement 59, 61, 78, 100 K-water has made every effort to fulfill the reporting principals stated in GRI Human rights G4 guideline. The performance data of economic, environmental, and social Discrimination and disadvantaged group 52-55, 80, 100 Civil political rights 100 sections were produced according to the index description attached to the G4 guideline. The environment section usually referred to the data of EnviEconomic, social, and cultural rights 100 4 Focus Issues ronmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) system developed as a computer Basic principles and rights in workplaces 80-81, 100 system in 2006 and the data of Carbon inventory system developed in 2010, Employment and employment relationship 59, 79-80, 90, 100 and the financial section applied the data from the audited financial stateWorking condition and social protection 58-60, 82, 90 ments and the statements of accounts. Materials of social and other secLabor custom Social conversation 61, 80-81, 90-91, 98, 100 tions were directly received from relevant departments. Each performance Health and safety in workplace 58, 60, 81-82 indicator was presented with the time-series data for 3~5 years, and its abHuman development and education in workplace 58-59, 62-63, 91 solute values along with the ratios was presented for reader's understandPollution prevention 26-27, 69-72, 98-100 ing. Use of sustainable resources 26-27, 39-42, 87, 69, 98-100 Environment Mitigation and adaptation to climate change 26-27, 43-49, 87, 98-100 Protection and restoration of natural environment 26-27, 72-76, 98-100 Efforts for consistent improvement Economic, Environmental It has been ten years since we first published the report in 2005. We have Corruption prevention 24-25, 98 made our best effort to identify the expectations and the interests of stakeResponsible political participation 100 holders so far, and we endeavors to listen to the opinions of stakeholders Fair operation custom Fair competition 57, 98 and to produce a useful report that communicates the sustainable manageActivation of social responsibility in value chain 56, 82 and Social Performances for 2013 ment of K-water with its stakeholders in accordance with GRI G4 guideline. Respect for property rights 78, 98 The main purpose of K-water in publishing the report is to provide credible Fair marketing, real and fair information and fair contract custom 21, 78, 99 information by the company to stakeholders and to be a trusted company by G4 Guideline application level Health and safety protection of customers 50-51, 87, 99 these stakeholders. We have identified the interests of internal employees This 2014 Sustainability Report of K-water was drafted to meet the requireSustainable consumption 50-51 of the company using surveys and those of external stakeholders using conments for Core level application of GRI G4 guideline. Through the verificaConsumer issues Customer service, support, complaint and dispute solution 77, 88-89, 99 sultation or interviews, and used these to indentify the material issues for Ktion of the Korea Management Association Registration and Assessment, Customer information protection and privacy 78 water's sustainable management. K-water tried its best to make a concrete this report was verified to be written in compliance with the requirements Access to mandatory services 54-55, 86-87 report on material issues in accordance with G4 guidelines set by GRI (Global Appendix for Core option of the G4 guideline. Customer citizen education and recognition 50-51 Reporting Initiatives). Community Participation 52-59, 98 Education and culture 52-59, 98 Development of employment and function 56-57, 79-80, 98 Participation and develDevelopment and access to technology 56-57, 98 opment of community Creation of wealth and profit 35, 54, 84-85, 98 Health 52-55, 98 Social investment 52-55, 98 96 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 97 As We Proceed Code of Ethics Preamble, Green Management Policy Customer Charter Statement, Mission Statement for Innovation Vision Code of Ethics Green management policy Customer Charter Statement Mission Statement for Innovation Vision Sustainability Management K-water is a business of the people that contributes to We deeply recognize that this is a time that needs the K-water will make best efforts to practice customerWe declare the following in order to provide clean and the quality of life of citizens and the development of the best effort to make sustainable development that haroriented management by approaching to the customers safe water to citizens, protect the lives and properties country by developing, managing, and preserving water monizes with environment in order to create clean and based on the management philosophy ‘The values of of citizens from water-related disasters, and to become resources of Korea to be sustainable in environmental, livable environment. Our company, which handles wacustomers are our values.’ the best water service organization through continuous economic, and social aspects and by providing the best ter, the source of life, declares the policy of green manchanges and innovations. products and services. With this confidence and pride in agement with the participation of all employees in order this ‘21st century period of water,’ we promise the folto become an eco-friendly business that receives the lowing to become a global professional water business. trusts and love of citizens by developing and managing water resources in eco-friendly ways. 4 Focus Issues First, we accomplish our missions through creative thinking and First, we secure a healthy consumption culture of saving and reWe will provide water and territory of best quality that customers First, in order to become a trusted public enterprise, we process challenges and make efforts to actualize transparent manageusing resources and energy, and seriously considers at all times can trust in a stable manner. tasks in an honest and fair manner without violating conscience, ment by processing tasks with honest and fair attitude. so that we will not destroy environment because of in attention. common sense, and the law, and actively participate in social We will provide information and services for the safety and owncontribution activities in order to be together with the local comFirst. We recognize that the Earth is a precious heritage for our First, we reflect the opinions of the citizens as best we can in makership protection of customers even before customers request munity. offspring and is a healthy and clean shelter of life and practice ing plans that relate to environment, and we disclose information them. eco-friendly management. and materials so that we will increase the trust on the organizaFirst, with confidence and passion that do not fear change, we will tion as well as the transparency of the task. We will always be open to advices and suggestions of customers, secure global-level competency to accomplish the vision and esFirst, we provide the best products and services to customers and regularly accept opinions, and use them for improvement of custablish continuous and stable foundation for growth. actualizes consumer-oriented policy through customer satisfacFirst, we take the responsibilities and duties of preventing natural tomer services. tion and management of new value creation. pollution, promptly addressing natural pollution that occur from First, we recognize the importance of nature for health life and business activities, and always keeping in mind that these kinds of We will perform our tasks without any discrimination to any cussustainable growth of future generations and make efforts in Economic, Environmental First, as a part of the local community, we respect the tradition practices are the foundations of business ethics. tomers and will secure the profit of customers to the maximum by order to preserve this. By putting this declaration into action, we and the culture of the community and enriches the lives of local seeking for the most efficient management. focus all of our capabilities to make K-water a business that does residents by contributing to the development of the local commuFirst, we provide continuous environmental education. So that our its job well, a business that has competitiveness, and a business nity. activities will become code of ethics and make our best efforts We promise that we will set the best service performance stanthat is loved by the citizens. and Social Performances for 2013 fore search development of conserving and improving the envidards that K-water can provide and practice them in order to realFirst, we comply with ethical/legal values, respect market order ronment. ize ideal goals on the side of customers. of free competition, and seeks realization of fair competition. All employees of K-water practice this declaration so that all of First, we respect each personality of all people without discrimiour future generations will enjoy prosperity in clean environment. nation, and respect characters and creativity. First, with the recognition that labor and management is one, we Appendix develop partnering relationship based on trust and harmony and seeks for prosperity of community. * Please refer to the ethics management section in the website for details about principle of ethics and principle of employee behavior. 98 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 99 As We Proceed UN Global Compact Glossary • Non-point pollutant source A pollutant source with unspecified emission route lyzes, and evaluates environmental management performance of corporations unlike point pollutant sources of people or livestock which have point polluted through environmental performance index The principles of Global Compact are based on the following international agreements sources. The pollution load rate is calculated by the land use pattern in the basin (rice paddy, field, forest, etc.) and the pollutants are run off into water systems • GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) An organization established in 1997 by the supduring heavy rainfall port of UNEP in order to develop the guideline for sustainability reports Sustainability Management • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • Renewable energy Concept that includes eight renewable energies of solar • ISO 9001 International quality management system standard set by ISO • The International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles heat, sunlight, bioenergy, wind power, waterpower, geothermal heat, ocean, and and Rights at Work wastes • ISO 14001 International system standard of environmental maintenance set by ISO • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • SWG (Smart Water Grid) Next-generation intelligent water maintenance technol• ISO 26000 As the international standard to define social responsibility, includes • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption ogy that combines previous water grid with innovative ICT in order to increase stability, voluntary compliance principles focusing on 7 social responsibility principles of safety, and efficiency of water services organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, environment, fair operating practice, consumer issues, and community involvement and development The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their • Sludge Sediments and precipitates formed in the process of sewage treatment sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, or water treatment • JOA⁺ (Join, Open, Advance) Unique innovative technique of K-water for problem the environment and anti-corruption: solving. Modified and developed from the work-out method of GE to fit the envi• Prevalence rate The ratio of population who have a particular disease at a ronment of K-water 4 Focus Issues specified point in time and in region over the total population at a specified point in time and in region • K-sigma (K-water/Knowledge Sigma) Unique innovative technique of K-water Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally that combine 6 Sigma which emphasizes production cost reduction, process im• Carbon Labeling State-run labeling policy for the product or service that minimize provement, the activity of eliminating unnecessary work processes, and encourproclaimed human rights; and the carbon dioxides emissions (or greenhouse gas emissions converted to the carbon aging research developments Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. dioxide emission) produced in all production or service processes • KRM (K-water Risk Management) Company-wide risk management activities • IWRM (Integrated Water Resources Management) An integrated method of of K-water which predict potential dangers of management (financial, non-finanwater resources management that takes not just water quantity but water qualcial) in company-wide perspective, achieve management goals through efficient Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recity, environmental-, social-, and cultural factors of region into account in order to danger/crisis management and increase the public safety ognition of the right to collective bargaining; maximize social and economic welfare through water Labor Stan• KSI 7001 National standard regulated by the Korean government that sets sysdards Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Environmental Assessment Predicting, analyzing, and evaluating the environtem requirements that organizations should acquire for consistent improvement Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and mental impacts of indirect social capitals such as roads, harbors, railroads, airports, of green management performance Economic, Environmental Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. and industrial complexes as well as other reclamation projects • SS (Suspended Solid) Particles that are over 0.1㎛ of diameter which float on Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental • BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) Amount of oxygen required to decompose water and cause water turbidity water pollutants biologically. Higher level of BOD refers to more polluted water challenges; and Social Performances for 2013 • UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) An Environment Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) Policy where advanced countries with international convention to regulate artificial release of the greenhouse gas in Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly techthe duty of greenhouse gas reduction invest capitals in developing countries and order to prevent global warming. The official name is United Nations Framework nologies. make the greenhouse gas emission to be acknowledged as their own reduction Convention on Climate Change performance (From 2005, Unilateral CDM businesses driven solely by the developing countries are allowed) • VOC (Voice of Customers) Expectations and requests of customers about the products and services provided by the company Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extor• COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) Amount of oxygen consumed in the process Anti-Corruption tion and bribery. of decomposing water pollutants. Higher level of COD refers to more polluted Appendix water • CRM (Customer Relation Management) Strategy of maximizing acquirement K-water practices and complies to the ten principles of UN Global Compact of new customers, maintenance of current customers, and lifelong values of customers by providing products and services that the customers desire K-water CEO Choi, Gye Woon • CS (Customer Satisfaction) Customer satisfaction about the product and service • CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Social responsibility of corporations • EPE (Environmental Performance Evaluation) Program that measures, ana100 K-water 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 101 Voices of Readers We would like to extend our gratitude to our stakeholders for reading the ‘2014 Sustainability Report’ and for your interests in sustainable management of K-water. Each opinion and suggestion that you send will be utilized as precious materials for developing sustainable management of K-water. We will cherish the opinions and suggestions received and reflect them in the next report. Management Services Innovation Team, Management Services Dept. of K-water Fax: 042)629-2399 / Email: sustainability＠kwater.or.kr Glue here Sender Name Phone number E-mail Address Glue here Glue here Recipient Management Services Dept. of K-water 200 Sintanjin-ro, Daedeok-gu, Daejeon 3 0 6 7 1 1 Water for the happier world About 2014 Sustainability Report 1. Where do you belong to? 1. Customer 2. Investor/stockholder 3. Government/officer 4. Local resident 5. Citizen/social organization such as NGOs 6. Cooperative businesses 7. Academic 8. Press 9. K-water employee 10. Others ( ) 2. How did you come across the Sustainability Report of K-water? 1. K-water website 2. Internet search 3. Newspaper/magazine 4. K-water employee introduction 5. Others ( ) 3. What was the most interesting section that you read? 1. Introduction 2. Sustainable Management 3. 4 Focus Issues 4. Economic, environmental, and social performances of for 2013 4. What is the part that needs the most improvement? 1. Introduction 2. Sustainable Managementr 3. 4 Focus Issues 4. Economic, environmental, and social performances for 2013 5. Please write freely about any areas for improvement or your opinion about sustainable management activities of K-water or about the overall structure and content of the report. We are waiting for precious opinions. Every one of your opinions will play important roles in driving our sustainable management forward. We will cherish your opinions and reflect them in the next report. We would like to extend our gratitude for the efforts of all people who provided their support in publishing the report. Management Services Dept. Ko Younggong, Kim Sunyoung, Park Misook, Seo Seokgyu, Shin Gihye, Lee Hwasook, Jang Jaesik, Jeong Yejin, Cho Gyungdong Business Planning & Coordination Dept. Kwon Gidong, Kim Yeojung, Moon Booyoung , Park Gabsoon, Sim Gwahak, Lee Gunwoong, Jeong Yunhui, Cho Jaemin Legal Affairs Dept. Koo Indo, Lee Sangyoung Audit & Inspection Dept. Park Sincheol, Park Iljoon, Lee Gyeonggeun, Jeong Eunho Administrative Services Dept. Kang Seunghee, Kang Huiwan, kim Seonung, Kim Sunghoon, Kim Yuntae, Kim Yunha, Park Seokbeom, Ahn Yongmin, Lee Jongsik, Jang Myungsub, Jeong Wonsub, Ho yungi Public Relations Dept. Moon Bobae, Park Sanghoon Accounting & Finance Dept. Kim Yonggun, Kim Jisun, Ryu Jaehyeon, Hana Seo, Lee Seokwon, Chang Bogyu, Chang Yongbeom Information Resources Services Dept. Kim Sunghwan, Lee Taejoo K-water Academy Oh Hongsuk, Chang Jinhui Water Resources Business Dept. Kim Taehoon, Jeong Miyoung Water Resources Operations Center Koo Jaho, Choi Donggyu Dam & Watershed Maintenance Dept. Kim Kidon , Cho Sangheum Water Resources Development Dept. Na Jinyoung, Yoo Jiyeon Electric Power Business Dept. Kim Byeongho, Kim Jaeoh, Kim Hwayoung, Park Daeduk, Yoo Jeonghee, Jang Hyuyoung, Jung Hyeongbeom, Joo Inho, Choi Janggyu Water Supply Management Dept. Ko Gijun, Kim Kisung, Kim Soojin, Kim Hyangsoo, Min Jiin, Cho Yeongju, Hwang Byungeun Water Supply Operations & Maintenance Dept. Kang Gyeongeun, Kim Byungsoo, Kim Jongpil, Kim Hyungsook, Song Youngil, Shin Hongseop, Yoon Miae, Lee Sangmin, Jeon Jooho Water Supply Enhancement Dept. Kim Jinsang, Kim Hwijin, Seok Gwansoo, Choi Minseon, Choi Jaebaek, Huh Moonhaeng Urban Waterfront Dept. Kim Jiung, Chang Suncheol Waterfront Business Dept. Byun Gangwon, Lee Wonjae Construction Technology & Safety Dept. Kim Taewon, Yoon Sangjae, Lee Yeongmok, Lee Taeyeon, Jeong Jonghyeon, Cho Joonseok Overseas Planning Dept. Kim Jongyoung, Lee Sunghyun K-water Institute (KWI) Kim Donghwan, Ryu Kyungsik, Lee Doojin Gyeong-in Ara Waterway Business Dept. Park Yeon tae This report can be downloaded in PDF format from K-water’s website. Please contact the report officer if you want more detailed information about sustainable management activities and performances in the report. Thank you for giving K-water’s sustainable management activities your attention. Questions on the report Management Services Innovation Team of K-water Management Services Dept. 200 Shintanjin-ro, Daedeok-gu, Daejeon 306-711, Republic of Korea TEL. 82-42-629-2357 / Fax. 82-42-629-2399 E-mail : sustainability ＠ kwater.or.kr Web-site : www.kwater.or.kr Production: K-water Management Services Dept. Design/print: Hanaroadcom 102 K-water 2014 지속가능경영보고서 Sustainability Report 103 This report was printed with soybean oil on eco-friendly papers certified by the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council).
