CARIBBEAN OFFICE OF TRADE & INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUBMITTED TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TITLE PROMOTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PARTICIPANT'S ADDRESS #8 CHACONIA TERRACE MARACAS, ST. JOSEPH REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD & TOBAGO Caribbean Offlp Trade & Industrial Development Limited [(Facilitating Economic Cooperation]] 12th December. 2014. United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Office Two United Nations Plaza United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America. CONTINUING STATEMENT OF SUPPORT OF THE TEN (10) PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT We are pleased to confirm that all four (4) Directors of Caribbean Office of Trade & Industrial Development Limited by Resolution of the Board of Directors dated 3rd December 2014, reaffirmed their support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This is our Second Communication on Progress. It is our determination to continue adherence to the Principles of the Global Compact, integrating the Principles in the daily conduct of our business operations and promoting the Principles to our Stakeholders and accordance with the Theme/Title of our 2nd Communication on Progress Promoting the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact . Yours respectfully, CARIBBEAN OFFICE OF TRADE & INDUSTRIAL DE^ETJOPMENT LTD., Managing Director #8 C h a c o n i a T e r r a c e , M a r a c a s , St. Joseph, Trinidad, West Indies Telephone: (868)221-4398, (868)645-9761 F a x : (868)221-4543 Email: • o f f i c e o f t r a d e @ y a h o o . c o m • info@officeoftrade.com \A/oKcitQ\AMAMAf r\ f I r at rt f t r o H a r TO ALL STAKEHOLDERS • NATIONAL • REGIONAL • INTERNATIONAL The following attachments are Caribbean Office of Trade & Industrial Development Second Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. Our dedication and commitment in support of the Ten Principles is unwavering notwithstanding the several challenges. We extend to you our personal invitation to join the Global Compact, since greater participation would result in greater good and benefit to all humanity. Yours respectfully, CARIBBEAN OFFICE^F TRADE & INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT LTD., c ___ a ___ ManaginjjfBirector 12th December, 2014. [[Facilitating Economic Cooperation]] We commit and support the four (4) Pillars upon which the United Nations Global Compact has established its foundation. 1. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 2. The International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 3. The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development 4. The United Nations Convention Against Corruption. We report on the four (4) areas comprising the Ten (10) Principles of the UN Global Compact. 1. Human Rights 2. Labour 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption • HUMAN RIGHTS Caribbean Office of Trade & Industrial Development Limited [Office of Trade] endorse the position of the United Nations that Human Rights are inherent to all human beings. We also support the 1993 Vienna World Conference on Human Rights and agree unequivocally that it is the duty of States to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of their political, economic and cultural systems. We continue to adhere to the Principles in the Form of Treaties, the general Principles of international law and the initiatives of the United Nation Charter-based and Treaty-based bodies. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Office of Trade continue to support this Principle of the Global Compact and the Articles of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. [[Facilitating Economic Cooperation]] HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. Office of Trade does not tolerate, condone or associate with individuals and organizations that engage in human rights abuses. ACTIONS & ASSESSMENTS Our Company do not see the urgency to have a written policy of its own on Human Rights given the numerous international organizations, Conventions, treaties, etc. that provide adequate information and guiding principles for human rights. We adopt the best practices of the international country on human rights. MEASUREMENT & OUTCOMES Office of Trade would continue to ensure that its employees be kept informed of the rights of the person and encourage them to report human right abuses in any form and persuade our stakeholders to join with us to protect and uphold the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • LABOUR Office of Trade continue to support the ELO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights At work including all National labour laws and rights of persons employed. Labour Principle 3 Business should uphold the Freedom of Association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Office of Trade denies no employee the freedom with any labour association or any representative they wish to appoint to bargain on their behalf. We support ILO Convention 87 and 98 and the relevant Articles that give rights to Freedom of association and collective bargaining. [(Facilitating Economic Cooperation)] Labour Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Office of Trade dies bit engage, practice, condone or support forced labour. We stand by ILO Convention 105 on the Abolition of Forced Labour convened in Geneva at its Fortieth Session on June 5th, 1957 which took note of the provision of the ILO Convention 29 Forced Labour Convention 1930. Office of Trade gives the assurance that they would continue to support all convention on the elimination of Forced Labour. Labour Principle 5 The effective Abolition of Child Labour. Office of Trade reject child labour in any form. Towards this objective we endorse all the Articles of the ILO Convention 182 at tis 87th Session on 1st June 1999. We agree that child labour in any form requires immediate and comprehensive action. Our Company categorizes the practice and engagement of child labour as a reprehensible act that should receive the condemnation of all sectors of the international community. Labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Office of Trade does not discriminate in any form with respect to employment and occupation. We adhere to the Principles of the ILO Convention No 111 Discrimination [Employment and Occupation] 1958 at its forty second Session. ACTIONS & ASSESSMENTS The employees of Office of Trade negotiate their own terms of employment. This is so since the expertise required demand specific and particular experience in trade facilitation, high level negotiations on proposed projects, considerable knowledge of ethics and corporate governance. [(Facilitating Economic Cooperation]] MEASUREMENT & OUTCOMES Office of Trade proposes in 2015 to join with reputable workers and employers organizations to contribute periodically on the Principles of Global Compact and Articles of the ILO in the development of labour relations. • ENVIRONMENT Office of Trade believe in sustainability of the environment, efficient resource practices that would minimize negative environmental impact and ensure its conservation. Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Office of Trade conduct its business and take decisions that are not harmful or at risk to the environment. The Company execute or advise on the execution of contracts using material and the implementation of systems that are not a threat or harmful to human health or the environment. Environment Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. Office of Trade recognizes its responsibility to the environment and make every effort to keep up-to-date on environmental matters that not only affect our national but the international environment. We believe that preventative action is a responsible approach, and this is one of the core components in our initiatives to the environment. Environment Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Office of Trade is not a research based organization. However, we use our knowledge to seek out the best technology for our business operations that would protect our employees and create an environment that is acceptable not only to our employees but also the community. [(Facilitating Economic Cooperation]] ACTIONS & ASSESSMENTS Office of Trade has taken a decision to be knowledgeable about the environment and communicate this knowledge to other organizations and businesses. In this regard, our Company is Participants/Members of the following organizations. 1. United Nations Adaptation Mechanism 2. United Nations office of Disaster Risk Reduction 3. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 4. Green Industry Platform 5. Caring For Climate UN Global Compact 6. UN CEO Water Mandate MEASUREMENT & OUTCOMES Office of Trade proposes to establish a Climate Change Portal on their website for the dissemination of information on the benefits of the protection of the environment and the negative impact by pursuing actions that put the environment at risks. • CORRUPTION Office of Trade position on corruption is zero tolerance. Corruption Principle 10 Our Company commit to pursuing and where appropriate implementing all anti-corruption measures. We do not tolerate any form of corruption, bribery or extortion, complicit or otherwise. All employee at and after the orientation period are informed and reminded of the consequences of corruption. This also extend to our stakeholders. Office of Trade does not have a written Manual on anti-corruption. However, we have published on our website a Ten (10) point Code of Ethics to inform employees and stakeholders of our intent to eliminate corruption. The following are our Code of Ethics. [[Facilitating Economic Cooperation! 1. Conflicts of Interest The private interest of any employee, shareholder or Director shall in no way whatsoever interfere adversely or injure the reputation of the Company or compromise its business relations. 2. Compliance Adhere to and comply with all relevant laws, regulations and orders issued by the Government of any country in which the Company seek to do business. 3. Confidentiality No information pertaining to the company except public information required by law shall be disclosed or disseminated without appropriate authorization from the officer/s designated by the Company for that purpose. 4. Human Rights All employees, shareholders and Directors of the company are required to observe and comply with any or all Conventions or Declaration on Human Rights approved and endorsed by the United Nations or any laws or regulations that support human rights whether nationally or in any other jurisdiction. 5. Transparency The Company would at all times use proper systems to ensure that any report, document or communication material issued by the Company is to the best of the Company's knowledge accurate and the disclosures truthful, without intent to deceive, misrepresent or conceal material information that may harm or significantly increase the proportion of risk by Corporations, Organizations, institutions and individuals conducting business with the Company. 6. Fair Business Practices The business of the Company shall be conducted in good faith with each party and all organizations/persons treated equitably and fairly. Intellectual Property, trade secrets, proprietary information not obtained through voluntary or fair negotiated practices is a violation of our Code of Ethics and such information would not be used by the Company to further any objective. [(Facilitating Economic Cooperation]] 7. Discrimination Prohibited Our Company does not discriminate on race, religion, political affiliation or value differences that does not conflict or diminish our Code of Ethics. 8. Our Foundation The foundation of our Company is its employees, shareholders, directors and stakeholders who support in spirit, intent and practice our Code of Ethics. To this end we give the assurance that we would honour our commitments, reward our employees, deliver our services, support and provide solutions to our clients. 9. Communities We commit to contribute and support communities both nationally and regionally with whom we conduct business. Our vision of participating in global initiatives that develop communities remain one of our primary objectives. 10. Report Violations of the Code of Ethics The Company encourages all employees, shareholders, directors, stakeholders, and business associates to report any violation or suspected violation of the Company's Code of Ethics. These reports can be made anonymously. Report to: ethics@officeoftrade. com The Communication on Progress can be viewed on our website www.officeoftrade.com. the UN Global Compact website www.unglobalcompact.org. and would also be distributed to our stakeholders. [(Facilitating Economic Cooperation]]
