UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Faust Dyrbye reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jacob Dyrbye CEO, Faust Dyrbye FAUST DYRBYE As Denmark's only strategic exhibition agency we fiercely work to make participation in trade fairs and exhibitions more successful and productive for the Danish companies. We do not only create beautiful objects! We can and will also contribute to ensure measurable return on trade show investment. Therefore, we are a group of creative and pundits including everything from architects, economists and sociologists to graphic designers, programmers and craftsmen. With passion and determination we engage in projects – in a matter that we forget which side of the table we sit on.  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS rights; and  PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they Vision are not complicit in human rights Faust Dyrbye supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human abuses. rights and ensures that it is not complicit in Human Rights abuses. It is the company policy to ensure that such rights are assured for everyone at all levels of processes and activities. By promoting a culture of respect for the law, and consideration of  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should all members within the organization and with others with whom the company come in conuphold the freedom of association tact with. and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; At Faust Dyrbye we have taken an active role in the work and compliance with Labour & Human Rights as described in UN Global Compact – this is also part of the company Code  PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all of Conduct. We respect human rights as absolute, and strive to ensure all humans in our forms of forced and compulsory ladetermination to provide all humans the rights and freedoms they wish to enjoy. Faust bour; Dyrbye will never voluntarily be complicit in Labour or Human Rights abuses, and instead always seek to uphold the rights and freedoms of all.  PRINCIPLE 5: the effective aboliProgress tion of child labour; and Faust Dyrbye has continued to review and update policies and procedures to ensure they are suitable and sufficient to meet the needs of the employees and those of the company.  PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employFaust Dyrbye continues to be fully committed to ensure that the company is not knowingly ment and occupation. complacent in any Human Rights abuse. It is the company policy to ensure that it will not associate, or accept commission from anybody, corporate, private or official, where their actions are questionable in respect of Labour & Human Rights abuses. Faust Dyrbye complies with Danish legislation, which fulfills international conventions. Results Faust Dyrbye supports the international Labour organization’s Declaration on Fundamental principles and rights at work and complies with Danish work legislation. There have been no reported incidents during the last 12 months, or over the company’s history. All company procedures aim to be effective to protect internationally proclaimed Human Rights for all, with a zero tolerance of non-compliance. We encourage our manufacturers to support the principles of the 'United Nations Global Compact' within their possible reach.  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should ENVIRONMENT support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Vision  PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives Faust Dyrbye is committed to building a sustainable future, by meeting the needs of to promote greater environmental retoday without compromising the possibility for future generations to meet their sponsibility; and needs. We are committed to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and all suppliers have to sign our Code of Conduct, promising that they follow  PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the develthe guidelines of the UN Global Compact and its principles. opment and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Progress When we conduct business in other countries than Denmark, we try to allocate production, manufacturing and printing with locally established businesses. This not only reduces the cost for the costumer, but also benefits the environment, as the need for transportation is limited. We value our resources and believe that reuse and recycling of materials is the most significant area to get true value for money and reduce our impact on the environment. Results At Faust Dyrbye we actively promote recycling amongst our customers and suppliers. Further we have developed Light Exhibit (see next page), which is easy to pack, transport, and reuse. Bane Danmark PROJECTS We created a stand that can easily, quickly and inexpensively be replaced so the stand can be reused again and again either in its whole or split into smaller units. Recently we used another colour of the overlays, which provided the stand with a whole new look allowing it to Dako With Dako's new corporate identity A better PATH we support a completely different message/department as the created stands that allowed Dako to create trinity of stand often comes into use. We encourage and applaud that messages, graphics and space so that everything interacted on our products are used as often as. all surfaces. They told us to drop the standard, think outside the box and create a unique, dynamic and recognizable universe, based on Dako's logo. The design reflected the Scandinavian values and Lite Exhibit were functional, modular and especially reusable. With straight and curved, half and whole panels it is possible to shape a stand in a myriad of ways. Use Lite Exhibit system and build new objects of the same panels again and again. SIEMENS The panels can be fitted with prints witch can be changed At the DSE fair we based on Think-model prepared and adjusted to various exhibition. It's all packed in boxes Siemens stand. The challenges was communication on on wheels that make them easy to transport. sustainablitity, knowlagde about the business and the creation of a accessible dialog with candidates. In line with their We know Lite Exhibit in detail and constantly challenge message of a greener future, and a wish to communicate their the possibilities of the system! Everything can be used focus on sustainability, we created a stand that interacted to together and separately and integrate with existing display these views. materials. Parts of the exhibition material was made of recyclable material just to emphasize the green theme.  PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should ANTI-CORRUPTION work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Vision We wish to maintain high standards of integrity by being honest and fair in all our dealings and personal conduct. We shall not permit or tolerate engagement in bribery or other forms of corruption. Progress Through our international collaborations we constantly work to secure that no corruption or other illegal activities take place. An anti-corruption policy is included in the Code of Conduct. Results We have had no incidents inflicting with our policies, or international guidelines. As the national legislation, as well as the international guidelines and progress in anticorruption procedures, we will continue to maintain and improve our high standards.
