SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Table of Contents About Our Report In addition to this verification, the selected information as defined in the Independent Limited Assurance Report on page 96 of this report received limited This is the sixth Sustainability Report published by 1 About Our Report assurance from EY. In 2013, we obtained for Coca-Cola İçecek (CCI). This report includes our ABOUT OUR REPORT the second time limited assurance on Selected practices and performance results obtained during 2 Message From The CEO Information* from four of our international operations: the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, and Turkey. The for four of the ten countries where we operate: 4 CCI At a Glance Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Turkey. In Selected Information covered total energy data, perproduct energy use, total water data, per-product the report, we refer to these countries as our four 6 CCI’s Journey of Sustainability water use, per-product total waste produced, and total countries of operation. In addition, we have provided waste recycling rate as described in the CCI Reporting 8 Performance Highlights examples of best practices from our Pakistan Guidance included on pages 85 and 86 of this report. operations. Within the context of this audit, 2013 data from CCI’s 10 Integrating Sustainability Standards Used Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, and Turkey plants In preparing this report, we were guided by the was assessed to reach a limited assurance conclusion 19 Sustainability Across the Value Chain three principles of the AA1000 Assurance Standard: in accordance with the international standard materiality, inclusiveness and responsiveness. We ‘Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or 28 Governance measure and report our social, environmental and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (ISAE 3000). ethical performance using leading standards and Feedback 32 me methodologies such as those adopted by the Global Collecting stakeholder feedback is vital for helping us Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4, CDP, International Labor improve both our practices and reporting processes. 40 we – Employees Organization (ILO), United Nations Convention Against We closely examine every issue that comes to Corruption (UNCAC), and WRI Greenhouse Gas (GHG) our attention, and we use any feedback from our 52 we – Community Protocol. stakeholders to continuously improve our practices. 60 world The contents of this report have been prepared in We invite our stakeholders to forward any opinions, accordance with the G4 Sustainability Reporting suggestions or complaints to 78 Performance Indicators Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr The report corresponds to the “Core” level in the 84 Glossary G4’s reporting standards, and also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) to the United 85 CCI Reporting Guidance Nations Global Compact (UNGC). 89 GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” Verification For the third consecutive year, certain data in this 96 Independent Assurance Letter report were independently audited. The GHG emissions of CCI Turkey's manufacturing, sales and 97 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement distribution operations for 2013 were audited, as last year, by a third party auditing organization, SGS, and verified in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization’s ISO 14064-3 2006 Standard as meeting the requirements of ISO 140641. CCI’s Turkey operation has successfully passed the audits. Both GHG Protocol’s Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions from stationary combustion, mobile combustion, process emissions, fugitive emissions), and Scope 2 (indirect emissions such as those arising from purchased electricity) emissions were verified as a result of this process. The level of assurance was “reasonable” and materiality required of the verification was considered to be below 5% by the verifier. * The Selected Information is covered on page 96 of this report. 1 Message From me: Enhancing personal well-being Product safety and quality remains one of our top In addition, many of our plant employees throughout our operating region continued to support various priority areas. We adhere to The Coca-Cola Company’s community investment projects. The CEO core operating safety and quality requirements known world: Environment MESSAGE FROM THE CEO as KORE whilst continuing to pursue other international We are very pleased to share with you our sixth Also in 2013, we took important steps to further reduce standards. In addition, we continue to provide sustainability report. Since our first report, we have our environmental footprint. By continuing to implement transparent nutrition information. made considerable progress towards improving our Operational Excellence (OE) projects and best practices sustainability performance and reporting. This year, In every country where we operate, we continue our and by making additional investments, we try hard to for the first time we have used the G4, or most recent, efforts to raise awareness of the benefits of active achieve the ambitious reduction targets we have set for version of the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability healthy lifestyles. For instance, in 2013 we kicked off our operations. Improving our energy use ratios (EUR) Guidelines. This report includes sustainability “3.2.1 Move!” in 44 schools across Turkey, inspiring and water use ratios (WUR), reducing greenhouse gas performance and practices of our Azerbaijan, Jordan, more than 40,000 young people to be more physically (GHG) emissions, and increasing total waste recycling Kazakhstan, and Turkey operations which account active. In 2014, we plan to kick-off “3.2.1 Move!” rates remain key target areas for our operations. We for approximately 70% of our total business volume. program in Pakistan and Iraq. In other countries, similar achieved our waste recycling and GHG goals for 2013, Additionally, we have also included examples of best projects were carried out, such as Azerbaijan’s “Active but we were unable to achieve our EUR and WUR goals. practices related to our Pakistan operations. Family, Healthy Community” promoting family sport by We will continue to work to improve our performance in engaging parents and children in physical activity in a energy and water efficiency in all of our manufacturing In line with the G4 Guidelines, we strive to respond family environment. In its first year, the program reached operations. to the information needs and expectations of our more than 5,000 parents and 35,000 school children stakeholders and focus on the issues that are deemed CCI was recognized by CDP as one of the carbon from 60 schools in 10 districts. most material to our company and our stakeholders. disclosure and performance leaders of 2013 in Turkey. In this context, material issues include those through we: Building stronger communities We extend our energy-efficiency and carbon emission which we have the most impact and can make a Our employees have always been key to our success, reduction efforts to our customers by continuously CCI became a signatory to the United Nations Global difference not only in our own operations but also in and they will continue to be so during our journey investing in more efficient coolers. In 2013, we Compact in 2009, and since then we have been those of our suppliers and others along our supply towards 2020. We continue to invest in our people and helped our customers save more than 165,000 tons committed to integrating the Initiative’s ten principles chain. To maintain a current list of material issues, build capabilities ahead of opportunities in order to of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by switching to related to the environment, human rights, labor and we used various stakeholder engagement platforms build a world class organization. In 2013, we introduced Energy Management Devices in Azerbaijan, Jordan, workplace rights, and anti-corruption measures into our including internal materiality analysis workshops, our iLead leadership training program to cultivate CCI’s Kazakhstan, and Turkey. overall business strategy. We eagerly embrace these stakeholder engagement panels, and stakeholder future leaders, and we established our Organizational principles, and we will continue to implement them With respect to our target to reduce our water footprint, reputation surveys during 2012 and 2013. In addition, Development Forum. In addition we announced our in our business practices. In 2013, CCI was selected all four countries made substantial improvements for the second consecutive year, we have covered all new Ethics Code, Workplace Rights Policy, and CCI Ethics for inclusion in the new UN Global Compact 100 stock in 2013. In Jordan, in particular, we achieved four countries in the scope of assurance of our main Service. index. We are very delighted that both CCI’s financial approximately 42% water saving per liter of product as a environmental performance indicators. performance as well as its commitment to sustainability 2013 was a significant year for our progress towards result of efficiency projects implemented between 2006 are recognized by the UNGC and international investor In 2013, CCI continued its steady course of growth. In improved occupational health and safety (OHS). We and 2013. In addition, our Pakistan operation achieved community. yet another year of economic challenges and political published an OHS policy and launched the CCI Golden a reduction of 306,551 m3 as a result of implemented instability in many parts of the world, we remained firm Rules Communication Campaign to increase OHS water efficiency projects. Looking ahead, we will We are confident that with the commitment and drive and managed to improve on most major indicators. CCI awareness among our employees. Thanks to our continue to implement OE projects to reduce every drop from our employees, combined with feedback and grew consolidated volume by 13.0% in 2013, marking training and awareness activities, we reduced our Lost we use, and we will participate in the Water Disclosure guidance received from other stakeholders, CCI will another milestone by exceeding 1 billion unit cases in Time Incident Rate from 0.89 to 0.55 in the four countries Project in Turkey in 2014. continue to succeed and achieve even better results as total sales. Our international operations reported growth of operation. Despite this success, fleet safety remains we progress along our sustainability journey. Our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint and of 31.7%, led mainly by Pakistan (99%), Iraq (55%), and an area where we strive to improve our performance. to improve our sustainability performance have been Sincerely, Kazakhstan (11%). Consolidated net sales grew 16.6% In 2013 we continued to support local communities. recognized, and as a result, we have received a number Burak Başarır, CEO to TL 5.186 billion, with international sales increasing We donated 3% of our pre-tax profits, or TL 1.5 million, of awards. For example, CCI has been named as one of by 26.2% and sales in Turkey by 5.6%. We also grew to The Anadolu Foundation for charitable causes. In Turkey’s carbon disclosure and performance leaders by consolidated EBITDA to 892 million TL, an increase of addition, we continued to support Coca-Cola Life Plus the Carbon Disclosure Project Turkey. Our Elazığ plant 22.2% over 2012. Foundation in Turkey in its efforts related to promoting achieved Gold status in the US Green Building Council’s Moreover, we made significant progress in 2013 in active lifestyles and protecting the environment. LEED v2009 “Existing Building” category. In addition, our terms of our sustainability journey. Our sustainabilityAnkara plant was awarded as “Best Performing Plant related efforts fall under three broad categories: me, we, In Kazakhstan 1,500 unemployed women are now for Quality” and Izmir as “Best Performing Plant for the and world. We also put great effort into enhancing the participating in the Coca-Cola Belestery Program. The Environment” for their 2013 performance in the 2014 sustainability performance of our suppliers, distributors, aim of the training program is to support women’s Coca-Cola Company Eurasia & Africa Group President’s customers, and others along our supply chain, as well economic empowerment by teaching the basics of Sustainability Awards (CCI’s Azerbaijan, Jordan, and as our own plants. establishing and running a business. Kazakhstan operations were finalists in this award). 2 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 3 CCI At a Glance Percentage of Per-capita consumption CCI's market share in Population population below GDP of sparkling sparkling Coca-Cola İçecek (CCI) is the sixth-largest bottler in the Coca-Cola System in terms of sales volume. CCI (2013) the age of 30 per-capita ($) beverages (L) beverages produces, distributes and sells sparkling and still beverages of The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) across CCI AT A GLANCE millions(2) (2013)3 (2013)(2) (2013)(4) (2013)(5) Azerbaijan, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Syria, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Turkey. Turkey 76,7(1) 50% 15.264 44 1 CCI employs 11,000 people and has a total of 23 plants, offering a wide range of beverages to a consumer base Pakistan 184,4 64% 3.144 17 2 of close to 370 million people. In addition to sparkling beverages, the product portfolio includes juices, waters, Kazakhstan 16,9 50% 14.133 38 1 sports and energy drinks, teas and iced teas. CCI’s shares are traded on Borsa Istanbul (BIST) under ticker Azerbaijan 9,7 49% 10.789 26 1(6) symbol “CCOLA.IS” while its American depositary receipts (ADRs) are traded over the counter in the United States Iraq 34,9 69% 7.132 43 2(7) under “COLAY” and its Eurobonds on the Irish Stock Exchange under “CCOLAT.” Jordan 6,6 65% 6.116 50 2(6) Turkmenistan 5,3 58% 9.669 36 1(6) 2012 2013 Kyrgyzstan 5,6 60% 2.533 23 1(6) Syria 21,6 63% 4.843(6) 13 Tajikistan 7,2 67% 2.337 8 2(6) Source: (1) TUIK, (2) IMF, (3) UN, (4) CCI and TCCC Estimation, (5) Nielsen, Sales Volume Sales Volume Increase (6) CCI Estimation, (7) Retail Zoom 1,057.7 unit cases 13.0% KAZAKHSTAN 0.9% 31.7% 13.0% TURKEY INTERNATIONAL CONSOLIDATED (unit cases) (unit cases) (unit cases) KYRGYZSTAN Net Sales Net Sales Increase 16.6% AZERBAIJAN 5,186.4 million TL TURKEY TURKMENISTAN TAJIKISTAN 5.6% 26.2% 16.6% TURKEY INTERNATIONAL CONSOLIDATED (million TL) (million USD) (million TL) SYRIA IRAQ EBIT EBIT Increase PAKISTAN 594.0 million TL 22.3% JORDAN 9.0% 53.5% 22.3% TURKEY INTERNATIONAL CONSOLIDATED (million TL) (million USD) (million TL) EBITDA EBITDA Increase Countries 10 Factories 23 892.1 million TL 22.2% Employees > 11,000 Customers > 650,000 10.2% 40.6% 22.2% TURKEY INTERNATIONAL CONSOLIDATED (million TL) (million USD) (million TL) Consumers > 370,000,000 Sales Points > 1,000,000 4 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 5 CCI’s Journey of Sustainability Quality and the Izmir plant as the Best Performing Plant for the • Ankara plant wins KalDer National Quality Achievement 2004 Environment. Award. • Izmir plant receives first • Turkey’s Hazar plant becomes • Publishes second CSR report HACCP TS 13001 Food Safety 2011 CCI’S JOURNEY OF SUSTAINABILITY The First Half of 2014 2013 operational. which includes Jordan and Quality Management System Kazakhstan operations and certification. • Turkey’s Ankara plant is • All plants in all operating countries • CCI’s fifth sustainability report is • Ankara plant receives KalDer becomes Turkey’s first GRI awarded as the Best Performing complete Top 10 Energy-Saving published in accordance with National Quality Award. GRI’s A+ application level. B-level report. 2003 Plant for Quality and CCI’s Challenge Program. • Jordan wins Occupational Health Izmir plant is awarded as the • Receives Ethics Award from and Safety Management Award. 2009 • Ankara plant wins TCCC Eurasia Best Performing Plant for the Ethical Values Center Association 2012 • Third CSR report is published Africa Group Presidency Quality Environment in 2014 TCCC (EDMER). and includes operations in • Places first in Accountability Award. • Recognized as one of the two EAG President’s Sustainability Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan, and Rating in Turkey. • Wins three prizes at 2013 TCCC top carbon performance leaders • Ankara plant receives first Awards. CCI’s Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan. • Signs the United Nations Global EAG President’s Sustainability of 2012 in Turkey by CDP. OHSAS 18001 Occupational Jordan and Azerbaijan plants Compact. Awards including the Best • Izmir and Mersin plants • Becomes a charter member of Health and Safety Management were finalists. Country Bottling Operation Grand complete the Top 10 Energythe Climate Change Leaders • Bursa plant receives 4-Star System certification. • Awarded the Grand Prize Prize, the Best Performing Plant Group. recognition for excellence. Saving Challenge of TCCC and in the ÇEVKO Green Dot for Quality, the Best Performing WWF. • Becomes Turkey’s first food 2002 Industry Awards which Plant for the Environment. company to participate in the 2008 • Named among the best • First environment policy is put in recognizes companies with • Announces its new Code of sustainable development Carbon Disclosure Project and environmentally-sustainable • Establishes CCI Corporate place. Ethics, Workplace Rights Policy practices representing Turkey one of the country’s five carbon practices. Governance Committee. • Receives first ISO 14001 and CCI Ethics Service. in the Rio+20 Innovation disclosure leaders. • CCI’s Corporate Governance • First CSR report is published and Environmental Management • Turkey receives ISO 14064-1 Competition. • Signs the 2° Communiqué Rating score as measured by becomes the first GRI-approved System certification. certificate. • Ankara plant takes EFQM’s against climate change. SAHA increased to 9.25 from CSR report in Turkey. 8.8 (as of 1 July 2014). • Becomes the first and the only “Taking Responsibility for a 1997 company in Turkey and within Sustainable Future” prize. 2010 2007 • Turkey’s Elazığ plant achieved • Mersin plant obtains first TCCC system to be included in the • Fourth CSR report is approved by LEED v2009 Gold Certificate in • Defines 2020 Vision and UN Global Compact 100 Index. • Implements 6 Sigma projects. ISO 9001 Quality Certificate the GRI as an A+ level report. Strategic Framework. the existing building category. and The Coca-Cola Quality • Named as one of Turkey’s • Places fifth place in • Turkey, Azerbaijan and Jordan • Izmir plant wins TCCC Eurasia • CCI's 2012 sustainability Accountability Rating in Turkey. System (TCCQS) Certificate of carbon disclosure and operations are among the finalists report is shortlisted in Ethical & Africa Group President’s Compliance. performance leaders by CDP in in TCCC Eurasia and Africa Corporation’s Responsible Environmental Award. its “Turkey 100 Climate Change Group President’s Sustainability 2006 Business Awards Best Report 2013.” • Wins TCCC Eurasia & Africa 1994 Awards. CCI Turkey wins Best • Ankara plant receives first Sustainability Report category in Group Environment Award for • Turkey is awarded a “Gender Country Bottling Operation Grand ISO 22000 Food Safety • Signs up to TCCC water usage July. Best Country Bottling Operations. Equality Certification” by Prize. Ankara plant recognized Quality Management System savings commitment. KAGIDER. as the Best Performing Plant for certification. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 6 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 7 Performance Highlights world Protecting the environment in 2013 3,972 3,972 employee-hours of environmental training was PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2013 provided to our employees in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, and Pakistan. Sustainability across the value chain Energy Efficiency & Climate Protection at Coolers 19.7 million Thanks to our OE (operational excellence) Program, we identified and implemented 168 OE projects and improvements that 57 % of all coolers in Turkey are By installing EMDs in our coolers in Turkey, Jordan, are worth about 19.7 million USD. USD HFC-Free coolers (81% of new purchases). Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, we prevented: 165,289 tons of CO emissions in 2013. 2 77 % 360,322 tons of CO emissions between 84% Average success rate for SGP (Supplier Guiding Principles) of our coolers 2 audits at suppliers was 84%. are equipped with EMD in Turkey, 2009-2013. Thanks to our eco-friendly coolers, 29 % in Kazakhstan, in 2013 we managed to prevent CO2 emissions equivalent to the amount of me Enhancing personal well-being 5 % in Jordan and CO2 that 13.8 million trees extract 0.5 % in Azerbaijan. annually from the environment. Consumer Well-Being Product Safety and Quality Energy Efficiency & Climate Protection at Plants 5,500 As CCI we submitted 17 projects to employees The Coca-Cola Company’s Quality & Food Safety from all Award. In 2013, we achieved total energy saving of 55,660,462 MJ through the countries of OE projects conducted at our plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan, Azerbaijan and operation Pakistan which is equal to 0.7 times the annual energy use of our Izmir plant. Through participated in Active, Healthy Living: the “Coca-Cola these savings we managed to prevent 5,670 tons of CO2 emissions equivalent to the Ambassador” Program kicked off in Turkey at 44 amount of CO2 that 472,500 trees extract annually from the environment. training programs. schools, inspiring 40,000 young people to be more physically active. Sustainable Packaging Water we Building stronger communities We started trial use of PlantBottle Between 2006-2013, we achieved a water use packaging for Damla in 2013 and reduction rate of plan its distribution in 2014 in Turkey. Workplace Community 19 % in Turkey We increased total waste recycling rate to 42 % in Jordan 81,453 employee-hours training was Donated 3% of our 96 % in Turkey, 94.7 % in Jordan, 21 % in Kazakhstan given, corresponding to 18.9 hours of training per pre-tax profits, equivalent employee. of TL 1.5 million, to The Anadolu 90.3 % in Kazakhstan and 99 % in Azerbaijan. 9 % in Azerbaijan Foundation. Sold 4.5 million returnable glass bottle in Turkey as of 2013. In 2013, we replenished in total We reduced the LTIR (Lost Time Incident Rate) from 0.89 to 0.55 1,500 unemployed Saved 29.4 tons of glass with returnable glass bottle in Turkey as of 2013. 665 million liters of water achieving a 38 % improvement. in Turkey, equal to the consumption women have Saved 2,607 tons of PET material in Turkey, been engaged of approximately 1,889 tons in Kazakhstan and 7,900 in the Coca-Cola 15,597 employee-hours OHS training, Belestery Program in 159.7 tons in Pakistan in 2013 through households. corresponding to 3.6 hours per employee. Kazakhstan. Lightweight Projects. Unless otherwise stated, the figures provided are related to the four countries of operation, namely Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. 8 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 9 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Management An integral part of CCI’s operational framework, Moreover, our employees are key enablers allowing CCI to integrate sustainability into its business practices. Our technical operators, in particular, play sustainability is managed together with our core a significant role in achieving “supply chain” and CCI 2020 Vision & Strategic Framework business strategy so as to be effectively deployed INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY “operational excellence” targets with improvements throughout every layer and level of the organization. they make in production processes by maintaining Be the outstanding beverage company leading the market, inspiring people, The CCI Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance maximum levels of operational efficiency, Vision adding value through excellence. Committee has ultimate responsibility for the maintenance, and quality while maintaining minimum determination and implementation of the levels of waste, energy and resource consumption, sustainability strategy. This responsibility is and environmental impact. We work to embed a Build a sustainable and profitable business by refreshing consumers, Mission partnering with customers, delivering superior value to shareholders and undertaken by the CCI Executive Committee, headed sustainability culture throughout CCI operations by by the CEO, and comprised of senior management. recognizing our employees through awards programs being trusted by communities. The fundamental role of the Executive Committee is to such as Innovation Competition and Community identify long-term sustainability targets and monitor Champions. Passion: We put our heart and mind into Building Blocks of our Culture: performance against those targets. CCI function Values what we do. • Trust in each other heads integrate sustainability targets (set by CCI Accountability: We act with a high sense • Focus on the customer Executive Committee) into their respective functional of responsibility and hold ourselves • Embrace your work objectives. accountable. • Inspire innovation Integrity: We are open, honest, and ethical, • Collaborate for success All CCI function heads play a critical role in making and we trust and respect each other. • Be agile sure that sustainability management is connected • Be participative to field operations. The strategic orientation and Teamwork: We collaborate for our objectives that emerge from upper level management collective success. • Enjoy working processes are conveyed to functional management in order to be transformed into field applications. CCI Target Fields Our Goals The CCI Corporate Affairs function is responsible for communicating sustainability targets and People and Organizational Build a highly capable organization and be the employer of choice. performance results. Leadership Commercial Leadership Profitably deliver superior value to consumers and customers at the optimal cost to serve. CCI’s Roadmap For Sustainability Reporting Supply Chain Be the best-in-class consumer demand fulfillment organization that exceeds customer We employed an external review committee to review CCI's Sustainability Report, and we aim to extend our expectations, highest in quality and lowest in cost, in a sustainable, socially-responsible reporting scope in terms of geographical operations starting with our 2014 report. manner. Operational Excellence Create a culture of Operational Excellence to support continuous improvement of our Materiality analysis Update of the Stakeholder panel Stakeholder business process and systems. to determine key materiality analysis to review CCI CSR Mapping workshop sustainability pillars 2011 Report Sustainability Ensure the long-term viability of our business by being proactive and innovative in protecting the environment and be recognized as one of the most responsible corporate citizens by all stakeholders. 2010 2011-2012 2013 2013 Our key strategies: 1. Embed sustainability in our culture to achieve our commitments Materiality analysis Review of sustainability Extend reporting scope Environment: Minimize our carbon footprint and water usage by reducing in line with GRI G4 report by an External in terms of operational packaging, water and energy. Report Review country Marketplace: Consistently provide the highest quality and food safety compliant Committee beverages. Workplace: Ensure a safe place to work, respecting human rights and be fully 2014 2014 2014-2015 compliant with workplace rights. Community: Make a difference in our local communities by encouraging employee volunteerism and by corporate involvement. 2. Develop all employees and business partners a desire to become proud ambassadors of our products and company. 10 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 11 Sustainability Approach Our sustainability framework – what we call “me, Materiality G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Stakeholder Reputation Survey we, world” – is our shared vision for how we can When deciding which issues to report on, we take At the end of 2013 and the beginning of 2014, we Based on CCI’s 2020 Vision and Strategic Framework, work together to create social value, enable positive into account issues that are material for our sector, conducted for the first time an extensive stakeholder sustainability is identified as one of the five main pillars change for the consumers and communities we our company, and our stakeholders. We derive the survey of our corporate reputation and perception that our company is built on. Our overall sustainability INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY serve, and help preserve our environment. While this contents of our report from a number of different by canvassing the opinions of more than 2,600 goal is “to ensure the long-term viability of our business framework was developed by TCCC, CCI has adapted stakeholder engagement initiatives as well as desktop people, including our managers, our white and blue by being proactive and innovative in environmental it to suit our needs. Under this framework, we have studies as explained below. We also make use of collar employees, national and local opinion leaders protection and to be recognized as one of the most identified nine material areas that we manage closely, GRI’s four Principles for Defining Report Content (from NGOs, academia and government agencies), responsible corporate citizens by all stakeholders.” which are listed in the table below. (Sustainability Context, Materiality, Stakeholder members of the local community and the neighboring In tandem with this approach, CCI’s sustainability Inclusiveness and Completeness) when developing facilities and residents of Turkey. strategy focuses on issues that are material for our The contents of our sustainability report reflect our the contents of our report. stakeholders as well as for our company. commitments and progress regarding these areas. A third-party independent market research company Using TCCC’s global sustainability framework as a conducted the survey – in line with the 2013 EFQM guide, we conducted a materiality analysis in 2010 in model – mainly through face-to-face interviews, CCI’s Sustainability Framework and Core Sustainability Areas order to identify our key sustainability pillars, and in and also though an online questionnaire. The 2011 we conducted various studies to update our list survey sought to measure the perception of our me Enhancing personal well-being of material issues. stakeholders regarding CCI’s performance on reducing environmental impact, social investment, workplace In February 2013, with the participation of key conditions, financial stability, product and service Product Safety and Quality: opinion leaders and participants from academia, We aim to maintain high safety and quality requirements of our products. quality, management quality and similar. In addition, civil society and government, we organized an we also asked opinion leaders to indicate sustainability Consumer Well-Being: external stakeholder panel with the aim of reviewing topics that they consider to be material to CCI. They We commit to offering low -or nocalorie beverage options in our markets; providing transparent our 2011 sustainability report to increase our overall nutrition information, featuring calories on the front of all of our packages. were also asked to provide their opinions about those environmental and reporting performance. Following issues of which CCI should take ownership. Some of Active, Healthy Living: the panel discussion, short-term, mid-term and longthe issues that were raised as important by more than We commit to helping people get moving by supporting physical activity programs. term goals were set for a number of sustainability one stakeholder group included water use, energy Responsible Marketing: issues. We implemented a number of the issues efficiency, product safety, and health and safety. We aim to market responsibly, including no advertising to children under 12. throughout 2013. The table below summarizes those issues on which we made progress in 2013: we Building stronger communities Main expectations expressed at the Our progress external stakeholder panel Workplace: We aim to provide a fair and safe working environment for our employees while implementing Including strategic suppliers’ We provided detailed information about how we support our strategic suppliers projects and programs that support personal and professional development. performance for environmental in their sustainability efforts. We are working with TCCC in order to develop performance in the report. tools and systems to measure the carbon footprints of our suppliers. There is Community: a plan to calculate product-based carbon footprints on a business unit level, We aim to support sustainable development in communities where we operate and contribute to including Turkey, throughout the TCCC system. We are investigating alternative the welfare of those who live in those communities. methodologies to calculate our Scope 3 emissions. In 2013, we estimated our Scope 3 emissions with regard to business travel and employee commuting, and we shared a few examples with regard to emissions of third-party fleets world Protecting the environment and suppliers. We plan to calculate in 2014 the energy and fleet-related Scope 3 emissions of our distributors. Energy Management And Climate Protection: We aim to reduce the amount of energy we consume, to minimize our carbon footprint, and Establishing an External Report Review We will receive an external committee review and implement its suggestions for to be a leading company in climate protection while working with key stakeholders including Committee. improvement in 2015. representatives of local communities, universities and governments. Water Management: Improve the communication of We began in our 2012 CSR report including graphics, and we continue to We aim to implement sustainable water management model key business strategy is based the report and design with better improve the design of our report. on and minimizing our water footprint as well as reducing the amount of per-product water we storytelling and easy-to-understand We prepared this report in compliance with GRI’s G4 standard at core level, consume in all operations. expressions. including using an easy-to-understand format. Sustainable Packaging: Start LCA and include a water footprint We will respond to the CDP Water Questionnaire in 2014. We aim to minimize the environmental impact of packaging and to increase the use of recycled analysis in the report. We are investigating methods to collect supplier data and methodologies to and bio-based materials. calculate our product-related carbon footprint. 12 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 13 The results of the survey indicate that CCI’s reputation analysis with our senior managers of various business Those issues listed in the top right corner of the management score is 75.3 out of a possible 100. Note functions. They shared not only their own opinions of matrix are material issues, relevant to most of that in order to make an objective comparison, this what is important for CCI but also the expectations our stakeholders and important for the success score does not include the opinion of our employees. of stakeholders with whom they are in continuous of our company. These issues have relatively high INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY When we include the opinions of our employees, communication. Before identifying the most material environmental, social or economic impact and CCI’s reputation management score increases to issues to report on, we conducted a stakeholder therefore are included in our priority list for managing 77.7. We scored higher than one of Turkey’s selected mapping exercise. To focus our reporting efforts, we and improving our performance. This report focuses benchmark companies, and we scored lower than identified those stakeholders who are more likely to on these material issues. two of the other competitors. read our report. Within the context of sustainability Issues that are important to some of our stakeholders, reporting, our key stakeholders in the order of Stakeholder Mapping Workshop or issues which we believe have less impact on our importance are: investors, NGOs, opinion leaders, CCI’s Corporate Affairs team, with the participation business, are listed in the middle of the materiality shareholders, financial institutions, our employees, of managers of key business functions, was matrix. We actively monitor and manage these issues and TCCC system. In the second part of the workshop, responsible for identifying key stakeholders and and communicate our actions and performance we assessed a long list of issues regarding their devising engagement plans in 2013. In this capacity, through different media, including our sustainability relevance and importance for our stakeholders as a comprehensive stakeholder-mapping workshop reports. well as regarding their impact for our business. The was held with the participation of all CCI Turkey list contained issues of the GRI G4 Guidelines and The left bottom corner of the materiality matrix business units, HQ, plants, and the commercial team. issues that reflect broad-based societal expectations, includes the list of issues that we have assessed Stakeholder Engagement G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, AccountAbility’s AA1000 SES Standard and the EFQM especially in relation to a company operating in but do not find material enough to report our G4-27 Business Excellence Model were utilized in mapping the food and beverage sector. The results of the performance on in this report. These issues are At CCI, we believe in the importance of stakeholder and prioritizing our stakeholders. In this workshop, we materiality analysis conducted with managers were less material to our stakeholders but are still being participation in running our business. We aim updated the engagement methods and the frequency also assessed against the results of the corporate monitored and/or managed by CCI. to develop long-term relationships with our of engagement with our key stakeholders. reputation survey. Based on the evaluations, a final stakeholders. By holding open dialogues and G4 Materiality Analysis G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 materiality matrix was developed and is illustrated Aspect Boundaries G4-20 maintaining transparency in all our dealings, At the beginning of 2014, we conducted a materiality below. During the materiality analysis we conducted with we foster a participative environment where our the senior managers, we assessed the issues stakeholders are encouraged to engage in the not only for our own operations, but also for the High • Product Quality management of our business. We conduct our operations of other stakeholders in the supply chain, • Consumer Health and Safety and Well-Being stakeholder engagement efforts within the framework namely suppliers, distributors and customers. While • Occupational Health and Safety of international principles and standards such as conducting this assessment, we took into account • Energy Efficiency and GHG Emissions AA1000 Accountability Principles. We inform our our influence on the issue. For example, energy Influence on Stakeholder Assessment and Decision • Packaging and Waste stakeholders about our sustainability efforts through • Water (Use & Wastewater) efficiency and GHG emissions are important both for various communication channels, including our • Corporate Governance • Compliance our own operations and for our customers. We help • Anti-competitive Behavior • Business Ethics website and annual sustainability reports. our customers to reduce their energy consumption • Economic Performance • Supplier and Distributor Assessment Through a stakeholder mapping and prioritizing by offering them energy-efficient coolers. Another • (Raw) Materials Sourcing • Indirect Economic Impact exercise within the context of sustainability reporting, area where we have direct influence is the health and • Transport • Diversity and Equal Opportunity we identified our key stakeholders as: investors, • Labor Conditions • Community Engagement safety performance of our contractors. We actively NGO’s, opinion leaders, shareholders, financial • Lobbying • Child Labor and Forced Labor manage and closely monitor both of these issues. In institutions, our employees and the TCCC system. • Biodiversity • Training and Education addition, there are other issues where we do not have • Customer Privacy • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining For business continuity, we also engage regularly direct influence, such as those issues managed by • Indigenous Rights • Enviromental, Human Rights and Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms and intensively with other stakeholders including our TCCC. For example, child labor and biodiversity during • Security Practices distributors, customers and suppliers. agricultural operations of our suppliers are managed • (Human Rights) Assessment • Investment and Procurement Practices by TCCC through Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP) • Equal Remuneration for women and men audits conducted by third parties. Detailed information • Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society is available on page 21. In the matrix on the previous • Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society page, the issues that are also material for our • Financial Assistance Received from Governments Low supply chain and where we have influence have been indicated in red. Information on our efforts and performance on these issues are also available in this 4.0 4.6 report. Low Significance of Environmental, Social and Economic Impact High NOTE: The issues that are highlighted in red are also material for our supply chain. NOTE: The issues given in the quadrants above are not listed in terms of importance. 14 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 15 CCI's Stakeholder Engagement Platforms G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Frequency of Examples of issues that were Stakeholders Dialog Platform Frequency of Examples of issues that were engagement brought up by stakeholders in 2013 engagement brought up by stakeholders in 2013 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Investors Annual report, investor conferences, analyst Regularly and CCI’s financial and operational Local Stakeholder Survey Annual • CCI’s operational, environmental, meetings, investor presentation, webcast, often performance, future investment plans. community and quality and community related Investor Relations department, e-mail Example: We expect to be included in performance. distributions, special case announcements, the BIST Sustainability Index. • Sponsorship and donation requests Public Disclosure Platform, direct feedback forms through CCI’s corporate website, Public Information for contribution to sector Annual • CCI’s operational, environmental, sustainability report, Carbon Disclosure Institutions and development, full compliance with the reputation and quality and community related Project report Organizations laws and regulations, support regarding survey, regular performance, compliance with infrastructure investments, Reputation meetings regulations. NGOs Project partnerships, corporate and Regular CCI’s operational, environmental, Survey, Environment Days, Presentations. • Expertise sharing in public employee memberships, participation in quality and community-related conference. conferences and presentations, Reputation performance, transparency and Survey, Stakeholder Panel reporting. Union Union representation, collective labor Regular • Human rights agreements, representative meetings, plant Opinion leaders Reputation Survey, sustainability report, Regular CCI’s operational, environmental, visits. External Stakeholder Review Committee quality and community related performance. Consumers Coca-Cola Social Interaction Center, Regular • Product quality, consumer Example: We are expected to respond informative publications, plant visits, product satisfaction, promotion campaigns. to the Water Disclosure Project’s labels. questionnaire. Sector Groups Corporate memberships, joint projects, Regular • Industry wide issues, regulations, Shareholders General Assemblies, website, Public Regular Financial and operational participation in meetings. compliance with regulations, Disclosure Platform (PDP) performance and reporting. sustainability initiative. • Benchmark visits in the plants. Employees Employee Engagement and Satisfaction Regular Business results, environmental Survey Newsline, Newsletter, CokePort, performance, community projects, Society Coca-Cola “I Wonder” Platform, donations, Regular • Products, marketing and promotion 2020 Vision (CCI Turkey Magazine), press awards & recognitions, compensation plant visits, voluntary practices, product campaigns, product ingredients. reports, CCI training programs, leadership and benefit topics, training & labels, advertisement and marketing • Plant tour and visit requests. development trainings, sales incentive development, performance activities, social engagement projects, programs, Reputation Surveys, CCI evaluation. field studies, meetings, survey and eliciting Community Champions, Reputation Survey Example: In the 2013 Reputation opinions, sustainability reports. Survey, one improvement area was identified as “supporting more sportive Periodical information, statements, support Regular • Products, marketing and promotion and healthy life activities at CCI.” Media programs, regular visits, plant visits, campaigns, product ingredients. Reputation Survey. • Sustainability performance and TCCC System Regular meetings and TCCC’s Sustainability Regularly, very Global 2020 Sustainability Goals were community support. & Public Affairs & Communication Summits often shared. A carbon footprint calculation pilot study was presented. Our Corporate Memberships Distributors/ Distributor satisfaction survey, distributor Periodic Business performance, commercial CCI continued in 2013 to be a member of the following NGOs: Sellers meetings, process improvement studies, plans, training & development, regular visits, training programs, plant visits, engagement scores. • ÇEVKO (Environmental Protection and Packaging • TOBB (The Union of Chambers and Commodity distributor portal, CCI Call Center Waste Recovery and Recycling Trust) Exchanges of Turkey) • TÜSİAD (Turkish Industry and Business Association) • TGDF (Federation of Food and Drink Industry Customers Trainings, support programs, regular visits, Periodic Business performance, commercial Associations of Turkey) • YASED (International Investors Association) plant visits, Coca-Cola Customer Road plans, products, marketing plans.. • MEDER (Beverage Industry Association) • Brand Protection Group Show, Customer Satisfaction Survey, CCI Call Center, focus group studies. • KALDER (Turkish Quality Association) By taking part in business NGOs and sector NGOs, • DEİK (Foreign Economic Relations Board) we follow reputational and regulation related topics. Suppliers Training programs, improvement audits, Regular Quality of the materials and services, Additionally, as one of the founding members and • SUDER (Packed Water Manufacturers Association) plant visits, supplier days, supplier future plans, strategic initiatives, steering committee members of ÇEVKO, we plan to • MEYED (Fruit Juice Industry Association) initiate a partnership on environmental awareness in the performance scores, supplier surveys, business performance, sustainability, cooperation portal, Green Supplier Awards, workplace rights. • TEİD (Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society) near future. industrial development and pilot activities. • TÜYİD (Investor Relations Association) 16 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 00 17 External Recognition CCI is Included in the United Nations Global SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE Compact 100 Index CCI became the first and the only VALUE CHAIN company in Turkey and within the Coca-Cola system to be included TCCC sources ingredients, and manufactures and from the “strategic suppliers” selected and authorized in the United Nations Global sells concentrates, beverage bases and syrups to by the TCCC. Compact 100 Index (GC 100), a new bottling operations, including CCI. TCCC owns the stock index of companies selected Meeting the expectations of our stakeholders at brands and is responsible for consumer brand based on their adherence to the every level of our business is our top priority. With this marketing initiatives. Global Compact’s ten principles as well as evidence understanding, we give great importance to quality of executive leadership commitment and consistent As one of the 250 bottling partners of the TCCC in every stage of our business – from procuring raw base-line profitability. Among nearly 8,000 members worldwide, CCI manufactures, packages, materials to marketing finished products. Therefore, of the Global Compact, 713 companies were merchandises and distributes the final branded we work in compliance with universal rules of the considered and assessed worldwide for the index beverages to our customers who then sell our TCCC system and consider regional characteristics and 100 were selected. The GC 100 tracks the threeproducts to consumers. We work closely with our of the geographic areas in which we operate. We year stock market performance of these companies, more than 650,000 customers and more than 300 expect our business partners, namely our suppliers comparing the results against the broad market TCCC Sustainability Awards distributors in the 10 countries where we operate. and distributors, to comply with the TCCC Standards benchmark FTSE All-World. The data for total returns More than 370 million consumers enjoy our products. and engage only with those that display the best TCCC Eurasia and Africa Group President’s shows that there appears to be a correlation between We purchase ingredients and packaging material environmental, social and economic performances. Sustainability Awards for 2014 were held in Istanbul a commitment to corporate sustainability practices in June. This year, our Azerbaijan, Jordan and and stock performance. Kazakhstan operations were among the 10 finalists CCI's Value Chain selected from a pool of 92 Eurasian and African countries competing for the Best Country Bottling Operation Grand Prize. Finalists are selected based on their performances in product safety & quality, environmental standards, occupational safety requirements, and contribution to society. CCI’s AGRICULTURAL PACKAGING Ankara and Izmir plants in Turkey repeated their INGREDIENTS successes from last year, with Ankara being awarded as the Best Performing Plant for Quality and Izmir as the Best Performing Plant for the Environment. CDP ENJOYING BY CCI was recognized as one of Initiatives We Are Signatories To CONSUMERS MANUFACTURING Turkey’s carbon disclosure and • CDP performance leaders by the • United Nations Global Compact CDP in its “Turkey 100 Climate • Turkish Climate Platform – Turkish Climate Change Change Report 2013.” As many as 4,000 companies Leaders Group around the world participate in the CDP each year, • The 2°C Challenge Communiqué of the Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group with 36 companies participating in Turkey in 2013. The four top-ranking of CDP participant companies were • Equality at Work Platform established by the Ministry of Family and Social Policies of Turkey declared as carbon disclosure leaders in Turkey while within the scope of the World Economic Forum: the seven companies with the highest performance REFRIGERATION LOGISTICS AND Closing Gender Equality Gap Program. TRANSPORT rating were selected as performance leaders. CCI was also awarded as one of Turkey’s top two carbon performance leaders in 2012 and cited among Turkey’s top five carbon disclosure leaders in 2011. CUSTOMERS DISTRIBUTORS 18 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 19 Goals & Commitments Our Suppliers these assessments include confidential interviews with employees and on-site contract workers. If a supplier Our suppliers are our business partners who provide Priority Areas 2013 Goals Performance in 2013 Status Commitments for 2014 fails to uphold any aspect of the SGP requirements, us with materials (including ingredients), packaging, that supplier is expected to implement corrective machinery, and other goods and services. SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN Our To conduct a “Supplier We conducted for the first A To conduct a Supplier actions. TCCC reserves the right to terminate an Suppliers Satisfaction Survey” within the time a Supplier Satisfaction Satisfaction Survey in 2015. agreement with any supplier that cannot demonstrate Most of our products are produced with concentrates scope of C4E. Survey where our supplied by the TCCC. Our strategic suppliers are that they are upholding the SGP requirements. suppliers evaluated CCI’s performance. those which are authorized suppliers of TCCC, Of the 43 direct suppliers in Turkey who were audited supplying sugar, juices, and carbon dioxide that in 2013 for compliance with SGP, 88% of them To attain a success rate The success rate was 84% To attain a success rate of make up our products. Our packaging materials – A passed without any major issues, such as concerning of 84% for the SGP audits for these four countries. 88% for the SGP audits in aluminum, PET plastic, corrugated cardboard and overtime. In Kazakhstan, Jordan and Azerbaijan, 12 in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan shrink wrap – are also provided by these strategic Kazakhstan, Jordan. and Azerbaijan. direct suppliers were audited with a success rate suppliers. of 67%. Overall, the average success rate for SGP Our To continue to develop the In 2013 we conducted three A To continue conducting Materials Used audits of suppliers in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Jordan and Distributors capabilities of our distributors. specific “Distributor Business training programmes for The key materials that form our products fall under Kazakhstan was 84%. For identified issues, an action Development” trainings our distributors. two broad categories, namely packaging materials plan for remediation was sent and follow-up visits will aimed at owners, sales be organized. and ingredients. Ingredients are renewable materials representatives and all such as concentrate and beverage base, sugar and employees of distributors. CO2. Packaging materials can be either renewable Supplier Satisfaction Survey Our To improve our customer We measured and analyzed To achieve a customer or non-renewable and include steel crowns, PE O In line with our 2020 Vision and within the Customers satisfaction and service gaps between customer satisfaction performance closure, PET preform and resin, glass, aseptic carton framework of our C4E Program, we conducted levels. expectations and current score which is higher than packaging, aluminum cans, can ends and more. levels of service. Then, the average score of our a supplier satisfaction survey for the first time Once a product is bottled, it is shrink wrapped in we focused on improving competitors. in 2013. Our overall goal with the survey was plastic for transportation. In some cases plastic specific areas of service. to improve collaboration with our suppliers by crates and wooden pallets are used. (Please see creating a platform where we can learn their “Performance Indicators” section for a detailed Our To continue implementing the We included for the first time To continue involving our opinions and welcome their suggestions for a A “Materials Used” table.) Operations OE Model. our distributors in an OE distributors in new OE better and more effective business relationship. project. projects. Supplier Guiding Principles More specifically, we aimed at identifying Our Workplace Rights Policy (WRP) and Supplier reciprocal improvement areas and to take To launch the C4E Program We developed an action A To implement the Guiding Principles (SGP) communicate our values actions to improve these areas. Our suppliers in Turkey aimed at reviewing, plan for “Sales Force “Sales Force Capability redefining and improving our Capability Development” Development” program and and expectations of suppliers. Furthermore, they assessed CCI under four categories: Tendering processes to better align our program. increase the organizational emphasize the importance of responsible workplace and Order Management, Payments, Approach, management system with the capability in our countries practices that respect human rights and comply, at and Communication. We have been conducting EFQM Model. of operation. a minimum, with applicable environmental and local supplier assessments for many years, but this labor laws along with core international conventions. was the first time where our suppliers had the To prepare our Turkey We implemented the A To receive external EFQM These laws and regulations include, among others, chance to assess us. plants for external EFQM objectives defined under the assessments at two of those that address working hours, compensation, assessments. C4E Program at our Turkey our plants in Turkey and We achieved an overall score of 84%, and we working conditions and the rights of employees to plants to prepare them for to apply for the Kalder see this as an indication that our suppliers external EFQM assessments. National Quality Award. choose whether to be represented by third parties and to bargain collectively. are mainly satisfied with CCI. For those areas identified as requiring improvement, we have A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved Our SGP are a part of all agreements between TCCC already begun taking action. We aim to conduct and its direct and authorized suppliers. We expect this survey every two years to measure the our suppliers to develop and implement appropriate strength of collaboration with our suppliers and internal business processes to ensure compliance to improve our already existing strong business with the SGP. TCCC routinely utilizes independent third relationship with them. parties to assess supplier compliance with the SGP; 20 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 21 Supplier Compliance With Standards that we use while conducting audits. This checklist is In 2014, we aim to increase the number of participants TCCC’s Green Supplier Awards Just as our plants are required to hold one of the based on the Coca-Cola Company’s Management in these capability-building programs in 2014. We work collaboratively with our suppliers to certificates recognized by the Global Food Safety System (TCCMS) and contains requirements on To evaluate the satisfaction level of our distributors, foster innovative practices and attain sustainable Initiative (GFSI), so are our strategic suppliers. health and safety, requirements for warehousing a third-party service provider conducts a Distributor SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN solutions. The Coca-Cola Green Supplier Awards Therefore regarding food safety, all our authorized and technological infrastructure. We conduct regular Satisfaction Survey including an evaluation of our serve this aim while inspiring and motivating us strategic suppliers hold a relevant and current audits for our distributor. The scores of the audits are company image. The results of these surveys for the towards our 2020 Vision. certificate such as FSSC 22000. Suppliers that hold evaluated together with the customer satisfaction last three years are provided in the table below. FSSC 22000 certificate are also required to have ISO survey results, and both of them contribute to the In 2013 we launched the Green Supplier 9001 Quality Management Systems in place. result of the “Distributor Service Quality Assessment.” Awards in Turkey where our suppliers are Distributor 2011 2012 2013 recognized and awarded for their exemplary To improve our business relations with our Satisfaction Survey work in the fields of water stewardship, Environmental and Health and Safety distributors, we engage with them on different Satisfaction Score 76.0 83.8 84.0 energy management, waste management, Certificates of Our Suppliers: platforms such as our Customer Interaction Center, Distributor Business Development Projects Company Image 81.6 89.2 88.4 and innovation across the value chain. Seven • 80% of the plants of our strategic suppliers distinguished jury members, each of them are have been awarded a certificate for ISO 14001 and Distributor Engagement Surveys where we subject matter expert in their areas, assessed 21 Environmental Management System. learn about their needs, wishes, and complaints. applications in detail and named the winners. Throughout 2013, we focused on the Distributor Our Customers • 65% of the plants of our strategic suppliers We plan to conduct the next Green Supplier Business Development Projects, holding meetings Our customers – supermarkets, restaurants, have been awarded a certificate for OHSAS Awards in 2015. with our distributors to find out from them “what can convenience stores, hotels, and other retail outlets 18001 Health and Safety Management System. CCI do better for you?”. After collecting the responses, – totaled approximately 650,000 in 2013 in all CCI Note: This data refers to the 20 plants of our top 10 strategic suppliers who we developed action plans. countries of operation. We have access to more than supply us with packaging materials and ingredients. one million retail points of sale. We use promotional campaigns and event-based Contribution to Local Economy marketing activities to promote customer relations. At CCI, we are committed to making direct and indirect contributions to local economies where we carry out our We continue to invest in coolers to help our operations. The proportion of spending on local suppliers (within the same country) for raw materials is provided consumers gain access to cooled products, and we in the table below. In Jordan we switched to local suppliers for sugar, can and preform in 2013, which resulted in conduct development programs and quality system an increased percentage. inspections for our customers. CCI Customer Engagement Studies Local Procurement % Turkey* Jordan** Kazakhstan*** Azerbaijan*** Increasing the level of satisfaction amongst our 2013 96 68 17 48 customers is a key factor in achieving our 2020 Vision 2012 96 20 12 41 In 2013, we developed projects under the three objectives. We aim to develop strategies that focus broad categories: People, Business Support, and on maximizing customer satisfaction. To this end, we * Concentrate is not included. ** In Jordan we switched to local suppliers for sugar, can and preform in 2013, which resulted in an increased percentage. Technology. Under the “Technology” category, we apply a holistic approach to customer engagement. *** There are no approved suppliers in these local markets for some product and service categories. developed a Distributor Portal whereby distributors In countries such as Turkey where we have strong have access to all business-related documents and distributor channels, we include evaluations of our Our Distributors our sales teams. These sustainable and long-term financial statements. It is a unique share point for CCI distributors’ customers in our customer engagement relationships benefit us in many ways, including 100% and our distributors, creating the possibility for online studies. With this approach we create the chance Distributors are our main business partners and, as market sales monitoring. communication with logistics and financial advisors. to broadly assess the level of satisfaction and such, they play a critical role in our sales operations. As per the end of 2013, we work with 302 distributors Under this platform, our distributors can also share learn about the expectations of our customers. The Consequently, we focus on developing their in Turkey. Distributors are our strategic business their best practices with their peers. results of these engagement surveys help us identify capabilities and satisfying their business needs. In partners and we share our know-how and expertise improvement areas against which we develop action Turkey we work heavily with distributors, while in our Another initiative we developed within the “People” with them. We support them in building the same plans. An independent research company conducts countries of operation where distributor networks are dimension of the Distributor Business Development high-quality systems at their end. Our overall goal is to these surveys by telephone, questionnaires and facenot common, we work with 3rd party partners. Project is a series of capacity-building trainings which bring our business partners up to our standards while to-face meetings. In Turkey we conduct around 75% of our we provide to the owners and employees of our we hand over to them our distribution responsibilities. distributors. In 2013, we provided a three-hour training To engage with our customers, we use the following: distribution operations through our distributors. The responsibilities of our distributors include In 2005 we developed a Distributor Handbook, program, “It’s Your Turn,” to around 2,142 employees • Annual Customer Satisfaction Surveys warehousing, order taking, distribution, invoicing and which explains in detail the minimum requirements of our distributors. Other training programs we • Quarterly Distributor Customer Satisfaction Surveys collection. Some of our distributors even generate according to our standards. We provided training to developed include the Turkish Sales Academy in which • Annual Distributor Satisfaction Surveys orders and conduct merchandising and account their employees on the main topics included in the 156 distributor chiefs participated, and our Campus • Focus Groups with Customers management activities, working in tandem with Handbook. In addition, we also developed a checklist 2020 program aimed at 104 owners of our distributors. 22 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 23 Customer Satisfaction Survey in 2013 we developed an action plan for the “Sales methodologies. We have continued to train our International Operations 2012 CCI Turkey conducts customer satisfaction surveys Force Capability Development” program which we employees on the OE Model since 2008. In 2013, Satisfaction Survey every year. In Azerbaijan, Jordan and Kazakhstan, will implement in 2014. The aim of this program is to 25 Green Belt and 60 Yellow Belt Certifications customer satisfaction surveys were conducted for the Kazakhstan Satisfaction Score 9.1 increase the organizational capability in our countries were achieved for joining the ranks of continuous SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN first time in 2012 and for the second time in 2013. We Company Image 9.4 of operation. improvement in Turkey. Moreover, 100 OE Projects have hundreds of thousands of customers, so in order Azerbaijan Satisfaction Score 8.2 out of 114 were successfully implemented with Operational Excellence to obtain representative results it is important that Company Image 8.2 the participation of more than 300 employees. In line with CCI 2020 Vision, one of our target fields is we reach a large number of customers during these Jordan Satisfaction Score 7.9 Approximately 50% of 100 realized OE projects were “Operational Excellence” where we defined our target surveys. Company Image 7.9 developed at our production plants. As a result of as “to create a culture of Operational Excellence to the completed OE projects in 2013 in Turkey, we As a result of the surveys, we are able to evaluate our Note: The results are based on 10 points. support continuous improvement of our business Note: Survey results of 2013 will become available in the last quarter of 2014. expect to save $ 13 million per year in coming years. company image, sales performance, supply chain, process and systems.” Operational Excellence (OE) is The completed OE projects in Jordan, Azerbaijan marketing, finance, and trade promotion. In the CCI also the name of our model that we have integrated Turkey survey, customers were also asked to rate Our Operations into our quality systems and apply to all our functions. and Kazakhstan resulted in savings of $ 6.7 million per year. Since introducing our OE Model, we have how environmentally and socially responsible CCI is. CCI conducts bottling (manufacturing) and distribution The focus of the OE Model is to maximize quality and implemented a total of 622 projects in Turkey, Jordan, In addition, customers were also asked to evaluate operations in 23 plants in 10 countries. We place great efficiency while minimizing failure and waste. Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Pakistan, and we have the performance of eight other fast moving consumer importance on continuous development, which is key Our OE Model was developed using Lean Six Sigma received 425 certifications. goods (FMCG) companies for the same categories for the sustainability of our company. We implement as for CCI’s. The average result of these companies various excellence models both at the corporate as was 62, where CCI’s overall score is higher than this well as plant level. 2008 2013 Goal (Cumulative) 2013 Actual 2020 Projected average. The results of these surveys indicate that our (Cumulative since 2008) (Cumulative since 2008) customers believe we are the market leader in this CCI’s Journey to Excellence field. To reach our 2020 Vision of “Being the outstanding 6 Projects 362 Projects 390 Projects 1,200 Projects beverage company, leading the market, inspiring 42 Certifications 321 Certifications 310 Certifications 1,320 Certifications people, and adding value through excellence,” our $ 1.2 million per year saving $ 34.3 million per year saving $ 39.3 million per year saving $ 110 million per year saving Turkey Operations Satisfaction Survey * 2013 Turkey operations initiated a comprehensive program Note: These figures correspond to our Turkey operations. Overall Performance (satisfaction x importance) 64 in 2012 called “Change for Excellence (C4E).” We Overall Loyalty Score ** 61 believe that only a holistic and systematic business excellence approach can bring us closer to our 2020 Distribution of OE Projects Implemented in 2013 Note: The results are based on 100 points. Vision. Therefore, we based the program on an Thanks to our OE projects in 2013, we * Average index score consists of 8 questions. managed to identify and implement Countries Actual Number of Number of ** CCI Turkey’s 2013 survey results can not be compared with the 2012 results all-encompassing 2013 EFQM Business Excellence Wave Certifications Projects since a different methodology was used during the 2013 research. Model which helps companies achieve and sustain improvements worth approximately $19.7 outstanding levels of performance that meet or million in the four operating countries. Kazakhstan 4th wave 0 7 International Operations Satisfaction Survey exceed the expectations of their stakeholders. Azerbaijan 3 wave rd 5 10 With the help of the International Operations Jordan 3 wave rd 8 28 In 2012 we conducted the first phase of the C4E Satisfaction Survey, we aim to determine the level of Pakistan 2 wave nd 31 62 Program where we defined our strategic priorities OE Projects involving our distributors satisfaction in traditional off-trade sales points and Turkey 7th wave 85 100 and goals with the help of the EFQM Excellence In 2013, for the first time, we included our to reveal to what extent expectations have been met TOTAL 129 207 Model, aligning it with the goals of our 2020 Strategic distributors in one of our OE Projects. Nine by measuring satisfaction levels in terms of these Management Framework. distributors participated in the “Improving criteria. The survey’s main criteria are company Customer Satisfaction” project which was image, consumer promotion, sales team, commercial With the C4E Program, we aim to define clearly conducted by our Elazığ Plant in Turkey. The support, order & delivery, and portfolio. We the CCI way of doing business and also to identify project leader gave training to about 265 determine our improvement areas in line with these features of our corporate culture, taking into account distributor employees on “OE 8 Waste.” The criteria. During this survey, face-to-face interviews the expectations and needs of our stakeholders. We distributor employees conducted 18 quick are conducted with the person responsible for are in the process of reviewing and redesigning our win projects in their facilities and received procurement as per lists provided by CCI International business operations. For each of the CCI target fields, a certificate of attendance at the end of the Operations. A separate survey is conducted for each such as “people and organizational leadership,” and training. We aim to spread “OE 8 Waste” training CCI operating country. We work with a third party to “supply chain,” we aim to identify action plans and to other distributors in 2014. analyze survey results. set them in motion in the coming years. For example, 24 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 25 Standards and Policies CCI Plant Certification as “Improvement” in the Maturity Continuum. At our plants, we implement a number of external All our plants in in Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Furthermore, one plant, Ankara, advanced during the standards and internal policies to achieve high and Turkey hold the following certificates: ISO 9001, reporting period to reach “Excellence,” one of only three environmental, social and ethics performance. We ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and FSSC 22000 Standards. plants in the worldwide Coca-Cola system. SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN ensure consistent safety and quality of products Moreover, all our Turkish plants, including our new Our plants in Turkey progressed in TCCC’s Maturity through compliance with applicable regulations and Hazar plant, sales operation and offices are certified Continuum in part because they applied a selfstandards. against ISO 50001 Energy Management System & ISO assessment methodology according to the EFQM 14064-1 GHG Standard (specification with guidance at In the Coca-Cola System, the set of Coca-Cola Excellence Model. The EFQM approach helped us the organization level for quantification and reporting operating requirements known as KORE governs not only to identify our strengths and improvement of greenhouse gas emissions and removals). With food safety and quality, environment, and health areas but also to put action plans in place. With the exception of Azerbaijan, all our plants where we and safety areas. The system is consistent with the self-assessment, we gained a holistic overview of our produce preforms (namely Ankara, Çorlu, Sapanca external standards and principles listed in the table production operations. Next year we aim to further and Kazakhstan), hold PAS 223 Packaging certificates. below. All our production processes operate in improve our plants so that they progress along the Our plant in Azerbaijan is expected to obtain the PAS accordance with the requirements of these standards, Maturity Continuum. 223 Packaging certificate in 2014. and required audits are conducted annually. Continuous Improvement and Excellence at Turkey Plants Issue External Standards / Principles Internal Policies All our plants are assessed and audited regularly by Environmental Management ISO 14001 CCI Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) TCCC for their compliance with KORE requirements, Policy, TCCC HSE Policy their possession of relevant, applicable certifications, and their engagement with approved excellence Water Management ISO 14001 KORE EOSH Requirements programs. The results of these assessments are consolidated into a “Maturity Continuum,” consisting Energy Management & Carbon ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 14064-1, GHG KORE EOSH Requirements of five categories: Risk, Compliance, Process, Emissions Protocol Improvement, and Excellence. Every plant in the Sustainable Packaging & ISO 14001, PAS223 KORE EOSH Requirements TCCC system is categorized according to the Maturity Waste Management Continuum based on their progress towards these requirements. Quality Management ISO 9001, EFQM Business Excellence KORE – OE (Production Process) Model, 6 Sigma Over the reporting period, five CCI plants moved forward from “Process” to “Improvement,” meaning that Product Quality & Safety ISO 9001, ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, GFSI (*) KORE at the end of 2013, seven CCI plants were categorized Marketing Responsibly TCCC Responsible Marketing Policy CCI Turkey’s Quality Award Journey The Global School Beverage Guideline Occupational Health & Safety OHSAS 18001 KORE EOSH (**) Requirements 2009 2010 2010 2012 2014 Goal Bursa Plant: Ankara Plant: HQ and Çorlu plant: Ankara plant: Two plants to apply Anti-corruption UNGC Ethics Code, Workplace Rights Policy 4-Star Recognition National Recognition for EFQM prize for EFQM National for Excellence Quality Prize Excellence 5-Star Quality Award Community Involvement UNGC TCCC’s Policy Ankara plant: National Quality Sustainable Supply Chain UNGC Supplier Guiding Principles Award Overall UN Global Compact, GRI Code of Business Conduct, KORE * GFSI: Global Food Safety Initiative ** EOSH: Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health 26 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 27 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance CCI conducts all of its operations within the framework Risk Management CCI’s management has the ownership of the Risk of existing laws and regulations including the Turkish Management and Internal Control System, where Goals & Commitments Capital Markets Board’s (CMB) Corporate Governance Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), which directly GOVERNANCE Principles. In line with these Principles, we publish an reports to Early Risk Detection Committee, acts as a Priority Areas 2013 Goals Progress made in 2013 Status Commitments for 2014 annual Corporate Governance Compliance Report facilitator and provides assurance and consultancy that includes information corresponding to each item services in these areas. Risk To establish a Corporate CCI’s Risk Management A To monitor action plans that Management Risk Department to further Department was established were prepared as a result of the Corporate Governance Principles. Upon a resolution of the Board dated June 2013, review corporate policies in 2013. In addition, risk of risk evaluation. and procedures with a risk evaluation was carried Corporate governance at CCI relates to our relations the Risk Detection Committee was established. The management perspective. out and action plans were with shareholders and investors, our public mission of CCI’s Risk Detection Committee is to work developed. disclosure and transparency policy, our relations with on early determination of risks that will endanger the To share the best risk-related Best practices are shared To share best practices with stakeholders and the roles, responsibilities and rights presence, growth, continuity of the Company, to apply O practices in CCI and The within CCI and TCCC. other bottlers in September of the Board of Directors. due precautions regarding the determined risks and CocaCola System. during the Coca-Cola to work to manage the risks. System Enterprise Risk Board of Directors Management (ERM) CCI is managed and represented by a Board of Under the ERM framework, CCI’s top management Exchange. Directors comprised of twelve members elected by the determines important opportunities and threats To bring about increased risk Enterprise Risk Management No new target. General Assembly. Four directors are independent; and manages them according to the Company’s A awareness in CCI countries (ERM) trainings are realized seven of them are non-executive members including risk appetite. ERM, developed for the aim of via trainings and workshops. with top management and the chairperson. CCI’s CEO is also a member of the determining CCI business strategies, is a systematic their direct reports. Board. Currently, there is no female Board member. and disciplined process consisting of all company Business To implement the “Incident IMCR Validation Program P To complete IMCR processes and implemented by all employees. Continuity Management and Crisis was completed in validation in Turkey, The Board Members are elected for one-year terms Resolution (IMCR)” Validation Kazakhstan. Pakistan, Jordan & at Ordinary General Assembly meetings, the last of We identify our risks under seven main pillars Program in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. which was held on May 2013 to officiate until the 2014 including sustainability and supply chain. In 2013 Jordan and deliver IMCR training in Azerbaijan. To provide IMCR trainings Ordinary General Assembly Meeting which is to be we formed our ERM system in line with these pillars. to country executive held to discuss the results of the 2013 activity year. Every CCI manager who is authorized to access the committee members ERM system can rank these risks considering their in Turkey, Azerbaijan, There are three committees under the CCI’s Board Kazakhstan and Jordan. pillar. Some of main topics that are evaluated under of Directors: Audit, Corporate Governance, and Risk our sustainability pillar include energy and climate Business Ethics To publish a revised We updated our Ethics No new target. Detection. All members of the Audit Committee A change, community relations, and hazard loss. Issues Ethics Code which will be Code in April 2013 and and the chairmen of the other committees are such as packaging, water, supplier management, implemented in all of our shared it both internally and independent. CCI’s Chief Executive Officer does not operating units. externally. quality and food safety are scored under supply chain have a role in any of these committees. pillar. These risks are evaluated thereby considering To form an Ethics Compliance The Ethics and Compliance A No new target. each country’s situation. In 2013, our risks were Committee and assign ethics Committee was formed The Corporate Governance Committee has developed officers to all units. and the CCI Ethics and necessary mechanisms for stakeholders to report ranked and we prepared mitigation action plans for Compliance Director and any illegal or unethical practices to the Corporate our critical risks. Next year, we aim to monitor the Local Ethics and Compliance status of these mitigation action plans. Governance or Audit Committees. In addition, the Managers were appointed. Corporate Governance Committee is, according to In measuring and processing the decisions to To hold Ethics Code In Turkey, we conducted O To continue giving training its own charter, responsible for monitoring whether awareness meetings in all 3-4 hours of training at our to our employees on CCI minimize existing risks, we used SAP system as a management establishes a system regarding the operations. headquarters as well as at Ethics Code. technological tool. The real time operational results our Kağıthane sales office Company’s code of business conduct and ethics. provided from SAP eliminates human error and and İzmir, Bursa, Ankara The Audit Committee reviews whether management improves the efficiency of the internal control system. and Çorlu plants. monitors the Company’s compliance with the code Also, our high technology internal communication To establish a grievance A grievance procedure No new target. of business conduct and code of ethics, assesses the system enables us to act quickly and to generate procedure and a hotline was drafted and a hotline A risk of abusing those, and provides trainings on these immediate solutions to problems as they occur. about ethical issues within about ethical issues was the context of the “Code of established. company codes. Ethics Information Program”. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 28 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 29 All our facilities are insured against environmental Business Continuity risks, and investments for backup systems are Ethics Code Integrity is paramount to our long-term success and made to prevent data loss due to extraordinary The CCI Ethics Code, which provides guidance to uphold our corporate values, highlights four main we will always practice the highest standards of events. Environmental and extraordinary incidents ethics and probity. GOVERNANCE are constantly monitored and when they take place principles: investigations are made to take necessary measures • Act with integrity and honesty. Business continuity is an utmost crucial issue for CCI. against the causes to minimize future risks. • Safeguard business and financial records and We strive to be a model corporate citizen in every keep them accurate, complete, and correct. country where we operate. Therefore, while ensuring CCI’s ERM team determines risks on both a • Safeguard the interests of CCI and avoid any business continuity in case of incidents, we operate in country and group basis, and it submits these to conflicts of interest. accordance with local laws and with sensitivity to the management for evaluation. High priority risks and • Deal with everyone we encounter fairly and in local culture. mitigation action plans are presented to the Early Risk accordance with the law: Detection Committee for reporting to the Board of • Take particular care when evaluating a third CCI implements The Coca-Cola System’s Incident Directors. party who might interact with a government Management and Crisis Resolution (IMCR) Program authority on behalf of the Company. that is designed to create and maintain efficient and CCI’s Internal Audit Department evaluates the • No pecuniary or non-pecuniary interest may CCI’s security strategy is aimed at identifying, integrated structure for preventing and managing Company’s risk management and internal control be offered to a government official. assessing and preventing potential incidents from incidents. Through the IMCR Program we build and system on a regular basis and reports to the Audit • Bribes are prohibited. occurring. This involves providing strategies and maintain a robust capability to protect our tangible Committee as well as to CCI’s Management, to tools that build and enhance the capabilities of assets: people, products, infrastructure including our ensure: our business system to implement effective asset Communication Channels offices, plants, supply chain, distribution channels, • Accuracy and reliability of financial and operational protection strategies. It should be noted that even Our employees have alternative channels of information and financial assets. Protection of these information with the very best asset protection strategies in place, communication to express their thoughts and tangible assets leads to the protection of our valuable • Effectiveness and efficiency of operations incidents may still occur. concerns. They can directly contact their managers intangible asset, the image and reputation of our • Safeguarding of Company assets business system. Implementing the IMCR Program or their Local Ethics and Compliance Officers. CCI’s Disaster Recovery Center • Compliance with laws, regulations, and contracts is a key management activity, but it is everyone’s Alternatively, they can use the CCI Ethics Service, At CCI, we give utmost importance to business which is available 24/7 to all our employees. There responsibility at CCI. continuity and disaster recovery. In 2012, file servers Ethics are translators providing translation services online in and terminal servers were transferred to the data At CCI, accountability and integrity are of vital Arabic, English, Russian, and Turkish languages. center in Istanbul. Additionally, CCI’s Disaster Recovery importance in terms of enhancing our reputation and Center was restructured in line with international otherwise representing our Company and our brands CCI Ethics Service communication channels are: standards in order to take action in case of an in the most appropriate way. To sustain CCI’s position 1. E-mail. Employee’s e-mail address and name are emergency and to ensure business continuity. as an employer of choice while achieving continuous kept confidential. In case of an emergency, the Disaster Recovery growth, we launched in all country operations the 2. CCI Ethics and Compliance website, Center will ensure that the BASIS and SAP systems revised CCI Ethics Code (and the CCI Workplace Rights www.ccietikhat.com (in Turkish), in Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Policy) in mid-2013. Also at that time, the CCI Ethics www.cciethicsline.com (in English, Russian and Turkey are operational within 24 hours using backup and Compliance Committee was formed and ethics Arabic). Employees can login to the page data available in the 72 hours immediately prior to and compliance officers were appointed. anonymously and enter their message. the onset of emergency conditions. Additionally, We implemented a telephone hotline, the CCI Ethics 3. Dedicated phone number. functions such as e-mailing, instant messaging, Line, so that our employees may anonymously report videoconferencing and corporate portal applications violations of the Ethics Code. Our employees received Procedural Rules & Available Sources are to be provided by the Disaster Recovery Center via CCI‘s Corporate Governance Committee ensures full In order to ensure that we prevent or reduce the highlights of the Ethics Code on paper and a detailed Internet in case of an emergency. implementation and enforcement of the Ethics Code. impact of incidents on our business, we have incident Ethics Code Handbook and Guidelines for Handling Implementation of the Code is the responsibility of management teams in each operation. Each team Code of Ethics Matters was shared electronically. Also the Ethics & Compliance Officer and Local Ethics & joins our annual trainings, and collectively they work in 2013, our employees were trained on the renewed Compliance Officers. All investigations concerning on simulations of complex incidents. In 2013 IMCR Ethics Code. Code violations are handled by the Internal Audit Validation Program was completed in Kazakhstan. Department. All decisions regarding Code violations We aim to give IMCR trainings to country executive are taken by the Ethics & Compliance Committee. committees in Turkey and Azerbaijan. Certain categories of decision-making authority may be delegated to local managers in accordance with the Guidelines for Handling Code of Ethics Matters. 30 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 31 me At CCI, “me” implies providing high-quality, safety-compliant beverages while contributing to healthier, happier, and more active communities. me The conscious choice of our customers is crucial to us. In this regard, we conduct awareness-raising activities and utilize various communication platforms to engage our stakeholders in active, healthy living. We make sure that every CCI product meets global standards for product quality and safety as set by TCCC. Also we strive to inform our customers and society at large about our products. Understanding our consumers’ needs and satisfying their expectations are fundamental to the sustainability of our business. To this end, we serve our products in the healthiest and most hygienic conditions with preferred packaging alternatives and sales points at appropriate prices. Goals & Commitments Priority Areas 2013 Goals Performance in 2013 Status Commitments for 2014 Product safety To motivate our plants to Representing all 10 CCI A To increase the number Goals & Commitments and quality continuously improve product countries, we submitted 17 of projects submitted for safety and quality. projects, 25% of all the projects the Award. Product Safety and Quality globally, for TCCC Quality & Food Safety Award. Consumer Well-being Consumer To prepare “I Wonder” To finalize the contents and O To launch “I Wonder” well-being Platform, a digital platform digital infrastructure of the “I Platform. Active, Healthy Living providing answers to consumers’ queries. Wonder” Platform, informing consumers about the company, its products and Responsible Advertising and Marketing product ingredients in the most clear and transparent way. To launch plant tours. Consumers were invited to To re-launch the plant O tour our plants where they tours. received information about our products. Active healthy To launch Active Healthy We kicked-off O To reach 50,000 young living Living projects throughout in Turkey where 270 people to inspire them to our operating geography to physical education teachers be more physically active promote a more active and participated by submitting through 50 projects in healthy lifestyle amongst 68 active lifestyle projects, 44 schools. young people. of which were selected for implementation in the 20132014 school year. Responsible To provide transparent We included the amount A To continue to voluntarily marketing nutrition information about of energy (per serving) as include GDA information our products to consumers. kilocalories, calories or on the packages of our kilojoules on the front of all products. packages in Turkey. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 32 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 33 At our plants we implement various globallyProducts that fall under “without energy” category Being part of the Coca-Cola System, we accepted standards such as the ISO 22000 Food (< 4kcal/100 ml) submit to TCCC’s commitments to contribute Safety Standards. Our strategic suppliers, such as to healthier, happier, and more active suppliers of ingredients and packaging material, are Product names Percentage of Sales communities. In so doing, we commit to: required to hold a certificate that is recognized by the (excluding tea) (%) me 1. Offering lowor no-calorie beverage options Global Food Safety Initiative. Compliance with product Coca-Cola Light 1.39 in every market safety and quality requirements is regularly audited, Coca-Cola Zero 1.67 2. Providing transparent nutrition information, unannounced, by TCCC. In 2013, four CCI plants in featuring calories on the front of all of our Damla, Natural Source Water 17.18 Turkey and one plant in Azerbaijan were audited and packages Damla Minera, Natural Mineral Water 0.62 passed the audit successfully. Third-party external 3. Helping people get moving by supporting auditors, resulting in either re-certification or follow Sensun 0.81 physical activity programs in every country up, audit the implementation of the ISO 22000 Burn Subzero, Energy Drink Sugarfree 0.01 where we operate Standard. Cappy Pulpy Lemonade Sugarfree 0.01 Awareness raising among consumers 4. Marketing responsibly, including no Schweppes Soda Water 0.07 While we apply TCCC’s global labeling standards advertising to children under 12 anywhere in Since 2011, TCCC has been conducting TCCC Quality the world & Food Safety Award. In 2013, 68 projects were Note: The above-mentioned values are for products sold in Turkey in 2013. during our commercial activities, we comply with all submitted from global operations, 17 of which relevant local laws and regulations in the 10 countries were from CCI plants. In 2011 and 2012, CCI plants Transparent Nutrition Information where we operate. Providing our more than 370 submitted one project for the competition. Producing and distributing beverages of various kinds, million consumers with clear, understandable and along with our commitment to properly informing scientific information regarding our products not only satisfies our obligation to comply with local legal Consumer Well-being our consumers, require us to include nutritional requirements, but it also represents our commitment information on all of our labels. In addition to the CCI provides front-of-pack energy (calorie) information minimum, basic nutritional information such as to maintaining a healthy, transparent working on its beverage products. By informing consumers calories, protein, fat and carbohydrate content, we relationship with our stakeholders. about the calorie content of products up front, we also indicate the amount of energy (per serving) as In addition to our labeling practices, we organize believe we help them make informed-decisions. Our kilocalories, calories or kilojoules on the front of almost seminars and trainings to inform our stakeholders corporate policy exempts bottled water products all packages. A “Contains Caffeine” warning is placed about our belief that with appropriate consumption of that are not flavored or sweetened since water is on products with caffeine while the use of sweeteners Product Safety and Quality inherently free of calories. and phenylalanine is addressed on diet products. water-based beverages along with physical exercise, all of our products can be healthy components of Our commitment to consumer well-being begins with Product Calorie Profile In Turkey, we are one of the pioneer companies to an active lifestyle. We even offer our stakeholders a our commitment to product safety and quality. We CCI puts on the market various products with different voluntarily include information about “Guideline Daily booklet called “Straight Facts About Our Beverages,” a make sure that all actors in our value chain, including calorie content. The graphic below contains a sample Amounts” per serving on our products. Currently more compilation of frequently asked questions regarding our own factories and our strategic suppliers, comply of CCI produced beverages available in Turkey, based than 90% of our products contain this information. calories, vitamin index, caffeine, aspartame, food with international food safety standards and/or on their calorie content. GDA information allows consumers to understand the additives and obesity. A Turkish-language version of TCCC’s Compliance Standard (KORE). nutritional content of their food choices and empower the booklet may be found at: them to compose a balanced diet that they can adapt www.cci.com.tr/UserFiles/pdf/mesrubatlarto their individual needs and lifestyle. hakkinda-merak-ettikleriniz.pdf kcal per 100 ml Products with increased nutritional content 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.9 1.5 1.9 2.8 15.6 29.0 41.0 45.0 45.8 47.6 56.1 Product names Percentage of Sales (excluding tea) Cappy Mix Fruit Nectar 1.31 Cappy Mix Fruit Juice 0.002 Powerade Sun Rush, Sports Drink 0.03 Powerade Ice Blast, Sports Drink 0.13 Powerade Snow Storm, Sports Drink 0.02 Cappy Atom 0.26 Note: The above-mentioned values refer only to products sold in Turkey in 2013. 34 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 35 “I Wonder” Platform Ambassador Program Active, Healthy Living aims to increase young people’s As a manifestation of Coca-Cola’s global commitment Throughout our marketing efforts, social responsibility awareness of the importance of leading an active life to inform consumers about the company, its products “Coca-Cola Ambassador” is a global initiative and to inspire them to not only be more physically active projects, and other practices involving our consumers, and product ingredients in the most clear and designed to ensure that all of our employees but also to maintain that habit throughout their lives. we address the fact that all our products can be a transparent way, a digital platform in Turkey under use the same language when talking about our part of an active healthy lifestyle. In line with TCCC, me the name of “I Wonder” company and products, and that they are strong we strive to raise the standards for physical activity (“Merak Ettim”) was launched ambassadors of the Coca-Cola brand. The in countries where we operate. As it is essential in order to answer all program began in 2011 in Turkey, and in 2012 our to maintain energy balance (the balance between consumer questions. The employees in Kyrgyzstan and Jordan joined the “calories in” and “calories out”) for overall fitness and “I Wonder” platform was program. The training module of the program health, we develop community programs that inspire extensively communicated in had started in 2011, in Turkey and in 2012, our youth not only to be more physically active but also to February 2014, and consumer employees in Kyrgyzstan and Jordan joined this maintain that habit throughout their lives. questions are currently being training. In 2013, a total of 5,500 employees throughout CCI participated in the “Coca-Cola In Turkey we also support the physical activity answered based on scientific Ambassador” training programs in Pakistan, projects and programs run by the Coca-Cola Life Plus data and on the experience of Brand Communication, Kazakhstan, South Iraq and Azerbaijan. Foundation. Corporate Communication, Marketing, Quality Control, We support active lifestyles in our operation areas in Production, Scientific and Corporate Relations, Legal Several projects which are conducted as part of our tandem with TCCC’s global commitments. Under the Affairs, Human Resources, and Finance departments commitment to active, healthy living are undertaken leadership of physical education (PE) teachers, the within TCCC and CCI. For more information: by CCI, by the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation in program aims to create environments that encourage https://merakettim.coca-colaturkiye.com cooperation with CCI, or by TCCC in cooperation with young people aged between 10 and 17 to participate CCI. These projects are described below. in sports, both in school and outside of school, to increase their time spent on physical activities. To complement our Coca-Cola Ambassador training sessions, the www.cciambassador. 3 Cities 270 Teachers 68 Applications com went live for CCI employees in August 2013. Easily accessed on the Internet and via mobile Target: To reach 50,000 young people in 50 devices, the website is a one-stop resource for projects in schools in Turkey and launch the all the information that employees should know project in Pakistan and Iraq. about the company and its products. It also provides answers to questions from employees, Project Partners: Provincial Directories of Ministry The pilot phase of the program was carried out in especially those in Sales who are just entering of National Education, School Administrations, selected secondary schools and high schools in the Open door policy the market, as well as from customers and Physical Education Teachers provinces of Istanbul, Mersin and Bursa during the We organize tours for those interested in visiting our consumers. This portal is accessible only to CCI 2013-2014 academic year. Kick-off meetings were plants. Consumers may either physically visit our employees and features rich content, from key organized in three provinces with 270 PE teachers. plants or virtually attend online tours to experience the facts about our company to product ingredients. Participants learned about the program and its production phases of Coca-Cola products. For more objectives and began developing a common language information: and approach through workshops carried out on the coca-colafabrikasi.com The Coca-Cola Information Center project’s central themes of Active Lifestyle, Olympic To help us continuously improve, we rely on Spirit, Participation in the Game, and Volunteerism. suggestions, requests, complaints and questions PE teachers applied to the program with projects from all our stakeholders. The Coca-Cola that encourage young people to take part in physical Information Center, which can be reached in activity, in line with the needs of their schools. Of the Turkey by dialing 0800 261 19 20, exists to resolve 68 applications for projects, 44 were carried out. With stakeholder issues and is another example of the support of the project, young people have started CCI’s commitment to listening to and learning taking active part in various activities, such as korfball, from our customers and consumers. All CCI bocce, handball, badminton and dance. We plan to country operations now utilize our call centers launch Program in Pakistan and Iraq which perform different tasks and routines. in 2014. In each country we aim to reach 20 schools, 20 coaches, 100 youth leaders and 5,000 youth. 36 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 37 Projects Conducted by CCI in cooperation with TCCC Projects Conducted at CCI Plants Jordan CCBCJ built new sports facilities inside Kazakhstan Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop (Leather its Madaba factory to encourage healthy and Ball) is a grassroots youth football tournament for active lifestyles among its employees and the me schoolchildren throughout Kazakhstan organized local community. The facilities include a football by CCAB. The tournament promotes active lifestyles and a basketball pitch that are available to and helps children to be healthy and happy – the local community of Madaba. This means even realize their dreams. Since 2006, more that children are able to play sports in safe than 360,000 children from nearly 5,000 schools environments rather than on the streets. CCBCJ have participated in this annual tournament. The started a series of tournaments for the local winning team represented Kazakhstan in the first community, our employees, stockholders and world tournament “Copa Coca-Cola” in Spain in customers. As many as 300 players participated 2013, placing third. UEFA has twice recognized these tournaments in 2013. CCBCJ plans to Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop as the world’s best project expand the tournaments in 2014 to include a for the development of youth football. wider range of participants including customers, distributors and key accounts. Azerbaijan National Olympic Run: In June 2013, the Azerbaijan Republic National Olympic Responsible Advertising and Committee, together with the worldwide partner of The Coca-Cola Life Plus Marketing the Olympic Games, TCCC, ACCB and International Olympic Committee held a grand celebration in Foundation’s “Let’s Play” In line with our principle of complying with legal the honor of the founding of the modern Olympic Project regulations, we practice only responsible and lawmovement. The main aim of this high-profile event abiding advertising and promotional practices in all was to call on the public, especially young people, 41 Cities 269 Schools – 2,400 Playgrounds countries where we operate. In addition to the various to lead a healthy lifestyle by actively joining the communication mediums we employ to this end, we Olympic movement. More than 1,500 people joined Target: To reach 100 schools in Turkey in 2014 create the channels whereby our stakeholders can the traditional National Olympic Run that took place and to implement the same project at two other actively participate in our advertising and presentation during the event. CCI’s country of operation. processes with their valuable suggestions, requests, Project Partners: Provincial Directories of Ministry and complaints. of National Education, School Administrations, Azerbaijan Feal Ailem Sağlam Alem (Active “Baku Open Family Sport Tournament,” was In addition to the legal requirements and the Physical Education Teachers Family, Healthy Community) was launched in 2013 broadcast by Public TV which allowed the message expectations of our stakeholders, TCCC’s standards to promote family sport in Azerbaijan by engaging to reach a much wider audience. serve as our fundamental guide in our marketing parents and children in physical activity in a family The “Let’s Play” project is a partnership between practices. The Global School Beverage Guidelines, as environment. In its first year, the program reached the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, the Ministry of set by TCCC, grounds our approach to responsible more than 5,000 parents and 35,000 school children National Education and the Active Living Association. marketing. Beginning in the 2010-2011 academic from 60 schools in 10 districts where many events, year, we chose to cease conducting sales operations The project aims to encourage children to include festivals and tournaments took place in order to for sparkling beverages in all elementary schools more physical activity in their daily routines by creating raise awareness about healthy lifestyles, the benefits throughout our operating geography. We made playing areas in primary schools and by ensuring that of physical education, and Olympic values. The this decision with the cooperation of our business play lies at the core of learning process. In so doing, Ministry of Education in Azerbaijan provided full partners. Moreover, in line with our belief that parents children are able to develop their creative sides, support to the program and expressed interest in should be the ones to make decisions regarding become physically active and communicate with their continuing cooperation by targeting more schools the nutrition of their children, we do not engage in peers while playing games. The “Let’s Play” project in the coming years. The final event of the program, advertising or marketing activities targeting children encourages the establishment of “game clubs” which under 12 years old. Details for our responsible develop new games and carry out in-school activities. marketing policy can be found at: Play areas intended to promote physical activity www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/ amongst children were implemented at 269 schools responsible-marketing in 41 cities since as of 2013. For more information: www.hayataarti.org/disari_oynayalim.html 38 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 39 we Our Workplace audits took place in 2013. In 2013, our plants in Azerbaijan, Pakistan (six plants) and Turkey (Ankara, The business success of CCI depends on our Bursa, Elazığ, and Mahmudiye plants only) were employees. While developing, incorporating, and audited. retaining the best talents, CCI’s priority is to provide we employees a happy, safe and motivating workplace where our Workplace Rights Policy (WRP) employees can showcase their true potential. We value our relationships with our employees, as employees Our main goals in the workplace are: we achieve success through the contributions of each • To provide our employees with a non-discriminatory and every one. We are determined to build open and workplace that meets the standards of national and participatory workplaces where universal human international workplace rights policies. rights are recognized, and where all employees are valued and encouraged to do their best. • To protect the rights of employees to unionize. • To become a leading company which employs only The CCI Workplace Rights Policy is based on the best practices in occupational health and safety international standards of human rights according to in all our workplaces. the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human • To provide a fair and pleasant place for our Rights, International Labor Organization Declaration employees to work, enabling them to feel free to of Basic Work Principles and Rights, and the United be innovative and improve themselves in order to Nations Global Compact. The Policy covers the become the most qualified workforce. following elements: • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Workplace Rights • Prohibition of Forced Labor At CCI, respect for human rights is a fundamental • Commitment Not to Employ Child Labor part of who we are and what we do. We value the • Arbitrary Discrimination relationship with our employees and achieve success Our Workplace through the contribution of each employee. We • Working Hours and Wages are determined to develop open and participatory • A Safe and Healthy Workplace Workplace Rights workplaces that are based on recognizing universal • Workplace Security human rights. Each and every employee is valued and • Community and Stakeholder Engagement Goals and Commitments encouraged to do his or her best. The CCI Workplace Rights Policy (WRP) is based on international standards Employee Profile of human rights according to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Equality & Diversity Labor Organization Declaration of Basic Work Principles and Rights, and United Nations Global Compact. Recruitment and Placement With this strong basis of support, we fully integrate Employee Development & Talent Management human and workplace rights into our practices, our corporate values, and our sustainability strategy. As Performance Management one of our key 2020 Vision priorities, we convey this message continually and consistently throughout our Training supply chain. We launched CCI’s WRP Policy in 2013, and its Compensation & Benefits implementation continued throughout the year. In addition to our WRP implementation efforts, Employee Engagement independent audits for WRP and SGP compliance Occupational Health and Safety 40 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 41 Goals & Commitments Priority Areas 2013 Goals Performance in 2013 Status Commitments for 2014 Priority Areas 2013 Goals Performance in 2013 Status Commitments for 2014 we employees Leadership To establish leadership iLead2020 was established A To outspread iLead2020 OHS policy, To launch CCI EOSH Policy, An OHS policy was published A To develop and share Development development programs for which is a CCI’s flagship Program to mid-level procedures Procedures along with “CCI and CCI Golden Rules internally the CCI OHS employees at various levels. program that leverages managers in all CCI and systems HS Golden Rules” and to Communication Campaign Standards. leadership capabilities in operations. conduct a communication was launched. leading teams and inspiring campaign on “CCI Golden others, executing strategic Rules” in order to strengthen We re-organized CCI's To conduct legal visions, and creating cultures the H&S culture and to deploy OHS Team to monitor OHS compliance assessments of excellence. safe behavior and habits at performance across all our in the four countries of Our “Manager on Board” all levels. operations. operation. and “Supervisor On Board” programs continued for Health and safety managers To publish Golden Rules newly-appointed, first level and coordinators were Disciplinary Procedure managers. appointed to all plants. Guidelines. Equality & To launch “Equality at “Equality at Workplace” To continue focusing OHS audit was included in A Diversity Workplace” commitment has been launched and on increasing female internal audit processes. as part of the “Women commitments have been made employees in our Leadership Program.” and being tracked. workforce. OHS To increase OHS awareness CCI OHS Golden Rules were To conduct a 5-day CCI A The FEM certification process awareness and at all plants. communicated at all plants OHS summit for all OHS has been conducted in order to To continue working on training and offices via various managers in for four identify the development areas the business processes campaigns. countries of operation. in all business processes that considering the gender would provide gender equality. equality goal. To provide “Leadership Safety Training” for To hold the first Women A Women Leadership meeting leadership teams of four A Leadership meeting in was organized with the countries of operation. Istanbul with TCCC in order participation from CCI Turkey to raise awareness of the & CCI Group Office. Event was Safe Driving To introduce safe driving We provided 244 man*hours A To launch the CCI Safe importance of women in the co-hosted by CCI &TCCC. practices to our employees, of safe driving courses to 61 Driving Policy. workplace. starting from Turkey. employees. (only for Turkey) Our Talent Acquisition To provide practical and A Department was given the theoretical defensive objective of including women driving training for candidates in all vacant employees driving a positions’ shortlists. company vehicle. Workplace To complete the We worked on the To complete the To install vehicle tracking O Rights implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the devices in 50% of the Workplace Rights Policy Workplace Rights Policy Workplace Rights Policy vehicles. (TR) throughout all CCI operations. throughout all CCI operations. throughout all CCI operations. To conduct a 5-day fleet safety workshop in Work-life To roll out the “Sweet Home” CCI’s sales force receives To set annual leave Azerbaijan. A balance project to our sales teams. weekly briefings, going into usage target as a part of the field and returning home management objectives. OHS To improve our OHS We reduced LTIR from 0.89 to A To further reduce the without stopping by the office. performance performance. 0.55 in the four countries of LTIR to 0.40 in the four To launch “bonus leave” operation. countries of operation. in order to incentivize annual leave usage. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 42 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 43 Employee Profile Breakdown of Employees Per Employee Category At CCI we enjoy diverse teams in all our operations. Details of our employee profile (gender, contract type and Number of 2011 2012 2013 employment category) are indicated in the table below for Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Turkey. employees per employee Senior Other Senior Other Senior Other we employees Number of Employees by Employment Type and Contract and by Gender category Management Employees Management Employees Management Employees Turkey 10 2,810 10 2,812 14* 2,759 Countries Number of 2011 2012 2013 Jordan 4 363 4 396 4 405 employees by employment type Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Kazakhstan 19 580 23 657 25 724 and contract Azerbaijan 5 264 5 314 6 367 Turkey Blue Collar 857 7 864 883 11 894 873 11 884 * This figure includes all senior managers in the CCI Group office and CCI Turkey Operations. White Collar 1,578 378 1,956 1,532 396 1,928 1,447 442 1,889 Permanent 2,431 382 2,813 2,391 404 2,794 2,319 451 2,770 Equality & Diversity Recruitment and Placement Temporary 4 3 7 24 3 28 1 2 3 CCI is committed to increasing the percentage of its Recruiting the right people with capabilities that are Jordan Blue Collar 173 0 173 185 0 185 190 0 190 female employees. As of December 2013, 13.6% of aligned with CCI’s culture is a strategic business White Collar 180 15 195 199 17 216 201 18 219 our employees were female. We implement an equal priority of 2020 Vision. A dedicated Talent Acquisition Permanent 353 15 368 384 17 401 389 18 407 opportunity approach in all HR policies, procedures Department has been formed at the Group level to Temporary 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 and recruitment processes. We aim to increase the achieve this, and it is focused on the following key Kazakhstan Blue Collar 233 4 237 261 3 264 299 2 301 percentage of women employees in Turkey to 20% by priorities: White Collar 270 92 362 312 104 416 337 111 448 2020. • Structured, standardized and simple talent Permanent 503 96 599 573 107 680 636 113 749 In 2012 CCI Turkey, in cooperation with the Women acquisition processes integrated with talent Temporary 0 0 0 9 0 9 0 0 0 Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey (KAGIDER), signed management processes (ODF-Organizational Azerbaijan Blue Collar 149 4 153 172 4 176 193 5 198 its “Equality at Work (FEM in Turkish)” commitment Development Forum); aimed at inducting top talent White Collar 87 29 116 110 33 143 136 39 175 which is supported by the World Bank. CCI’s across all CCI countries. Permanent 236 33 269 282 37 319 329 44 373 processes such as incentives for the employment of • Introduce and implement objective assessment Temporary 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 women, recruitment, and performance evaluation tools (psychometric, assessment centers etc.) have been independently audited in accordance with to make better selection decisions resulting Note: These figures are as of 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013. Note: 2013 Turkey figures include CCI Turkey Operation and CCI Group office employees. the FEM criteria in 2013. As a result of this thorough in acquiring the CCI required capabilities and evaluation coordinated by KAGIDER, CCI has acquired contributing to a performance driven organizational In these four countries of operation, we have no workers for subsequent years depending on their a certificate which is valid for two years. culture. part-time employees. We employ a limited number of availability and our needs, seasonal employees are Additionally CCI takes an active role in many different • Design and implement functional assessment temporary employees, often to replace an employee not included in the “temporary” category in the tables. platforms in order to support the employment processes. on maternity leave or to conduct a short-term project. We outsource employees who conduct both core jobs of women. These include CCI’s own Women in • Build and enhance CCI’s Employer Value Proposition and auxiliary jobs at our operations. Leadership global training programs, conducted through effective use of social media applications During high season, we employ seasonal workers in Turkey and Azerbaijan. In 2013, we hired 415 in cooperation with the TCCC, to which many of to reach out to Generation Y while focusing on seasonal employees in Turkey and 235 employees Number of outsourced OutsourceAuxiliary our female employees are regularly invited, and a positive candidate experience to uplift the in Azerbaijan. Despite our policy to rehire seasonal employees in 2013 Core jobs (*) jobs (**) the company’s membership in the Turkey branch company’s reputation. of the World Economic Forum’s “Equality at Work” Turkey 902 673 • Use technology to automate the TA process; define community. Jordan 7 53 and implement TA KPIs to monitor and improve TA In Jordan 4% of CCI employees are female. In 2013, capabilities. Kazakhstan 0 86 CCI Jordan established its Women Club which led • Develop social HR platforms similar to CCI Career Azerbaijan 164 33 several women and community empowerment Website, LinkedIn & Facebook. * Outsource-Core Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party initiatives. In 2013 in Kazakhstan, where 15% of CCI's company and whose jobs are directly related with our own business (e.g., • Develop TA professionals’ and hiring manager’s jobs in merchandising, sales, warehouse operations, production etc.) employees are female, CCI Kazakhstan initiated a capabilities and targeted sourcing strategies to tap ** Outsource-Auxiliary Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a social project aimed at economic empowerment of third-party company and whose jobs are not directly related with our own external talent. business (e.g., jobs in security, gardening, health services etc.) women and giving unemployed Kazakhstani women the chance to realize themselves in business and start A road map for 2013-2014 has been developed to their own enterprise. achieve the above-mentioned key priorities. 44 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 45 Employee Development & “People Management Objective” will focus more on Regular Performance and Career Development can be tracked and revised throughout the year. building capabilities and investing in our talent. It will Reviews for Employees After development and training needs are collected Talent Management be applied across CCI to all People Managers and We conduct performance assessments for all our over the system, the necessary competency and At CCI, we recognize all our employees as “talent.” increase engagement with team members, thereby senior managers. Other employees are subject to behavioral development trainings are designed and we employees We promise to invest in our talent based on our building and maintaining a positive work environment performance assessments based on their functions. assigned accordingly. organizational needs and the competencies that and providing regular feedback to support them in At CCI, such processes are implemented for all we want to develop. Talent management is the achieving their targets. In addition, there is a defined Leadership employees regardless of gender. mechanism through which CCI ensures that it has Development path supporting all roles from Supervisor the right people, optimally deployed and properly Performance Management to General Manager. Leadership Development engaged to deliver the strategy and business CCI’s Performance Management system helps to includes three leadership programs: iLead2020, results. Talent management is also a key business ensure that our company delivers successful results by Manager on Board, and Supervisor on Board. accountability that is owned by all our People improving performance and developing capabilities of teams and individuals. In our performance Furthermore, Supply Chain, HR, Finance, and Managers who co-create and encourage feedback management system, we focus on business results as Commercial departments have their own capability and development. well as the development of our employees. development programs in order to leverage their Through our Organizational Development Forum technical knowledge and support them in their (ODF), we started executing our talent strategy in all There are two separate performance cycles for the functional roles with using of digital platforms, on-theCCI countries in 2013. ODF identifies people and skills “development” and “business” target setting and job learning and in-class training programs. for available positions, develops action plans to fulfill evaluation. Separate development sessions to discuss those, reviews succession plans for leadership roles individual development areas are planned. Total number of hours of 2011 2012 2013 across CCI, and identifies high potential employees All our business targets need to be related and Training training employee-hours and mobile talents for critical roles across CCI as well Capability development, both at the individual Turkey 97,896 32,550 56,429 aligned with organizational strategies and objectives. as for opportunities throughout the TCCC System. level as well as organizational, is a top priority for Jordan 4,685 13,681 10,788 Therefore, it is important to deploy targets from With CCI’s leadership’s commitment and support, the top to the bottom. There are also two different CCI. Therefore, we create an environment where Kazakhstan 7,959 9,251 10,091 and with the objective of improving the CCI employee performance segments in CCI based on job grades: learning and development is highly valued. Capability Azerbaijan 2,799 5,574 4,145 experience, we introduced a new platform called target-based evaluation and competency-based development initiatives in Leadership Development, Career Talk™. This is a new medium for CCI evaluation. Professional Development, Commercial and other employees to identify their career goals, establish functions are instrumental in ensuring that all Average hours of training per employee 2013 a plan for pursuing those goals, and take personal Comprehensive 360-degree evaluation is an employees are equipped to meet our strategic important management tool that we use to provide Turkey 20.3 responsibility for making those goals a reality. objectives. Acquiring knowledge and developing feedback to our employees every two years. Based on Jordan 26.4 “Talent Profile” will be an online tool and a forum managerial and leadership skills are both critical for the outcome of 360-degree evaluations, employees Kazakhstan 13.5 for employees to create their profiles of their career effective leadership. experience, aspirations, educational background, are able to define their personal and professional Azerbaijan 11.1 development objectives. All trainings and development solutions are designed mobility limitations and skills. to be aligned with our culture and values and For the coming years, we aim to work on increasing only after a thorough needs analysis of strategies, Compensation & Benefits our people management capabilities such as setting business needs, leadership requirements, challenges, CCI aims to provide market competitive, holistic, CAREER TALK IN THE WHOLE PROCESS... SMART business objectives, providing feedback and opportunities. performance-driven and fiscally reasonable and coaching, handling the performance review compensation and benefits to all employees. discussions and evaluating the team success in an We believe that our employees are the most Career objective manner. important stakeholders in their development. As Beyond complying fully with local labor laws and such, we conduct Development Planning in line regulations, our core principle is equal employment, Talk Organizational We continue to use “SuccessFactors” as CCI’s HR Business Development with performance review meetings and potential without regard to race, color, gender, nationality of Objective Setting Jan March Forum technology platform. SuccessFactors includes evaluation sessions tracked on a web-based learning origin and age. May Sep performance management, e-recruitment, and management system. This means that employees 360-degree evaluation to support development In line with HR priorities, CCI’s compensation and enjoy many different opportunities throughout any objectives and succession plans. Succession plans benefits policies focus on “market competitiveness” give year to plan their development. Year-End Development include potential assessment questionnaire and in order to attract and retain the best people. Our key Performance Objective learning and development plans. With SuccessFactors, After annual performance evaluations, managers lever in working toward this objective is remaining Evaluation Evaluation/Setting Dec Jan Oct Nov our employees follow their performance and identify key development targets of their employees. market sensitive in all the countries where we operate. development plans. These individual development plans are then We work with both global and local consultancies in converted into behavioral development targets and order to obtain accurate market data, on which we registered on the SuccessFactors system so that they base our policies related to: 46 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 47 • “Total rewards” in order to provide a holistic view of performance conditions, starting from base salary Employee Representation Occupational Health and CCI’s offerings and foster employee engagement. Our increases and variable pay programs, Employee representation in Turkey operations is key lever to reach this objective is to focus our policies ensured at following committees as a member of the Safety (OHS) • “Fiscal management” in order to ensure fiscal on beyond base salary and even beyond pay, Committee: Approach reasonableness for sustainability of our business. we employees • “Pay for performance” in order to focus efforts on Whatever decision we make, we ensure that • Occupational Health and Safety Committee A healthy and safe working environment for all of CCI’s objectives. Our key lever to reach this objective CCI has long-term affordability to provide the • Meal and Cafeteria Service Quality Improvement our employees and visitors is our priority. is structure all possible reward elements with competitive total rewards. Committee We reach more than 700,000 sales points every day • Disciplinary Board with 14,000 vehicles covering approximately 400,000 • Accident Evaluation Committee kilometers in order to offer a wide range of beverages Benefits Provided to our Full-time Employees in 2013 Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan to consumers. Our more than 11,000 employees In addition to the above-mentioned Committees, Private Health Insurance Yes Yes Yes Yes trade union representatives at Turkey’s Mahmudiye work at our 23 production plants and numerous Private Life Insurance Yes Yes No Yes plant operate for the continuity of work performance administration offices spread across 10 countries. We under the provisions of the Bargaining Legislation and take responsibility for maintaining a safe workplace Individual Pension Funds Yes No No No Collective Bargaining Agreement and undertake the and minimizing the risk of accidents, injury and health Company Products Yes Yes Yes Yes following responsibilities: hazards for our employees and our visitors. While Seniority Service Awards Yes No Yes No • Protecting and improving the cooperation and the scope of this report is limited to four countries occupational peace between the worker and the of operation, our OHS approach, as any other employer at the workplace sustainability approach, applies to all CCI countries of operation. Employee Engagement years in order to allow time for the business to identify • Taking the demands and complaints of workers, development areas, create robust action plans, and finding solutions for these demands and At CCI we focus on reducing work-related incidents CCI’s 2020 Vision is the catalyst for building a winning and follow up on these actions in order to track the complaints in collaboration with the employer and creating an OHS awareness in order to lower culture, being a great place to work, and generating return on this huge investment. Annual engagement • Protecting the rights and the interests of the workers risks at the workplace and amongst fleet operations. extraordinary business results year after year. action plans will be a part of country reviews, and • Assisting in the execution of the working standards CCI’s ultimate goal with respect to OHS is to achieve Employee insights play an important role in our ability their progress will be discussed at the Executive stated in the Collective Agreement “zero OHS incidents” in all operations. to measure our progress toward reaching our 2020 Committee level in relevant platforms to ensure that • Fulfilling all other liabilities imposed by relevant Vision of sustainable growth. the necessary prioritization and focus are given to this legislation To gain insight from employees, we conduct very important area. biannual employee engagement surveys. Employee Internal Communication Channels In order to focus on prioritized improvement areas, engagement surveys offer international and local At CCI, we enjoy various channels for internal ILEAD Action Learning Teams prepared specific action perspectives to identify strengths and opportunities, communication to stay informed and engaged. CCI’s plans. Action plans of countries can be divided into reveal common themes in employee feedback, and corporate communications portal, CokePort, serves three parts – Leadership, Capability, Great Place to Work create synergies in acting upon the feedback which users simultaneously in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, – which are directly aligned with CCI’s 2020 Vision. ultimately impacts our ability to drive sustainable Jordan, Pakistan and Turkey as a safe and usergrowth. Union Rights at CCI friendly working platform. CokePort helps our At CCI, we respect the rights of our employees to join operational information flow smoothly. We also make After the surveys were conducted in every country (or not join) unions and to establish a union without use of “SoCCIal,” a social media platform for CCI of operation in 2011-2012, workshops and focus the fear of retaliation, threat, or harassment. CCI is employees in Turkey. Our employees share activities, groups were held to implement suggestions from committed to constructive dialogue with employees news, comments and ideas with each other through our employees. Rewarding mechanisms, career who are members of legally-recognized trade this platform. opportunities, and training and development processes were assessed as the areas of focus after unions. Only employees at Turkey's Mahmudiye plant In-house publications such as the, monthly CCI News the 2011-2012 survey. are covered by an ongoing collective bargaining Line, CCI Newsletter and 2020 Magazine issued agreement. No other employees in the four countries specifically for our Turkey location every two months In 2013 we followed up the action plans based on the covered by this report are members of unions. In are important communication mediums among our results of these surveys. Employee engagement also Pakistan, all CCI production plants and warehouses employees. provides for HR and business leaders materials and are unionized. The collective bargaining agreement tools that have been proven to work well. Employee Our Innovation team, along with representatives from covering all eight plants in Turkey ended on 31 March insights may be used by leaders to drive improved different departments and in cooperation with CCI 2012. The jurisdiction dispute of two different unions operating effectiveness and otherwise to help CCI Group Office, established “CCIdea”. Via this platform, was carried to court, hence disrupting the collective achieve its 2020 Vision. a Social Activity Club has been re-launched and bargaining process. This process was still ongoing as action plans have been made according to different An example of a poster from our OHS Awareness CCI conducts an engagement survey once every two 31 December 2013. interest areas. Communication Campaign in Turkey. 48 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 49 OHS Policy We believe that leadership is crucial in OHS OHS Performance Country Total Hours of OHS Training Our Environment, Operational Health & Safety Policy management; therefore, OHS is a priority area for At CCI we follow a systematic approach for health and specifically seeks to: plant managers. While managers make sure that the Turkey 9,268 safety and undertake a wide range of initiatives with rules are properly applied, it is the responsibility of Jordan 1,043 the ultimate goal of achieving “zero OHS incidents” in • Protect the most valuable and important resource we employees of our company – our human capital – from any all our employees to behave safely in our offices and Kazakhstan 4,370 all operations by 2020. occupational health and safety risks or hazards. plants and on the road. At CCI, every employee has Azerbaijan 916 In the four countries of operation, the number of lost the right and is obliged to stop any operation deemed TOTAL 15,597 • Protect the environment and minimize the impacts of time incidents (LTIs) in 2013 was 44 (31 employees and a potential risk. Furthermore, employees may report CCI’s operations on the environment while ensuring 13 contractors), down from 65 in 2012. such threats to an immediate supervisor, HR, OHS a sustainable business. Health and Safety Committees manager, or even to the CEO. In Turkey, joint worker-management team Health and Focus on Road Safety • Ensure that OHS is an integral part of our business In 2013, additional OHS topics were included in the Safety Committee is a legal requirement, whereas A very significant portion of the risks to our employees and is actively supported through management scope of CCI Turkey Workplace Health Audits which in our other operating countries we form them on a emerges outside the plants (e.g. on the roads while leadership and commitment. are carried out by CCI’s Internal Audit Department. voluntary basis. CCI H&S Committees operate at plant, distributing our products). Driving safely to eliminate • Protect the Company from any legal challenges regional office and headquarter levels and include: traffic accidents is therefore important. In 2013 a total The Internal Audit team visited eight CCI locations by complying with (at a minimum) local legal Head of H&S Committee (Employer or Representative of 309 accidents involving CCI-owned vehicles took in 2013, and a CCI Turkey safety audit was also requirements and applying industry best practices to of the Employer), Country President or General place in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan and Azerbaijan. conducted in 2013 with the participation of Turkey’s set higher standards than such legal requirements. Manager in the Head Quarter, Plant Operations The route cause analysis shows that unsafe behavior OHS Manager as a joint auditor where seven CCI • Protect all other resources and assets from any locations were visited. Manager or Regional Manager (in Regional Offices), is the number one cause of these road accidents. losses that may be caused by work-related risks and Secretary (H&S Manager or H&S Engineer or HR Understandably, road safety is a priority for us, and hazards. Similarly, OHS issues were included in the scope of manager), Company Doctor (Occupational Physician), we put substantial effort in continuous improvement international audits in cooperation with the Group HR Manager, Security Manager, Administrative of the driving behaviors of our employees. We offer OHS Management OHS Manager. By the end of 2015, the Internal Audit Affairs Manager, Foreman or Supervisor, Labor Union trainings on defensive and safe driving for the sales CCI’s Workplace Rights Policy requires our Company Team will have visited all CCI operations. Representative (In absence of Labor Union, a Workers’ teams. A total of 61 CCI Turkey's employees attended to offer a safe and healthy workplace environment. By Representative) Workers’ (Employees) Representative these training courses in 2013. As an additional minimizing the factors leading to industrial accidents, In OHS audits, the CCI Internal Audit Team focuses and other members where necessary (e.g., contractor measure, we will install vehicle-tracking devices in occupational diseases, and health risks, we establish mainly on compliance with legal legislations and CCI/ representatives), etc. company vehicles to trace speed limit violations. a safe, healthy and efficient work environment. TCCC principles. The team uses checklists prepared Throughout our operations, we review and improve with the assistance of Group and Turkey OHS our OHS standards in line with the rigorous set of Managers. Furthermore, their participation in audit OHS Performance Indicators Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan OVERALL* guidelines of The Coca-Cola Company Occupational fieldwork as joint auditors has been encouraged in For 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Health and Safety System (TCCOHSS). Additionally, all order to strengthen due diligence and support the Lost Time Incidents (day) our plants in the four countries of operation covered abilities of Internal Audit Team in OHS perspective. Employee 240 208 186 140 0 0 0 0 348 in this report have OHSAS 18001 Management System OHS Training Contractor 204 79 56 20 0 0 43 21 120 certification, which is a framework for an effective We constantly work toward building a company Total 444 287 242 160 0 0 43 21 468 occupational health and safety management system. culture regarding OHS, and trainings play an important Lost Time Incident Numbers OHS issues are also handled within the context of role in this. Employees, regardless of gender, are Employee 29 21 12 10 0 0 0 0 31 collective bargaining agreements signed with labor offered targeted OHS trainings based on their Contractor unions. 22 12 0 0 0 0 2 1 13 functions. Periodic refresher training for all employees Total 51 33 12 10 0 0 2 1 44 In 2013 we launched CCI OHS Golden Rules, which and contractors conducting work on our behalf are Number of Fatalities guides our efforts in putting our policy into practice also provided. Employee 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 in our offices, in our plants and on the road. We In 2013, a total of 15,597 employee-hours of Contractor 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 communicate the Golden Rules extensively across our OHS trainings was provided to our employees, Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 operations. For instance, a Corporate OHS Director corresponding to an average of 3.6 hours per LTIR 0.90 0.55 2.62 1.56 0 0 0.39 0.17 0.55 was appointed to monitor company-wide OHS employee. The main topics of the training sessions performance, and health and safety managers and LTISR 7.84 4.75 52.78 27.67 0 0 8.34 3.58 5.90 included site induction, first aid training, confined coordinators have also been appointed to all our 23 space, working at height, emergency response, CCI’s Total Vehicle Accident 250 241 34 54 5 8 22 6 309 plants. Golden Rules, and forklift safety. Vehicle Accident Rate 15.33 13.87 19.40 23.80 1.47 2.93 13.70 3.40 12.97 * Total value for four countries of operation. 50 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 51 we Goals & Commitments Priority Areas 2013 Goals Performance in 2013 Status Commitments for 2014 we Community Volunteerism To launch the Employee and We launched clubs where A To initiate various Families Volunteering Clubs 165 people were trained at 10 volunteering projects in Turkey. different locations. at different locations in Community Turkey. To support Clean Binagadi Project through CCI volunteers in Azerbaijan. Social To establish a partnership We developed a social A To promote educational Development with International NGO’s development project with the awareness programs on on Youth Empowerment Partnership of INJAZ in Jordan. clean water and hygiene programs by CCI Jordan. in Pakistan. Economic To conduct Economic Impact Economic Impact Research for O To complete the Development Research for CCI Jordan. Jordan will take start in 2014. economic impact research for CCI Jordan. To conduct Economic Impact Economic Impact Study was A Study. conducted in Karachi and Lahore in Pakistan. Community We will continue to donate Donated 3% of our preA We will continue to Investment 3% of our pre-tax profits to tax profits, equivalent of TL donate 3% of our pre-tax Goals & Commitments The Anadolu Foundation. 1.5 million, to The Anadolu profits to The Anadolu Foundation. Foundation. Community Investment A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved CCI’s Social Development Projects The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation Community Investment CCI’s Community Investment Strategy At CCI we strive to respond to the needs and Economic Impact of Coca-Cola in Turkey expectations of members of local communities and • We contribute to economic growth by to support various grassroots initiatives where we contracting with local suppliers and vendors The Anadolu Foundation operate. While we focus on health, active lifestyle, and through our local hiring practices. environment and resource protection, education, • We establish platforms for dialogue with youth development and disaster relief, we also members and representatives of local engage in continuous dialogue with our stakeholders communities. who are the main drivers of our community • We support the welfare of local communities investment efforts. and national societies at large by contributing In 2013 we donated 3% of our pre-tax profits, to programs on environment and resource equivalent to TL 1.5 million and TL 22 million in total protection, health, active lifestyle, education, over the last five years, to The Anadolu Foundation youth development and disaster relief. for charitable causes. In addition, we continued to • We encourage employee volunteerism in support Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation in Turkey in support of community development programs. its efforts related to promoting active lifestyles and protecting the environment. Additionally, our plants initiated various community investment projects, and our employees volunteered for numerous local social development projects within the communities where the plants are located. 52 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 53 Employee and Families Volunteering Clubs them. Following this training, CCI volunteers began to design and implement projects to support primary Projects Conducted by CCI in cooperation with TCCC In 2013, we launched Employee and Families Volunteering Clubs in Turkey. With the CCI volunteer’s school education in disadvantaged regions, social Theme: Empowerment of Women movement, we aim to integrate social responsibility development of children in orphanages, and domestic we Community into the company culture and encourage employee waste recycling. Jordan engagement in social responsibility projects. In our CCBCJ Women’s Club has been actively engaged headquarters, Istanbul European Sales Center, and CCI’s Social Development with community activities in Jordan since 2012. A Mersin, Ankara, Çorlu, Sapanca, İzmir, Köyceğiz, total of 18 member-employees organize monthly Bursa and Elazığ plants, 165 CCI employees led this Projects activities and arrange visits to homes of the elderly, initiative and joined the CCI Volunteers Training. This We care about the needs of local communities where orphans centers, disabled children’s centers, training has two modules. The volunteerism module we operate. With the aim of being a reliable partner kindergartens, schools, women’s associations, offers a conceptual framework and a discussion in finding common solutions to common problems, and family centers. So far 15 visits have been paid ground about civil space, the relationship between civil we conduct and support various social development to communities as a token of support. The Club society organizations and volunteers and participatory projects, and we encourage our employees and also works to empower our female employees by democracy. The project management module stakeholders to take part in them. Although social hosting guest speakers for inspirational sessions. deals with practical issues such as defining a social and environmental challenges are common in our problem, setting targets for solutions, stakeholder operating region, we focus on the most immediate Theme: Empowerment of Youth analysis, action plans, fundraising and budgeting. In local needs – be it women empowerment in one this module participants work in groups in order to country or water scarcity in another. We conduct these Kazakhstan school infrastructure and providing new learning pinpoint social problems and develop ideas for solving projects in close cooperation with TCCC. “Change the world around you!” is a competition materials. open to all students who aspire to become social We send our volunteers, more than 30 people, to entrepreneurs. The program, organized by the Projects Conducted by CCI in cooperation with TCCC help clean and paint schools as well as install new University of Central Asia’s School of Professional tools provided by us. Additionally, we provide onTheme: Empowerment of Women and Continuing Education in collaboration with the-job training for students, coaching, mentoring TCCC, has attracted more than 270 applicants and direct trainings sessions for school students Kazakhstan will focus on developing entrepreneurial skills in aged between 19 and 28. Empowering young and university students. In 2013, the project hosted Coca-Cola Belestery (meaning, stepping stone) is rural areas using “green” technologies, including people for the socio-economic development of approximately 1,400 students. a training program supporting women’s economic training on business skills and “green” technology the country by reducing youth unemployment has empowerment. Especially unemployed women opportunities in 20 villages in Almaty and Akmola. been a key focus of the program. All applicants are CCBCJ sponsored the first Amman Start UP in Kazakhstan learn the basics of establishing invited to training sessions on how to formulate a weekend program that encourages young people Turkey and running a business through this program. business idea, write a business plan and present and recent graduates to start their first business. CCI supports different platforms for female Specialized business-trainings on how to open small it. Participants are also able to find solutions to a The program, featuring three-day workshops, is a employment in Turkey where integration of women businesses in rural areas using “green technologies” number of social issues through entrepreneurship. global initiative supported by TCCC. into active labor markets is a priority. Among these will be held in 20 villages in Akmola and Almaty In 2013, six winners received financial grants to is Women’s Linc, which is a joint initiative of CCI TCCC is conducting the “Ripples of Happiness” regions. There is also a contest for financial realize their business ideas. These projects will be with TCCC. Women’s Linc enables participation of program in five universities in Jordan. CCBCJ support available for the development of women’s monitored and evaluated later by the competition our female employees in global training programs, volunteers provide support by way of on-thebusinesses. Ten grants in the amount of 600,000 selection committee. membership to the local branch of the “Equality ground implementation and execution. Tenge each will be allocated to support different at Workplace” committee of the World Economic Jordan business ideas. In its first year in 2013, as many CCBCJ participates in all university job fairs, Forum, and the collaborative work CCBCJ supports schools by assisting with both as 1,500 unemployed women engaged with the providing training sessions during fairs, free with the NGO, Kagider, with the school infrastructure and education. As a part Coca-Cola Belestery Program. In 2014, the program consultations on CV preparation, career path objective of establishing the of the INJAZ School Adoption Project, CCBCJ “Model of Equal Opportunities.” development, how to apply for a job, and adopted Om Ayman School in Madaba, a girls-only In addition, in January 2013 CCI development plans for university students in order secondary school with 1,400 students. We support and TCCC held the first “Women to better them for entering the work force. the school by providing training sessions on several Leadership Meeting” with topics and skills such as how to plan a career CCBCJ blood donors regularly give blood to the objective of facilitating communication between and how to start a small business. More than 30 Jordanian Blood Bank which visits our facilities once women leaders, as well as launching the “Women volunteers from the CCBCJ team participated in every quarter. In addition, CCBCJ sponsors several Leadership Platform” which aims for increasing the weekly training sessions. A second part of mobile clinic activities held by the Ministry of Health women’s employment and awareness of women the adoption program focused on enhancing the throughout Jordan by providing water and juices leadership in the workplace. learning environment of students by maintaining on top of supplying volunteers. 54 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 55 Social Projects at our Plants Social Projects at our Plants The Coca-Cola Life Plus In addition to large-scale social projects and Moneybox for Happiness! Helping Children with Disabilities (Jordan) Foundation programs conducted in cooperation with TCCC, In November 2013, CCI’s Bursa plant and sales CCBCJ Women’s Club visited the Saedat Al we Community The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, which was CCI plants also take the initiative to improve living center initiated a campaign to collect toys and Salam Center for disabled children in 2013. founded in 2009 in Turkey, has been conducting conditions in the neighborhoods where they books in a huge moneybox. The provinces of Elazığ Not only did they check in on the children, projects in partnership with non-governmental operate. Such programs include: and Antalya also supported the campaign. All but they also contributed to the renovation of organizations, universities and public institutions collected books and toys were distributed to those the center’s Autism Room by providing a new in order to have an impact at the national level. CCI Introduces Art to Children in Village Schools! In every project, the Foundation focuses on public in need. television screen which will be used in providing Led by CCI Turkey’s Mersin plant and with support benefit, enabling stakeholder participation to education. from the Tarsus Association of Artists, this project Life Plus Is in Our Blood! ensure environmental and social sustainability. aims to introduce art to children while also CCI’s Sapanca Damla Water plant and the The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation has conducted Pick It Up, Clean It Up, Sea Change embellishing village schools. The project is planned Turkish Red Crescent organized a blood donation 64 projects in 51 cities in Turkey, investing more (Azerbaijan) for 10 village schools within the town of Tarsus and campaign entitled, “Donating Blood, We Save than TL 20 million in social and environmental Within the framework of the “Annual so far has been completed in four schools. Within Lives DROP by DROP,” (“Damla” meaning “drop”) development since 2009. Now, the Foundation International Coastal Cleanup Day,” more than the scope of the project, members of the Tarsus in January 2013. Our Bursa plant also organized continues to contribute to the sustainability of 3.5 tons of litter and debris were removed from Association of Artists not only decorate school and a blood donation campaign with the Turkish Red communities and the environment via two main the coastal area in Mardakan under the “Pick it garden walls with paintings, but they also give Crescent in November and collected 28 units of programs: “Life Plus Environment” and “Let’s Play”. In Up, Clean it Up, Sea Change!” slogan. trainings to students on pastel painting, paper blood. addition, it successfully completed the “Living Rivers, marbling and aluminum relief. Living Aegean” project in 2013. (More information Clean Up (Jordan) about these projects can be found under the “me” Schools Embellished by CCI! 30 CCBCJ employees volunteered for the “Clean and “world” chapters of this report.) 2013 Community Champions Awards Employees of Turkey’s Çorlu plant and its Up” campaign held by the Royal Society for the For more information: www.hayataarti.org The 2013 Community Champion winners were Pioneering Spouses’ Club prepared Çorlu’s Conservation of Nature in collaboration with the announced in September as part of CCI’s Karamehmet Elementary School for the 2013-14 Jordan Tourism Board in 2013. The purpose of this Community Champions Awards program which academic year. event was to raise awareness of the hazards of Pioneering Spouses Club Continues to Make waste on the community and the environment and rewards employees who undertake initiatives Economic Impact of that contribute to society and the environment. People Happy to increase the sense of civic responsibility toward 2013’s award winners were recognized for The Coca-Cola System in the community and the environment. Upon hearing that eight students of the Special projects such as generating funds from birthday Turkey Education Class of the 75th Year Elementary School celebrations to supporting social welfare, The Coca-Cola System has been a powerful in Saray, Tekirdağ, were in need, members of the providing support for children receiving cancer contributor to Turkey, providing a wide range of Çorlu plant’s Pioneering Spouses Club supplied treatment, and mentoring and teaching students economic and social benefits. It not only makes uniforms, tracksuits, coats, and shoes for all in underprivileged areas of countries in CCI's strong contributions to Turkey’s macroeconomic students in the class. geography. Along with supporting projects indicators, but it also improves the country’s social Employees at Sapanca Damla Water Factory initiated by CCI employees and directed at and environmental welfare. Continue to Help Local Communities meeting the needs of local communities in In 2012, the Coca-Cola System added TL 6.2 billion A campaign initiated at CCI’s Sapanca Damla different countries, the Community Champions (0.44 % of Turkey’s GDP) of economic value to Water plant saw employees clean and iron surplus Awards Program also aims not only to raise the country via its value chain.* Every 1 TL of value clothes and then donated them to the Sakarya awareness of social problems among CCI created by Coca-Cola Turkey translated into TL Association of Orphans. The association distributed employees but also to encourage volunteering. 6.8 for the Turkish economy thanks to a strong 300 clothes to those need. local infrastructure. In addition, the Coca-Cola system enabled 20,000 full-time jobs through Full Support for “Litter-free Sea 2013” its core operations and suppliers, or 77,000 Our Mersin plant gave full support to the “Litter-free Together Against Hunger (Jordan) jobs if including the impact on customers, or a Sea 2013” project initiated by the Mersin EKOLOG TCCC, in cooperation with the Jordanian Food total of 118,000 jobs (corresponding to 0.51% of Association with the aim of raising environmental Bank, organized the “Together Against Hunger” the overall employment in Turkey) if taking into awareness, keeping coasts clean, and increasing campaign to distribute 180,000 meals and 11,000 account the induced impact. Consequently, as many as 36 new jobs were added to the Turkish appreciation for a cleaner environment. This twobottles of Coke via monthly food packages to 615 economy for every one job created by Coca-Cola day event included photographing, documenting, unprivileged families. Over a six-month period Turkey, making the Coca-Cola system’s economic and removing underwater pollution as well as CCI in ten provinces in Jordan, more than 150 CCBCJ contribution equivalent to that of a mid-sized employees participating in coastal cleaning. volunteers joined the monthly distribution. Turkish city. * All activities performed by the Coca-Cola system to deliver Coca-Cola products to the market. 56 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 57 The Coca-Cola System's economic contribution to Turkey is in the magnitude of a The Anadolu Foundation • Established the Anadolu Health Center in mid-sized city cooperation with Johns Hopkins Medicine, which The Anadolu Foundation was established by was selected the best hospital in the United Anadolu Group founders in 1979 with the aim of we Community GDP contribution1 Employment contribution2 States 21 times in a row. City Billions of TL, 2012 Thousands, 2012 creating lasting works to serve where needed, focusing initially on education and health. The • Offered 70,000 physical examinations, 185,000 Bayburt 0.9 16 financial resources of the Anadolu Foundation are medical workups, 4,600 operations and 11,000 shaped entirely by donations from Anadolu Group days of in-patient treatment as of the end of Sinop 3.1 42 companies. Group companies donate 1% to 5% of 2013. their earnings every year to the foundation. As a In addition, the Anadolu Group proudly supports Artvin 3.9 39 group company, CCI donates 3% of its Turkish presports by sponsoring the Anadolu Efes Sports Club. Batman tax profits to the Anadolu Foundation whose 2013 5.4 64 Anadolu Foundation 2013 Projects revenue exceeded TL 30 million. The Anadolu Foundation invested TL 7 million Yalova 5.7 55 Mission: Making a difference to improve people’s in the Yazıcı Education Campus which became quality of life by triggering development in operational in 2013 in Aksaray, Turkey. Kastamonu 6.4 79 education, health and social issues. In addition to its investments in education and Sivas 10.1 119 Vision: By benefiting from globally innovative health, the Anadolu Foundation also facilitates and pioneering practices, becoming a “Center of the sharing of life experiences through public İstanbul 301.6 4,326 Excellence” in its region with high social influence interviews with young people, assesses problems and corporate structure in social investments. of youth by analyzing and publishing academic Coca-Cola System 6.2 118 In tandem with this mission and vision, the Anadolu information, and offers experience-based, concrete Foundation: solutions to the identified problems. To this end, 1 2001 GDP contribution share of cities used to allocate 2012 GDP Source: McKinsey&Company, “The Socio-Economic Impact • Established more than 50 permanent buildings, coaching and mentoring practices continue. 2 Number of registered employees (source: Republic of Turkey Social of the Coca-Cola System in Turkey” Report Security Institution, SGK) including schools, dormitories, sports facilities, Within the scope of its social responsibility efforts, university buildings, hospitals, and community the Anadolu Foundation cooperated with Dilovası Coca-Cola Turkey also provides continuing support healthcare centers. Municipality in May 2013 to celebrate World to strengthen and sustain Turkey’s local economies. • Supported more than 20,000 students with its Disabled Week. Thanks to this cooperation, 100 The Coca-Cola system is a driving force in Turkey’s scholarship programs. disabled children were helped. agriculture industry where it contributed TL 685 Another project launched in 2013, “Healthy million to GDP, generated income for 135,000 to Children, Happy Future” operates in cooperation 145,000 farmers, and enabled as many as 14,000 with neighboring municipalities and aims to: full-time jobs through its beet sugar, corn sugar, • Ensure that general check-ups of children of and juice concentrate purchases. Additionally, it families in need are performed supports and preserves local retail businesses by providing them with profitable products and • Train children on hand hygiene by investing in their commercial capabilities and • Raise awareness in nursing mothers on baby assets. Coca-Cola Turkey’s presence in local care and breastfeeding retailers enabled TL 2.5 billion of added value and • Create a positive perception of hospitals amongst 67,000 full-time jobs in local retail businesses. children These actions all help Turkey ensure its future For more information please visit: prosperity, expand its agricultural impact, and www.anadoluvakfi.org.tr/en empower its retail base. 58 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 59 world It is CCI’s priority to minimize our environmental improve our environmental performance. We develop impact by using fewer natural resources and environmental awareness in our workplace and generating less waste. This approach is essential provide training to our employees on environmental for the sustainability of our business as well as the issues. In 2013 we provided 3,972 man-hours of world sustainability and welfare of the communities in which environmental training to our employees in Turkey, we operate. Jordan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Pakistan. Our Environmental Approach With our continuous efforts to minimize water consumption in our operations, to reduce our total carbon footprint, and to preserve natural resources, we aim to deliver on our sustainability commitments and inspire other companies in our industry with our performance. We constantly evaluate the opportunities for reducing, reusing and recycling. In line with our environmental impact management approach, we have determined three main focus areas which we manage by employing internationally-recognized standards: • Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection • Water Stewardship • Sustainable Packaging and Waste Total Hours of Environment Training 2013 In managing our environmental impact, we are guided Turkey 2,490 by legal requirements, TCCC standards, and industrial Jordan 80 Our Environmental Approach practices. Moreover, we listen to our stakeholders, and we do our best to satisfy their expectations regarding Kazakhstan 63 Goals & Commitments minimizing our environmental impact. Azerbaijan 79 Pakistan 1,260 In all of our operations we establish environmental Energy Management & Climate Protection management systems in order to monitor and TOTAL 3,972 Water Management Key performance data Sustainable Packaging and Waste Water and energy use ratios, total waste recycling rates and GHG ratios form the basis of our environmental approach. Our performance in 2013 and targets for 2020 are provided in the table below. Key Performance Indicators Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan 2013 2020 2013 2020 2013 2020 2013 2020 Target Target Target Target Energy use ratio* (MJ/L) 0.26** 0.23 0.41** 0.35 0.41** 0.30 0.44** 0.24 Water use ratio (L/L) 1.41** 1.20 2.00** 1.50 1.92** 1.40 1.65** 1.25 GHG ratio (CO2-e/L) 28.47 n.a. 54.76 n.a. 69.38 n.a. 39.22 n.a. Total waste recycling rate (%) 96.12** 98.00 94.70 95.00 99.60 98.00 90.30** 96.00 Note: Please see the Reporting Guidance section of this report for a more detailed description of these KPIs. * Energy use ratio refers only to filling (core) operations in the plants. It excludes energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes at plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. ** These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 60 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 61 Goals & Commitments Goals & Commitments Priority Areas 2013 Goals Performance in 2013 Status Commitments for 2014 Priority Areas 2013 Goals Performance in 2013 Status Commitments for 2014 world Energy To set as a minimum standard We prepared the LEED O To obtain at a minimum LEED Water To achieve a water use ratio of: The following results were To achieve a water use ratio Efficiency for all new CCI plants the certification application for our Gold certification for CCI Elazığ Stewardship achieved: of: requirements for LEED certification. Elazığ plant in Turkey. Plant. 1.39 L/L in Turkey 1.41 L/L in Turkey P 1.40 L/L in Turkey 1.85 L/L in Jordan 2.00 L/L in Jordan N 2 1.80 L/L in Jordan To achieve an energy use ratio of: The results achieved: To achieve the following 1.90 L/L in Azerbaijan 1.92 L/L in Azerbaijan P 1.80 L/L in Azerbaijan energy use ratios: 1.70 L/L in Kazakhstan 1.65 L/L in Kazakhstan A 1.63 L/L in Kazakhstan 0.24 MJ/L in Turkey 0.26 MJ/L in Turkey P 0.25 MJ/L for Turkey 0.39 MJ/L in Jordan 0.41 MJ/L in Jordan P 0.39 MJ/L for Jordan Packaging To save in Turkey 1,915 tons and We saved 1,804 tons of resin P All Turkey and Kazakhstan 0.37 MJ/L in Azerbaijan 0.41 MJ/L in Azerbaijan P 0.40 MJ/L for Azerbaijan and Waste in Kazakhstan 1,363 tons of in Turkey and 1,594 tons in operations have switched to 0.32 MJ/L in Kazakhstan 0.44 MJ/L in Kazakhstan N 1 0.32 MJ/L for Kazakhstan material in 2013 by implementing Kazakhstan. Our production “Lightweight” and “Short neck” “Lightweight” and “Short neck” volume has decreased production. Therefore there is To establish energy projects. compared to the production no new goal for Turkey and management systems To start “Lightweight” and “Short plan, resulting in a lower amount Kazakhstan operations. in Jordan, Azerbaijan neck” projects in Pakistan and of resin savings. To continue “Lightweight” Kazakhstan by 2017. Azerbaijan in 2013 and in Jordan At the end of 2013 in Azerbaijan and “Short neck” projects in in 2015. we started “Lightweight” and Azerbaijan. GHG To achieve GHG emission ratios of: The following results were To achieve a carbon emission “Short neck” projects. To start “Lightweight” and Emissions achieved: ratio of: “Short neck” projects in Jordan 28.75 CO2 g/L in Turkey In Turkey 28.47 CO2 g/L A 27.00 CO2 g/L in Turkey in 2015. 70 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan In Kazakhstan 39.22 CO2 g/L A 45 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan 80 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan In Azerbaijan 69.38 CO2 g/L A 60 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan To reduce cap weight from 3.25 g In 2013 we saved the following To continue implementing cap In Jordan 54.76 CO2 g/L to 2.45 g by short neck bottle cap amount of resin at our suppliers weight reduction projects at replacement in carbonated drinks due to cap weight reduction: our suppliers in Azerbaijan. To ensure that 100% of all new In Turkey 81% of newly O Ongoing target until the end in Turkey and in carbonated drinks, 772 tons in Turkey P cooler equipment purchased purchased equipment is HFCof 2015. carbonated water and still water in 295 tons in Kazakhstan A is HFC-free by end of 2015 free. Through this, we reduced Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. With (depending on the availability of 759 tons of fugitive GHG these projects, we aim to save the coolers.) emissions from 2009 until the 785 tons of resin in Turkey and 244 end of 2013. tons in Kazakhstan at our suppliers. To increase our EMD-equipped We increased our EMD-equipped A To increase our EMDTo use 9.4 g of material instead of We saved 31 tons of resin A To save a minimum of 50 coolers to 77% in 2013 in Turkey. coolers to 77%. equipped coolers to 84% in 10.5 g in Damla 330 ml bottles. With through the lightweight tons of resin with lightweight 2014 and to 89% in 2016 in this project we aim to save 20 tons application of Damla 330 ml projects Turkey. of material. bottles. To supply renewable energy to the Photovoltaic panels and a wind A No new target. To deploy returnable bottle 4.5 million returnable bottles A To increase the returnable Izmir plant’s Postmix line by using turbine are installed, delivering implementations (for example, RB were sold in 2013 in Turkey. bottles we sell to around 5 solar photovoltaic panels and wind 7,500-kWh/year electricity and 300ml) in Turkey and to change We converted nearly 3 million million in Turkey. turbines. resulting in a savings of 3.4 tons consumer and customer behavior non-returnable packages to of CO2 emissions. to prefer returnable products. returnable bottles. Water To save 12,000 m3 of water with We saved 9,295 m3 of water with P To continue water reuse, To achieve a total waste ratio of: We achieved: To achieve a total waste ratio Stewardship the use of wastewater discharge the use of wastewater discharge reduce and recycle projects in of: after treatment as non-contact in Ankara Plant. Turkey to achieve our annual 3.75 g/L in Turkey 4.99 g/L in Turkey N 4 4.5 g/L in Turkey water in cooling towers of HP water use ratio target. 13.00 g/L in Jordan 6.44 g/L in Jordan A 13.0 g/L in Jordan5 compressors and preform injection 1.75 g/L in Azerbaijan 1.28 g/L in Azerbaijan A 1.0 g/L in Azerbaijan machine in the Ankara plant. 1.73 g/L in Kazakhstan3 1.59 g/L in Kazakhstan A 1.6 g/L in Kazakhstan To save 30,000 m3 of water with We saved 30,736 m3 of water A To continue water reuse, A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved the reuse of reverse osmosis reject with the reuse of reverse reduce and recycle projects in and sanitation final rinse water osmosis reject and sanitation Turkey to achieve our annual 1 Kazakhstan could not achieve its 2013 EUR target due to a change in the calculation methodology. after treatment by reverse osmosis final rinse in the Ankara Plant. water use ratio target. 2 Calculation method was revised during the 2012 auditing process. in the Ankara plant. 3 This goal is revised. 4 Due to time-lag effect between actual generation of waste and subsequent disposal and recording, target was not achieved. (E.g. coolers and wood pallets are accumulated in the plants for repair and can be disposed after approval.) A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 5 Waste generation ratio can be distorted between large quantities of certain waste types, such as glass bottles collected from the market, which are only disposed periodically when a large quantity has accumulated in the plant’s waste storage area. 62 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 63 Energy Management & Climate LEED Certification for Elazığ Plant In 2013, in addition to reporting CO2 emissions due 85 tons of CO2 emissions due to international air travel to cooler electricity consumption, we also calculated • 174 tons of CO2 emissions due to employee commuting Protection CCI Turkey’s Elazığ Plant achieved LEEDand reported some more of our Scope 3 emissions • 16,467 tons of CO2 emissions due to product We prioritize energy efficiency in every area of our certification for its comprehensive energy for Turkey for the first time. Accordingly, Scope 3 distribution by third parties world operations, from supply to production and from efficient and environmentally-friendly features. emissions for CCI Turkey operations in 2013 were: • 328,628 tons of CO2 due to electricity consumption distribution to sales. We measure our carbon footprint The U.S. Green Building Council recently • 122 tons of CO2 emissions due to domestic air travel and by coolers located at our customers' premises and take the necessary measures to reduce it. awarded the plant “gold” status, the secondhighest possible status in the “existing buildings” Energy management and climate change have category. The Elazığ plant is the first amongst all priority in our sustainability strategy. We set ambitious TCCC plants to achieve gold certification in “LEED energy use and GHG emission reduction targets, v2009 Existing Buildings.” LEED, or Leadership GHG Emissions in Turkey (tons CO2-e) and we identify and implement energy reduction in Energy & Environmental Design, is a green measures and explore low carbon technology building certification program that recognizes 14,517 15.145 19,555 62,877 345,475 alternatives to achieve these targets. Our ultimate 2013 457,570 best-in-class building strategies and practices. goal is to achieve high levels of production through The certification is based on an assessment low energy consumption and fewer GHG emissions. of the building in five categories: sustainable 362,998 With this in mind, we systematically seek measures 18,309 64,212 site, water efficiency, energy and atmosphere, to reduce our energy consumption during production 2012 11,661 19,474 476,654 materials and resources, indoor environmental (packaging, design, transportation and cooling quality and innovation in design. processes) while improving efficiency and quality. 0 250.000 500.000 GHG Emission Management Scope 1 Stationary combustion emissions Scope 1 Fleet emissions Our energy management and climate protection While advancing towards our 2020 growth targets, Scope 1 Fugitive emissions from coolers & cooling system Scope 2 Emissions (electricity) strategy focuses on the following: we also take firm steps to fully track and minimize Scope 3* our carbon footprint, a measure that is essential for the sustainability of the environment as well Increasing the energy efficiency * Scope 3 includes emissions from domestic and international air travel, employee commuting, product distribution by third parties (excluding distributors), and as our business. We are aware of the climate of our plants and offices, thereby electricity use by coolers at our customers. change-driven risks on the sustainability of energy, Note: In 2012 and 2013, third-party auditing company SGS verified CCI’s scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions for all its operational facilities in Turkey according reducing GHG emissions to the requirements of ISO 14064-1. agricultural products and water resources. Therefore, we take a proactive approach to reducing our GHG Reducing logistics-based emissions which are believed to contribute to a 2013 GHG emissions in the four countries of operation emissions with effective fleet and global climate change. Since 2011 we have been fuel management practices submitting a detailed annual report to the CDP on GHG Emissions (tons CO2-e) 2010 2011 2012 2013 our GHG strategy, risk and opportunity analysis, and Turkey performance, results. Scope 1 49,123 49,083 49,444* 49,217* Reducing indirect emissions by Global studies show that in our industry, ingredients Scope 2 61,557 64,923 64,212* 62,877* focusing on our climate-friendly and packaging account for around 65% of the total Jordan refrigeration applications GHG footprint of a product. Manufacturing and Scope 1 4,067 2,707 1,873 786 distribution account for a total of 15% while refrigeration Scope 2 3,074 3,027 3,203 3,412 accounts for another 20%. We focus our emission Increasing awareness of climate Kazakhstan reduction efforts on those value chain processes where protection by collaborating Scope 1 4,276 7,573 8,276 9,597 we have the most control, namely manufacturing, with our distributors, dealers, Scope 2 8,114 8,384 8,929 10,553 distribution and, to a lesser degree, refrigeration.* suppliers and other stakeholders Azerbaijan As in 2012, CCI Turkey successfully completed the Scope 1 4,419 4,420 6,454 5,335 ISO 14064-1 verification audit in 2013. Our carbon Scope 2 6,136 5,671 8,319 10,399 Researching and investing in footprint resulting from our plants, offices, and vehicle TOTAL clean and renewable energy fleet in Turkey were verified by SGS. As a result of this where possible Scope 1 61,885 63,783 66,047 64,935 verification, our total absolute scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions were 112,094 tons of CO2-e for 2013, Scope 2 78,881 82,005 84,663 87,241 which is 1.34% less compared to 2012. * For Turkey, 2012 and 2013 data are verified by SGS according to the requirements of ISO 14064-1. Note: In all figures (2010-2013 GHG emissions) all processes including filling, preform injection, CO2 production and electricity production (only in Kazakhstan) * Reference: Coca-Cola Enterprises 2013 Sustainability Report are included. 64 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 65 In addition to monitoring total emissions for each country of operation, we also monitor our GHG emission ratio Energy Efficiency At Plants which represents CO2-equivalent emissions per liter of product produced. This ratio includes all Scope 1 and Processes related to energy consumption are managed within the framework of CCI’s Energy Management Scope 2 emissions as included in the table above. System in line with the Environmental Management System, the Operational Excellence model and key corporate performance indicators related to operational plans. CCI’s senior management monitors and evaluates the world GHG Emission Ratio (g/L) 2010 2011 2012 2013 performance results. An energy coordinator implements the Energy Management System effectively at all our plants in Turkey. All our Turkey plants have been rewarded with TS EN 50001 Energy Management System Turkey 28.95 30.10 28.52 28.47 certificates. In other countries of operation, we continue to lay the foundations for robust energy management Jordan 72.44 56.03 55.31 54.76 systems. Please see “Performance Indicators” section for detailed energy use data. Kazakhstan 56.90 49.46 41.07 39.22 Azerbaijan 53.54 49.44 62.55 69.38 Energy Use (Core operations) (Million MJ) 2010 2011 2012* 2013* Turkey 557.93 692.14 720.91 709.66 Jordan 49.91 31.32 36.51 31.38 The Coca-Cola System launched the “Reduce CO2 emissions embedded in the drink in your hand by 25% by 2020” global initiative in 2013 to reduce GHG emissions across its entire value chain. We are going to Kazakhstan 99.89 100.16 112.05 225.92 integrate our CCI climate protection targets with this initiative in order to achieve comprehensive carbon Azerbaijan 99.25 38.99 83.94 93.47 footprint reductions across the manufacturing processes, packaging formats, delivery fleet, refrigeration TOTAL 806.98 862.61 953.41 1,060.43 equipment and ingredient sourcing. This is a comprehensive approach since this goal covers Scope 1, 2 Note: These figures exclude energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes at plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. Energy use for electricity manufacturing process which is present only at Kazakhstan plant is included in the 2013 data. For the purpose of benchmarking among plants, the and 3 emissions. figures for energy use ratios are calculated based on these “core operations” values. * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan GHG Emission Reductions 1.12 In 2013, due to the various projects we implemented, we achieved a GHG emission reduction of 171,425 0.44 0.47 tons in Turkey. 0.72 0.45 0.39 0.41 0.67 0.33 0.28 0.41 0.26 0.25 0.26 0.26 2013 Emissions Savings in Turkey (ton CO2-e) Scope Amount 0.22 2006 2011 2012 2013* OE projects at manufacturing plants Scope 1+2 4,307 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. PET bottle blowing pressure reduction project Scope 2 6,822 Improvements in Energy Use Ratios between 2006 and 2013 (MJ/L) Turkey 2006 0.26 Cooler EMD improvement Scope 3 157,077 2013 0.26* Green IT Scope 1 2,139 Jordan 2006 1.12 2013 0.41* Fleet improvement Scope 2 176 Kazakhstan 2006 0.72 2013 0.44* Route optimization Scope 3 584 Azerbaijan 2006 0.67 2013 0.41* HFC emissions reduction in coolers Scope 1 320 TCCC 2006 0.49 Total 171,425 2013 0.43 0 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 66 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 67 Energy and GHG Emission Reduction Fleet operations have a substantial impact on our Top 10 Energy-Saving Challenge EMD Ratio (%) 2011 2012 2013 Within the scope of the Operational Excellence 7th carbon performance. To achieve our objectives to Wave Program conducted in CCI plants in Turkey, TCCC and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions, we Turkey 35 59 77 100 projects have been successfully implemented. As launched the Energy-Saving Challenge aim to consume less fuel, minimize the number of Jordan 5 5 5 world a result we achieved a reduction of 46,786,000 MJ in January 2011 to assist the Company’s daily vehicle movements and choose vehicles with Kazakhstan 12 19 29 energy and 4,767 tons of GHG emissions. 1,000 bottling partners in improving plant lower fuel consumption and carbon emissions. In Azerbaijan 50 50 50 performance. The Challenge encourages 2013, 75 company cars were replaced with those Within the context of OE, energy efficiency projects bottling companies to implement energy-saving using diesel. Our diesel cars consume an average of As a result of the EMD program, in 2013, we similar to those in Turkey have been deployed in other practices that reduce environmental impacts 7.2 liters per 100 km whereas gasoline-powered cars reduced the energy consumption from refrigeration country operations. As a result, we achieved total while increasing cost savings. Through the use an average 9.6 liters per 100 km. Based on these by 343,476,882 kWh and by 157,077 tons of CO2 annual energy savings of 55,660,462 MJ in Turkey, Energy-Saving Challenge, Coca-Cola and WWF improvements, we estimate a reduction of 35 tons of emissions (equivalent to the amount of CO2 that 13.1 Kazakhstan, Jordan, Azerbaijan and Pakistan plants, indicated 10 practices that, if implemented CO2 in 2013. million trees extract annually from the environment) corresponding to a reduction of 5,670 tons of CO2 across every bottling plant, will enable In our fleet we operate EURO 5 trucks with low in Turkey. These results placed CCI among those emissions. Details can be seen in the table below. Coca-Cola to achieve 60-70% of its carbon emissions. Of the 70 trucks that CCI operates directly, companies that are closest to realizing 2015 reduction goal. By 2013 all four countries of we own 10 of them; the remaining 60 are owned by refrigerator inventory goals within TCCC. Energy saved and GHG Energy (MJ) GHG emission reduced due to Emissions operation completed the Global Top 10 Energy third-parties. In 2013, we purchased five new trucks OE projects in 2013 (CO2 ton) Saving Program. CCI Turkey became the first and leased five more with EURO 5 engine. As a result multi-plant country operation in the Coca-Cola we saved approximately 11,000 km and 52,800 Percentage of EMD-Equipped Coolers in Turkey Turkey 46,785,900 4,767 system to have completed this Program. liters of diesel fuel. This improvement corresponds to Jordan 910,560 108 % EMD savings of 141 metric tons of CO2 emission. Kazakhstan 2,148,329 224 operations. As such, optimization of logistics is crucial Azerbaijan 118,340 11 Cooling Practices 2009 2% to our business performance. We continuously seek Pakistan 5,697,333 560 For the consumer to enjoy the best experience, it is 2010 13% opportunities to increase our efficiency by minimizing TOTAL 55,660,462 5,670 important to serve most of our products cold. We the daily number of vehicle movements and the daily 2011 35% have around 290,000 cooling equipment units at our kilometers driven. In this context, we developed the Major energy efficiency projects and savings in sales points to maintain display quality and to ensure 2012 59% “Route Optimization Project” in 2013 to further improve 2013: availability of cold drinks for immediate consumption. 2013 the route planning of our sales and distribution teams. 77% • In Turkey, we decreased pet blowing pressure During its use, the equipment causes GHG emissions There are two subcategories of Route Optimization: from 25 bars to 17 bars and saved 1,018,441 kWh of both due to the electricity it consumes and refrigerants Sales Route Optimization and Distribution Route energy. which may leak. Reducing the amount of energy Optimization. Between 2009 and 2013, our EMD program in • In Turkey, CCI’s Çorlu plant replaced all chillers with consumed per refrigerator and switching to HFC-free Turkey resulted in a total energy savings of about new ammonium ones and saved 1,900,000 kWh of As part of this project, we use a technological cooling equipment are important elements of our 741,600,000 kWh (equal to the annual energy electricity. platform called “Road Net” which we established in 2020 Vision. consumption of 130,000 households) and a total • In Kazakhstan, we used less electricity for short2013 for our 41 distributors in Turkey. According to our Energy Management Device (EMD) Program reduction of 340,000 tons of CO2 emissions (equal neck preform injection and saved 537,445 kWh of estimates, using Road Net will result in a reduction In 2009 we set a target to reduce GHG emissions to the amount of CO2 that 28 million trees extract electricity. of 775,000 kilometers and approximately 584 ton resulting from the electricity consumed by our annually from the atmosphere). • In Jordan, we deactivated degasser tank pumps of CO2 as well as USD 538,860 worth of fuel saving. cooling equipment. We are committed to increasing In 2014, we aim to implement Road Net also for our In 2013, thanks to the EMD program, we managed to by sending water directly to raw water tanks and the number of coolers equipped with an Energy three direct distribution points and 20 high-volume save 363,303,087 kwh electricity in the four countries saved 112,000 kWh of electricity. Management Device (EMD). Coolers equipped with distributors. Additionally, we are testing Road Net for of operation, resulting in a CO2 reduction of 165,289 • In Jordan, we used a VFD air compressor and made EMDs use about 42% less energy than conventional use in Kazakhstan. tons (equal to the amount of CO2 that 13.8 million FF standby and saved 44,000 kWh of electricity. models. Fitting coolers with EMDs and reducing pertrees extract annually from the atmosphere). We will • In Azerbaijan, we used natural illumination in the cooler energy consumption form an important part of continue our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions resulting ceilings of a warehouse and garage and saved our 2020 Vision. from our coolers. Please see “Performance Indicators” 18,400 kWh of electricity. As a commitment within our EMD program, we section for detailed CO2 emissions data. purchase new coolers that are equipped with an Energy Efficiency of Transportation and EMD. In addition, we convert our customers’ non-EMD Meanwhile, we have been purchasing coolers with Logistics coolers to EMD-fitted coolers. By the end of 2013, 77% LED lighting systems as well. This system renders inWe transport millions of goods and products from of our coolers in Turkey were equipped with EMDs, equipment lighting 80% more efficient. As of the end suppliers to our plants, and from our plants to an improvement over 2012’s 59%. Also, in Azerbaijan, of 2013, approximately 75,000 of our coolers were customers and distributors. CCI’s extensive logistics Jordan and Kazakhstan we have been installing EMDs equipped with LED lighting systems. network means that sales and distribution of our in existing coolers, the ratios of which are available in products, together, form the largest part of our the table below. 68 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 69 HFC-Free Program Green IT Practices Water Management Supporting this ultimate goal, we focus on five Hydroflorocarbons (HFCs) used as refrigerants in Integrated Communication and Cooperation methods, namely: We place the issue of water usage, which is coolers are known to contribute to climate change. Platform & Video Conference 1. Reducing water consumption/reusing water fundamental to our business, at the heart of our Together with its bottling partners, TCCC has through water efficiency projects The accelerated pace of development in recent years environmental policy. Water is one of the most world established a goal that 100% of new cold-drink 2. Reclaiming and safely discharging wastewater requires an effective transfer of both information and essential resources of life and also the main ingredient equipment will be HFC-free by 2015. In December 3. Replenishing water experience at the same pace, as well as an efficient of our beverages. Establishing a water-sustainable 2013, the one-millionth HFC-free cooler was placed 4. Supporting studies devoted to preserving and control of information and experience. In order for operation is key to our business success and to the within TCCC, representing a turning point in achieving improving water basins a growing organization to operate in a coordinated welfare of the communities in which we operate. this ambitious goal. It is worth mentioning that out of 5. Supporting studies that raise the awareness and synchronized way, employees should have these one million coolers, 220,000 of them are placed of consumers, public institutions and nonbetter communication among themselves. On the in Turkey. Compared to HFC versions, the global Turkey’s annual water consumption amounts to other hand, while language and time differences, governmental organizations warming potential of HFC-free coolers is at least one three times the volume of Lake Büyükçekmece geographical sizes, and increasing numbers of thousand times lower. in Istanbul. The use of water is distributed as Water Consumption offices reduce the efficiency of communication within follows: 11% in industrial operations, 15% in Since water is the main ingredient in our beverages, Refrigerants in cooling equipment may slowly the organization, technology should be used to houses and 74% in agriculture.1 our use of water resources is significant in the regions leak into the atmosphere during use or may leak improve this efficiency. In this context, an integrated completely if the equipment communication and cooperation platform not only where our plants are located. According to a study is not properly disposed of maximizes employee efficiency, but also directly Given the many risk factors such as population conducted by Turkey’s State Hydraulic Works*, the at the end of its life cycle. supports CCI’s vision of growth. growth, increasing per-capita consumption of natural amount of annual total usable water in Turkey is CCI always ensures that resources, and global warming-related threats, we 112 billion m3, of which 32 billion m3 is dedicated to In order to meet these needs, we launched an coolers are properly emptied work especially hard to become more efficient in our agricultural (irrigation) use, 7 billion m3 is used as extensive project. The functionalities of the project of any gases which may water use by reducing the amount of water used to drinking water, and 5 billion m3 is used in industry. include e-mailing, instant messaging, corporate remain. In 2013, a total of produce our products. While increasing our business CCI’s Turkey operations account for 0.0039 billion m3, portal, corporate documentation and content about 30,300 pieces of old volume, our goal is “to produce more beverages by or only 0.078% of Turkey’s total water usage. management, employee and position searching, cooling equipment (weighing consuming less water.” personal information, individual and collective approximately 2,120 tons) audio-visual communication, replacement of legacy was disposed of properly in PBX systems with computers or mobile devices, and our Turkey operations. ensuring compatibility of these systems with mobile By the end of 2013, 57% of the platforms. Corporate social communication platforms coolers we use in Turkey were were added to these in 2013. Currently the platform HFC-free, a considerable consists of 10 countries and 7,500 users. 112 improvement over the 40% in Major benefits of this project include improvements in 2012. Due to our use of HFCwork-life balance thanks to fewer business trips and free cooling equipment, we reduction in telephone and travelling costs. managed to reduce our total TOTAL USABLE fugitive CO2 emissions by 759 tons between 2009 and WATER 2013. In 2012, we established four new video conference rooms, and these rooms were used efficiently 32 in line with our travel policy. Hypothetically, 100 We make use of efficient wastewater treatment Percentage of HFC-free cooling equipment videoconferences results in 20 fewer business techniques and recycle our wastewater. We also trips. 7,865 videoconferences realized during 2013 support global initiatives to combat water-related 7 AGRICULTURAL % HFC free and we assumed that 1,573 trips were prevented issues, and we support local projects to preserve USAGE which corresponds to approximately 2,139 tons of and improve water basins. At the local level, we DRINKING 2009 0% USAGE CO2-e emissions. implement plans to protect water catchment basins 2010 11% in the regions where our plants are located. With our 5 0.0039 CCI’s Business Systems Group obtained the ISO 20000 water management efforts we try to set an example 2011 27% INDUSTRIAL certification that identifies standards based on the best in our local communities. USAGE 2012 CCI USAGE 40% practices in IT service management and management We fully support TCCC’s ultimate goal of “replenishing 2013 57% processes in order to ensure a certain disciplinary level every drop of water used,” and to this end we are and quality in IT services. assisted by global water management studies. * Source: Report entitled “State of Water Resources in Turkey and New Approaches to Water Management” published by Turkish Business Council on Sustainable Development, 2013. 70 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 71 Our total water consumption amounts for the four countries of operation over the last four years are provided In Turkey: Water Discharge (L/L) 2006 2013 in the table below. Approximately 81% of our water comes from wells whereas 11% comes from spring water (spring water is used only in Turkey) and 8% from municipal water systems. • We have reduced the average amount of Turkey 0.39 0.35 water used to produce one liter of product to Jordan 2.43 1.00 world Total Water Consumption by Source (m3) 2010 2011 2012* 2013* 1.41 L/L as of 2013. Kazakhstan 0.87 0.50 • We achieved approximately 19% water saving Turkey 3,558,449 3,850,537 3,914,531 3,912,240 per liter of product as a result of efficiency Azerbaijan 1.16 1.05 Jordan 140,904 137,847 160,240 153,656 projects implemented from 2006 to 2013. Kazakhstan 422,064 510,591 706,955 849,980 Azerbaijan 305,164 306,059 412,162 436,075 Water Preservation and Replenishment TOTAL 4,426,581 4,805,034 5,193,888 5,351,951 In line with TCCC’s goal to improve the System’s water Clean, accessible water is essential to the good efficiency by 25% (taking 2010 as a baseline) by 2020, health of communities. It is critical to ecosystems * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. Note: 2013 water withdrawal figures are the same as 2013 water consumption figures in 4 operations. CCI will continue to improve water use efficiencies and indispensable for economic prosperity, per liter of product produced through operational and it is essential for our business. Water is the Water Efficiency main ingredient in our beverages, central to our advancements. Our efforts to reduce water consumption go hand in hand with our OE practices. As our business grows, our production manufacturing process and necessary for growing the volume increases. In order to set measurable objectives, we attempt to reduce the amount of water used for every one Major OE water efficiency projects in 2013: agricultural products we use as ingredients. liter of product and develop practices in line with this aim. Furthermore, we monitor our water consumption ratio in each • In Turkey, a new sand filter was installed and We have a particular interest in protecting the water country of operation. We also aim to spread good practice throughout our production chain. all backwash water is now filtered and reused, sources that sustain communities. Because the resulting in a high water recovery ratio. Due to this communities that host our bottling plants are also Water Use Ratio (L/L) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan project, we save 30,000 m3 of water per year. our consumer bases, we sell our products where 3.44 • In Turkey, by re-adjusting the washing period of the we make them. If those communities stay strong, 2.00 2.06 1.92 ultra-filtration system we save 8,500 m3 water. our business will stay strong; if the watersheds we 2.10 2.00 2.10 1.74 1.90 1.65 • In Kazakhstan, by decreasing filling valve rinsing share with them are conserved, those communities 1.74 1.70 1.76 1.41 and our business can thrive. So, in addition to the 1.39 water and reusing vacuum pumps cooling water, 1.42 ethical and ecological imperatives that drive our water we save 19,000 m3 water year. stewardship, we also have a vested business interest 2006 2011 2012* 2013* Wastewater Management and Reclamation in conserving and improving local water sources. * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. “Zero wastewater generation” and “reclamation” are Water Assessment concepts that define our wastewater management Since the end of 2012, TCCC has required all of its Improvements in Water Use Ratios Between 2006 and 2013 approach. In addition to complying with local laws bottling plants to conduct a local source vulnerability regulating wastewater treatment and discharge in assessment (SVA) and to develop a source water Turkey 2006 1.74 all the countries in which we operate, we also act in protection plan (SWPP) to mitigate water-related risks accordance with TCCC’s standards that determine 2013 1.41* to our System and to the communities we serve. the wastewater pollutant limits for bottler operations. SVAs allow us to assess vulnerabilities to community In many cases the allowed discharge limits set by Jordan 2006 3.44 sources of water and help us to determine potential TCCC are much lower than the limits established by impacts of our water usage and wastewater 2013 2.00* the legal authorities. We monitor our wastewater discharge. As of 31 December 2013, all CCI plants with parameters with periodic analysis and reduce our the exception of South Iraq had completed their SVA Kazakhstan 2006 2.10 environmental impact by treating wastewater prior to studies in all countries of operation. discharge. In line with our OE objectives, we develop 2013 1.65* projects for our production chain that will reduce During any SVA study, an analysis of water basins wastewater generated as a result of our activities. and sub-basins around our plants is conducted, Azerbaijan 2006 2.10 These projects include, among others, reverse and it will include the topographical, geological, 2013 1.92* hydro geological and hydrological assessment osmosis, reusing treated wastewater as irrigation water, and reusing final rinse water for floor washing. of the study areas as well as identification of any TCCC 2006 2.55 risks to the sustainability of water resources within 2013 2.08 Water discharge between 2006 and 2013 these areas. SVA studies include processes such In addition to our total water discharge, we also as field surveys, interviews with plant authorities monitor the amount of wastewater discharged per or site representatives, interviews with local and 0 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 liter of product produced. national authorities as well as desktop studies. * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 72 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 73 These assessments inventory the social, environmental and political risks to the water sources supplying TCCC’s Ambitious Replenishment Goal The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation’s Projects our facilities and surrounding communities. We In line with its strategy to replenish every drop evaluate the results of these studies with a “Source of water used, TCCC has set a goal for 2020. “Living Rivers, Living Aegean Region” Project activities in the water basin, and engagement world Water Protection Plan” and take action on a plantUsing global water management studies as As a result of industrial developments and with stakeholders around the IRBM system. The by-plant basis. CCI plants included in this report have a guide, the company aims to safely return to ecological problems in the region, the Büyük project was completed by mid-2013, and relevant developed a Source Water Protection Plan and have communities and nature an amount of water Menderes river basin in Turkey’s Aegean province stakeholders shared the results of the project which begun implementing improvements. equal to what it uses in its finished beverages has been damaged in the last 40 years – included an atlas of Büyük Menderes river basin. and their production. This is called “water In line with the information gathered as a result of the threatening the livelihood of 2.5 million people and neutrality,” and it is defined as: assessment studies, various practices were conducted the local ecosystem. “Living Rivers, Living Aegean 1) Returning the water we use back to the Region” aims to maintain the sustainability of water to avoid contamination, to prevent water quality communities we serve by treating all wastewater resources in the region through an Integrated River decrease arising out of pesticides contamination, and and returning it to the local environment at a Basin Management (IRBM) system based on a to foster water usage minimization and recycling. level of purity that supports aquatic life multi-stakeholder collaboration. Other studies held in conjunction with assessments 2) Replenishing an amount of water equivalent The project partners; the Coca-Cola Life Plus focused on alternative water resources, ensuring to our product volume through locally-relevant Foundation, WWF, EKODOSD, focus on three goals: business continuity, improving the knowledge level of water and sanitation projects. monitoring Büyük Menderes river’s water quality, employees, and explaining water policy and facts of TCCC to the community. Between 2005 and the end of 2013, TCCC reducing pollution resulting from agricultural balanced, or replenished, an estimated 68% For example, in Pakistan we identified access to clean (based on 2013 production volumes) of the water water as an issue and initiated a project together with TCCC where we aim to provide 500,000 people with used in its finished beverages, an amount equal Sustainable Packaging and • Reuse and Recycle – Increasing the number to 108.5 billion liters. The water replenishment of returnable bottles in our portfolio. Working clean water by 2015 through the use of reverse osmosis. rate for Turkey has reached 23%, equal to Waste together with various stakeholders to establish about 665 million liters of water. In TCCC’s Packaging plays an essential role in our business by an environmentally friendly and economically Eurasia region, which excludes Jordan, the protecting our products during delivery. At the same sustainable infrastructure for post-consumer replenishment rate has increased to 69%. time, it significantly contributes to our environmental packaging recovery and recycling footprint. Therefore, we strive to make our • Renewable – Exploring and texting alternative, packaging more environmentally and economically renewable materials such as Plant Bottle sustainable. Continuously reducing the materials The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation’s Projects used in packaging as well as energy consumed in the Since waste management and sustainable packaging process makes good business sense and is crucial for are key components of CCI's general environmental Life Plus Environment Program water in agriculture exacerbating water scarcity, it establishing a sustainable operation. performance, we continuously monitor total waste Even though Turkey is considered to be a nearly is also leading to topsoil erosion in non-agricultural ratios and total recycle rates against annual targets at We reduce pollution by safely disposing of the waste all our plants. water-scarce country, with an average allowance areas. Land is, literally, being swept away by winds generated by our operations. We implement recycling of only 1,520 m3 of water per person, more than that are increasing in strength as a result of climate We strive to recycle both hazardous and non-hazardous programs and, as a result, reduce our consumption of 70% of the country’s fresh water is being used in change. waste with a goal to ultimately recycle 100%. resources. agriculture. Not only is such disproportionate use of The Life Plus Environment Program was initiated With a focus on recyclability, minimizing resources, with a vision to employing a new approach to land and increasing the use of recycled and renewable Our Sustainable Packaging Strategy and water management – one that is designed materials, we work to deliver the quality beverages to adapt to a changing climate and decreasing our consumers expect in the most efficient way PET and Glass water resources. And this can only happen with possible. Additionally, we support programs that REDUCE Lightweight a “golden triangle” partnership between the encourage consumers to recycle used beverage public sector, the private sector, and civil society packaging. REUSE Returnable Bottles organizations. To this end, the Coca-Cola Life Plus Program partnered in 2013 with Turkey’s Ministry Three fundamental principles define our approach to of Agriculture and with the Nature Conservation sustainable packaging: Post Consumed RECYCLE Material Collection Center of Turkey. • Reduce – Continuously reducing the material amount and energy used in manufacturing of packaging material and using recycled materials RENEW Plant Bottle as much as food safety principles and technology allow 74 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 75 Reducing Materials Used in Product Packaging Recycling of Packaging Materials In line with our strategy of reducing the amount of raw CCI’s efforts to minimize its environmental impact Improvements in Total Waste Recycling Rate Between 2006 and 2013 materials used in packaging, we continued our tests in terms of packaging processes include several for using less PET plastic for each bottle we use. With implementations such as increasing material recycling Turkey 2006 90.99 world this target in mind we continued our “Lightweight” PET ratios, encouraging the use of refundable deposit 2013 96.12* bottles implementation in 2013. bottles, and helping authorized business partners Jordan 2006 81.60 collect packaging waste. “Short Neck” is another specific application we 2013 94.70 have been implementing within the Lightweight PET In Turkey, there is legislation mandating recycling program since 2008. With this application, we aim of post-consumer packaging waste. The system in Kazakhstan 2006 94.67 to decrease the pitch and height of PET bottles so Turkey is based on a concept of extended producer's 2013 90.30* as to enhance product quality and shelf life while liability. During the reporting period, the recycling rate Azerbaijan 2006 75.55 simultaneously minimizing resin use. Following the in Turkey for plastics, glass, metal and aluminumtrial processes we conducted at our Izmir plant in packaging waste was 42%. We achieved this rate with 2013 99.60 2008, we started implementing short neck in different the help of our authorized business partner, Çevko bottle sizes. Foundation. We aim to achieve a 60% post-consumer 0 25 50 75 100 packaging recycling rate in Turkey by 2020. As a result of our “Lightweight” and “Short Neck” * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. projects, we saved 1,804 tons of resin (PET material In addition, we purchase from our suppliers glass used in our packaging) in our Turkey operations. In and aluminum produced from recycled materials. In Packaging Material Waste Management Kazakhstan, we saved 1,594 tons. Our lightweight Turkey, our percentage of recycled material in glass is Our sustainable packaging goal is to reduce our At CCI, waste management is a vital part of the ISO projects and design changes have resulted in savings about 20-25% and in aluminum about 50%. environmental footprint by reducing our material 14001 environmental management system established of total 1,067 tons at our closure suppliers in Turkey In 2013, we formed a Recycling Task Force, a crossuse, increasing recycling, using more recycled and in our factories. Waste management is carried out in and in Kazakhstan. functional team with the aim of defining CCI’s longrenewable material in our packaging, and advancing accordance not only with CCI’s Environmental Policy, In 2013, we continued the lightweight application term recycling strategy for post-consumer packaging innovative technologies. PlantBottle packaging fits well environmental legislations, and ISO 14001 standards, for glass bottles that we started in 2010. In 2014, we material. The Task Force is established especially for into that broader strategy by allowing us to reduce but also with TCCC’s Environmental and Occupational plan to alter 200 ml returnable bottles in our Turkey the international operations where there is no legal and our dependence on non-renewable resources. Bottles Safety and Health (EOSH) standards. Our approach to operations by reducing overall weight from 235 g to organized recycling scheme. The Recycling Task Force made out of PlantBottle are fully recyclable bottles like waste management includes reducing waste, reuse, 185 g. conducted a study analyzing the waste infrastructure, conventional PET plastic bottles, and their footprint on and recycling/recovery. All factory waste that can legal background and stakeholder expectations the natural resources is smaller. be reused is reused, and that which can be recycled regarding “recycling of packaging material” in the and recovered is delivered to licensed companies. Packaging plays an important role in various The key difference between PlantBottle packaging and processes from production to distribution and countries of operation. As a result of the study we Waste which cannot be recycled or recovered traditional PET plastic bottles is that instead of using from recycling to waste disposal and directly identified priority countries where we aim to contribute is sorted according to specific, legally-defined petroleum and other fossil fuels to produce a key affects the sustainability and efficiency of all these to the establishment of a national recycling strategy categories and delivered to licensed disposal facilities ingredient in the plastic, PlantBottle packaging uses processes. Reducing materials usage, increasing based on the readiness level in terms of infrastructure, or municipalities. Please see the “Performance materials that are up to 30% plant-based. In essence, re-use and recycling rates, and changing the resources and societal expectations. Indicators” section for detailed data on waste. we are trading fossil fuels for plant-based materials design of our packaging products help us to reduce our carbon emissions. In 2013, in line without sacrificing performance or recyclability. Total Waste Ratios Between 2006 and 2013 with our strategy of reducing the amount of raw In 2013 we conducted several trials with PlantBottle, In addition to monitoring our total waste amounts, we materials used in packaging, we continued our and in 2014 we aim to produce a portion of Damla also monitor the amount of waste we generate per studies pertaining to the use of “Lightweight” PET water bottles by using PlantBottle resin. liter of product produced. bottles. In 2013, we implemented new design changes. We implemented the lightweight and Detailed information about PlantBottle can be Total Waste Ratio (g/L) 2006 2013 short neck projects in our Turkey operations and found at: resin recycling at Çorlu and Ankara plants. The http://www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/ Turkey 3.74 4.99* following reductions in weight were realized for plant-bottle-basics Jordan 15.72 6.44* PET bottles of different sizes in 2013 at Çorlu plant: from 24 to 22.5 gr, from 34 to 32 gr, from 42 to Kazakhstan 4.14 1.59* 40.6 gr, from 46 to 44 gr, from 52.8 to 51.5 gr. At Azerbaijan 0.65 1.28* Ankara plant: from 34 to 32 gr, from 48 to 46 gr, * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent from 46 to 44 gr, from 54.1 to 52.8 gr, from 52.8 to assurance firm EY. 51.5 gr. 76 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 77 Performance Indicators Employee Profile Local Employment in Local Senior Management Local White Collar Local Blue Collar This section contains additional data on CCI’s sustainability performance. International Operations Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Turkey 2011 90.0 100.0 100.0 Sustainability Across The Value Chain 2012 90.0 99.8 100.0 Materials Used (tons) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan 2013 90.0 99.6 100.0 Jordan 2011 67.0 99.0 100.0 Materials in the product 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 67.0 97.2 98.0 Concentrate & beverage base 43,252 40,951 235 4,878 2,755 5,115 1,649 1,809 2013 60.0 97.0 99.0 Sugar 292,123 277,543 7,265 7,293 37,926 48,890 16,360 17,555 Kazakhstan 2011 38.0 99.0 100.0 CO2 25,373 24,255 993 997 3,494 4,588 2,527 2,706 2012 38.0 98.8 100.0 Packaging 2013 50.0 98.9 100.0 Steel crown 857 945 65 62 77 69 0 0 Azerbaijan 2011 40.0 96.0 100.0 PE closure 4,964 4,112 104 105 1,305 1,263 720 817 2012 40.0 97.0 100.0 PET preform and resin 51,085 55,369 1,176 1,056 13,245 16,305 7,278 9,939 2013 16.7 96.0 100.0 Glass 24,349 25,664 6,850 7,005 2,169 6,124 0 0 Aseptic carton packaging 4,436 4,580 0 0 712 694 0 0 Note: “Local” means from the country in question. Carton 8,308 8,481 123 1,362 1,414 1,329 713 786 Aluminum cans & can ends 9,339 10,866 1,006 1,076 289 339 0 0 Plastic shrink & stretch 6,626 6,667 383 370 1,387 1,878 905 850 Employee Breakdown by Seniority (Year of Service) Employee Breakdown by Seniority (%) 0 – 5 Years 6 – 10 Years 11 – 15 Yeas 16 – 20 Years 20+ Years Turkey 2011 59.00 17.10 16.50 6.20 1.20 we – Our Employees 2012 56.84 21.29 13.43 6.84 1.60 Employee Profile 2013 53.81 24.49 10.01 9.36 2.32 Jordan 2011 56.00 14.00 22.00 8.00 0.00 Number of employees 2011 2012 2013 2012 59.21 13.27 19.66 7.86 0.00 per age Under Between Above Under Between Above Under Between Above 30 30-50 50 30 30-50 50 30 30-50 50 2013 55.01 14.91 18.34 11.74 0.00 # % # % # % # % # % # % # % # % # % Kazakhstan 2011 68.00 21.00 8.00 3.00 0.00 Turkey Senior Management 0 0.0 6 60.0 4 40.0 0 0.0 8 80.0 2 20.0 0 0.0 8 80.0 2 20.0 2012 60.59 27.94 5.73 5.73 0.00 Other Employees 932 33.2 1,842 65.5 36 1.3 894 31.8 1,890 67.2 28 1.0 749 27.1 1,973 71.4 41 1.5 2013 61.15 27.77 5.34 5.74 0.00 Jordan Senior Management 0 0.0 4 100.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 4 100.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 4 100.0 0 0.0 Azerbaijan 2011 68.40 13.38 17.10 1.12 0.00 Other Employees 121 33.3 230 63.4 12 3.3 130 32.8 249 62.9 17 4.3 143 35.4 243 59.9 19 4.7 2012 57.05 27.27 6.58 9.09 0.00 Kazakhstan Senior Management 0 0.0 16 84.2 3 15.8 1 4.4 18 78.3 4 17.4 1 4.0 19 76.0 5 20.0 2013 58.45 27.88 4.56 9.12 0.00 Other Employees 259 44.7 276 47.6 45 7.8 304 46.3 305 46.4 48 7.3 361 49.9 312 43.1 51 7.0 Note: These figures correspond to 31 December of 2011, 2012 and 2013. Azerbaijan Senior Management 0 0.0 5 100.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 5 100.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 6 100.0 0 0.0 Note: 2013 Turkey figures include employees of CCI Turkey Operation and CCI Group office. Other Employees 97 36.7 142 53.8 25 9.5 124 39.5 153 48.7 37 11.8 156 42.5 169 46.1 42 11.4 78 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 79 Breakdown of Employees Per Employee Category According to Gender Employee Turnover Number of employees per 2011 2012 2013 Total number and rates of employee Male Turnover Female Turnover Total (%) gender turnover Male Female Male Female Male Female Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) PERFORMANCE INDICATORS # % # % # % # % # % # % Turkey 2011 275 11.4 52 14.1 11.6 Turkey Senior Management 7 70.0 3 30.0 7 70.0 3 30.0 10 71 4 29 2012 265 11.2 56 14.8 11.5 Other Employees 2,428 86.4 382 13.6 2,408 85.6 404 14.4 2,310 84 449 16 2013 205 8.8 41 9.1 8.9 Jordan Senior Management 4 100 0 0 4 100 0 0 4 100 0 0 Jordan 2011 113 31.7 2 13.3 31.3 Other Employees 348 96 15 4 379 96 17 4 387 96 18 4 2012 84 21.5 3 17.7 21.7 Kazakhstan Senior Management 15 79 4 21 18 78 5 22 18 72 7 28 2013 40 10.2 3 16.7 10.5 Other Employees 488 84 92 16 555 84 102 16 618 85 106 15 Kazakhstan 2011 85 16.9 10 10.4 15.9 Azerbaijan Senior Management 3 60 2 40 3 60 2 40 3 50 3 50 2012 54 9.3 16 15.0 10.2 Other Employees 233 88 31 12 279 89 35 11 326 89 41 11 2013 109 17.1 19 16.8 17.1 Azerbaijan 2011 19 8.1 4 12.1 8.6 Note: 2013 Turkey figures include senior managers of CCI Group office and CCI Turkey Operations. 2012 24 8.5 7 18.9 9.7 2013 25 7.6 5 11.4 8.0 New Employee Hires Total number and rates of new New Hire Male New Hire Female employee hires turnover Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) world Turkey 2011 364 14.95 87 22.60 Energy Management & Climate Protection 2012 205 8.49 67 16.46 2013 179 7.72 95 20.97 GHG Emissions due to Electricity 2010 2011 2012 2013 Consumption by Coolers (tons CO2-e) Jordan 2011 164 46.46 3 20.00 2012 215 55.99 2 11.76 Turkey 288,559 304,379 338,381 328,628 2013 136 34.78 5 27.78 Jordan 22,572 22,820 20,511 33,842 Kazakhstan 2011 100 19.88 13 13.54 Kazakhstan 29,611 35,069 31,417 34,836 2012 153 26.29 15 14.02 Azerbaijan 9,121 8,950 9,627 12,716 2013 188 29.56 28 24.78 TOTAL 349,863 371,218 399,936 410,022 Azerbaijan 2011 2 0.85 0 0.00 2012 13 4.61 2 5.41 2013 82 22.00 1 2.27 Energy Use (Million MJ) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan (Total) * Note: “Employee turnover” refers to CCI employees who leave the organization voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death in service. Note: “New Employee hires” refers to new CCI employees joining the organization for the first time. Fuel Factory 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Note: For CCI “age group” is not material data. Therefore this data is not provided in the table above. Heavy fuel oil 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.30 1.07 Diesel 4.56 3.23 12.59 7.45 0.16 0.54 47.76 49.52 LPG 58.09 59.64 3.53 4.66 13.33 13.90 5.79 5.87 Natural gas 272.85 273.13 0.00 0.00 134.59 184.19 30.06 29.70 Purchased Energy Electricity consumption 503.53 482.22 20.39 19.27 83.42 96.04 76.24 84.30 Steam 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 46.56 54.63 0.00 0.00 TOTAL 839.03 818.22 36.51 31.38 278.06 349.30 161.15 170.46 Note: This table includes energy use data for all processes at the plants. * 2012 and 2013 figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 80 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 81 Water Management Energy Use (Million MJ) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Water Use Ratio (L/L) 2010 2011 2012* 2013* (Core Operations) * Turkey 1.42 1.42 1.39 1.41 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Fuel Factory 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Jordan 1.97 2.00 2.06 2.00 Heavy fuel oil 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.30 1.07 Kazakhstan 1.75 1.70 1.76 1.65 Diesel 4.38 3.23 12.59 7.45 0.00 0.54 0.00 0.96 Azerbaijan 1.73 1.74 1.90 1.92 LPG 58.09 59.62 3.53 4.66 13.33 13.90 5.79 5.87 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. Natural gas 254.51 255.56 0.00 0.00 0.00** 106.65 30.06 29.70 Purchased Energy Electricity consumption 403.93 391.25 20.39 19.27 52.16 50.20 46.79 55.87 Volume of Water Recycled and Reused (m3) 2012 2013 Steam 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 46.56 54.63 0.00 0.00 Turkey 114,582 284,782 TOTAL 720.91 709.66 36.51 31.38 112.05 225.92 83.94 93.47 Jordan 10,942 0 Note: These figures exclude energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes at plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. Energy use for Kazakhstan 0 0 electricity manufacturing process which is present only at Kazakhstan plant is excluded in 2012 data, but is included in 2013 data. Azerbaijan 6,758 5,580 * 2012 and 2013 figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. ** The increase in natural gas consumption from 2012 is due to a change in the methodology used: In 2012, fuels used to generate on-site electricity were TOTAL 132,282 290,362 reported within total energy consumption whereas in 2013 energy consumption from on-site electricity generation was allocated to “core operations.” Percentage of Water Recycled and Reused * (%) 2013 CCI uses two main KPIs to measure energy intensity: Turkey 7.28 1. Energy Use Ratio (EUR) (MJ/L) which relates only to the core process, filling, so that the energy efficiency of Jordan 0.00 core processes can be compared between plants. (See page 85 of this report for more information.) Kazakhstan 0.00 2. Total Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) which is total absolute energy consumption (in MJ) from the plant divided by Azerbaijan 1.28 total production (in liters). TOTAL 5.43 *Percentage is calculated based on water consumption figures. The results for recent years are summarized in the tables below. Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) 2010 2011 2012* 2013* Sustainable Packaging and Waste Turkey 0.22 0.25 0.26 0.26 Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Turkey* Jordan Kazakhstan* Azerbaijan Jordan 0.50 0.45 0.47 0.41 Method (Tons) Kazakhstan 0.31 0.33 0.28 0.44 Azerbaijan 0.23 0.22 0.39 0.41 2012 Hazardous 371.3 0.0 0.3 8.7 Non-Hazardous 10,348.3 4,933.0 705.0 225.2 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 2013 Hazardous Reuse 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 Total Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) 2012* 2013* Recycle 15.4 0.0 0.2 0.0 Turkey 0.30 0.30 Landfill 7.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Jordan 0.47 0.41 Incineration 8.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Kazakhstan 0.69 0.68 Recovery 609.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Azerbaijan 0.74 0.75 TOTAL 640.8 0.0 1.0 0.0 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. Non-Hazardous Reuse 6.3 0.0 650.6 77.0 Recycle 12,510.0 467.5 85.9 212.6 Landfill 520.7 26.2 79.1 1.2 Recovery 132.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 13,169.6 493.7 816.6 290.8 * 2013 figures for Turkey and Kazakhstan have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 82 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 83 Glossary CCI Reporting Guidance Bottler: A business that buys concentrates, beverage Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design CCI Reporting Guidance for • Information Reporting to highlight the primary CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE bases, or syrups made available by TCCC and (LEED): A green building tool that addresses the entire principles of comparability, consistency (especially then manufactures, packages, merchandises and lifecycle of a building and that recognizes best-inEnvironmental Indicators That with regard to other data, including that of previous distributes the final branded beverages to customers class building strategies. Were Externally Verified or years), understandability, and transparency so as to and vending partners who then sell those products to provide clarity to users. consumers. Leased Vehicles: “Distribution” or “all other” vehicles Assured in 2013 G4-17 leased by the Company. Rental cars for business Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers (CCAB): CCI’s affiliate in travel would be included here only if the rental period The Reporting Guidance (RG) document covers the Key Definitions data-gathering and reporting obligations for the For the purpose of this report, the following definitions Kazakhstan. coincided with the entire reporting period. following indicators: energy consumption, energy apply: The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jordan (CCBCJ): LTI: Lost Time Incident; work incident or occupational use ratio, water consumption, water use ratio, total CCI’s affiliate in Jordan illness, including incidents involving death, resulting in waste generation, and disposal for CCI’s operations PLANT: All on-site facilities including production one or more days off work. in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan (the buildings, water treatment units wastewater treatment CokePort: CCI’s intranet portal. “Company”) and GHG emissions in Turkey. It is the units, warehouses, laboratories, administration LTIR: Lost Time Incident Rate. (Number of lost time Concentrate: A product manufactured by TCCC or responsibility of Company management to ensure buildings and technical service operations. incidents / occupational illnesses) x 200,000 / (Total other beverage company and sold to bottlers to that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare worked hours during reporting period) ENERGY: Electricity, natural gas, diesel, gasoline, fuel prepare finished beverages by adding sweeteners its data related to energy consumption, GHGs, water oil, LPG and steam. For the purpose of this report, and/or water. LTISR: Lost Time Incident Severity Rate (Number of consumption, total solid waste and waste recycling in energy does not include alternative forms of fuel, days lost due to occupational incidents) x 200,000 / line with the RG in all material respects. Crash: Any collision in which a Company vehicle is such as bio-waste, biomass, bio-diesel, or renewable (Total worked hours during reporting period) involved (whether in motion, temporarily stopped The data within the scope of this guidance document sources of energy such as wind or solar energy, or parked) that results in personal injury and/ PET Blowing process: Manufacturing process by is for the financial year ending 31 December 2013 which collectively represent an insignificant share of or material property damage, regardless of who which PET bottles are formed from preforms. and comprises the relevant operations in Turkey, total energy consumption and carbon emissions. was hurt, what property was damaged, who was Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Jordan only. The data Preform: Intermediate product used in the production ENERGY CONSUMPTION: The energy consumed responsible, whether the incident was preventable, reported for 2013, therefore, does not represent all CCI of PET bottles. during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December). and/or whether the incident was legally required to operations at this stage. Energy consumption data includes energy used be reported. Preform injection process: Manufacturing processes Legal entities covered by this report include: in the operation of on-site industrial facility and of preform. Equivalent carbon dioxide (CO2e): Using the Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş., Turkey manufacturing processes, including electrical functionally equivalent amount or concentration The Coca-Cola System (TCCS): The term used to systems, heating, lighting, on-site transportation, describe the corporate network consisting of The Coca-Cola Satış ve Dağıtım A.Ş., Turkey of carbon dioxide as a reference, a measure that air circulation, and air conditioning (HVAC system). describes how much global warming a given type Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) and more than 300 Mahmudiye Kaynak Suyu Ltd. Şti., Turkey Energy consumption also includes preform injection and amount of greenhouse gas may cause. bottling partners around the world. J.V. Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers LLP, Kazakhstan for those plants with this energy-intensive process. Unit Case: A unit of measurement equal to 5.678 Manufacturing processes refer to the energy Guideline Daily Amounts (GDAs): are a guide to Azerbaijan Coca-Cola Bottlers Limited LLC., Azerbaijan liters, or 24 8-ounce (US) servings. consumed in the core bottling (filling) operation. Total how much energy and nutrients are present in a The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jordan Ltd., Jordan energy consumption also includes energy used for portion of a food or beverage and what each amount Vehicle Accident Rate: (Accident number x Total Entities other than those listed above are not covered CO2 production processes at plants in Kazakhstan represents as a percentage of a person’s daily dietary vehicle number) / 100 vehicles. in this report. For a full list of entities included in CCI’s and Azerbaijan and electricity manufacturing process needs. financial statements, please see page 46 of CCI 2013 which is present only in Kazakhstan. ISAE 3000: The International Standard on Assurance Annual Report available at: ENERGY USE RATIO (EUR): (MJ of energy consumed Engagements developed by the International www.cci.com.tr/UserFiles/pdf/cci_ar_2013_30may.pdf per liter of product produced) = Sum of all individual Federation of Accountants. energy sources from the filling (core) production General Reporting Principles processes (MJ) / Production volume (liters). To allow comparability between different CCI plants, energy In preparing this guidance document, consideration consumption during preform injection is excluded has been given to the following principles: from the EUR, since only a few sites employ this • Information Preparation – to highlight the primary process. Of those CCI operations within the scope of principles of relevance and reliability of information; this RG, only the Turkish bottling facilities in Ankara, and Çorlu and Mahmudiye as well as the international 84 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 85 operations in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan employed WASTE: Waste generated at the site includes waste Total Energy Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan an operational preform injection process in 2012 due to production, construction, food service or and 2013. Moreover, energy consumption for CO2 any other activities. Examples of the types of solid Industrial sites where bottling processes are conducted together X X X X production processes at plants in Kazakhstan waste generated by the Company include paper, with secondary operations such as preform Injection*, bottle blowing and lift truck operations CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE and Azerbaijan are also excluded from the EUR plastic, corrugated cardboard, metal, glass, sludge calculation. For 2013, electricity manufacturing process from water, waste oils, fleet wastes (tires, batteries, Technical service operations X X X X which is present only in Kazakhstan is included in coolants, oils, etc.), damaged ingredients or products, Administrative buildings located at industrial sites X X X X EUR calculations. (Energy consumption from preform plus all hazardous wastes such as solvents, inks Own transportation of materials and products withinindustrial plant X X X X injection, CO2 production, electricity production is and lab wastes. Liquid wastes disposed of through sites (e.g. forklift operations) included in total energy consumption as explained the wastewater system are not included in the Data adjustment for preform injection, CO2 production and electricity Yes There is no Yes Yes in the “Energy Consumption” paragraph of this RG calculations as these wastes are accounted for in production processes for energy consumption figures* preform document. wastewater discharge volume and wastewater process sludge. GHG EMISSIONS: Emissions during the reporting * As explained in the “Report Guidance” section, an adjustment is made to the EUR for energy consumption for preform injection process, electricity production year (1 January to 31 December). The GHGs reported TOTAL WASTE RATIO (G/L): Grams of total waste process which is only present at Kazakhstan plant and CO2 production process which is present at plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan and some of the plants in Turkey. From 2013 onwards energy use for electricity production is included in the EUR data. are those currently required by the UNFCCC/ generated per liter of product produced. Kyoto Protocol. These GHGs are currently: carbon WASTE RECYCLING RATE (%): Tons of waste dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), recovered, re-used or recycled divided by total GHG emissions as CO2-e verification scope for Turkey hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), waste generated (tons), i.e. the Waste Recycling Rate sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), and nitrogen trifluoride Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities together with secondary operations such as lift truck operations X represents the portion of waste that is not disposed (NF3). Other GHGs, including those regulated by Technical service operations X to landfill or incinerated. In the 4 countries covered the Montreal Protocol, are excluded from “GHG Preform manufacturing, bottle blowing processes X by the Report, accredited waste contractors collected emissions” but analyzed separately. “GHG emissions” Administrative buildings located at industrial sites X tons of waste for recycling and re-use. Recycled refers to all production processes such as bottling Administrative buildings located away from industrial sites and headquarters X hazardous wastes are included in the calculation of and preform injection processes from CCI’s plants in Own transportation of materials and products within industrial plant sites (eg forklift operations) X waste recycling rate. Turkey. Own transportation of materials and products out of industrial plant sites X WASTE DISPOSAL: Waste disposal has followed the Where the plant generates energy on site, the related Employees commuting with CCI-owned vehicles and sales fleet operations X classification of GRI G4 EN23. CCI has used the legal energy consumption is defined as the energy of the Energy used in the cooling of products (off site) X categories per the disposal documentation provided generation fuel (e.g., for on-site diesel fired electricity Fugitive emissions from the cooling of products (off site) X by its accredited waste contractors to determine generators, the energy consumption would be the Fugitive emissions from the cooling system (on site) X the method of disposal. Based on the disposal diesel used rather than the electricity output of the Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers X documentation, the categories of waste generated by generator). Fugitive emissions of CO2 filling process X CCI during the reporting period were recycling, re-use, WATER: Includes water from all sources, including recovery, incineration and land-fill. Some hazardous Fugitive emissions from off-site coolers X well, spring water, municipality and collected waste is sold for use as fuel in processes such as Fugitive emissions from on-site coolers X rainwater. manufacturing cement. In accordance with the legal categories of accredited waste documentation, WATER CONSUMPTION: All water used during the this waste is classified as recovery rather than as Water reporting year (1 January to 31 December). Water incineration. consumption data includes water used for production, Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan water treatment, boiler makeup, cooling (contact and non-contact), cleaning and sanitation, backwashing Scope of Reporting Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities X X X X Technical service operations at the site X X X X filters, irrigation, washing trucks and other vehicles, The following tables summarize the activities that Administrative buildings located at industrial sites X X X X kitchen or canteen, toilets and sinks, and fire control. are currently reported within the scope of this Sustainability Report for energy consumption, GHG WATER USE RATIO: (Liters of water per liter of product emissions, water consumption and solid waste. produced) = Total Water Use (Liters) / Production Waste Volume (Liters) Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities X X X X Technical service operations located at the site X X X X Administrative buildings located at industrial sites X X X X 86 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 87 Data Preparation TCCC Default Factors Natural gas (MJ): 0.05049 kg CO2 GRI G4 Content Index for In Accordance: Core Energy Consumption LPG (MJ): 0.0594 kg CO2 Energy consumption data are reported for electricity This report is developed in accordance with GRI G4 “core” requirements, which received a “Materiality Matters” Diesel (MJ, light fuel oil): 0.0704 kg CO2 check from GRI. GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” and primary fuel sources including natural gas, diesel, Heavy Fuel Oil (MJ): 0.0735 Kg CO2 (Azerbaijan LPG, heavy fuel oil and steam. Electricity and natural This index table lists our standard and specific disclosures with reference to G4 categories, aspects and operation only) gas data are obtained from supplier meters and indicators, and refers to the pages where these issues are addressed in this report. Steam (GKAL): 4,186.8 (Kazakhstan operation only) reconciled with internal meters (when available) and/ For electricity, conversion factors are obtained from or service provider invoices. Diesel, LPG, steam and fuel oil consumption data are obtained from supplier The International Energy Agency (IEA, 2011) and GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES shared by TCCC to be used throughout the entire invoices. TCCC System. Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC CCI Operations used the following published Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle IEA (2011) combined Electricity and Heat conversion conversion factors: factor for Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan and Azerbaijan: STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS • For electricity, the unit of supply is invoiced in kWh. Electricity (kWh) G4-1 Statement from the CEO. CEO Message Full 2-3 Not Assured To calculate energy use ratio, kWh is converted to Mega Joule (MJ) at a factor of 3.6. Turkey 457.314 kg CO2 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE • For natural gas, the unit of supply for most suppliers Jordan 637.428 kg CO2 G4-3 Name of the organization. Full Coca-Cola İçecek Not Assured is invoiced in m3. To calculate energy use ratio, Kazakhstan 395.557 kg CO2 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and Full http://www.cci.com. Not Assured cubic meters is converted to Mega Joule (MJ) with Azerbaijan 444.116 kg CO2 services. tr/en/our-company/ a conversion factor of 37.3, except for Kazakhstan our-geography Water Consumption where a factor of 35.4 is used based on 2013 Water consumption data is obtained from internal G4-5 Location of the organization’s Full Istanbul, Turkey Not Assured analyses from an accredited local laboratory of the headquarters. meters where ground water is utilized. Moreover, natural gas used on site. water consumption data is obtained from supplier G4-6 Number of countries where Full 10 countries. This Not Assured • For fuels other than natural gas (diesel, and heavy meters and reconciled with internal meters (when the organization operates, and report contains fuel oil), energy conversion factors (from liters or available) and/or service provider invoices where the names of countries where either data for Turkey, kilograms to Mega Joule) are obtained from the water is supplied by the network. the organization has significant Jordan, Kazakhstan calculation tool provided by TCCC Default Factors. operations or that are specifically and Azerbaijan. relevant to the sustainability topics Best practices from • For LPG (MJ/L) a conversion factor (net calorific value) Restatements covered in the report. Pakistan are also of 50.0 was used as part of GHG verification process The measuring and reporting of assured included in the as meeting the requirements of ISO 14064-1. environmental data inevitably involves a degree of report. estimation. In exceptional circumstances restatements G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Full 2013 Annual Report, Not Assured GHG Emissions of prior year reported data may be required. page 46 GHG emissions are calculated by CCI using published Restatements are considered where the data differs conversion factors. Conversion factors enable an by more than 5% at Company level. G4-8 Markets served. CCI At a Glance Full 4-5 Not Assured estimate of the amount of GHGs released into the G4-9 Scale of the organization. CCI At a Glance Full 4-5 Not Assured atmosphere per unit of energy consumed. Different types of energy sources have different conversion G4-10 Breakdown of workforce. we-Employees Full 44-45 Not Assured Principle 6 factors reflecting their carbon dioxide intensity. In Performance 78-80 future periods, conversion factors may be updated to Indicators reflect changes to and/or improvements in published G4-11 Percentage of total employees we-Employees Full 48 Not Assured Principles data. The following conversion factors are used: covered by collective bargaining 1, 2, 3 agreements. For fuels such as natural gas, diesel, and LPG, conversion factors are derived from calculation G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply Sustainability Full 19 Not Assured tools based on GHG Protocol Standards found on chain. Across the the GHG Protocol website (www.ghgprotocol.org). Value Chain The Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) used to G4-13 Report any significant changes Full During the reporting Not Assured calculate emissions of different GHGs in terms of CO2during the reporting period regarding period there were no equivalents are taken from the IPCC 4th Assessment the organization’s size, structure, significant changes Report. ownership, or its supply chain. in the Company's size, structure or ownership, or in its supply chain. 88 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 89 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE: COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” G4-14 Addressing the precautionary world Full 61 Not Assured G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder Integrating Full 13, 15-17 Not Assured approach or principle. engagement. Sustainability G4-15 External charters, principles or Integrating Full 18 Not Assured G4-27 Response to key topics and concerns Integrating Full 13, 15-17 Not Assured initiatives endorsed. Sustainability raised. Sustainability REPORT PROFILE G4-16 Membership of associations and Integrating Full 18 Not Assured advocacy organizations. Sustainability G4-28 Reporting period. Full 1 January 2013 – Not Assured 31 December 2013 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-17 Report coverage of entities included in CCI Reporting Full 85 Not Assured G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. Full 2012 Not Assured the consolidated financial statements. Guidance CCI has operations in 10 countries. In G4-30 Reporting cycle. Full Annual Not Assured this report, data for only Turkey, G4-31 Contact point for questions. Full Corporate.affairs@ Not Assured Jordan, Azerbaijan, cci.com.tr Kazakhstan REPORT PROFILE: GRI CONTENT INDEX operations is included. G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option, the GRI content Full In accordance with Not Assured IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES index and external assurance. “Core” requirements. G4-18 Process for defining the report content Integrating Full 13 Not Assured 89-95 (GRI Table) and the aspect boundaries. Sustainability External Assurance Reports are provided G4-19 Material aspects identified. Integrating Full 14 Not Assured on pages 96, 97, 98 Sustainability and 99. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Integrating Full 14-15 Not Assured REPORT PROFILE: ASSURANCE the Aspect Boundary within the Sustainability All material aspects G4-33 Policy and current practice regarding About Our Full 1 Not Assured organization. are considered external assurance. Report CCI Board of material for all Directors’ Corporate operations. Governance Committee was G4-21 For each material Aspect, report Integrating Full 14 Not Assured involved in seeking the Aspect Boundary outside the Sustainability external assurance organization. for this report. GOVERNANCE G4-22 The effect of any restatements of Full There are no material Not Assured information provided in previous misstatements. G4-34 Governance structure of the Integrating Full 11 Not Assured reports. organization. Sustainability ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-23 Significant changes from previous Full There are no Not Assured reporting periods in the Scope and significant changes G4-56 Values, principles, standards and Integrating Full 10 Not Assured Principle 10 Aspect Boundaries. from previous norms of behavior such as codes of Sustainability reporting Periods in conduct and codes of ethics. Governance 30 the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. As this is a new requirement under G4, this report marks the first time SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES that CCI has defined the boundaries at the Economic Aspect level. Aspect: Economic Performance World 64 Not Assured Principle 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT we-Community 53, 57-58 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Integrating Full 13, 15-17 Not Assured the organization. Sustainability G4-EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate world Full 64 Not Assured Principle 7 change. (also provided in G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Integrating Full 13, 15-17 Not Assured 2013 CCI CDP Report) stakeholders. Sustainability 90 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 91 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle Economic Environmental GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” Aspect: Indirect Economic Impact we-Community 53 Not Assured G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) world Full 65 Assurance Principles emissions (Scope 2). statement 7, 8 G4-EC7 Development and impact of we-Community Full 59 Not Assured of SGS on infrastructure investments and pages 97-99 services supported. G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) world Partial 65. Data provided Not Assured G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, we-Community Full 57-58 Not Assured emissions (scope 3). for Turkey operations including the extent of impacts. only. Aspect: Procurement Practices Sustainability 22 Not Assured G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions world Full 66 Not Assured Principle 8 Across the intensity. Value Chain G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) world Full 68 Not Assured Principles G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local Sustainability Full 22 Not Assured emissions. 8, 9 suppliers. Across the Value Chain Aspect: Effluents and Waste world 73, 75 Not Assured Principle 8 Environmental G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and world Full 73 Not Assured Principle 8 Aspect: Material world 75 Not Assured Principles destination. 7, 8 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Performance Full 83 Assurance Principle 8 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Performance Full 78 Not Assured Principles disposal method. Indicators statement of Indicators 7, 8 EY on page 96 G4-EN2 Recycled materials used. world Full 76 Not Assured Principle 8 Aspect: Product and Services world 76 Not Assured Principles Aspect: Energy world 64 Not Assured Principles 8, 9 7, 8, 9 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and world Full 76 Not Assured Principle 8 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the world Full 67 Assurance Principles their packaging materials that are organization. Performance 81-82 statement of 7, 8 reclaimed by category. Indicators EY on page 96 Aspect: Compliance Governance 29 Not Assured Principles 8, 9 G4-EN5 Energy intensity. world Full 67 Assurance Principle 8 statement of G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for nonFull There were no Not Assured Principles EY on page compliance with environmental significant* fines. 8, 9 96 regulations. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. world Full 68 Not Assured Principles Aspect: Transport world 68, 69 Not Assured Principle 8 8, 9 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of world Full 68, 69 Not Assured Principle 8 Aspect: Water world 71 Not Assured Principles transportation. 7, 8 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Sustainability Full 21 Not Assured Principle 8 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. world Full 72 Assurance Principles Across the statement of 7, 8 Value Chain EY on page 96 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Full All suppliers are Not Assured Principle 8 screened using environmental criteria. screened. G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Performance Full 83 Not Assured Principles Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work recycled and reused Indicators 7, 8 Aspect: Employment we-Employees 41 Not Assured Principle 6 Aspect: Emissions world Full 64-65 Not Assured Principles 7, 8, 9 G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee Performance Full 80 Not Assured Principle 6 turnover by age group, gender and Indicators G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) world Full 65 Assurance Principles region. emissions (Scope 1). statement 7, 8 of SGS on G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time we-Employees Partial 48 Not Assured pages 97-99 employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees. * Fines of USD 200,000 are deemed significant by CCI. 92 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 93 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Social: Society GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety we-Employees 49, 50 Not Assured Aspect: Anti-Corruption Governance 30 Not Assured Principle 10 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce we-Employees Partial 51 Not Assured G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Partial All operations are Not Assured Principle 10 represented in formal joint operations assessed for risks related assessed for risks management-worker health and to corruption and the significant risks related to corruption. safety committees. identified. G4-LA6 Injuries, lost days, absenteeism and we-Employees Partial 51 Not Assured G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training. Governance Full 30 Not Assured Principle 10 fatalities. (Ethics) Aspect: Training and Education we-Employees 47 Not Assured Principle 6 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Governance 30 Not Assured G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year we-Employees Full 47 Not Assured Principle 6 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for Full There were two Not Assured per employee by gender, and by anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, cases where preemployee category. and monopoly practices and their investigation was outcomes. carried out. The Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity we-Employees 45 Not Assured Principle 6 cases were closed without any negative G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies we-Employees Full 45 Not Assured Principles results for CCI. and breakdown of employees. Performance 80 1, 6 Indicators Aspect: Compliance Governance 29 Not Assured Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Sustainability 21 Not Assured G4-SO8 Fines and sanctions for nonFull We did not have any Not Assured Across the compliance. significant* fines. Value Chain Social: Product Responsibility G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Full All our suppliers. Not Assured Principles Aspect: Customer Health and Safety me 33 Not Assured screened using labor practices criteria. 1, 6 G4-PR1 Assessment of health and safety Full 100% of our Not Assured Principle 8 Social: Human Rights impacts of products. products. Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective we-Employees 48 Not Assured Principle 3 Bargaining Aspect: Product and Service Labeling me 34 Not Assured G4-HR4 Supporting right to freedom of Sustainability Full 21 Not Assured Principles G4-PR3 Product and service information me Full 34-35 Not Assured Principle 8 association and collective bargaining Across the 1, 2, 3 required by procedures for product in risk areas. Value Chain and service information and labeling. we-Employees 48 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring Sustainability Full 24 Not Assured Aspect: Assessment Sustainability 21 Not Assured Principle 1 customer satisfaction. Across the Across the Value Chain Value Chain * Fines of USD 200,000 are deemed significant by CCI. G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of Partial All our operations Not Assured Principles operations that have been subject are subject to HR 1, 2, 3, 4, to human rights reviews or impact reviews and audits. 5, 6 assessments. Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Sustainability 21 Not Assured Principle 2 Across the Value Chain G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Full All our suppliers. Not Assured Principles screened using human rights criteria. 1, 2, 6 Social: Society Aspect: Local Communities we-Community 53 Not Assured Principle 1 G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact we-Community Partial 53-59 Not Assured Principle 1 assessments, and development programs. 94 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 95 Independent Assurance Letter Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 96 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 97 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 98 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 99 Legal Disclaimer This Sustainability Report (the Report) has been prepared by Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. (CCI) within the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and United Nations Global Compact. This report has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, Contact and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Atilla D. Yerlikaya Group Corporate Affairs Director corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr FSM Mah. Poligon Cad. Buyaka 2 Sitesi, No: 8 Kule 1 A Blok Kat: 20 Ümraniye 34771 Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 216 528 4000 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr Reporting Consultant CSR Consulting Turkey www.csrconsulting.eu Report Design Mehmet Edeoğlu This report is printed on recycled paper. 100 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2013 FSM Mah. Poligon Cad. Buyaka 2 Sitesi, No: 8 Kule 1 A Blok Kat: 20 Ümraniye 34771 Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 216 528 4000 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr
