PakMarkas, UAB Corporate Social Responsibility Report of 2013 Contents Executive letter ………………………………………………4-5 About the report ……………………………………………6-7 Company overview …………………………………………8-9 PakMarkas in numbers ………………………………10-11 Human rights ………………………………………………12-13 Employment relations ……………………………… 14-19 Business environment ……………………………… 20-21 Environmental care …………………………………… 22-25 PakMarkas in the public …………………………… 26-27 Executive letter In the rush to perform our everyday tasks, we rarely stop to think where The member states of European Union have named their tasks, one do we hurry so much, what do we leave after ourselves and what will of which is to manage the waste of packing by 2020, while since 2030 the people that come after us find. While growing our businesses and – to stop applying non-reusable materials for the packing manufaccontributing to the development of companies and corporations, we ture altogether. Therefore, the time is perfect to review the processes seldom notice the corresponding growth in energy consumption and of manufacture and to divert a part of waste formed to recycling or the pollution that remains after the human activity. generating energy. It‘s all very well if the pollution and waste are disposed instantly – a lot of Even now, as the world is filled with tension, we should be concerned people and companies have developed such a habit. However, we could with the effectiveness of our processes, as well as the things we leave achieve considerably greater results if we applied precautionary measubehind. res, for example, by sorting the materials fit for recycling, by organising the process in such a manner that the waste of production is directed to recycling as well. This way we would get closer to production without Virginijus Gumbaragis waste and the minimisation of the waste left over after our activities. General Manager Our company is operating in the packing field. We cooperate with our customers and try to avoid unrecyclable materials. Therefore we carefully select a way of packing. In respect of our capabilities, we arrange the packing in a manner that would be easy to sort and simple to recycle. We seek to decrease the waste in the manufacturing process and, in later stages, to keep our nature clean of used packing. 5 About the report Let us introduce you to the 8th Social Responsibility Report of PakReliability of report Markas, the packaging and labelling company that has been opeThe Corporate Social Responsibility Report was prepared pursuant rating for over 20 years, and let us familiarise you with the activito the practical guidelines of the UN initiative Global Compact (Comties, environmental and social initiatives and the progress made in munication on progress, COP) by reviewing all 10 principles of the the employment relations. Compact. The content of the Report was approved by General Director, Head of HR and Head of Quality. Auditorium The Corporate Social Responsibility Report is dedicated to the parPeriod ties concerned with the company’s activity, i.e. shareholders, emThis report covers our activities throughout the calendar year 2013 ployees, clients, suppliers, community, institutions and all of those (from 1st January to 31st December). wishing to get a closer look at company PakMarkas. Accountability to the public Contact information The progress reports of corporate social responsibility are preWe kindly invite you to share your opinion and comments on the pared in the Lithuanian and English languages each year. The elecpresented projects and Report. tronic versions of the report are published on company’s website www.pakmarkas.com (column “Social Responsibility”) and website Contact person: Jurgita Bagdonaviciene, Marketing Manager, of the UN Global Compact www.globalcompact.org. ph.: 370 85 075 37, e-mail: jurgitar@pakmarkas.lt 7 Company overview We believe that packaging and labelling solutions can be implemented by stimulating economic wealth, environmentally-friendly surrounding and responsible consumption. PakMarkas, UAB is one of the largest companies in the product Mission of PakMarkas packaging and labelling sector in the Baltic States. The company Our aim is to become the leaders in the Baltic States by offering our is engaged in four main areas of activity: label printing, trade in clients the advantageous solutions in the packaging and labelling packaging materials, design and production of packaging lines sector and to enhance the welfare of our shareholders, employees and trade in spare parts of industrial equipment. and business partners. We are concerned about HOW we realise our business solutions, Values of PakMarkas therefore, we always consider the environmental aspect when Consideration for a client installing new technologies. Our products are safe to the users – Constant improvement and competence the labels and films meet the strictest hygiene requirements of Teamwork the European Union. We care for the welfare, safety and personal Respect for employees and business partners improvement of our employees and maintain a dialogue with the Desire to have the lead community in order to coordinate our needs. We have been the members of the UN Global Compact since 2005. Our activities are based on 10 universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact in the area of human rights, labour, environmental protection and prevention of corruption. 9 PakMarkas in numbers There were 206 employees working in our The consolidated company’s sales increased by 5% in 2013. 20,47 Lithuanian and Latvian companies in 2013. 177 Consolidated – EUR million; 18,86 Lithuania – . Latvia – 29 . Lithuania – EUR million; Latvia – EUR 3,72 million. Our clients and partners come from various In 2013, we invested over EUR 1 million In 2013, the company provided countries around the world. into modern technologies in the area support in the child welfare, of production and environmental culture, education, sports and Clients – more than protection. other fields. 8000 . Investment – Support – Partners – more than EUR 1,16 million. EUR 11 150 . thousand. 11 Human rights In our activities, we follow the documents that are ensuring human rights and are approved in the organisation: Ethical Employment Policy (http://en.pakmarkas.lt/social-responsibility-policy.html and SA 8000 standard (http://en.pakmarkas.lt/social-responsibility.html). PakMarkas does not tolerate any violations of human rights, speaks up against any kind of discrimination, forced and child labour, complies with the laws regulating the duration of working hours and overtime and respects the right to time off. The protection of human rights in the company is supervised by the representative of the SR management. He is assisted by 4 re presentatives of employees elected by the way of voting. The employees are provided with an opportunity of anonymous notification on any possible violations of human rights or other offences. We recognise human rights and No complains related to the violation of human rights were recordfreedoms as the universally ed in the company in 2013. accepted value, therefore, one of our aims is to protect and ensure these rights and freedoms. 13 Employment relations The personnel policy of PakMarkas is oriented to the employment relations based on a value, security and trust. The acquisition of new technological equipment, increase in sales and export development resulted in the growth of the number of company’s employees: the number of employees increased by 9.3% in one year and the majority of new employees were recruited to the positions of specialists and workers. PakMarkas’s employees according to the categories: 2012 2013 Change Renata Brasienė (31st December) (31st December) (%) Head of HR Management staff 8 9 6,7 People are the greatest treasure of the company, and our responsiMiddle-chain bility is not only to ensure mutual relationships of cooperation while management 16 17 6,7 82 89 46,6 adhering to the laws, but also develop them while implementing the Experts initiatives of social responsibility. I believe that mutual respect, understanding and growing all contribute to the success of the company Workers 56 62 40 and the life of every employee. All employees 162 177 100 15 Monitoring of equal opportunities. In order to maintain equal opportunities of women and men, we are constantly monitoring the following indices: 2011 2012 2013 Women and men ratio (%) W 23 M 77 W 22 M 78 W 21 M 79 Fixed-term employment contacts (units) W 1 M 0 W 3 M 1 W 1 M 2 Employment contracts for an indefinite period of time W 31 M 122 W 32 M 126 W 37 M 137 Maternity leave W 4 M 0 W 5 M 2 W 5 M 2 Employed persons with disabilities M 1 M 1 M 1 All company’s employees raising children, irrespective of their sex, morbidity of employees. The number of accidents at work decreaare provided with additional benefits. For example, in 2013 those sed down to 0 in 2012 2013. PakMarkas’s employees, who are raising children, were provided Development of competencies. We organise the manwith 589 additional rest days. datory and optional training for employees. The employees who Health and safety. In order to ensure effective monitoring pass mandatory trainings are awarded with special permits and of occupational health and safety, we follow the system of Occucertificates allowing them to perform special works. The selected pational Health and Safety Management. By following this system, trainings are dedicated to the education of general competencies, we also seek to decrease the likelihood of accidents at work and enhancement of skills (sales, negotiations, management, etc.). 17 In 2013, the number of hours dedicated to employee training deThe variable part depends on the established criteria, for example, creased. It was conditioned by the fact that the annual company’s work results according to the targets. There are also bonuses for indiqualification enhancement plan was not approved at that time vidual or company’s activity results, commission for salespersons, aland only the most necessary training, according to the opinion of lowances for overtime, night time, etc. According to the established heads of branches, were conducted. procedure, the employees are also provided with additional benefits Number of hours dedicated to (vaccination, payouts in case of family misfortunes or celebration of personnel training: wedding, portable computers, telephones, etc.). 2011 2012 2013 The forms of non-financial remuneration enhance the loyalty of employees and form traditions, which are crucial when creating the geIn total (managers, specialists, workers) 2064 1944 848 neral welfare of the company. These include the festivals organised hours hours hours for employees and their families, joint social campaigns, letters of Change compared to appreciation, public praise among the colleagues, nominations. the previous year (%) 5,81 56,38 Evaluation. On 6 November 2013, in the National Responsible Share (of operating Business Awards, PakMarkas won the title of the “Workplace of the costs) used for training 1,22 % 1,01 % 1,09 % Year 2012” in the category of very small, small and medium-sized companies. The award was given for ensuring more favourable economic Remuneration system. The package of remuneration of comconditions for employees than it is actually requested by the legal acts. pany’s employees comprises financial and non-financial remuneration. The National Responsible Business Awards were organised by the The financial part is composed of the basic and variable wage. PursuMinistry of Social Security and Labour together with the Ministries of ant to the company’s Social Responsibility Standard (SA 8000), the miEconomy and Environment as well as the social partners. nimum wage calculated and established in the company is higher than the basic minimum wage in Lithuania – EUR 347.5 (incl. taxes), which is constantly reviewed in case of any changes in the market conditions. 19 Business environment “Each of you is important” – is not a declared, but rather an actual attitude of PakMarkas to each and every client and partner Anti-corruption. We strongly support transparent cooperaness, create strong relations with suppliers, improve the image of the tion with business partners and public authorities. We comply with trademark by reducing the risk and acquiring competitive advantage. the laws of the Republic of Lithuania and act in a fair and responsiPromotion of responsible activity in Lithuania. bly manner. We always communicate with various institutions and In 2013, we became one of the founders and members of the Liare ready to provide all the necessary information. On our website, thuanian Responsible Business Association. In cooperation with we publicly express the company’s attitude to corruptive actions other business companies and public organisations, we seek to and provide contact information to be used in case of noticing any encourage the responsible business development in Lithuania and such actions of our employees (http://en.pakmarkas.lt/social-resfollow the principles of responsible activity (www.asociacijalava.lt). ponsibility-policy.html). Evaluation. PakMarkas was awarded with the “Successfully Customer service. In order to ensure high-quality customer Operating Company 2013” for the best activity results achieved service, we conduct the annual customer satisfaction survey. The during the year. In 2013, the company showed a gradual growth: questionnaire is composed of several groups of questions: evaluincreased its sales volumes and the number of clients, made signiation of sales personnel, evaluation of quality, client expectations. ficant investments into modern printing technologies and increaIn 2013, we set a specific customer service quality index which is sed the number of employees. monitored and analysed at the managerial level. The nominations of the “Successfully Operating Company” are giResponsible supply. In 2013, we joined the global Supplier ven to the companies that manage to achieve the best activity reEthical Data Exchange (SEDEX) ensuring ethical and responsible sults during the year. practice of the management of business processes. The accession to SEDEX enables PakMarkas to improve ethical and responsible busi21 Environmental We realise the threats to climate change due to the increase in the consumption and industrial development and seek to care minimise our company’s potential impact on environment as much as possible. Energy saving project. In the late 2013 – early 2014, we installed modern building management system to control a status of cooling systems. This system services the industrial premises by automatically maintaining the most suitable air temperature. Modern cooling system offers the remote control of climate in the workshop as well as enables the company to administer the maintenance costs. Waste recycling and treatment. The process of label production generates quite significant amounts of waste, such as paper, film and photopolymers. To recycle this waste, special conAntanas Savickas Head of Quality tainers and waste pressing equipment are placed in the production unit. Office personnel have special boxes placed in their offices to collect the most usual waste – office paper. If green economics will be a part of our working In 2013, we joined the national environmental protection project environment depends on us and us only! “We Recycle!”. Special containers for the collection of small electricity and electrical equipment waste are placed in the company. Pollution prevention. In order to avoid potential environment pollution, we are planning to replace the old technologically aged treatment facilities with new more efficient and more powerful ones in 2014. 23 We are constantly monitoring the following indices with environmental impact: Index Units 2012 2013 Electricity Electricity consumption kw/h 1942116 2040000 Pollution sources Volumes of emissions kg Sewage 131 Sewage 197 Gas 3725 Gas 4192 Pollution tax (fines) EUR 29 Raw-materials and waste Consumed packaging materials m2 12127473 14783027 Paper (labels) 1952350 Paper (labels) 2258803 Film (sleeves) 922485 Waste (by type) m2 Film (sleeves) 694917 Photopolymers 376 Photopolymers 362 Waste delivered for recycling (by type) kg Cardboard 6440 Cardboard 8010 Cellulose (office paper, magaziCellulose (office paper, magazines, …) nes, …) 70 175 Water Consumed water m3 3016 3512 PakMarkas in the public We seek to be a reliable social Support. In 2013, we joined the social campaign “Christmas of partner and Books” initiated by the President of the Republic of Lithuania and contribute to solving the inviting people to give new books to the libraries. We made stickers for this campaign to be stuck on the book and indicate the relevant public problems. recipient of the gift. We always support sports and people doing sports. In 2013, we allocated support to the Kaunas Motor Sports Club, Nemenčinė Sports Club and RBS Motorsport propagating motor sports field „drifting“. Each year, we contribute to the Christmas event of Vilkpėdė ComEducation. We care about the professional education of the munity Social Services Centre and support PI „Viena šeima“ project young generation, therefore our company willingly cooperates „Rain of Smiles“ and organise the campaigns of free donation. with universities and colleges. In 2013, 9 students conducted apprenticeships at the company. Two of them stayed to work at the company. We are happy to contribute to the Lithuanian future by educating creative and brave youth – each year we participate in the “Lithuanian Junior Achievement” project “Young Colleague”. The youngest company’s guests include kindergarten and school children who are invited for excursions to the factory, familiarised with the processes of label production and management of industrial waste. 27 PakMarkas, UAB, Lithuania PakMarkas, SIA, Latvia Daržininkų k., Nemėžio sen., Vilniaus r., LT 13034 Ropažu iela 19a, Rīga, LV-1039 Ph.: +370 5 205 29 00 Ph.: +371 6 7185927 Fax: +370 5 205 29 01 Fax: +371 6 753502 E-mail: info@pakmarkas.lt E-mail: info@pakmarkas.lv
