United Nations Global Assessment, Policy and Implementation Measurement of outcomes Compact Principles Goals HUMAN RIGHTS: Camelot has a Code of Conduct The responsibility for the protection In the past year Camelot has not Principle 1 Businesses should which requires that all employees of human rights falls under the been subject to any investigations, support and respect the protection must be treated fairly and with responsibility of both the HR and CR legal cases or incidents involving of internationally proclaimed respect and that any form of departments. human rights. human rights. discrimination or harassment will not be tolerated. We also have a Grievance and whistle blowing Any staff found to be committing Principle 2 Businesses should number of individual policies which mechanisms are in place which human rights abuses will be make sure that they are not go into the finite details of the enable staff to raise any grievances dismissed from the company. complicit in human rights abuses human rights of our staff (e.g. that they may have fairly, Bullying and Harassment Policy, consistently and quickly. We also We also hold an annual Supplier Equality and Diversity Policy). have an elected staff forum which Conduct Review which allows us to provides employees with a platform see if our suppliers are implementing Camelot actively supports the to air their grievances including any the correct standard of human rights. Universal Declaration of Human possible human rights issues that Rights. Our Audit and Procurement they may have with the company. departments manage processes Employees are also provided with and procedures which highlight any the telephone number of a potential risk of us working with confidential external expert advice companies who do not respect company which facilitates staff human rights. We will not form a access to legal advice and allows relationship with a business if they them to discuss any grievances that do not comply with our human they may have. rights values. We have a ‘Supplier Conduct Review’ which looks into Staff are required to complete a our current suppliers’ conduct and number of online training courses whether they are complying with which include topics relating to our required values (e.g. human human rights. For example we rights). Lastly we ensure that our currently have a training course on retailers understand that they are equality and diversity for managers expected to reflect the values and and mandatory courses on health & behaviours demonstrated within safety and our code of conduct for our code of conduct. all staff. Employees and suppliers are also given a copy of our Code of Conduct which they are encouraged to read once they join the company and at the start of a new contract. This Code of Conduct gives an overview of our human rights stance and policies. We frequently discuss the topic of human rights with our stakeholders. For example we have recently started talking to our contractors about complying with living wage Standards. Our stakeholder engagement on human rights does not just lie internally as we also go over the topic of human rights with our stakeholders. For example we have discussed human rights issues with our Advisory Panel of External Corporate Responsibility Experts. We also mention these topics in our annual stakeholder report. LABOUR: Camelot supports the ILO Core Camelot holds a monthly staff We have just integrated a new Principle 3 Businesses should Conventions and will not do forum where staff are given the performance management process, uphold the freedom of association business with any organisation that opportunity to liaise with the senior DPP (Developing Performance and and the effective recognition of the uses forced or child labour. managers and the CEO about a Potential) which rates employee right to collective bargaining. number of topics including labour performance and act as a barometer Camelot complies with all relevant matters such the condition of the on whether an employee deserves a Principle 4 Businesses should health and safety, and human workplace and staff bonuses. promotion. It is also used as a way to eliminate all forms of forced and rights legislation. set individual objectives for staff. compulsory labour. We have a Bullying and Harassment Camelot has policies on many policy which states that any We have also implemented an online Principle 5 Businesses should different areas that are covered discrimination in the workplace will platform where all employees can effectively abolish child labour. under Human Rights. They include not be tolerated. This is access their payslips and benefits Bullying and Harassment Policy, compounded by the fact that we Principle 6 Businesses should Equality and Diversity Policy, have a thorough grievance summary so that all know what is eliminate discrimination in respect Health and Safety Policy and our mechanism which enables staff to available to them. of employment and occupation. Grievance Policies. raise any grievances that they may have. We also have an online In the past year Camelot have not Once an individual has been training course which all managers been subject to any investigations, offered a role within the business have to complete on equality and legal cases or incidents involving they are issued a contract of diversity. labour rights. We also haven’t been employment which states their subject to any health and safety terms and conditions including Camelot has a thorough health and statutory notices or prosecutions in their salary, overtime and annual safety policy which contains a the last year. leave allowance. Employees are number of procedures. Our Health also given a physical copy of the and Safety Manager also conducts Agency workers are given a detailed Code of Conduct which includes regular audits of the workplace to description of their employment information on what the company make sure that employees are not within the company (eg. hours, expects from staff and the rules under any risk when they enter the working requirements etc.). They are and policies (grievance, disciplinary workplace. We also provide online also free to use all the facilities that etc.) that are in place. health and safety training for staff we provide for full/part-time to make sure that staff stay safe employees such as showers, canteen We pay all Camelot employees a when in the workplace. and rest areas. living wage and are working with our contractors to help them We provide many benefits for our follow our lead. staff to ensure that they are fully supported whilst working at All agency workers we employ are Camelot. These include amongst fully compliant with the agency others an employee assistance worker regulations. programme, pension, medical insurance, childcare vouchers and a subsidised cafeteria. To ensure that we are not working with businesses who do not uphold the ILO conventions and to ensure that this stays the case, we have an annual supplier conduct review which looks into our current suppliers conduct including whether they are using forced or child labour. ENVIRONMENTAL: Camelot has a thorough We regularly run environmental Camelot uses licensed waste Principal 7 Businesses should environmental policy which is campaigns to try and encourage our companies for the disposal of waste. support a precautionary approach supported by senior management stakeholders to be environmentally In the infrequent circumstance of us to environmental challenges. and our CEO. aware. We mainly focus on energy needing to throw out IT equipment usage and waste as these are the we follow WEEE regulations and use Principal 8 Businesses should We have a number of annual two largest environmental areas the necessary companies for undertake initiatives to promote environmental key performance that our operations impact. electronic waste disposal. Often we greater environmental indicators. These cover topics such have found companies who can responsibility. as reducing waste, increasing All incidents which have reuse parts or recycle materials for recycling, reducing our CO2 environmental repercussions are charity. Principal 9 Businesses should emissions and reducing the investigated and procedures are put encourage the development and amount of paper used per £1,000 in place to prevent incidents from We have an environment data diffusion of environmentally provided to good causes. happening again. For example in the collection system called CloudApps in friendly technologies past a small amount of waste in the which we gather monthly data in the We also have environmental outdoor recycling skips in following topic areas (water, fuel, targets such as reducing our water Northampton has been blown into waste – recycling and landfill, rail and usage, making the vehicles in our the surroundings area by the wind. air travel and paper usage). This data fleet more environmentally friendly To eradicate this problem lids have is then used to see how we have and encouraging employees to use been put on the outdoor skips to fared against our environmental more eco-friendly ways to stop waste from being blown away targets. commute (e.g. shuttle buses from and not recycled. the local train station, car sharing In addition to this we have half or cycling to work) We review our player facing hourly automatic meters in our products and ensured that all are offices in Watford and in our We regularly ask our suppliers for from sustainable sources with the warehouse in Northampton. These environmental data on the majority being from FFC or meters enable us to monitor our products and services that we equivalent. We ensure that all energy use online and discover any order from them. By doing this we products can be recycled and are unexpected trends in the data. We are able to compare the different constantly looking for new have a Footprint Tracker in our areas of business and see where innovations that could enable us to Watford Head Office which can be we could potentially make use resources more efficiently used for maintenance, reporting and improvements in the future. within our products. We have tracking of new initiatives. started to talk to our consumers In the coming year we will continue about the environment and We have not been involved in any to try and meet the environmental recycling of our products with legal cases, rulings or fines related to key performance indicators and pieces on our website, in player environmental principles over the targets mentioned above. In communications and on our play last 12 months. To make sure we are addition to this we will continue to stations. on the right legal track we regularly look for and adopt innovative new update our environmental legislation ways of working that will further We are constantly looking for ways register to ensure that we are enhance our operations. We are to reduce our resource use and be complying with all the relevant committed to working with all our more efficient. Over the past year environmental legislation. stakeholders in order to find we have continued to streamline solutions that will benefit the processes in our marketing and We survey our suppliers every year environment and all involved. retail sales team which has led to to ensure that they are also meeting savings in paper and fuel. our environmental standards. Lastly we have started to use our We have started to talk to our position within the international Our facilities team are constantly players about the environment and lottery industry to encourage other reviewing our buildings and survey them on environmental organisations to follow our lead in implementing energy saving issues. considering the environment initiatives where possible. This year throughout their operations. we have implemented new We take part in the BITC CR Index technology such as LED’s to replace every year which includes sections on less efficient models. the environment and we produce a CR report on our website www.playingourpart.com, summarising everything that we have achieved and are looking to achieve in this area. Anti-Corruption: Camelot is compliant with the The responsibility of dealing with Camelot has not been involved in any Principle 10 Businesses should Bribery Act and does not anti-corruption falls with our legal cases, rulings or other events work against corruption in all its participate in any corruption, Corporate Assurance department. related to corruption or bribery. forms, including extortion and bribery or extortion. We support All company staff are required to bribery. the UN Convention against complete the Anti-bribery and One way in which we monitor Corruption and do not operate in Corruption training course. This corruption is through our Gifts and countries or with organisations training provides staff with Hospitality Register which is that are corrupt. information on our stance on monitored by HR and shared with the bribery and corruption and states National Lottery Commission (NLC). We have an Anti-Bribery Policy how employees can report As a part of our Corporate Gifts and which states that the company has suspected bribery/corruption. Hospitality Policy we inform a zero tolerance approach to employees that it is not acceptable to bribery and complies with all Camelot’s Whistleblowing Policy accept gifts from companies which relevant international and local provides staff with a step by step we are currently not doing business anti-bribery laws in all the guide to how they can report with. In addition to this the policy jurisdictions in which it transacts suspected cases of bribery and states that any high value corporate business. This policy is officially corruption. It also provides staff gifts or corporate entertainment / backed by the Board or Directors with a guideline of how complaints must be passed onto Head of and the CEO. of bribery/corruption will be dealt Departments to decide if the gift with once they are submitted. should be accepted. All staff are encouraged to report suspected forms of bribery in Employees are also told to record all accordance with the Camelot offered and accepted gifts and Whistleblowing policy. hospitality on the Gift and Hospitality form and send this form to HR to record onto the Register. Employees that are found to be violating the policy will be punished accordingly.
