AVAILABILITY DURABILITY FUNCTION DESIGN Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 Workwear with a point of view Nybo Workwear A/S (hereafter Nybo Workwear) is a We are constantly setting new targets for improvement, family owned company. This means that we are owned and in 2014 we will further strengthen our partnership by real people that have a daily involvement in the comwith our suppliers in Asia with the goal of enhancing repany. this has a huge impact on the way we run our sponsibility in our supply chain. business and implement our values. It is of utmost importance to us to value both responsibility and a solid ABOUT OUR CSR REPORT bottom line equally. The purpose of our CSR reporting is to provide a comprehensive picture to our stakeholders on our CSR perWe work with corporate social responsibility because of formance in 2013. Our CSR report form at the same four main reasons: time the obligatory Communication on Progress (COP) 1. We believe that we must behave decently in report to UN Global Compact. relation to other people our own employees, our suppliers’ employees, our customers, their The report covers our three locations: our headquarter customers and others we meet on our way. in Viborg, Denmark and our two production facilities in 2. We believe that we must focus on our environDobele and Jelgava, Latvia. ment and nature we have a responsibility to pass it on in good condition for future generaIn order to ensure a transparent, balanced and reasonCompany values tions. able presentation of our CSR performance, we are in3. We believe that decent behaviour and sound spired by general accepted reporting principles: Global Dynamics Credibility business are interdependent. Reporting Initiative (www.gri.com). In order to retain a solid platform in a changeable Honesty and credibility must be our guidelines in 4. We appreciate that many of our customers world we want to be an innovative, dynamic, and everything we do. focus on CSR and place high demands on us. As we will continue our strategic and systematic work efficient company that inspires customers and These requirements we would like to meet. with CSR, any constructive comment for further imcolleagues in our industry. Quality provements are highly appreciated. EDurable products is a key demand from our CONTINUED SUPPORT TO GLOBAL COMPACT Passion customers. We must adapt the highest possible Nybo Workwear has been supporting the UN Global standards of quality within all our activties. Compact since 2010. Together with our core values, We hope you will enjoy reading it! With equal parts competence, persistance, and enthese 10 principles form the basis for our holistic apthusiasm we wish to deliver profitable solutions for proach to CSR. the mutual benefit of our customers and ourselves. In 2013, we have conducted a structured process aiming at integrating CSR further into our business strategy. We have looked deeper into our potential risks and identi__________________________ fied our most significant stakeholder. Furthermore, we Torben Bang have conducted a self assessment of proces and materials in order to prioritize those CSR activities that create CEO, Nybo Workwear A/S most value to both our business and the society around us. These priorities are reflected in our report. 02 CSR REPORT 2013 CSR REPORT 2013 03 Purchase A trustful partnership is the key to responsible sourcing We understand purchase as all sourcing activities reNybo Workwear is a member of the trade association lated to procurement and supplier management at “Danish Fashion and Textile” that has developed a reNybo Workwear. cognized code of conduct targeting suppliers named FairFashion. Our goal is to ensure that our suppliers live Nybo Workwear has main suppliers of textile distributed up to the standards similar to FairFashion. in Europe and Asia. Our European suppliers are all subject to strict European legislation and control. We have WHAT WE SAID IN 2013 chosen to conduct an assesment of our Asian suplliers • All suppliers have documented that they handle in order to ensure the highest possible level of CSR. As substances according to the REACH Directive. a consequence our key supplier in India holds a SA8000 certification. WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2013 In 2013 this supplier was certified with Fair Wear. Fair • All suppliers have conducted the Nybo WorkWear Foundation is an independent, non-profit organwear self-assessment if they are not certified ization that works with companies and factories to imwith SA 8000 or ISO 26000/DS49001. prove labor conditions for garment work. This guaran• Our “old” suppliers all live up to our high standtees a high CSR standard. ards for quality and responsibility. Our focus is therefore to cooperate with our suppliers • We have identified dissatisfactory conditions in China in order to ensure that they live up to our high at our new Chinese supplier. Togehter, we have standards concerning human rights, labour rights and implemented a program to improve the sanitary environmental issues as well as quality and stable deconditions for employees and this has been imlivery. proved. • Our suppliers has documented that they handle POLICIES AND STRATEGIES substances according to the REACH Directive. Our ambition is to do business with suppliers who meet the same high standards with regards to quality, WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2014 ethics, environment and security of supplies as we do • If we identify any failings, we will agree on a plan ourselves. We only source from international recogof action within 6 months in order to ensure satnized suppliers. isfactory improvements. • All European suppliers with more than 500.000 We believe that we achieve the best results through Dkr. must sign the FairFashion Code of Conduct trustful partnerships striving for improvement in reas an integrated part of the contract with Nybo gards to human right, labour rights and environmental Workwear. issues. Therefore, we are convinced that it is through Asian suppliers with a purchase with more than a long-term partnership with our key suppliers that we 100.000 Dkr. are obliged to sign the FairFashion achieve the best results. Regular visits in the places of Code of Conduct as an integrated part of their 1 2 production guarantee observance of the agreed condicontract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear – tions. self-assessment. 04 CSR REPORT 2013 Nybo Workwear’s garments meet the following standards ISO 15797 EU-Ecolabel As one of the first in our industry, we use the internaIn our assortment you will find products that are tional test standard ISO 15797. A carefull selection of EU-Ecolabel certified, the European environmental raw material guarantee that Nybo products meet the label, which is the guarantee of an environmentally requirements of industrial washing. friendly production. This label is awarded only toclothing, which is analysed from cradle-to-cradle. Oeko-Tex Standard 100 They have to meet strict demands to water consupIf possible, we strive to buy fabrics and accessortion and use of chemicals. Solutions ies that are Oeko-Tex Standard 100-certified. The scheme is the most common labelling for textiles in the world. The system checks content of harmful Bluesign Standard A number of our products are based on fabrics which substances in textiles, and minimise the risk of user have achieved certification by Bluesign Standard. This High quality in everything we do exposure to hazardous substances ensures that production tkaes place with the utmost consideration for resource utilization, negative impact on air and water, health and consumer protecWe understand “solutions” as our full assortment of WHAT WE SAID IN 2013 tion. products, processes, customer relations, and sales and • We will continue to live up to our customers’ marketing activities. demands concerning environmental and social iresposnible products and processes. As a textile company our main impact on society is re• We will continue to contribute to new innovatlated to the quality and content of the products we sell. ive and environmentally friendly products. It means that our focus is constantly on environmentally friendly fabrics and accessories we use in our products. WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2013 • 95% of the raw material in our products is Oeko POLICIES AND STRATEGIES –Tex 100 certified Since the foundation of Nybo Workwear we have strived • In 2011/12, we developed new Tencel collectowards high quality in everything we do. We believe tions. <the use of <tencel instead of cotton that quality and responsibility are interrelated. clearly minimizes the use of clean water in the entire production chain from fibre to fabric. We We also believe that we have an obligation to develop see an increased interest in this new material. innovative and environmentally friendly products which will be a benefit for all involved. WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2014 • We will continue to live up to our customers’ Nybo Workwear works only with experienced and indemands concerning environmental and social ternational recognized sub-suppliers of raw material iresposnible products and processes. for industrial washable products. All specifications of • We will continue to contribute to new innovative Tencel and nature fabrics and accessories are determined and controlled and environmentally friendly solutions within according to international standards regarding quality, fabrics, accessories, and finished oproducts. TENCEL fibres are made of 100% organic eucalyptus environmental requirements and healthy working con• We will have more focus on our transport and wood, which has been harvested in a closed circuit ditions. A continuous follow-up takes place regarding follow our carbon footprint within this activity without the influence of pesticides. The fibres are the fulfilment of the agreed demands and arrangeour seaand air freight from Far East suppliers. naturally clean. The production of Tencel is guaranments. teed free from hazardous substances and therefore the fibres are recognized as green and environmentIn our catalogues and on the web, we clearly indicate ally friendly. which certificates relate to each product. It assists our customers in making a responsible choice. TENCEL fibres are the strongest among the cellulose fibres, and this particular feature makes Tencel a super partner for work wear. 06 CSR REPORT 2013 CSR REPORT 2013 07 Process Environmental precautions from the very beginning We perceive “process” as all the internalised activities WHAT WE SAID IN 2013 across our own company value chain, including producWe want to continue reducing our energy consumption, logistics, properties and utilities. tion. Our next step is to look deeper into our future IT investment and to make energy use a parameter for the Our facility in Viborg, Denmark is home of our adminfuture choice of IT. sitration and stock. Our environmental challenges are We continue to monitore and minimize our water conmainly related to our production facilities in Latvia. As a sumption. The goal was to bring it back to 2011 level. textile producing company our main task is to sew high quality work wear which means that we have no envirWHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2013 onmental issues related to hazardous waste and our waWe did not manage to reduce our electricity consumpter consumption is very limited. tion with 5% but only 0,5%. This small reduction is affected of less energy from our wind turbine. We have POLICIES AND STRATEGIES invested in new IT equipment, which use less energy, We consider ourselves as an integrated part of our comand we are sure that these savings will be seen in 2014. mon environment. In spite of our modest size and poOur water consumption has been reduced with 18%. sition as a minor Danish player, we are determined to This is to our full satisfaction and it achieved our goals. demonstrate our will to contribute to the preservation We have made a new structure in our washing test in of our environment and resources. Latvia and this affect the water consumption in a positive way. In Viborg, we are less staff and this also affects In 1980, we decided to set up a wind turbine at our facilthis. We keep revision on our total recycling volume/ ity in Denmark and thus become self-sufficient in elecamount. We brought 58,1 tons of material back to full Environmental key figures tricity. Our wind turbine produces 65,000 kW annually. recycling in 2013. We consume the majority internally, and the surplus we Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele) Total market to the local power plant. WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2014 Energy consumption Electricity: 2.424 kWh 21.865 kWh 24.289 kWh We want to continue reducing our energy consumption: Wind turbine – Gas: 35.512 m3 8.050 m3 43,562 m3 We continued our recycling project of paper and plastic Our goal is still to look at the future choice of hardware energy – sold 989 kWh 989 kWh in cooperation with Zala Josta Ltd., which is a Latvian in IT and look at the use of light, which will give us a Water consumption 150 m3 934 m3 1,084 m3 company caring for a clean Latvia. We collected and sordeduction of energy. ted all waste: paper, cartons and plastic and sold it for Recycling 8.38 tons 49.75 tons 58.13 tons recycling. Our systematic work with recycling gave us the Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 5% Zala Josta certificate, which certifies that our production site “Sia Nybo Dobele” is environmentally friendly. We have a special focus on the end-to-end handling of card board boxes, as this is our main packaging consumption. All boxes are sorted, cleaned, pressed and recycled. 1 2 08 CSR REPORT 2013 CSR REPORT 2013 09 People Good working conditions are key to success We understand people as all activities related to manmanagers in Latvia. aging and developing our employees. This includes a • Continued support of staff training, including safe and healthy working environment, leadership and access to free English training in Latvia. We also compliance with Nybo Workwear ‘s Code of Conduct. had English training for 1 person in Denmark and Danish training for 1 person in Germany. Nybo Workwear employs 219 persons – 45 are working • Conducted the BSCI self-assessment at our own at the headquarter in Denmark and 174 are working at facilities in Denmark and Latvia. our two production facilities in Latvia. • Increased systematic documentation on health and safety issues in both Denmark and Latvia. POLICIES AND STRATEGIES We have implemented improved health conWe want to offer a desirable, developing and challenditions under the supervision of Danish and ging place of work that is able to attract and retain qualLatvian authorities e.g. first aid and defibrillator ity-minded, well-qualified and passionate employees. course for 80% of our staff in Danmark. We believe that our employees are the most important • Continued our cooperation with Viborg Munikey to success. cipality to include socially vulnerable citizens into our company. In 2013, we have 4 persons We respect and live up to the national labour market employed on special terms. laws in Denmark and Latvia including minimum wages, • In 2013 we offered our staff a health check and health and safety, working hours etc. All conditions re90% of our staff did participate. garding employees are described in detail in our Hand• We have formulated a policy on Anti-corruption book for personnel. This is handed out to all employees policy. Key figures regarding employees and keopt up-dated with all new guidelines for the company. With this we go further than the rather strict laws WHAT’S NEXT FOR 2014 Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Total of labour and employee rights in Denmark and Lattvia. • We want continuously to focus on improvement Employees 45 174 219 and we also implement additional training, health inconcerning health and safety among our emBlue collar 7 147 154 surance and personnel celebrations. ployees. Our ambition is to grow in a responsible manner with respect for the well-being of White collar 38 27 65 WHAT WE SAID IN 2013 our employees. The concern for our employees Sick leave (%) 3,3 7,4 • We continue to deploy our staff procedures and has always been at the heart of the Nybo WorkInjuries 0 1 1 politics as described in the Handbook for Perwear company spirit. Employee Development 45 27 72 sonnel. • In Latvia we have started up a new project in Dialogue • We want to improve our data management on our production which means that the working CSR to cover both Denmark and Latvia. physical working environment is cleaner and the Employees received 24 11 35 • We have zero tolerance when it comes to corair contains much less textile fibres and dust. training ruption. • Our intention is to work with better planning in Employees on special 4 0 4 2014 in order to decrease the use of overtime. terms WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2013 • Continued English language training in Latvia. • Continued systematic employee development dialogues for all employees in Denmark and all 010 CSR REPORT 2013 CSR REPORT 2013 011 CSR Performance at Nybo Workwear A/S Subject Objective Result Global Compact GRI Page Purchase Implementing Supplier Code of All suppliers of fabrics and Completed All principles General 4, 6,7 Conduct sewing sign supplier Code of Conduct. Number of suppliers that has All major suppliers in Completed All principles General 4, 6,7 undergone screening Asia must conduct our REACH-Directive self-assessment. All suppliers has to docuCompleted All principles 4, 6,7 ment that they live up to REACH Directive Monitoring and improving supplier Plan of action to be monCompleted All principles General 4, 6, 7 standards itored within a 6 month period Product and Development of environmental friendly products Our collection of environmental friendly 9 5 Nybo Workwear A/S in brief customers Tencel products from 2011/2012 is still very new and we see more Company name Nybo Workwear A/S interest from our customers. Address Industrivej 24 26 Certifications: Oeko-Tex Standard 95% of our product is 95 % 9 PR3 5 8800 Viborg 100, Eco-Label, Bluesign, ISO Oeko-Tex certified DK-8800 Viborg 15797 Phone +45 8727 3000 Process Electricity consumption 5 % reduction 0,5% 7 EN3 8 E-mail: info@nybo.com Initiatives to reduce electricity Efficient use of windmill 2.424 kWh equals to 7,8 EN5 8 consumption 0,5 % reduction CVR nr.: 36 74 51 18 Total water consumption Maintain 2011 level 18% reduction 7 EN8 8 Recycling 58.13 tons 7,8 EN2 8 Locations of operations Nybo Workwear A/S is headquartered in Viborg, Denmark. We have two People Diversity of workforce Blue collar: 154 1,2, 6 LA1 9 production facilities in Latvia. and White collar: 65 The company is represented on all North European markets. Our customers society consist of laundries and dealers of work wear. Employee development Access to English language 11 employees 1,2 LA10 9 training – LV Number of employees 2013 256 Access to English/Danish language training – DK 2 employees Contact person Helle Nybo Holmberg First aid training – DK 33 employees Purchasing Manager, Part Owner Access to labour unions All employees 100 % 1,2,3 LA4 9 +45 87273006 Collective bargaining All blue collar workers 100 % LA 4 Wage level Observe and respect 100 % 1,2,3 LA4 9 hnh@nybo.com national labour marked laws regarding minimum About Nybo Workwear A/S Margit and Peder Nybo Jensen established Nybo Workwear A/S in 1962. wage level The company is a family owned business. The management team consists of the next generation of the Nybo family together with Torben Bang apStaff compensation Pensions, health insur1,2 LA3 9 pointed as CEO in 2012. ance, compensation on sick leave, pregnancy Nybo Workwear A/S offers a broad assortment of fashionable work wear. for etc. users within Health & Care, Gastronomy & Catering, and Light Industry. Our Health and safety: 1. Zero injuries 1. 1 incidents during 1,2 LA7 9 solutions are available through industrial laundries and dealers throughout 1. Rates of injury 2. Improve health pro2013 Northern Europe. We are acknowledged purveyor to H. M. The Quenn of 2. Health programs grams 2. Health insurance, Denmark as the only work wear supplier in Denmark 3. Sick leave 3. Reduction of sick leaves canteen, massage, first Awards and certifications 4. National laws on OHS 4. Observe and respect aid, defibrillator etc. national labour marked 3. DK: 3,3 %; Latvia: laws on OHS 7,2 % 4. 100 % Number of employees on special Contribute to an inclusive 4 employees on special 1,2, 6 LA13 9 terms labour marked terms Implementation of Code of Nybo Workwear’s comCompleted All principles General 2, 9 Conduct panies in Denmark and 012 CSR REPORT 2013 Latvia must sign our Code of Conduct and Global Compact DESIGN FUNCTION DURABILITY AVAILABILITY www.nybo.com | info@nybo.com | +45 87 27 30 00
