LUNDIN PETROLEUM’S 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Index 1. Letter from the CEO p.4 2. Highlights p.5 3. Progress on the Principles of the Global Compact p.6 4. Corporate Responsibility Framework p.8 5. Health, Safety and Environment p.10 6. Stakeholder Engagement p.12 7. Sustainable Investments p.14 8. The Lundin Foundation p.16 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 3 25 April 2014 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Lundin Petroleum’s Commitment to the United Nations Global Compact & Communication on Progress 2013 Dear Mr Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Lundin Petroleum continues to firmly support the Global Compact and the UN Millennium Development Goals. Sharing the vision of working for a sustainable global economy, we actively strive to embed the ten principles in our strategy, culture, policies and day-to-day activities. We support public accountability and transparency and are therefore committed to report annually on progress in implementing the Global Compact principles. This 2013 Communication on Progress details our on-going efforts and progress in promoting human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption in our business conduct. Sincerely yours, C. Ashley Heppenstall Lundin Petroleum AB President and Chief Executive Officer Lundin Petroleum AB Hovslagargatan 5 Tel. +46 8 440 54 50 Lundin-petroleum.com Registration No 556610-8055 SE-11148 Stockholm Fax. +46 8 440 54 59 4 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 Highlights Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress demonstrates the on-going efforts and progress made in implementing the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Participation in the Global Compact Leaders’ Summit For the first time since Lundin Petroleum adhered to the Global Compact (2010) the Company participated in the Global Compact Leaders’ Summit in New York. This occasion provided an opportunity to listen to experts in the field, meet with likeminded organisations and to exchange ideas and best practice. Corporate Responsibility Framework & Policies Lundin Petroleum’s Corporate Responsibility framework, constituted of its Code of Conduct, policies and guidelines, demonstrates how the Company integrates the commitment made under the United Nations Global Compact. During 2013, the Company took additional steps to implement this commitment; it developed Human Rights Guidelines to operationalise the Human Rights Policy throughout the operations and reinforced its commitment to anti-corruption by becoming a supporting member to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and by engaging in the global fight against corruption. It also rolled out a new Corporate Responsibility Management System Audit to ensure that the key principles of its Code of Conduct and the Global Compact are respected throughout the Company. In 2013, a third party audit conducted on Lundin Petroleum’s corporate responsibility management system found that it compared favourably with its peers. Health, Safety and Environment As an international oil exploration and production company, Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) are a priority for Lundin Petroleum. In 2013 additional emphasis was placed on HSE management during development operations as well as on contractor evaluations to protect employees and the environment. Sustainable Investments Through its Sustainable Investment Program Lundin Petroleum seeks to further the Millennium Development Goals and to contribute to the preservation of the environment by funding a variety of projects, mainly in its areas of operations. In 2013, Lundin Petroleum entered into a partnership agreement with Lundin Foundation which considerably increased the scale and impact of the Company’s social and environmental contributions. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 5 Progress on the Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights In 2013 Lundin Petroleum strengthened its commitment towards human rights by embedding the Company’s Human Rights Policy through the adoption of Human Rights Guidelines. The Guidelines were developed in accordance to stakeholder recommendations, including the “European Commission’s Oil and Gas Sector Guide on Implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”, and formalize the Company’s human rights due diligence process. The Guidelines include requirements that risk assessments be conducted in countries of operations on a regular basis and, where relevant, to be followed up with further studies or measures. During 2013, training on the Human Rights Policy and the Human Rights Guidelines was conducted with employees in France, Indonesia, Malaysia, Norway and at corporate. In 2013 Lundin Petroleum participated in the second annual Forum on Business and Human Rights at the United Nations in Geneva in order to learn about the challenges of implementing the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, to exchange views and opinions on current best practices and to engage with human rights experts and stakeholders. Anti-Corruption In 2013 Lundin Petroleum focused on further embedding its Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines that were adopted in 2011 by becoming a supporting member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a voluntary initiative aimed at promoting anti-corruption and transparency through revenue disclosure. Lundin Petroleum actively promotes anti-corruption within the Group and in the public domain, at conferences, with business partners, as well as engages with peers on the issue of the global fight against corruption. Furthermore the Company is involved in an ongoing dialogue with the EITI Secretariat in Oslo; participated in the EITI Global Forum and attended the EITI Board meeting as an observer. During 2013 no cases of corruption were reported throughout the Group under the Anti-Corruption Guidelines or the Whistleblowing Procedure. 6 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 Environment Climate Change continues to be an important issue for Lundin Petroleum; for the fifth consecutive year the Company disclosed its climate change strategy and greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and was ranked third among Nordic energy companies. Furthermore, the Company became a CDP supporting member and adopted a new Climate Change Statement emphasizing its commitment to seek energy efficiency measures to reduce its carbon footprint. Lundin Petroleum promotes environmental protection and awareness throughout all of its operations by continuously assessing potential effects of projects through baseline and environmental impact studies and contingency plans, and also through supporting or taking part in initiatives promoting environmental stewardship. Labour Standards Lundin Petroleum has committed in its Code of Conduct to respect and protect employees’ rights, including freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. It ensures equal opportunity without discrimination on the basis of age, culture, disability, gender, race, religion, etc. by selecting candidates based on their competence and qualifications to perform the job. Every country of operations has a formal induction process in order to familiarize new employees with their rights and responsibilities and with Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Policies. In 2013 the Vice President Corporate Responsibility held individual discussions on International Labour Organisation Standards with the Human Resource Managers throughout the Group, in order to ensure that these procedures are fully integrated in practice. Robust processes for contractor selection and evaluation ensure that there is no use of child or forced labour in relation to Lundin Petroleum’s worldwide operations. During 2013 a handbook containing all Corporate Responsibility policies and guidelines was developed and distributed to employees worldwide. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 7 Corporate Responsibility Health and Safety Policy and Green Book Framework Stakeholder Engagement Policy and Guidelines Environmental Policy and Green Book Code of Lundin Petroleum takes into Conduct VISION Community Relations consideration the potential Policy and Sustainable Investment Guidelines VALUES PRINCIPLES Human Rights Policy and Guidelines impact on people and the environment in all its strategic Whistleblowing Anti-corruption decisions and field activities. Policy and Guidelines Policy and Guidelines Corporate Responsibility (CR) Framework Human Rights Policy and Guidelines Lundin Petroleum is committed to carry out its worldwide In 2013 Lundin Petroleum developed Human Rights Guidelines operations in a responsible manner. This means that both to operationalise the Policy it adopted further to the Board strategic decisions and field activities take into consideration of Directors’ endorsement of the United Nations Guiding potential impacts on people and the environment. Lundin Principle on Business and Human Rights. The Guidelines were Petroleum has developed a CR framework that establishes developed in accordance with stakeholder recommendations, systems and procedures to protect the health, safety and including the European Commission’s Oil and Gas Sector Guide security of its stakeholders as well as the environment. The on Implementing the UN Guiding Principles. The Guidelines commitments to responsible corporate citizenship by which the formalise the human rights due diligence process and requires Company is guided are set out in Lundin Petroleum’s Code of that human rights risk assessments be conducted in countries Conduct. The Company’s Policies, Guidelines and Management of operations on a regular basis and, where relevant, to be System further detail how each operating unit must implement followed up with further studies or measures. the CR principles in their activities. CR is an evolving field which requires continuous improvement. This means seeking Stakeholder Engagement Policy and Guidelines to achieve social, environmental and economic benefits In 2013, Lundin Petroleum formalised a long standing practice simultaneously. of open and constructive dialogue with stakeholders; the people and organisations which may be affected by or influence the Third Party Assessment Company’s activities. Lundin Petroleum has a wide range of At the beginning of 2013 Lundin Petroleum underwent a third stakeholders such as shareholders, employees, governments, party assessment of its CR framework and practice to confirm local communities, business partners, industry groups, its alignment with industry best practice. Lundin Petroleum’s NGOs, international organisations, academics and media. The CR Management System was audited by Ernst & Young Sweden. Guidelines set up a process to ensure that the Company is aware The main findings were that “Lundin Petroleum has leading of and manages effectively stakeholder issues. management systems relating to their material areas – Health, Safety and Environment (HSE)” and that the maturity levels of Corporate Responsibility Management System Audit other CR areas were Established to Advanced. The third party In 2013, Lundin Petroleum rolled out a Corporate Responsibility audit findings and recommendations guided Lundin Petroleum Management System Audit, a process to ensure its Code of in the process of reinforcing its CR management throughout the Conduct commitments, namely human rights, anti-corruption, year. labour standards, environment, sustainable investments and stakeholders are respected throughout the Group. The audit covers all elements of its CR Framework except Health and Safety which are subject to a separate audit, environmental 8 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 New in 2013 We are Developments in Lundin Petroleum’s Corporate Responsibility Management: Lundin Petroleum · Third Party CR Management System Audit · New Policy & Guidelines · New CR Management System Audit Process · EITI Supporting Company · CDP Supporting Company · Partnership with Lundin Foundation The Way Forward Objectives for 2014: · Embed further the CR Framework throughout the Group · Conduct CR Management System Audits in all operated areas · Continuously improve HSE performance · Contribute to socio-economic development and environmental protection through Lundin Foundation “ issues being included in both processes. A first round of management system reviews was conducted in all operating areas in 2013. My job is to ensure that Anti-Corruption Commitment wherever we operate While Lundin Petroleum’s main focus remains on implementing Corporate Responsibility within the Group, it engages we abide by the same with international initiatives relevant to the Company’s commitments. Thus, in 2013, Lundin Petroleum became a high CR standards supporting member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). Christine Batruch Vice President Partnership with Lundin Foundation Corporate Responsibility In 2013 Lundin Petroleum entered into a partnership with the Lundin Foundation in order to increase the scale and impact of Lundin Petroleum’s sustainable investments. For more information see pages 16–17. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 9 Health, Safety and Environment The purpose of a Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) management system (the Green Book) is to prevent accidents or incidents with an impact on people, environment and/or assets. The Company undertakes risk assessments and uses Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) as an HSE management tool, focusing not only on areas where incidents have already occurred, but where they could potentially occur in the future. Sharing experiences, lessons learned and best practice is also important and takes place informally within the Group on an ongoing basis and formally through bi-monthly HSE teleconferences and management visits to operations. Since the Company was created, there have been no work-related fatalities in its operations. In 2013, Lundin Petroleum’s overall KPIs improved over previous years. The Lost-Time incidents were of a minor nature without a permanent impact on the people concerned. There were no reportable oil spills throughout the Group and as for the chemicals spills, they involved small amounts of nonhazardous chemicals (a fraction of the volumes reported in the HSE Indicator Data table below). HSE Indicator Data 20095 2013 2012 2011 2010 Employees 960,508 909,196 1,036,831 731,793 905,166 Exposure Hours Contractors 2,074,824 1,561,482 2,354,452 2,336,409 3,454,980 Employees 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities Contractors 0 0 0 0 0 Employees 2 2 3 2 2 Lost Time Incidents 1 Contractors 4 5 3 2 1 Employees 0 0 0 0 1 Restricted Work Incidents 2 Contractors 0 0 3 7 0 Employees 0 1 1 0 2 Medical Treatment Incidents 3 Contractors 2 0 4 17 7 Employees 0.42 0.44 0.58 0.55 0.44 Lost Time Incident Rate 4 Contractors 0.39 0.64 0.25 0.17 0.06 1 Lost Time Incident (LTI) is an incident which Employees 0.42 0.66 0.77 0.55 1.10 results in a person having at least one day Total Recordable Incident Rate 4 away from work. Contractors 0.58 0.64 0.85 2.23 0.46 2 Restricted Work Incident (RWI) is an incident No. 0 2 7 1 1 Oil Spills which results in keeping a person from Vol. (m3) 0 4 33 10 40 performing one or more routine functions. No. 7 1 2 1 2 3 Medical Treatment Incident (MTI) is a work Chemical Spills related injury or illness that does not result in Vol. (m3) 59.37 1.75 3.50 7.70 129.78 a job restriction or days away from work. No. 0 0 0 0 1 4 Lost Time Incident Rate and Total Recordable Hydrocarbon Leaks Mass (kg) 0 0 0 0 4 Incident Rate are calculated on the basis of 200,000 hours. Near Misses with High Potential No. 2 5 3 3 24 5 Includes United Kingdom. 10 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 HSE GOALS “ » Zero fatalities » Zero incidents » Zero harm to The safety of our employees the environment and contractors is our highest HSE Management priority and we focus on means System / Green Book to minimise our environmental Policies and Procedures footprint while exploring options to increase energy Corporate Requirements efficiency Corporate HSE Plan Country HSE Plans C. Ashley Heppenstall President and CEO Country Monitoring Reporting on and Supervision Corporate Requirements Country Yearly Reviews Self-assessment against and Audits HSE Management System Health, Safety and Environment Group HSE Network Meeting Health, Safety and Environment is a priority in our business. In 2013 additional emphasis was placed on HSE management during development operations as well as contractor evaluations. HSE management system reviews were carried out on the Bertam Project in Malaysia and the Brynhild Project in Norway. In addition to assessing management of contractor performance, on-site visits were conducted at two shipyards in Singapore to evaluate the HSE practice of contractors. “The HSE meeting in South East Asia was the first of its kind within the Group. It offered the opportunity While HSE is integrated in many different ways in daily to share best practice regarding HSE and Risk operations, the following concrete examples illustrate how HSE Management and provide feedback on everyone’s managers and their teams promote HSE stewardship throughout activities and documentation. Further positive the Group. outcomes are strengthened relationships between HSE managers of different regions.” HSE Regional Meeting in South East Asia A three-day meeting took place in October in Kuala Lumpur and Bernt Rudjord, Singapore with Lundin Petroleum HSE managers. The purpose HSE Manager, Lundin Norway of the meeting was to discuss implementation of the Group HSE strategy, as well as challenges and opportunities related thereto. Given that HSE is a fundamental part of risk management, a special session was held on risk, where HSE managers shared methods of identifying, preventing and managing risks within HSE Contractor Management their respective operations. Lundin Petroleum is committed to ensure safety not only of its employees but of any one working for the Company. Contractor On its third day the team visited the Keppel and Jurong performance from an HSE perspective is evaluated during the shipyards in Singapore where the FPSO is being modified for the contractor selection process as well as through inspections once Bertam field offshore Malaysia and the Flotel destined for the contractors have been awarded a task. Edvard Grieg field is being built. The purpose of these site visits was to ensure contractors and suppliers adherence to Lundin Employees and contractors who work in the Company’s Petroleum’s CR and HSE expectations. operational premises undergo an HSE induction course. The team also visited Oil Spill Response to familiarise themselves In the fall, Lundin France convened 55 key contractor with the equipment that would be called upon in the event of companies for an HSE awareness day. A total of 64 persons an incident and to meet face to face the people who would assist participated in the event during which the Company restated its the Company in such a case. HSE expectations and participants shared best practice. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 11 Stakeholder Engagement It is important for Lundin Petroleum to communicate with its Host Governments stakeholders, people and organisations which are impacted Contact with host governments take place prior to the by or impact the Company. In its Code of Conduct, Lundin acquisition of a licence and the engagement with host Petroleum identifies its main stakeholders to be its shareholders, governments at national and local level continues throughout employees, host countries, local communities and society at the lifetime of an oil and gas asset. large and those continue to be the focus of the Company’s attention. In 2013, Lundin Petroleum developed a formalised Local Communities process of stakeholder engagement which will be rolled out Engagement with local communities takes place on the occasion throughout the Group in 2014. The type and frequency of of socialisation programmes, town hall meetings or local events engagement differs among stakeholders according to the need held in the countries of operations. and opportunity for engagement. International Initiatives Shareholders Lundin Petroleum also engages with a variety of organisations Shareholders are informed of Lundin Petroleum’s strategy such as NGOs, International Initiatives and Industry Groups and ongoing activities through public disclosure in the form in different forums. In 2013 Lundin Petroleum participated in of financial reports, press releases and through the website. events dedicated at promoting responsible business practice The Company also engages with shareholders in individual such as the EITI Global Conference, the Global Compact Leaders’ or joint meetings and at the Annual General Meeting. In Summit, the UN Forum on Business & Human Rights, the November 2013, Lundin Petroleum organised a site visit to French Industrial Petroleum Union and the Norwegian Oil and French operations for a number of institutional shareholders to Gas Association. offer them a better understanding of means put in place to run operations in a sustainable and safe manner. Lundin Petroleum also seeks to contribute to the better understanding of the importance and impact of Corporate Employees Responsibility in its operations and to the sector by participating Engagement with staff takes place on a daily basis throughout as speaker or panelist in conferences or workshops which also the Group. In addition, senior management visits country offer the opportunity to meet experts in relevant corporate offices. Training sessions, audits and individual meetings to responsibility fields. One such conference was organised by discuss corporate responsibility issues in practice are held in the the International Council on Swedish Industry and the Geneva countries of operations. Peacebuilding Platform on the subject of Leadership in Complex Markets. 12 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 What they say about us Equity Research “A sustainability leader among mid-sized peers – Lundin Petroleum is a leader among its mid-sized peers in terms of reporting on Shareholders and reducing its environmental impact, with its focus on synergies between economic “I appreciate Lundin Petroleum’s invitation to and environmental sustainability. Lundin visit the operations in France. The field visit Petroleum is in the top tier of oil companies gave me a better understanding of how the indexed by the Carbon Disclosure Project operations are run and how sustainability (CDP) for transparency and performance issues are integrated into the daily work. in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. During the visit I got the opportunity to discuss Corporate sustainability is well integrated environment, health and safety with the local within the organisation.” team. My impression is that the employees take sustainability issues seriously and that Anne Gjøen the operations in France are well-managed as Head of Equity Research and Energy, Handelsbanken concerns environmental issues as well as health and safety.” International Initiatives “CDP Nordic office is pleased that Lundin Employees Petroleum continues to commit to improving their disclosure on climate change in “I was delighted to begin my professional life as an response to the growing call from investors intern at Lundin France, a company that conducts for greater corporate climate accountability”. its activities with a high level of professionalism and in a family atmosphere. I decided to join Amanda Haworth Lundin Norway to expand my professional CDP Nordic horizons. Although the organisation is much larger than in France, I was happy to find the same family spirit. I truly believe this is the case wherever Lundin Petroleum operates in the world.” Environmental, Social and Governance Rating Agencies Ophélie Durand MSCI ranked Lundin Petroleum AA in its 2013 Geologist at Lundin Norway Intangible Value Assessment for its Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) performance. Host Governments Sustainable Indices “I highly appreciate Lundin Norway’s positive contribution to our local community. As the STOXX included Lundin Petroleum for the third host municipality for Lundin Norway, we value consecutive year in its STOXX® Global ESG Leaders its contribution and positive efforts towards our Indices. younger students, teachers and others who always like to learn more about the oil and gas industry. They share knowledge and competence in a way Corporate Governance Assessments we all can learn from. As an employer, they are highly professional.” ISS attributed to Lundin Petroleum a Governance Risk score of 2 on a scale of 1 to 10, 1 indicating a Mayor Lisbeth Hammer Krog low governance risk. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 13 Sustainable Investments Lundin Petroleum funds a number of sustainable projects, primarily in its core areas of operations In 2006, Lundin Petroleum established a Sustainable Investment Lundin Petroleum intends to pursue sustainable investments Programme to promote social, economic, and environmental and community development projects associated with its projects and organisations as well as citizenship among its operations. However, as the Company’s operations grow, so does employees. Since then, the Company has funded a significant the need to engage on a larger scale and in more sustainable number of projects, primarily in its core areas of operations. and long term projects whose impact can be measured over time. This will better fulfil the Company’s commitment under In 2013, Lundin Petroleum continued to fund some of its long the United Nations Global Compact to further the Millennium standing projects, such as SOS Children’s Villages. A selection of Development Goals. At the beginning of 2013, Lundin Petroleum projects supported by Lundin Petroleum in 2013 can be seen on entered into a partnership with the Lundin Foundation, an the maps on page 17. organisation with a strong track record in philanthropy and social investments and an excellent reputation among its peers, having been selected as one of ten organisations to act as advisors on the OECD Guidelines on Social Impact Investments. Rare Project, Indonesia 14 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 CAPACITY BUILDING – Scholarships in Indonesia Sponsorship of students at the Bandung Institute of Technology Lundin Petroleum is committed through its Code of Conduct and its Sustainable Investment Program to enhance living standards and well-being of the people in the areas it operates. To promote higher education among young men and women is one way to enable them to secure their future. In Indonesia Lundin Petroleum has been supporting students from the Bandung Institute of Technology (ITB) since 2012. ITB is situated 150km south east from Jakarta and is considered one of the best universities in Indonesia. In 2013, five students from the Geology and Petroleum Engineering programmes received scholarships from Lundin Petroleum which assisted them in completing their final year at ITB Bandung. The students had been selected by the faculty based on their academic performance and need for financial assistance and graduated successfully in October 2013 (one student still to graduate in 2014). For 2014 Lundin Petroleum will grant three new scholarships. Campus of Bandung Institute of Technology In addition, a student competition was organised to encourage excellence in the oil and gas sector and to increase environmental awareness. A case study on an “environment-friendly oil and gas industry” was prepared by Lundin Petroleum’s Indonesian operations and provided to competing teams, each comprised of students from the three different faculties. In May 2013 Lundin Petroleum’s Vice President Corporate Responsibility, Christine Batruch, gave a lecture to Jan Rijs, General Manager in Indonesia in 2012, the Dean students and professors of ITB Bandung sharing her and the two scholarship recipients experience of Corporate Social Responsibility in the oil industry. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 15 The Lundin Foundation Lundin Petroleum has entered into an agreement with the of the world’s coral reefs, 75 percent of known coral species, Lundin Foundation through which 0.1 percent of the prior more than 3,000 species of fish and the largest area of mangrove year’s revenues are contributed to the Foundation. Over the forests. The estimated annual economic value of this rich course of 2013, Lundin Petroleum contributed USD 1.3 million. ecological diversity is USD 2.3 billion. The persistent decline in fisheries due to overfishing and the related deteriorating health A minimum of 70 percent of contributed funds are dedicated to of natural infrastructures such as coral reefs and mangroves supporting projects in designated areas where Lundin Petroleum pose a material threat to Indonesia’s economy, food security and has exploration, development, or production assets. During the livelihoods. initial year of partnership, there has been a geographic focus on South East Asia and a sector focus on biodiversity conservation, In 2013, the Lundin Foundation entered into a multi-year sustainable fisheries and renewable energy. partnership with Rare, to support three innovative pilot projects in conservation and fisheries-management reform in nearLooking ahead to 2014, the Lundin Foundation is exploring shore marine ecosystems. These pilots are designed to ensure additional partnerships in off-grid renewable energy and profitable and sustainable fisheries while boosting livelihoods, biodiversity conservation in Indonesia. protecting habitats, and enhancing coastal resilience to climate change. 2013 Initiatives Biodiversity Conservation – TRACC-Borneo (Sabah, Malaysia) Access to Energy – Penampang Renewable Energy (Sabah, The Coral Triangle region, named for its staggering number Malaysia) of corals (nearly 600 different species of reef-building corals The ancestral forests of Malaysia’s indigenous people (the Orang alone), nurtures six of the world’s seven marine turtle species Asal), though heavily degraded, are still among the richest in and more than 2,000 species of reef fish. Over 120 million biological and cultural diversity. Malaysia’s indigenous people people live in the Coral Triangle and rely on its coral reefs for maintain custodianship over critical forested watersheds, food, income and protection from storms. Current levels and banks of carbon, clean water, and biodiversity. Yet these forest methods of harvesting fish are not sustainable and place this ecosystems, and the subsistence communities who dwell there, important marine area and its people in jeopardy. A changing are among Malaysia’s most vulnerable. Over 20 percent of climate threatens coastal communities and imperils fragile reefs. Sabah’s population still lacks access to electricity. The challenge ahead is to develop sustainable solutions for the Coral Triangle’s inhabitants and protect one of the most diverse Penampang Renewable Energy (PRE) leads a group of marine habitats on Earth at the same time. organisations and local businesses in Sabah, Borneo that have demonstrated decentralised, self-sustaining models for rural In 2013, the Lundin Foundation entered into a partnership electrification that empower communities rather than foster with TRACC-Borneo to expand coral planting and regenerate dependency. damaged reefs on which both fisheries and tourism depend in the Semporna District of Malaysia. Revenues from a seaweed In 2013, the Lundin Foundation entered into a partnership with and sea cucumber farm to be owned and operated by TRACC PRE to design and install three micro-hydro systems in rural, will ensure a revenue stream to support ongoing restoration off-grid communities and to recruit and train technicians from activities. these communities in system maintenance. Sustainable Fisheries – Rare (Indonesia) The world’s coastal fisheries are under enormous pressure. One billion people around the world rely on fish for protein, yet more than 80 percent of fish stocks are overexploited and declining. Developing tropical nations, including those Impact Reporting Investment Standards in the Coral Triangle, suffer the most severe human and In 2011, the Lundin Foundation adopted Impact environmental costs. Half of the world’s catch is from coastal Reporting Investment Standards (IRIS). IRIS is the catalog fisheries, where poorly-managed fishing and competition for of generally accepted performance metrics used by scarce marine resources accelerate this deterioration. For island countries in the developing world, where fish is often the leading foundations to measure and report the social, primary source of protein, poorly managed fisheries translate environmental, and financial impacts of supported into lost fish catch equivalent to that which would provide initiatives. Through ongoing field monitoring and 130 to 300 million people with their minimum required daily evaluation, the Foundation will report annually on protein. key performance indicators across its full portfolio of initiatives in South East Asia. Indonesia lies at the heart of the Coral Triangle, which is a center of tropical marine biodiversity, containing more than half 16 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 8 7 6 9 5 4 16 17 18 15 23 24 1 12 2 3 10 11 21 20 22 19 13 14 Capacity Building Environmental Protection Capacity Building Environmental Protection Social Welfare Social Welfare Lundin Foundation Project France Malaysia Lundin France provides internships to students of the French Petroleum Lundin Malaysia employees raised funds for Disabled Children’s Care Institute (IFP) and supports its yearly study trip. Association as part of a trek up Mount Kinabulu. Donation of medical equipment to a hospital in Sénégal through the Lundin Malaysia is supporting a project by the Malaysian Nature Society Association CASE Sézanne-Podor. to stop the decline of bird life caused by feral cats on the Mantanani Islands, Sabah, a breeding and nesting site of native sea birds by trapping Participation in the charity Téléthon day in Montmirail organised by the feral cats and relocating them to the mainland. Association Montmirail. TRACC-Borneo, Sabah – biodiversity conservation, see page 44 Norway Penampang Renewable Energy, Sabah – access to energy, see page 44 Sponsor of the Astrup Fearnley Museum of Modern Art, a leader in contemporary art. Indonesia Lundin Norway sponsors the Norwegian Museum of Science and Lundin Petroleum granted scholarships for the academic year 2013 Technology in Oslo. to two students of the Bandung Institute of Technology from the geology programme and one student from the petroleum engineering Sponsor of the Norwegian College of Elite Sport which fosters programme. competitive sports athletes on the international level, whilst at the same time caring for their formal education. The Company continued its support of the Cibubur Village, Jakarta Continued sponsorship of Save the Children Norway. by sponsoring the construction of a house for retired mothers, SOS Children’s Villages. Partner of the Carbon Capture and Storage project of University Centre in Svalbard. Lundin Indonesia’s employees and their families volunteered for the Jakarta Clean Up Day to pick up waste in Jakarta’s main street as a Sweden commitment to a clean environment. Lundin Petroleum sponsors the Good to Great Tennis Academy in Funding of the Banana Flour Project in Subang, West Java, to increase Sweden which coaches young tennis players to become world class cooperative revenue and create sustainable activities, IBEKA. players. Donation of medical equipment to the public health care centres Switzerland in Natuna and Anambas Islands regencies to match needs of the community. Employees’ personal contributions to the Swiss Cross for the victims of Typhoon Haiyan were matched by the Company. Rare – sustainable fisheries, see page 44 The Company made a financial contribution to two charities in recognition of staff’s participation in two charity races Courir pour Aider and Courir Ensemble. Staff committed to commute by bicycle during a month to promote environmental friendly commuting, Bike to Work. Tunisia Contribution to running costs of one house in Gammarth Village, SOS Children’s Villages. Donation of computer equipment to Siliana Village, SOS Children’s Villages. Lundin Petroleum supported the restoration of the Belvédère Park and contributed to awareness raising events for children, Association des Amis du Belvédère. Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 17 18 Lundin Petroleum’s Communication on Progress 2013 May 2014
