CSR Report 2013 EKF CSR REPORT 2013 RESULTS ﻿ 1 CSR Report 2013 CEO’s introduction 3 Achievements 6 Challenges 10 An illustrative case 12 Partners Our Partners 13 Stakeholders 14 Equator principles 14 CSR in EKF About EKF 17 Scope and purpose 20 CSR data Data and performance 21 Transactions 22 Transaction overview 24 CSR impacts Transactions 28 Internal operations 40 GRI Matrix Indicator matrix 52 EKF requires a high level of environmental and social standards It is a great pleasure for me to introduce you of EKF’s environmental and social assessment of a be small and medium enterprises. During 2013 EKF has to our 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility copper and molybdenum mine in Armenia, where we implemented our process for environmental and social looked at the environmental and social impacts dursustainability screening and assessment of transactions (CSR) Report. The report describes our CSR ing construction and operations. At the request of EKF, which we believe will lead to a continuously smooth efforts on our transactions as well as interthe project developer hired an independent consultant process for transaction approvals. nally in EKF. The report also functions as our who developed a range of management plans, including Communication on Progress under our complans for stakeholder engagement, waste management, During 2013, we have worked on various CSR topbiodiversity and community health and safety. ics; including stakeholders, animal welfare and human mitments to the UN Global Compact. rights, and our position on the new Equator Principles The year 2013 again reflects a high level of activity, and their effect on our future project finance transacEKF supports companies abroad in purchasing Danish resulting in a total amount of new export credit guartions. The report also covers the environmental and soexports. We do so by providing assistance in raising fiantees and investments abroad of DKK 16.8 billion cial impacts and risks of our transactions as well as our nancing and by insuring companies and banks against and an exposure of DKK 52.7 billion. In 2013, our new internal footprint. Enjoy! the potential financial and political risks of trading with Strategy 2016 was implemented. It is founded on the other countries. In doing so, EKF requires a high level expectations of increased demand for EKF’s solutions. of environmental and social standards in the transacThe strategy sets ambitious goals in three overarching Anette Eberhard tions we participate in. Furthermore, EKF proactiveareas of focus: more customers, more solutions and CEO ly works to ensure a level playing field for exporters more streamlining, where the two last areas are in supthrough our participation in international forums. port of the first. Going forward, EKF will target new customer segments and simplify internal processes and During 2013 we have screened and assessed 212 procedures through standardisation and streamlining. transactions for environmental and social sustainability. We apply international standards to ensure an ambiThrough our strategy we expect to double the amount tious level of CSR conditions, for instance in the case of customers towards 2016. The customers will largely EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CEO’s introduction 3 Project countries where EKF has screened transactions EKF CSR REPORT 2013 World map 4 EKF in figures DKK 9.3 billion EKF contribution to improving the national balance of payments A and B projects per sector During 2013 The local employment 43,000 16,500 impact had an estimated local jobs Danish jobs value of DKK The projects’ estimated employment In 2013 EKF helped to create or 4.2 billion impact totalled 43,000 local jobs retain 16,500 jobs In 2013 we Reduction in contributed to securing CO2 emissions of contracts to Danish Wind Cement Agrobusiness Dairy Food processing Biomass and -gas 38 million tonnes exporters Other EKF’s contribution to reduction in CO2 emissions related to project worth DKK involvement was 38 million tonnes. 20 billion EKF CSR REPORT 2013 EKF in figures 5 EKF’s CSR achievements range widely 2013 was yet a productive year for EKF EKF workshop on mobilising private sector climate and our accomplishments have been realfinance in developing economies ized through both participating in various forums as well as completing projects internally in EKF. EKF workshop on mobilising private sector Autumn 2013 80 participants The workshop on mobilising private sector climate finance in More than 80 international experts climate finance in developing economies developing economies – was hosted in the autumn of 2013 participated as representatives of both In the autumn of 2013 EKF hosted an international the private and public sector workshop in Copenhagen with the aim of discussing how export credit agencies’ contribution to global climate finance could be enhanced. The workshop was a work stream under the ministerial process initiated by the United States. More than a 20 countries 7 ideas The participants represented 20 countries The EKF catalogue on how ECAs dozen donor countries were present to discuss ways to can mobillise private sector climate meet the challenge of up-scaling climate investments in finance included 7 specific ideas. developing countries, in light of the commitment made by developed countries to meet the goal of mobilising USD 100 billion in climate finance annually by 2020. The workshop gathered leading climate finance experts USD 100 billion in climate finance annually by 2020 from the private sector, export credit agencies and EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR RESULTS CSR achievements 6 international financial institutions. The purpose was to share experience with climate finance, and more importantly, develop ideas on what export credit agencies can do more to mobilise private finance. These ideas, in the form of a “catalogue”, fed into the further ministerial process and eventually the United Nations Framework EKF is an early Convention on Climate Change COP 19 in Warsaw in mover within huNovember 2013. The catalogue is available here. man rights and is Several of the ideas in the catalogue are already being initiating new prodiscussed in relevant forums, and EKF will keep track cesses on how to of the progress of each idea during 2014. consider human Environmental and social sustainability rights from the perassessment process spective of export During 2013, we have implemented EKF’s revised procredit agencies cess on environmental and social sustainability for assessing transactions. This process is in alignment with EKF’s overall Strategy 2016 and provides a standard minimum set of conditions for projects that fall under the OECD Common Approaches on Officially Supported Export Credits and Environmental and Social Due Diligence 1. The result is a consistent approach to assessing the environmental and social sustainability of transactions on a high level. The process also provides a consistent approach to assessing transactions that fall outside the OECD Common Approaches. As a result, we continue to provide a smooth process for environmental and social assessment for the benefit of both our customers as well as fellow employees. 1 Transactions with a repayment term of two years or more. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR RESULTS CSR achievements 7 We will evaluate the process on environmental and soA revision of our procurement process has been apThe work includes human rights training in the CSR decial sustainability during 2014 and make adjustments proved. The new procurement policy includes to a partment including understanding the human rights imwhere necessary. higher degree than previously requirements on envipacts on our transactions as well as a formulation on ronmental and human rights issues and ­anti-corruption. our human rights due diligence process. Since human CSR gap analysis The remainder of topics are still in the pipeline. rights impacts can occur both through own activities or During 2013, EKF reviewed our CSR related policies business relationships, EKF has also performed a mapand operating processes relating to other activities than While the goal of the gap analysis was to identify ping exercise, looking at EKF’s financial products from a transactions. We benchmarked the policies and processpotential gaps, it also found that many of EKF’s business relations point of view to address the kind of es against national and international commitments. activities are already in support of the UN Guiding impact EKF could have. We are also currently working Principles, including: on a UN Guiding Principles policy commitment. This gap analysis identified seven areas of improvement: UN Global Compact signatory Establish a whistle-blower function. Work with UN Guiding Principles Country model for the screening of human Implement updated internal procedures for dealing Owns a CSR policy rights and environment with anti-corruption, including training of new employOwns a policy on corruption and bribery During 2013, we have introduced a country model as ees in policies and guidelines regarding anti-corruption. Owns a policy on openness part of the environmental and social assessment proImplement an internal CSR training programme for Continuous monitoring and follow-up on cess. This includes a quantitative screening of human updating EKF employees covering how to handle work environment rights and the environment in the individual country ­anti-corruption, bribery, health, safety, environment Owns a CSR report where relevant data are included and it draws only on external sources keeping the and human rights. Owns an internal CSR group whose function is ranking strictly objective. Hence the ranking is not a  Verify principles to abide by with regards to taxation. to informally discuss and share CSR ideas across reflection of EKF’s ranking of the country. The coun Establish a system for monitoring employees’ hours the organisation try screening does not replace a following assessment worked (compliance with ILO conventions on workof the transaction, but it is used as an early indicator ing hours). Human rights to our customers. Furthermore, it provides a context  Create a policy on anti-discrimination and equality, Our work in 2013 focused on developing a pragmatic apfor understanding the environmental and social asincluding a policy for the least represented gender proach to incorporating human rights due diligence into sessment, and it allows EKF to allocate the proper in management as well as set a target figure for the our transactions according to the UN Guiding Principles on amount of resources to the following assessment of share of the under-represented gender on the Board Business and Human Rights. EKF is an early mover within the transaction. of Directors (section 99b under the Danish Financial this field, and the availability of existing processes within an Statements’ Act). export credit agency setting is limited. We are initiating new  Revise EKF’s procurement policy to include specifprocesses on how to consider human rights from the peric requirements on environment, human rights and spective of export credit agencies. We make a great effort to anti-corruption. share this work with others, both export credit agencies and interest organisations in order to secure a level playing field. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR RESULTS CSR achievements 8 One of our achievements in 2013 include hosting a climate workshop. Going forward we will continue to focus on climate issues. EKF promotes a level playing field among exporters As Denmark’s official export credit agento be in dialogue with our stakeholders and contribute rights. This work will continue in 2014, and we will concy EKF’s core business is to issue export proactively in international and local forums to continutinue to focus on this within the OECD. ously progress the issues of environmental and social credit guarantees, export loans and workdue diligence in the context of a level playing field in inClimate change mitigation is an issue of high political ing capital guarantees. Our raison d’etre is ternational trade. This includes EKF’s contributions to and social importance in Denmark. Climate issues are to help Danish exporters find the necesthe work being done in the OECD and with the Equator therefore an inherent part of EKF’s working agenda, sary financing for their exports and comBanks and the Berne Union. In addition, EKF aims at and we already focus on the reduction of greenhouse keeping abreast of the developments within this field in gas emissions in our transactions as well as internally pete on equal terms with other exporters. the financial sector, International Financial Institutions in EKF. EKF has a team dedicated to climate projects, Our CSR goal is thus to contribute to a and Multilateral Development Banks as well as relevant and EKF’s internal rules and international regulations high level of environmental and social susbodies of expertise such as industrial organisations and make it possible for EKF to offer a more flexible finantainability in our transactions while also the International Energy Agency. cial solution for cleantech investments. More than 50 per cent of our portfolio is in renewable energy, and we promoting a level playing field among exAmong the many challenges that exist in this field, we track the CO2 emissions of all our transactions classiporters to eliminate unfair competition. believe there are three issues of particular importance fied as A or B under the OECD Common Approaches. in the time to come: human rights, climate change mitBesides complying with regulations and the IFC igation and animal welfare. Climate and energy technology is under constant dePerformance Standards and Environmental, Health and velopment and with the recent focus on the emission Safety Guidelines, EKF continuously aims at finding the During 2013, EKF has adopted and implemented the standards of thermal power plants, and coal-fired power right balance between ambitious environmental and soUN Guiding Principles on human rights by performing plants in particular, it is natural that these latest develcial standards and solutions that will allow Danish exan internal gap analysis of EKF policies. EKF has also opments should be taken into account in the environporters to compete in the global market. Having the implemented a process to assess and inform our exmental standards applied by export credit agencies. EKF most ambitious environmental and social standards and porters about the UN Guiding Principles and the adwill focus our work in the OECD, Equator Banks and requirements as the “golden target” means that EKF has verse impacts that a company can have on human other relevant fora where EKF has a voice, on finding EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR RESULTS CSR challenges 10 the right balance between hitting the golden target of the most ambitious environmental standards and allowing Danish exporters to compete on equal terms. 50% 25% EUR 5 million More than 50 per cent of our Approximately 25 per In 2013, EKF’s support of pig farms portfolio is in renewable energy cent of EKF’s transactions amount to more than EUR 5 million Approximately 25 per cent of EKF’s transactions relate relate to agrobusiness to agrobusiness. Danish equipment typically promotes high standards of animal welfare, and just supporting the export of this equipment would result in EKF contributing to improved animal welfare. In 2013, EKF’s support of pig farms amount to more 10,500 February 2014 This is the equivalent of more In February 2014, EKF will host the OECD than EUR 5 million. This is the equivalent of more than than 10,500 pigs from Denmark Environmental Practitioners’ meeting in Copenhagen 10,500 pigs from Denmark. Some of these pigs are production pigs for producing breeding pigs, resulting in an even larger total number of pigs at the buyer’s farm. EKF’s involvement in this kind of transaction therefore has an impact that goes beyond the supplied pigs. EKF often sees transactions where Danish exports constitute a relatively small part of a larger project, and where EKF’s leverage as a consequence is low, thus allowing us limited influence on the standards applied to the overall project. EKF would like to meet this challenge and participate in transactions that lift the level of animal welfare further; also in countries where current standards and regulations are not on par with Danish regulations. We work with Danish exporters, who traditionally focus on high standards for animal welfare, to find a way where In February 2014, EKF will host the OECD providing EKF with feedback from other export credit we in cooperation can try to influence and develop a Environmental Practitioners’ meeting in Copenhagen. agencies on how to meet the challenges we face on higher level of animal welfare level. Currently we are deThis provides a good setting for promoting discusthe three issues. veloping a process for how to approach animal welfare issions on the topics of animal welfare, human rights sues in transactions. We will implement this during 2014. and international emissions standards as well as EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR RESULTS CSR challenges 11 CASE conditions that allow for one annual designed and installed by experienced crop cycle, whereas the climatic condiDanish personnel. tions in this part of China mean that two Slurry crop cycles per year are possible. Our Due to the climate in this part of China assessment is based on the existing EU traditional practice is to harvest two management guidelines for slurry management. As a crops per year; rice in the summer and result, and as a precaution before the wheat during the winter and spring. The in China project is fully operational, the project project therefore plans to apply the slurdeveloped a field trial to monitor the efry to the fields twice a year. There are, fects of the amount of slurry applied in however, no previous cases on which to this manner. Other key issues of this probase the conclusion that this is a viable ject include animal welfare and labour process. Furthermore, it is uncertain standards but the focus here is on the that the area of land is able to handle 2,000 unique challenge of slurry management. this amount of slurry. Since there are no known previous cases of this scale The project comprises an export of for the application of slurry in conjuncDanish production pigs and sty suption with rice cultivation, the project Production farm stock plies to a farm situated 500 km north is performing a series of field trials to of Shanghai. The area consists of a determine fertilizer uptake in rice and breeding farm and a production farm. wheat crops and to make certain that 575 The plan is to produce and sell breedthe slurry is managed in an environmening pigs for Chinese pig farmers and tally responsible manner. The results slaughter pigs to local slaughterhouses. will be taken into consideration before At this stage project capacity is 50 per the farm is operating at full capacity. In Breeding farm stock cent of the planned capacity. relation to this, EKF has, among other things, prompted the project company The project is developed by the Danishto prepare a slurry management plan, During 2013 EKF provided a guarantee owned company Scandinavian Farms, detailing the slurry volumes and how for the upstart of a pig farming project and ownership is a combination of init is spread. This includes expectations in China. The project is an example of vestors, including the Danish Investment for use of manure and identification of how to use slurry that would be otherFund for Developing Countries, IFU. what the impacts are expected to be. wise discarded, as useful fertilizer. The management plan will guide the Challenges process going forward, once the project The project is one of the first pig farmIt is EKF policy that animal farming is at full capacity, and the project will ising projects of this scale in this part projects manage animal waste in an ensue annual monitoring reports, including EKF places high of China, and it is anticipated that the project will promote knowledge sharing vironmentally responsible manner. This includes avoidance of ammonia to the updates to the slurry management plan. focus on animal and best practice since it involves the air, odours and pollution of ground waThe slurry management plan is subwelfare in the first pig farm that uses slurry in fields ters as well as run off to surface waject to EKF approval. Once approved with two harvest cycles per year. ters. These issues are related to slurry the plan will guide slurry management transactions we One of the main challenges facing storage, volumes of slurry applied to the fields as well as its uptake by crops. and become best practice in the area of twice-a-year slurry application, since support. the project is that existing internaFor this purpose, the project estabslurry is not commonly used as fertiliztional standards are based on climatic lished a closed slurry lagoon and pipes er on this scale in this part of China. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR RESULTS An illustrative case 12 EKF promotes CSR in an international setting As part of our CSR work, EKF participates environmental and social standards, as well as creatEKF shared knowledge and experience on how to apin and continuously interacts with peers in a ing a level playing field for the exporters. proach implementation of the guidelines and presented practical examples of tools that had been developed. number of international settings where EKF Human rights promotes Danish priorities. These forums EKF is an active participant in promoting Danish views Equator Principles include the EU, OECD, UN Global Compact, and experiences on human rights. During 2013, EKF As signatory to the Equator Principles, EKF participated IFC and the Equator Principles Association. has played an active role in the OECD Environmental in the first annual general meeting held by the Equator Practitioners’ group by organising a session on the UN Principles Association outside of North America. The Guiding Principles at one of the OECD Environmental meeting was held in Tokyo, Japan in order to promote In 2013, EKF again had a busy year working with CSR Practitioners’ meeting. We feel this is an important step the Equator Principles towards Asian based financial instiinternationally: in opening up the discussions on operationalising the tutions. As the newest version of the Equator Principles UN Guiding Principles in an export credit agency setting. (EPIII) was launched in June 2013 a key discussion foOECD cused on how amendments should be applied in practice. EKF proactively participates in two OECD groups: the In November 2013 EKF visited the Danish Embassy Environmental Practitioners’ group and the Export in China giving a presentation to Danish companies in Furthermore, EKF participated in one meeting in the Credits and Credit Guarantees group. The Environmental China on how EKF has implemented the UN Guiding Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative group whose goal it is Practitioners’ group shares knowledge on a transaction Principles. The meeting was organised by the CSR deto develop and share good practices and practical tools level whereas the Export Credits and Credit Guarantees partment of the Danish Embassy in Beijing as a followto apply the IFC Performance Standard 6 on Biodiversity group discusses exports on a policy level. up to the launch of the framework Danish Footprint Conservation. The initiative is a partnership between EP and was the first of such meetings after the launch of members and members of the associations for mining A new version of the OECD Common Approaches on the Danish Footprint in September 2013. The Danish and metal sector and oil and gas sector respectively. Environmental and Social Due Diligence was adoptFootprint is a network of Danish companies in China ed in 2012. The work with the Common Approaches who want to promote work with CSR. It is an initiative For more on the Equator Principles, see the section is of great importance in ensuring a high level of through the Danish Trade Council. During the meeting on Equator Principles on the next page. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 PARTNERS Our partners 13 IFC Community of Learning However, in 2013 we have only had the opportunity to NGOs and associations: Civil society, trade With the annual general meeting of the Equator Prin­ participate in one of the two Nordic Network meetings. and industry organisations ciples Association, the IFC held its annual Com­munity Going forward we will participate on an ad hoc basis. In 2013, one of our sessions with the Danish Agriof Learning seminar. EKF participated in order to conculture and Food Council focused on CSR impacts and tribute to the knowledge sharing on applying the IFC For further information see also international cooperation. EKF’s approach to assessing these. Going forward, EKF Performance Standards and Environmental and Health plans to engage with NGOs and other interest groups and Safety Guidelines. One of the main topics on the by promoting more informal dialogue. agenda was stakeholder engagement as a key risk facSTAKEHOLDERS tor for efficient project implementation. Stakeholder engagement is an ongoing activity. EKF has Employees: EKF employees, management identified and mapped our key stakeholders from a CSR and Board of Directors Berne Union perspective. EKF stakeholder mapping is a dynamic proEKF’s new process for assessing environmental and social EKF participated in the Berne Union’s 2013 annual cess, and we recognize the importance of revisiting this sustainability was implemented in 2013 to the satisfacgeneral meeting. At the All Members Day EKF facilitatprocess on a regular basis. The following stakeholders are tion of our other colleagues as well. It has become more ed a session on recent developments in international found to have both high interest in and relevance to EKF. defined how and what to expect out of an environmental standards related to environmental and social assessand social assessment process, which benefits both our ment of export finance transactions. The session had Customers: exporters, buyers, financial colleagues as well as our customers. We regularly have a panel of both export credit agencies and private ininstitutions and pension funds meetings on business strategy and goals as well as CSR surance industry. We engage with our customers and other transaction work, including new policy and process implementation. parties, including banks, on a regular basis in connecClimate workshop tion with both transaction applications and the potenIn the autumn of 2013, EKF hosted a workshop on tial risks related to the particular transaction. EQUATOR PRINCIPLES mobilising private sector climate finance in developEKF joined the Equator Principles in 2004. The ing economies in collaboration with other export credit Politics and international organisations Equator Principles provide a voluntary framework for agencies. The goal of the workshop was to explore what The Ministry of Business and Growth, the Danish assessing and managing environmental and social risks could be done by export credit agencies to further moForeign Ministry, the OECD, and export credit agencies. in project finance transactions. The latest version of bilise private sector finance in climate investments. The EKF is engaged in an ongoing dialogue on EKF’s manthe Equator Principles (EPIII) was approved in 2013 result of the climate workshop is a catalogue of ideas, date with regard to export credits and CSR related isand comes into effect on 1 January 2014. During the progress of which EKF keeps track of throughout sues. We also participate in a working group on CSR 2013, EKF has prepared the implementation of EPIII. 2014. For more information, see CSR achievements. with representatives from several ministries. The scope of the updated framework includes sevUN Global Compact EKF plays an active role in the OECD eral financial products besides project financing, a EKF is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and In 2014, EKF will host the Environmental Practitioners’ more detailed level of reporting as well as reporting we find the ten principles very useful and relevant. meeting in Copenhagen. requirements placed on the customer. Other elements EKF CSR REPORT 2013 PARTNERS Stakeholders 14 include specific project reporting requirements on for Project finance transactions in 2013 under Equator Principles instance greenhouse gas emissions. Category EKF’s share of (OECD/EP) + Project and country financing (%) As signatory to the Equator Principles, EKF participates in the Equator Principles annual general meetings. A/B Offshore wind farm (288 MW), Germany (Butendiek) 23 B/B Wind farm (168 MW), Australia (Musselroe) 33 In 2013, EKF approved ten project finance transactions. All ten transactions were categorised as B projects unA/B Wind farm (130 MW), Australia (Taralga) 40 der the Equator Principles, and none were A projects 1. B/B Wind farm (88 MW), Uruguay (Pintado) 45 The dominant sector for EKF’s project finance transB/B Wind farm (42 MW), Uruguay (Minas) 59 actions is the wind energy sector. This is also the B/B Wind farm (102 MW), Jordan (Tafila) 26 dominant sector for EKF’s transactions overall. B/B Biomass energy facility, UK (Evermore) 41 In all project finance transactions, compliance with B/B Wind farm (42MW), Croatia (Obravac) 60 Equator Principles has been covenanted, and the projects are all subject to a minimum of annual monitoring A/B Pig farm, Slovakia (EPP Slovensko, s.r.o.) 33 during both the construction and operational phases. A/B Pig farms, China (LianYunGang Scandinavian Farms) 45 The monitoring reports are prepared by the project’s independent advisor and submitted to EKF for approval. +T he seeming discrepancy between the OECD classification and the Equator Principles categorisation can be explained by the definitions of what constitutes an A project under each framework. The OECD Common Approaches includes an illustrative list of A projects and thus has a more nuanced definition of what constitutes an A project. Where a project is classified an A project under the OECD Common Approaches and a B under the Equator Principles, EKF considers it a “B as appropriate” under the Equator Principles and hence applies guidelines for an A project. 1 Under the Equator Principles, category A project are projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented; and category B projects are projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 PARTNERS Equator principles 15 More than 50 per cent of our portfolio is in renewable energy EKF CSR REPORT 2013 RESULTS EKF promotes CSR in an international setting 16 New CSR policy in EKF EKF’s CSR Policy covers EKF in its entirety. EKF’s new CSR Policy will be approved in 2014 and with this policy our ambition is to provide ambition and direction for CSR in EKF and with our customers, and at the same time substantiate CSR as an essential part of the risk assessment of our transactions. EKF promotes an ambitious level of environmental and social sustainability in our transactions while also promoting a level playing field among exporters. The concept of shared value forms the basis of our CSR approach. EKF sees CSR as a significant contribution to the positioning of Danish companies in global export markets, and we believe that companies that are good corporate citizens can create value for both business and society through dialogue with their stakeholders addressing social, environmental and ethical challenges. EKF’s CSR Policy is available online. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IN EKF About EKF 17 EKF’s new CSR Policy is expected to be approved Policies related to CSR by EKF’s Board of Directors in 2014. The CSR Policy mandates EKF’s work with CSR. The CSR Policy exists as an umbrella for other policies, including the newly implemented Policy for Environmental and Social CSR POLICY Sustainability. This policy ensures that transactions are screened, categorised, assessed, monitored and reported according to the OECD Common Approaches on Officially Supported Export Credits and Environmental and Social Due Diligence. Regulation As a state-owned company, EKF abides by the POLICY ON OPENNESS CODE OF ENVIRONMENGovernment’s Action Plan for Corporate Social POLICY CONDUCT TAL AND SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Responsibility (2012-15). EKF’s other obligations to CSR include: the OECD Common Approaches on Officially Supported Export Credits and Environmental and Social Due Diligence (2012) the OECD Guidelines to Promote Sustainable Lending (2008) PROCESS FOR ENVIRONMENthe OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises TAL AND SOCIAL (2011), including the anti-bribery convention (2011) SUSTAINABILITY In addition, EKF is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and Equator Principles as well as a member of the Berne Union. For further information, see EKF in i­nternational alliances on CSR. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PRINCIPLES/ INSTRUCTIONS/ TEMPLATES EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IN EKF About EKF 18 The process of issuing a guarantee Approval  Environmental and  Conditions  Transaction content social impacts and participants  Environmental Environment  Rejection  Environmental and Location  and social project  Human rights Potential restructuring of  social action plans Context and sector  category; A, B, or C  Labour rights project or rejection letter Monitoring  PROJECT, BUYER, SCREENING CATEGORY ASSESSMENT DECISION FOLLOW-UP SUPPLIER  EKF’s country policy  Debtor group:  Commercial risk Approval  Financial milestones  National economy CC0-CC6  Premium calculation  Non-bribery declaration  Sanctioned list  Commercial climate  Offer or guarantee  Commercial climate  Corruption  Corruption  Human rights Rejection  Human rights  Sustainable lending  Potential restructuring of  Sustainable lending project or rejection letter Our process EKF assesses each application from a commercial, Our process is designed to promote an efficient and political, environmental and social risk perspective. smooth due diligence process for the customer and In the process EKF engages in dialogue with project underwriter as well as to comply with international participants and applicants as well as possibly NGOs, regulations. For further information on our process neighbours and other project stakeholders. see Environmental and Social Sustainability Policy. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IN EKF About EKF 19 Scope and purpose This report contains information on the stakeholder. In order to also meet various reportCSR methodology book as a supplement to the reenvironmental and social impacts related ing requirements, this report can also be generatport in a separate document from 2011. It has not ed as one entire report. You will find our separate changed from previous years. to EKF’s transactions. Besides information on the impacts of the transactions we engage in, this also includes policy commitment, Communication on Progress, CSR THE PURPOSE OF THIS REPORT is to proTHIS CSR REPORT is published in English achievements and challenges as well as vide stakeholders with a view of EKF’s CSR and is avaialble online electronically at ekf. EKF’s internal footprint. performance during 2013, integrating exterdk. EKF’s Board of Directors have approved nal and internal CSR efforts. The report is this report. For further information on this At the same time, the report constitutes our Communi­ cation on Progress under the UN Global Compact and aimed at a wide range of EKF’s stakeholdreport, please contact the CSR department: the ten principles on the topics of human and labour ers, including CSREKF@ekf.dk rights, environment and anti-corruption. EKF reports 1 exporters, buyers, financial institutions, annually, and this report contains information pertainfor instance banks and pension providers, ing to activities that took place in the financial year 1 January 2013 – 31 December 2013. 2 the OECD, our peer export credit agencies and Danish ministries, We acknowledge the diverse nature of our stakehold3 civil society, trade and industry ers and the fact that not all information is equally organisations as well as relevant to all stakeholders. It is from this perspective the reader should approach the report by se4 EKF employees, management and lecting the areas that are material for the individual Board of Directors. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IN EKF Scope and purpose 20 CSR data and performance The data EKF monitors in the CSR report EKF’s main impacts on financial, environmental and environmental and social risks and impacts associated provides a snapshot of EKF’s positive and social sustainability stem from the transactions EKF with the projects. From the data on the environmenunderwrites. The below section provides an overtal and social sustainability of our transactions, we are negative contribution to a sustainable view of the EKF transactions in 2013 and the key able to reflect on issues including for instance CO2development. intensive transactions. In addition to monitoring transactions’ environmental and social impacts, EKF also pays close attention to the impacts from EKF’s own operations, including management of human resources and working conditions as well as environmental aspects such as waste generation, emissions to air and responsible purchasing of goods and services. From this data, looking at the previous year, we can navigate our future actions. CSR performance data related to our internal operations is presented further below. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR DATA CSR data and performance 21 Transactions in 2013 During 2013, EKF implemented our new process The Transaction overview also presents a number of Key environmental and social sustainability topics on environmental and social sustainability. The quantitative indicators with the aim of reflecting imrelevant for the project which were given particuEKF project assessment process is guided by the pacts related to the project portfolio with regard to air lar consideration during the screening/assessment Policy and Assessment Process on Environmental emissions, resettlement and local employment. process are indicated in the overview. Finally, the and Social Sustainability. When performing due dilioverview shows which key environmental and social gence on projects, EKF benchmarks our projects As displayed in the figure on the next page the largest documents were available for the environmental and against the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) part of EKF’s financial exposure is related to category social evaluation process, indicating whether an enPerformance Standards (2012) as well as related genA and B projects, although they are relatively few in vironmental and social impact assessment had been eral and specific sector guidelines for environment, number. Category A and B projects typically have highprovided, or if the assessment relied on other project health and safety. In addition, EKF requires that proer risk of environmental and social impacts, and thus documentation. jects abide by local law, and where relevant, EKF as a receive significant focus in EKF’s environmental and starting point applies Danish rules on issues concernsocial due diligence process. The transaction overview table below includes all proing animal welfare. On the transaction level, we apply ject transactions that have been categorised as A or B, an anti-corruption declaration for all transactions. For each project the overview presents the relevant EKF regardless of the financial value of the transaction, and product and EKF’s risk share in the transaction. In the regardless of whether the project has undergone a full In 2013, EKF issued new export credit guarantees overview, the relevant environmental and social risk manenvironmental and social assessment or been limited and investments abroad worth DKK 16.8 billion. Of agement framework is indicated, for instance UN Global to an overall screening. This is in line with EKF’s new the guarantees issued in 2013, 45 were categorised Compact (GC), OECD Common Approaches (OECD CA), environmental and social sustainability process. as A or B projects, out of which 32 have undergone and/or the Equator Principles (EP). It indicates the envia full environmental and social assessment, and 13 ronmental and social classification under the OECD, and Transactions under the Equator Principles are highhave undergone environmental and social screenwhether the project has undergone screening or full enlighted in the table as well as EKF’s share in the proing. Screened transactions categorised as C projects vironmental and social assessment, as well as the key enjects supported. total 135. In addition, we approved 120 working vironmental and social performance standards that have capital guarantees. been applied as a consequence of the process followed. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR DATA Transactions in 2013 22 1000 The value of EKF involvement The figure shows the value of EKF involvement in EUR 800 million related to A, B, C projects and working capital guarantees issued in 2013, as well as the number of corresponding transactions 600 screened and/or reviewed. 400 200 0 A projects B projects C projects Working Capital Guarantees (WCG) Value of EKF involvement in EUR million Number of transactions EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR DATA Transactions in 2013 23 Transaction overview KEY E&S KEY ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL (E&S) SUSTAINABILITY DOCUMENTS TOPICS OF RELEVANCE OBTAINED LAND ACQUISITION AND ENVIRONMENTAL AND EKF’S SHARE OF FINANCING BIODIVERSITY AND LIVING E&S STANDARDS APPLIED EKF RISK SHARE (%) RESOURCES AND LABOUR AND COMMUNITY HEALTH, OECD CLASSIFICATION INDIGENOUS PEOPLES CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT TYPE AND – RELEVANT TO PF/EP PROE&S ASSESSMENT EKF PRODUCT INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT ANIMAL WELFARE SCREENED (S) COUNTRY COMMERCIAL/ POLITICAL FRAMEWORK AND MANAGEMENT WORKING CONDITIONS POLLUTION PREVENTION SAFETY, AND SECURITY NATURAL RESOURCES SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT JECTS (%) REVIEWED (R) OTHER Wind farm (24 MW), Ireland BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA, B IFC PS R + + + + + + + + Copper and molybdenum mine, Armenia BC 100 /100 GC, OECD CA, A IFC PS R + + + + + + + + + Wind farm (88 MW), Uruguay [Pintado] PF 100 / 100 GC, OECD CA, 45 B IFC PS, EP R + + + + + + + + + EP Pig farms, China [LianYunGang PF 80 / 80 GC, EP 29 A IFC PS, EP R + + + + + + + Scandinavian Farms] Wind farm (42 MW), Uruguay [Minas] PF 100 / 100 GC, OECD CA, 59 B IFC PS, EP R + + + + + + + + EP Manufacture of wood-based products, FG 90 / 90 GC, B IFC PS R + + + + + + + Romania Burner/kiln, cement manufacturing, Egypt FG 90 / 90 GC, B IFC PS S + + + + + screening Pig farm equipment, Ukraine BC 95 / 95 GC, B IFC PS S + + + + + + + screening EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR DATA Transaction overview 24 KEY E&S KEY ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL (E&S) SUSTAINABILITY DOCUMENTS TOPICS OF RELEVANCE OBTAINED LAND ACQUISITION AND ENVIRONMENTAL AND EKF’S SHARE OF FINANCING BIODIVERSITY AND LIVING E&S STANDARDS APPLIED EKF RISK SHARE (%) RESOURCES AND LABOUR AND COMMUNITY HEALTH, OECD CLASSIFICATION INDIGENOUS PEOPLES CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT TYPE AND – RELEVANT TO PF/EP PROE&S ASSESSMENT EKF PRODUCT INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT ANIMAL WELFARE SCREENED (S) COUNTRY COMMERCIAL/ POLITICAL FRAMEWORK AND MANAGEMENT WORKING CONDITIONS POLLUTION PREVENTION SAFETY, AND SECURITY NATURAL RESOURCES SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT JECTS (%) REVIEWED (R) OTHER Agricultural equipment, Ukraine BC 95 / 95 GC, B IFC PS S + + + + + screening Biogas facility, Ukraine BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA, B IFC PS R + + + + + + Dairy processing, Sri Lanka BC 0 / 100 GC, OECD CA, B IFC PS S + + + + + Wind farm (42 MW), Croatia [Obravac] PF 100 / 100 GC, OECD CA, 60 B IFC PS, EP R + + + + + + + + EP Food processing equipment, Ukraine PD 90 / 90 GC, B IFC PS S + + + screening Fish meal and oil production. Acquisition IG 0 / 95 GC, B IFC PS R + + + + + of a factory.1 Food processing equipment, Slovenia FG 90 / 90 GC, B IFC PS S + + screening Industrial facilities, Poland CEG 50 / 50 GC, B IFC PS R + + + + Wind energy test centre, Poland CEG 80 / 80 GC, B IFC PS R + + Aquaculture, Chile2 BC 80 / 80 GC, (EP) B IFC PS S + + + + + + + screening Agricultural equipment, Ukraine BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA, B IFC PS S + + + + + screening Wind farm (105 MW), Ukraine BC 95 / 95 GC, B IFC PS R + + + + Wind farm (130 MW), Australia [Taralga] PF 100 / 100 GC, OECD CA, 40 A IFC PS, EP R + + + + + + + + + EP EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR DATA Transaction overview 25 KEY E&S KEY ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL (E&S) SUSTAINABILITY DOCUMENTS TOPICS OF RELEVANCE OBTAINED LAND ACQUISITION AND ENVIRONMENTAL AND EKF’S SHARE OF FINANCING BIODIVERSITY AND LIVING E&S STANDARDS APPLIED EKF RISK SHARE (%) RESOURCES AND LABOUR AND COMMUNITY HEALTH, OECD CLASSIFICATION INDIGENOUS PEOPLES CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT TYPE AND – RELEVANT TO PF/EP PROE&S ASSESSMENT EKF PRODUCT INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT ANIMAL WELFARE SCREENED (S) COUNTRY COMMERCIAL/ POLITICAL FRAMEWORK AND MANAGEMENT WORKING CONDITIONS POLLUTION PREVENTION SAFETY, AND SECURITY NATURAL RESOURCES SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT JECTS (%) REVIEWED (R) OTHER Wind farm (168 MW), Australia PF 100 / 100 GC, OECD CA, 33 B IFC PS, EP R + + + + + + + + [Musselroe] EP Biomass energy facility, UK [Evermore] PF 100 / 100 GC, OECD CA, 41 B IFC PS, EP R + + + + + EP Thermal power plants, Lebanon PD 90 / 90 GC, OECD CA, A IFC PS R + + + + + + + Breeding pigs supply, Ukraine SME 100 / 100 GC, B IFC PS S + + + screening Breeding pigs supply, Ukraine SME 100 / 100 GC, B IFC PS S + + + screening Cement plant upgrades, Turkey BC 95 / 95 GC, B IFC PS S + + screening Wind farm (60 MW), Turkey BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA, B IFC PS R + + + + + + + Tire recycling, Mexico SC 50 / 50 GC, B IFC PS R + + + + Offshore wind farm (288 MW), Germany PF 100 / 100 GC, OECD CA, 23 A IFC PS, EP R + + + [Butendiek] EP Wind farm (270 MW), Australia BC 100 / 100 GC, OECD CA, A IFC PS R + + + + + + + + + Pig farm equipment supply, Ukraine FG 90 / 90 GC, A IFC PS R + + + Wind farm (50 MW), Turkey BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA, B IFC PS R + + + + + + + + Wind farm (36 MW), Croatia BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA, B IFC PS R + + + + + + + + Wind farm (9.2 MW), Croatia BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA, B IFC PS R + + + + + + + + EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR DATA Transaction overview 26 KEY E&S KEY ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL (E&S) SUSTAINABILITY DOCUMENTS TOPICS OF RELEVANCE OBTAINED LAND ACQUISITION AND ENVIRONMENTAL AND EKF’S SHARE OF FINANCING BIODIVERSITY AND LIVING E&S STANDARDS APPLIED EKF RISK SHARE (%) RESOURCES AND LABOUR AND COMMUNITY HEALTH, OECD CLASSIFICATION INDIGENOUS PEOPLES CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT TYPE AND – RELEVANT TO PF/EP PROE&S ASSESSMENT EKF PRODUCT INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT ANIMAL WELFARE SCREENED (S) COUNTRY COMMERCIAL/ POLITICAL FRAMEWORK AND MANAGEMENT WORKING CONDITIONS POLLUTION PREVENTION SAFETY, AND SECURITY NATURAL RESOURCES SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT JECTS (%) REVIEWED (R) OTHER Cement plant, Brazil BC 95 / 95 GC, B IFC PS R + + + + + + + + Breeding pigs supply, Ukraine SME 100 / 100 GC, B IFC PS S + + + + + + + screening Harbour equipment, Lebanon PD 90 / 90 GC, B IFC PS R + + Food processing equipment, Ukraine PD 90 / 90 GC, B IFC PS S + + screening Dairy processing facility, UK BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA, B IFC PS R + + + + + + + + Dairy processing facilities, Ireland BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA B IFC PS R + + + + + + + + Animal husbandry equipment, Russia FG 90 / 90 GC B IFC PS R + + + + + + Wind farm (102 MW), Jordan [Tafila] PF 100 / 100 GC, OECD CA, 26 B IFC PS, EP, R + + + + + + + + + EP EU directives (requirement from EIB) Pig farm, Slovakia [EPP Slovensko, s.r.o.] PF 50 / 50 GC, OECD CA, 33 A IFC PS, EP R + + + + + + + EP Two wind farms (99 and 90 MW), Chile BC 95 / 95 GC, OECD CA A IFC PS R + + + + + + + + BC: Buyer credit guarantee PD: Project delivery guarantee 1 This project was also included in last year’s report. BG: Bond guarantee PF: Project financing guarantee 2 This project was also included in last year’s report and involved an additional FG: Financing guarantee SC: Supplier credit guarantee small buyer credit guarantee on top of project finance from 2012. IG: Investment guarantee EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR DATA Transaction overview 27 CSR impacts – transactions Transaction overview PS 2: Labour and Working Conditions adequate impact assessment, stakeholder engagement EKF assesses our business transactions against the PS 3: Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention and public consultation as well as grievance mechanism IFC Performance Standards (2012) and other relevant PS 4: Community Health, Safety, and Security for affected people and development and implementageneral and sector specific environmental, health and PS 5: Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement tion of environmental and social management plans. safety guidelines. Included in the assessment is the PS 6: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable nature and scope of the project, project location and Management of Living Natural Resources Public Consultation overall context. PS 7: Indigenous Peoples Under IFC Performance Standard 1, the environmental PS 8: Cultural Heritage and social assessment process aims at ensuring that A screening includes looking at the location and othaffected communities are appropriately engaged and er relevant information on the parties involved in the In addition to the IFC Performance standards, EKF informed in project-related issues that could potentransaction as well as the general transaction context, may assess projects against other standards as reltially impact them. If communities are at risk of sufferwhere a full review is more in-depth assessment of evant. Animal welfare is one important topic which is ing from adverse impacts from a project, EKF requires project specific documentation regarding a project’s not fully covered by the IFC Performance Standards. that the client undertakes or has undertaken a process consistency against the relevant standards. As a point of departure EKF benchmarks against of stakeholder consultation in a manner that provides Danish standards on animal welfare. the affected communities with opportunities to exWhen a certain Performance Standard is identified as press their views on project risks, impacts, and mitigarelevant for a particular project, it indicates that the Assessment and management of environmental tion measures to meaningfully impact the project deproject has the potential to have an impact on the and social risks and impacts sign. Correspondingly, the consultation process enables particular issue. This is then further examined throughAs an overarching topic, IFC Performance Standard 1 the client to better consider and respond to the conout the environmental and social assessment process. – Assessment and management of environmental and cerns raised by the stakeholders. social risks and impacts – is considered for all projects. The topics covered by the IFC Performance Standards are: This Performance Standard addresses a project’s capacA majority of the assessed 2013 projects were PS 1: Assessment and Management of Environmental ity to manage its key environmental and social risks and considered to be consistent with the principles and Social Risks and Impacts impacts and covers important issues such as ensuring of Performance Standard 1 with regard to public EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 28 consultation. In some cases, however, additional requirements were made to the project with regard to consultation and stakeholder engagement in order to CASE ensure consistency with IFC Performance Standard 1. Management Generally for projects categorised as A projects, EKF publicly discloses project information on the EKF webplans for a site for 30 calendar days prior to final commitment of copper mine support for the project. Of the 45 A and B projects included in the 2013 transaction overview, nine were categorised as A projects. They were consequently made public on EKF’s website for a 30-day public consultaEKF’s environmental and social review tion period in line with the recommendations of the of a copper and molybdenum mine in Armenia showed that the project applied OECD Common Approaches. EKF’s public disclosure rea management system for its social and lated to these projects did not result in any comments. environmental impacts during construction and operations. At the request of EKF, the project developer hired an interHuman Rights national consultant to ensure that a range Human rights are a cross-cutting topic that is adof management plans, including stakedressed across many of the IFC Performance Standards, holder engagement, waste management, biodiversity and community health and in particular Performance Standards 1, 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8. safety meet international standards. EKF participated in a site visit in 2013, includHuman rights risk assessment is an integral part of the ing meetings with the project developer and the international consultant, in order overall project evaluation process. The assessment into go through comments and finalise the cludes evaluation of labour rights, health and safety management plans. EKF will receive regufor local employees and the people in the surrounding lar progress reports to follow the implementation of agreed management plans. communities, potential resettlement and economic disThis will enable us to ensure the project placements, and analysis of whether the rights of indigabides by international standards and the enous people are duly respected. Included are also the conditions we have required. potential uses of child labour and forced labour. During the autumn of 2013, EKF adopted and implemented the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights and Business. This includes a process for assessing and informing our customers about the UN Guiding Principles. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 29 Where we have the leverage to do so, EKF includes Estimated local employment impact 2009-2013 human rights clauses in our transactions. EKF includes Local employment 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 human rights clauses in all projects above USD 10 million, and in all other projects as necessary as triggered Employment impact in 1,000 man-years (maximum 10 years of and defined by the IFC Performance standards. While operations) 26 2 145 22+ 43+ our aim is to include a human rights clause on all our Estimated value in EUR million 187 13 902 187 570 transactions, typically in smaller bank-to-bank transactions, EKF does not always have the control to influEstimated value in EUR per 1,000 EUR of EKF involvement 110 15 62 81 305 ence the wording of the financial documents. However, we always strive to act upon knowledge we have + It is estimated that the employment impact is likely to be at least this value and potentially higher since it is not possible to obtain emgained in the due diligence process and pass on this ployment information in relation to all transactions/projects. information to the relevant parties, even if we have little or no possibility of directly following up on whether the project has a human rights clause included or not. Labour and working conditions Labour and working conditions of projects are assessed Local Employment The contribution to creation of local employment against the objectives of IFC Performance Standard 2 A key parameter in the assessment of EKF’s contribuvaries significantly by the composition of the proand the relevant IFC Environmental, Health and Safety tion to sustainable development is the estimated volject portfolio as labour intensity varies significantly. Guidelines with regard to Occupational Health and Safety. ume and value of local employment generated in relaEstimated local employment impact related to projects Labour and working condition risks were identified to be tion to the projects. The employment generated by the in 2013 is estimated to be at least 43,000 man-years of significance in 36 of the 45 projects in 2013. project, measured in man-years (one full time employ(assuming ten years of operation), with an estimated ment for one year), is assessed based on information value of EUR 570 million. The relatively high value in The assessment of labour and working conditions also received during the project assessment. EUR is due to relatively many of the projects being loconsiders risks related to the tier one supplies where cated in high-income countries. This employment figthis is found to be a potentially significant issue, for EKF’s contribution to local employment is estimated ure is based on employment estimations for 29 of the instance when in a high risk country or sector and as EKF’s percentage share of the financing (based on 45 projects, indicating that the contribution to local where low labour cost is a factor in the competitiverisk share) multiplied by the man-years generated in employment is likely to be even higher. ness of the item supplied. Key supply chain issues rethe project locally during the construction phase and lated to labour typically include potential child labour, the operating phase, respectively, for a maximum of Resource efficiency and pollution prevention forced labour and dangerous working conditions. None ten years of operation or less where applicable. The Potential adverse impacts with regard to resource of the project assessments in 2013 indicated any use contribution to employment creation consequently inuse and pollution are evaluated against the objecof child or forced/bonded labour. cludes jobs created in the buyer country only. tives of IFC Performance Standard 3. When a full EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 30 environmental and social assessment is carried out, Air emission may include different polluting subreasoning behind this is that when an EKF project is the work also considers benchmarks and guidestances with the potential to result in adverse comconsidered to result in fewer emissions than an alternalines in the relevant General and Sector specific IFC munity health impacts. Focus is therefore on untive “normal practice” reference project, EKF contributes Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines. The obderstanding point sources and benchmark against to reductions in emissions and an increase if the emisjective is to avoid or minimise adverse project imrelevant sector specific Environmental, Health and sions are higher than compared to a “reference project”. pacts on human health and the environment through Safety Guidelines, as well as potential ambient air effective pollution control, promote responsible use quality impacts. The assessment also focuses on A general limitation of the calculations is that the agof resources and monitor project-related greenhouse evaluating emissions of greenhouse gases in secgregated values are estimated based on available ingas emissions. tors where these are considered to be significant. formation and in some cases there is not sufficient inA quantitative analysis of air emissions from EKF’s formation to estimate project emissions despite best Typical resource and pollution issues associated with project portfolio is included in the following section. efforts made. This is particularly the case when proand identified in the environmental and social project jects are not required to undergo a full environmental assessments include: In 2013, 33 projects, or 73 per cent of all A and B and social assessment. The results must therefore be  Energy consumption related to key project activities projects, were assessed to have potential adverse imseen as indications based on estimations rather than and operations. The project assessment includes pacts related to resource use and pollution prevenprecise figures reflecting actual emissions. comparison with benchmarks in the IFC sector spetion, which then received further attention during the cific Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines or screening and/or review processes. It is also important to note that the estimation of other industry benchmarks where applicable. EKF’s quantitative contribution to reduction (or in Water and wastewater impacts, such as expected Air emissions crease) of emissions is calculated as the difference in water consumption in the context of water availabilFor the purpose of CSR reporting and for monitoring emissions between the proposed project and a cality in the project area and how the project complies our transaction impacts, EKF annually conducts a quanculated reference project, over a ten-year period. The with wastewater discharge limits as specified by the titative analysis related to the CO2 equivalents, SO2 and relative reduction (or increase) in emissions is assigned relevant IFC sector specific Environmental, Health NOx air emissions from EKF’s project portfolio of issued a monetary value based on available market prices for and Safety Guidelines. guarantees through 2013. The objective is to give an inthe given air emission component. A detailed descrip Materials and waste, including use of raw materidication of the air emissions contribution associated with tion of the methodology for measuring EKF’s quantitaals and waste management practices for both soleach year’s project portfolio of issued guarantees. tive contribution is available separately. id and hazardous wastes. The project assessment covers the use and handling of hazardous chemiThe aggregated contribution to air emissions related to The relative emission contribution or reduction in cals to ensure that necessary environmental and the EKF supported transactions is an estimate. For CO2 emissions depends on the types of projects that EKF health and safety management are applied and asequivalents both the total emissions and relative contriprovides guarantees for each year. Different types of sesses whether these issues are integrated into the bution to emissions reductions (or increase) have been projects have very different contributions to air emisoverall social and environmental management sysestimated. For NOx and SO2 the contribution to reducsions, and this should be kept in mind when comparing tems for the project. tion (or increase) of emissions has been calculated. The the calculated indicators from year to year. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 31 Estimated total CO2 equivalent The calculated emission figures from before 2011 are Brazil and a mining project in Armenia. Two thermal emissions related to projects not fully comparable with the 2011, 2012 and 2013 energy projects were excluded from the total emisfigures. From 2011 to date all A and B projects are insions estimation since they rely on waste biomass and included in the overview 2009-2013 cluded in the transaction overview including projects biogas from chicken manure respectively and are thus that may not have undergone a full environmental and considered more or less carbon neutral. social assessment, resulting in more contributing proTotal emission in million tonnes jects than previously (before 2011), where only a subIt is notable that the estimated emissions from projects 120 set of transactions, based on their value, was included in 2013 are substantially lower than in 2012. This is due in the set of transactions analysed. to fewer CO2 intensive projects in the project portfolio. 100 110 CO2 emissions and reduction 17 projects, or 38 per cent, contribute to the relative The total CO2 equivalent emissions related to the proCO2 emissions reduction in 2013, 14 of which are wind 80 87 jects financed in 2013 are estimated in the range of farm projects. The remaining three projects include a (at least) 29 million tonnes, assuming a ten-year opbiomass energy plant, and two cement plant projects 60 erating period for the projects, or approx. 2.9 million (due to installation of energy effective technologies). tonnes as annual emissions. Relative savings could also have been counted for the 40 biogas project as compared to conventional energy 43 Seven projects, or 15 per cent, in 2013 were considproduction based on fossil fuels; however this was not 29 ered to have the potential to contribute significantly possible due to lack of information. Other projects 20 to CO2 emissions and were thus included in the calcuwere considered to be mostly in line with current praclations of total emissions. Out of these the most sigtice and with similar CO2 emissions as a reference pro11 0 nificant contributors to emissions include a thermal ject and thus with no calculated reduction or increase 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 power plant extension in Lebanon, cement projects in in CO2 emissions. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 32 In 2013, EKF’s quantitative project-related contribution EKF’s estimated contribution to reduction of CO2 emissions to CO2 reduction is estimated at least 38 million tonnes related to project involvement 2009-2013 corresponding to a value of EUR 188 million. The relative emission savings can be considered high, and to CO2 equivalents 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 a large extent they are related to the many wind farm Relative reduction in million tonnes (10-year period) + <10 10 40 30 40 projects financed in 2013, some of which were large Value of relative reduction in EUR million 40 160 280 190 190 projects with significant energy production capacity. Value of relative reduction in EUR per million EUR EKF involvement 26,000 180,000 190,000 80,000 100,000 The 14 wind projects are responsible for approx. 86 per cent of the overall CO2 savings. Relative reduction as a percentage of Denmark’s annual emissions (%)++ <10 20 70 40 70 When compared with the total annual Danish CO2 +  The values are estimated based on available information, which in some cases is too limited in order to estimate emissions. emissions, the calculated relative CO2 emission reThe real contribution to CO2 emission reductions is thus likely to be somewhat higher in some cases. ++  Denmark’s CO2 emissions in tonnes/year were 56.2 million in 2011 according to the Annual Energy Statistics report for 2012 ductions related to the projects financed in 2013 from the Danish Energy Agency. (over a ten-year period) correspond to around (at least) 67 per cent and can from that perspective be considered significant. Estimated relative CO2 emission reductions and number of projects contributing to emission reductions 2009-2013 The following figure shows the estimated relative CO2 reductions associated with project transactions in 50 2009 to 2013 as well as the actual number of projects assessed to contribute to the relative emission 40 savings (or increase). Although the number of pro39 38 jects contributing to relative CO2 reductions has in30 creased over the years (partly due to more projects 26 included in the transaction overview) it is also note20 worthy that the projects in 2011 to 2013 contrib15 17 uted proportionally more to CO2 reductions than in 10 13 11 10 the years before. This is likely to be largely due to a 3 8 higher number of wind projects in the EKF portfolio 0 in recent years, as the wind projects contribute pro2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 portionally more to CO2 savings than other industry projects where savings are smaller. Relative CO2 reduction (million tonnes) Number of projects contributing to relative CO2 reductions EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 33 EKF’s estimated contribution to NOx emission reductions or increase related to project involvement in 2009-2013 NOx 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013++ Relative reduction in thousand tonnes (10-year period)+ <1 <10 80 40 -200 Value of relative reduction in 1,000 EUR <1 2,400 1,190 1,300 -5,900 Value of relative reduction in EUR per million EUR EKF involvement <1 2,900 800 600 -3,200 Relative reduction as per cent of Denmark’s annual emissions (%) <1 <10 60 30 -160 + The values are estimated based on available information that sometimes is limited or incomplete, ++ T  he values for 2013 are negative, thus indicating a relative increase in emissions when compared which in some cases makes it difficult to estimate emissions accurately. The real contribution to NOx to reference projects. As explained in the text this is due to a single thermal power plant where exemissions may thus differ from these values. pected NOx emissions are significant and above the IFC guideline values. Consequently the monetary value indicators give a negative value, as compared to a positive value in recent years. The calculated emissions are approximately 60 per cent above the annual Danish NOx emissions. Nitrogen Oxides – NOx In total, projects in 2013 contribute with an increase 1 Based on an assessment of the emissions in tonnes NOx/ 17 projects contributed to the estimation of relative of approx. 200,000 tonnes NOx (estimated over a tenyear based on the supplier guaranteed emission values on one hand and based on the IFC Environmental, Health and Safety NOx contribution from the projects in 2013, out of year period), or around 20,000 annually. For compariGuidelines values for degraded air-sheds (reference project) on which 16 are wind projects and one is a thermal powson the Danish NOx emissions in 2011 were around the other hand. The difference between these values gives the er plant extension (260 MW). The 16 wind projects are 125,000 tonnes3. estimated contribution to increased emissions. The assumption is made that the new plants (260 MW) will be in full operation estimated to contribute to savings of approximately most of the time (or 8000 hours annually) resulting in an elec30,000 tonnes NOx , by avoiding more conventional It should be kept in mind that the reference projecttricity output of roughly 2000 GWh/year. electricity production using a mix of fuels including difrelated emissions, against which the wind farm pro2 Due to expected conversion of fuel to natural gas as well as the anticipated decrease in use of local diesel generators, the general ferent fossil fuels that emit NOx . jects are compared, differ based on their location, fuel NOx emissions in the area is expected to decrease over time. mix used etc. Some of the wind projects are located in 3 Source: Danish Informative Inventory Report 2013 The one thermal power plant extension project, locountries where the proportion of emission-free energy cated in Lebanon, is assessed to emit amounts of NOx is high in the typical grid energy supply. Consequently, above the recommended IFC guideline values1, thus less relative emission reduction is calculated from contributing to a substantial increase in NOx emissions those projects, compared to projects in countries in the short term2. where energy supply is largely based on fossil fuels. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 34 Sulphur Dioxide – SO2 EKF’s estimated contribution to SO2 emission reductions or 16 projects contributed to the estimation of relaincrease related to project involvement in 2009-2013 tive SO2 contribution from the projects in 2013, out of which 15 are wind projects and one is a thermal SO2 2009 2010 2011 2012+ 2013++ power plant extension (260 MW). The 15 wind projects are estimated to contribute to savings of almost Relative reduction in thousand tonnes (10 year period)+ 15 <10 160 140 -5 31,000 tonnes SO 2 , by avoiding more conventional Value of relative reduction in thousand EUR 650 170 240 80 -5 electricity production that uses a mix of fuels including different fossil fuels that emit SO 2 . Value of relative reduction in EUR per million EUR of EKF involvement 400 200 170 40 0 The one thermal power plant extension project, locatRelative reduction in percentage of Denmark’s annual emissions (%) 70 30 1060 980 -40 ed in Lebanon, is however assessed to emit significant amounts of SO 2 above the recommended IFC guideline values1, thus contributing to a substantial increase +    The values are estimated based on available information that sometimes is limited or incomplete, which in some cases makes it in SO 2 emissions. In total, projects in 2013 contribute difficult to estimate emissions accurately. The real contribution to SO2 emissions may thus differ from these values. ++   The values for 2013 are negative, thus indicating a relative increase in emissions when compared to reference projects. As exwith an increase of approx. 5,000 tonnes SO 2 (estiplained in the text this is due to a single thermal power plant where expected SO2 emissions are significant and above the IFC mated over a ten-year period), or 500 tonnes annuguideline values. Consequently the monetary value indicators indicate a negative value in EUR, as compared to a positive value in ally. For comparison the Danish annual SO 2 emissions recent years. The calculated emission increase is equivalent to approximately 40 per cent of the annual Danish SO2 emissions. in 2011 were around 12,400 tonnes 2. Note that the SO 2 emissions, like the NOx emissions, vary considerably by project type, fuel type, guarantees provided by the suppliers and, in particular for wind farms, by the reference energy supply used. The referenced energy supply-related emissions, with which the wind farm projects are compared, also differ based on their location. Some of the wind projects are located in countries where the proportion of emission-free energy is high in the energy supply. Consequently, less relative emission reduction is cal1 Based on an assessment of the emissions in tonnes SO2/year based on the supplier guaranteed emission values on one hand and based on the IFC Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines values for degraded air-sheds (reference project) on the other hand. The differculated from those projects compared to projects ence between these values gives the estimated contribution to increased emissions. The assumption is made that the new plants (260 in countries where energy supply is largely based on MW) will be in full operation most of the time (or 8,000 hours annually) resulting in an electricity output of roughly 2,000 GWh/year. fossil fuels. 2 Source: Danish Informative Inventory Report 2013 EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 35 Community Health, Safety, and Security Community health, safety and security risks and imCASE pacts are assessed against the objectives of the IFC Performance Standard 4 and the relevant IFC Social and Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines with rehealth baseline gard to community risks and impacts. The due diligence process assesses if there is any risk of local in Armenia communities being negatively affected by proposed project activities, for example due to noise and vibrations, increased traffic etc. During the assessment of a project in In 2013, 31 of 45 projects were considered to have Armenia, EKF investigated potential gaps the potential to result in negative community impacts, regarding the establishment of a social and health baseline, including assessment which were consequently addressed more closely in the of the overall impacts of the project on environmental and social evaluation process to ensure the community. This includes people afconsistency with IFC Performance Standard 4. fected by land acquisition and economic displacement. A social and health baseline survey was developed by an independent Noise and vibrations consultant at the request of EKF to allow Noise has potential implications for both working confor an improved assessment of social impacts, and a subsequent action plan was ditions and for nearby communities that may be afdeveloped. This ensures compliance with fected. Checking compliance with the IFC noise guideinternational standards. lines is thus a part of the environmental and social assessment process. As an example noise is often perceived as a potential significant issue in relation to wind farms development, and is therefore one of the key issues assessed when evaluating community, health and safety impacts from wind farms. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 36 Resettlement of people in EKF projects Biodiversity conservation and sustainable by year 2009-2013 management of living natural resources The environmental and social due diligence process CASE includes consideration of the project site and potenInvoluntary Resettlement 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 tial impacts on sensitive areas, including biodiversity. Bird monitoring Total number of persons 3000+ 0 350 0 206 plots++ Risks related to biodiversity and living natural resources are specifically addressed in line with the obin Jordan jective of IFC Performance Standard 6. + Thereof possible resettlements of up to around 500 people (125 families) living in squats in Jamaica, where a final decision In 2013, 26 projects were considered to have the poof the need for resettlement had not been taken. Another proDuring the assessment of a wind farm ject includes an estimated 2,500 people who may need to be tential of significant impacts related to biodiversity project in Jordan, EKF became aware of resettled in the future and gradually over a 50-year period. and living natural resources. A detailed assessment the proximity of the wind farm’s loca++ Involuntary land acquisition (privately owned land) where indicated that the potential risks were either minimal, tion to one of the major Eurasian bird mutual agreements were reached regarding compensation migration routes as well as being an imschemes involving either monetary compensation or re-locaor that EKF required that potential impacts would be portant bird area for resident bird spetion to an alternative land plot. Number of affected individuals managed in line with good international practice. cies. Together with the other financial is not known. institutions involved in the transaction, EKF used expert opinion to assess the The assessment of biodiversity risks includes identificarisk to migratory and residential birds. It tion of potentially sensitive areas in the vicinity of the was found that the site was located at Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement project and its associated activities, including national least 50 km from the bird migration route, and it was concluded the risk to migraThe project assessments aim at ensuring compliance parks and other protected areas identified by national or tory birds was low. Nonetheless, it was with IFC Performance Standard 5: Land Acquisition international law, and other sensitive locations of internarequired that the project developer impleand Involuntary Resettlement. The standard ensures tional, national or regional importance, such as wetlands, ment a comprehensive monitoring programme during the construction and opthat projects involving land acquisition and/or involunforests and other areas with high biodiversity value. erational phases in order to monitor the tary resettlement protect and improve the livelihoods Areas of archaeological or cultural significance and areas level of risk to migratory and residential of displaced persons when resettlement is unavoidable. of importance to indigenous peoples are also evaluated. bird species and generate relevant mitigation measures, if needed. This ensures compliance with international standards. In 2013, ten projects were found to have potential imWhenever a project is located inside a sensitive area plications related to Performance Standard 5 in relaor a project is likely to have a perceptible impact on tion to land acquisition, one of which also included resuch locations, EKF requires an Environmental and settlement of people. The due diligence process thus Social Impact Assessment process documenting the focused on seeking clarification on the respective land consequences for the sensitive area as described in acquisition process and making sure it was carried out Performance Standard 1 – Assessment and managein line with the objectives of Performance Standard 5. ment of environmental and social risks and impacts. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 37 Sometimes potential biodiversity impacts are not associated with a single area of land but rather migration routes or corridors used by certain animal species, such as birds. Key biodiversity concerns related to wind farm projects pertain to impacts on bats and birds, their habitats and migration routes. For all the projects, the environmental and social assessment was able to docuCASE ment in a satisfactory manner that impacts would be insignificant, and/or that adequate management and Cultural mitigation measures would be implemented to avoid or mitigate significant impacts on biodiversity. heritage in Chile Indigenous peoples The project assessment complies with IFC Performance Standard 7 on Indigenous Peoples. The standard ascertains that indigenous people’s rights are duly respected, and that A review of two wind farms by the same potential project impacts are negotiated in a culturally apdeveloper in Chile revealed a considerable number of archaeological findings in and propriate manner to avoid, minimise and mitigate impacts. within a close vicinity of both wind farm sites and associated transmission lines. Two of the wind projects reviewed in 2013 involved These included traces of ancient herding routes and various minor archaeological potential impacts on indigenous peoples, both involvfindings, religious and historical monuing aboriginal people in Australia. In both projects EKF ments, among others. The review found ensured that the undertaken procedures were in line that due consideration had been given to archaeological sites for both projects, with with or stricter than IFC Performance Standard 7 and adequate management plans in place, inthus enabling EKF to issue the guarantee. cluding avoidance by design, fencing with buffer zone of sites, chance find procedures, training of staff and subcontractors, Cultural heritage monitoring by archaeologist during conThe environmental and social due diligence process evalstruction and development of monitoring uates potential risks and impacts on cultural heritage in reports, consistent with IFC Performance Standard 8. line with IFC Performance Standard 8. The objective is to protect cultural heritage from adverse impacts of project activities and to promote the equitable sharing of benefits from the use of cultural heritage, where relevant. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 38 In 2013 16 projects were assessed to have potential negative impacts on cultural heritage. In all casCASE es it was found that adequate measures were taken in order to protect cultural heritage in line with Pig transPerformance Standard 8. portation Animal welfare in China EKF wishes to support the Danish export of equipment for animal farming as development of such Danish equipment is based on high standards for animal welfare. The issue of animal welfare is not During the review of a pig farm project clearly addressed within the framework of the IFC in China, it became clear that the farm Performance Standards. would meet Danish requirements on animal welfare. EKF therefore focussed on external aspects including transportation In 2013, as in previous years, EKF supported several of animals to be slaughtered. A Transport projects involving mammalian livestock and poultry Management Plan was developed by the Farm Management, documenting that production. In those cases the reviews assess animal the animal transports would be managed welfare risks. EKF benchmarks these projects against in accordance with EU Directives, as well Danish animal welfare standards as a point of deparas provision of water during transports and proper training of drivers. ture. This is generally done when assessing how the project manages its key environmental and social risks, including animal welfare risks. Where on certain aspects Danish regulations are more precise or even require higher or other conditions from EU regulations, depending on the transaction, we find that EU regulations suffice. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – transactions 39 CSR impacts – internal operations While EKF’s main impacts on economic, environmenIn line with Danish law, EKF has formed a works comAlso according to Danish law, all work places must cartal and social sustainability originate from our project mittee consisting of six members; two members repry out an assessment of the physical and psychologitransactions, we also monitor impacts from our own resent management and four represent employees. cal working environment every three years. EKF works operations. The main direct environmental and social The employees function as the elected trade union continuously between these assessments, and has job areas within EKF’s responsibilities are: representatives. The works committee discusses issues satisfaction incorporated into the strategic goals in  Management of human resources and working relating to working conditions, equality, competency Strategy 2016. From 2013 forward, we have schedconditions development, rationalisations and reorganisation prouled assessments of the working environment annually.  Resource consumption and waste generation from jects, introduction of new technology, the economic overall office activities situation of EKF and safety in the work place. The  Emissions to air of CO2, SO2 and NOx related to use trade union representatives will also come into action of electricity, heat and transportation should any conflict arise between persons and/or de Responsible purchasing of goods and services partments in EKF. According to Danish law employers with more than MANAGEMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES ten employees must form a safety organisation. A AND WORKING CONDITIONS safety representative has been elected among the EKF complies with Danish law on all employee matters employees and participates in the works committee such as freedom of association, collective bargaining, meetings. The safety representative is responsible for layoff policy, notice periods, health and safety and salthe day-to-day safety in EKF. aries. All employees are either employed according to a collective bargaining agreement or by individual contracts which refer to agreements with relevant unions. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS CSR impacts – internal operations 40 Employee data – 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Staff diversity Number of employees (per 31 December) 70 74 82 87 99 Percentage of women in workforce (%) 47.1 45.9 50.0 48.3 46.0 Percentage of women in management (%) 25.0 25.0 25.0 26.7 28.6 Percentage of employees with a master degree 80.0 79.7 75.6 77.0 88.9 Percentage of employees with ethnic minority1 background 2.9 2.7 2.4 2.2 3.1 Average age 41.8 41.3 41.3 42.3 41.1 Average years of service 6.7 6.4 7.3 6.8 6.0 Work-life balance Women working part-time 2 2 5 1 2 Men working part-time 1 1 1 0 1 Number of flex jobs 0 1 1 1 1 Number of employees on paid maternity leave during the year 2 4 7 5 2 Number of employees on paid paternity leave during the year 4 9 7 9 0 Leave of absence granted for other reasons (number of employees granted leave of absence during the year) 1 1 1 0 1 Leave of absence not granted 0 0 0 0 0 EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 41 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Health and safety Average absence due to illness (average number of days lost through illness per employee) 5.0 3.5 4.2 3.7 4.7 Number of employees absent due to long-term illness (>30 days) (Until 2012, measured as: average number of days lost through long-term illness per employee) 9.1 4.6 0 2.8 4 Average absence due to first and second day of illness of a child (average number of days lost through first day of illness of a child per employee) 0.9 1.1 0.9 1.0 0.8 Competency development Number of days spent on training and education per employee 3.9 4.5 4.5 6.4 7.1 Of which days spent on internal activities 1.9 1.7 1.5 1.6 1.3 Of which days spent on external activities 2.0 2.8 3.0 4.8 5.8 Average amount spent on competency development per employee (DKK) 22,494 16,336 11,058 20,593 16,413 1 The definition of ethnic minority used by the Danish State, e.g. Ministry of Refugee, Immigration and Integration Affairs. The Danish State has a goal of 3.5 per cent of employees being from ethnic minorities. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 42 Work-life balance schedule for the employee is planned, often involving The concept of work-life balance concerns time and a period of leave and a gradual return to work. resources distributed between work and other activities employees wish to pursue. Achieving a satisfacEKF grants part-time employment for employees untory work-life balance varies according to the differless there are strong arguments against it. Part-time ent life stages. employment can be either temporary or permanent. EKF will continue to focus on work-life balance for our As a knowledge-based organisation, EKF recognizes employees as part of a continuous development of a the challenge and needed focus in achieving the workhealthy working environment. life balance that is right for EKF’s employees. EKF believes that the values and policies set by the organiThe rate of long-term illness (more than 30 days) from sation help employees in their choices for achieving 2013 is calculated as the number of people affected work-life balance. EKF offers flexibility to employees rather than an average of days lost, and thus the numin terms of home office, flexible hours and the option bers are not comparable with previous years. of part-time working schedules. However, it is a challenge to keep the off-time free of work, because it is increasingly accessible through for instance technology. During the past year, EKF has had a number of employees on long-term leave due to stress-related illness. EKF is aware of the potential stress posed to employees in their work, and we are implementing actions to better identify and manage early stress-related symptoms before it becomes a serious illness. Focus has been on activities to create awareness among employees and to provide the right tools and mechanisms for discovering symptoms of stress, as well as handling them. In the case of stress symptoms, EKF offers employees psychological assistance from a private health insurance through which a restitution EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 43 Competency development Employee turnover in 2013 EKF’s employees are the most valuable resources for Total Under 30 30-39 40-49 50-59 Over 60 turnover (%) the company, and therefore we find it is important to offer employees the opportunities for maintaining and Men 2 2 3 0 0 13 developing skills. Competency development is closely Women 0 1 2 0 0 7 linked to achieving EKF’s overall strategy of helping Danish companies face the challenges of trading and All employees 2 3 5 0 0 10 investing around the globe. As such, EKF focuses on strategic and systematic competency development to ensure that a continuous development is offered to Employee Competency Development at EKF 2009-2013 each employee. All employees receive training on anticorruption as part of the introduction training class. Number of days Danish Kroner 10 25,000 On an annual basis, performance reviews are held for employees and management alike, where past perfor8 20,000 mance is reviewed, and future assignments and goals are discussed. Also included in these performance reviews is 6 15,000 a dialogue on personal development plans, including internal and external development activities for the individ4 10,000 ual employee. The aim of this is simple: to ensure the employee’s personal and professional development, as well 2 5,000 as to ensure a long-term perspective in the relationship between employee and EKF. Employees and manage0 0 ment share a joint responsibility for the implementation 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 of the employee’s development plan. Performance reviews of executive management are also held on a yearly Number of days spent on training and education per employee Average amount spent on competency development per employee basis, where the Board of Directors host the review for the CEO, which again reviews the two Deputy CEOs. activities, employee knowledge and strategic goals One of EKF’s ongoing challenges is dealing with the Overall care is taken to optimise the synergies between come together. Competency building both supports loss of highly specialised employees. Their knowledge performance reviews, personal and professional develand is supported by EKF’s overall goals, and this is recan be difficult to pass on. Focus is therefore not only opment and achievement of EKF’s strategy as a whole. flected in an achievable competency development plan on the development of employee skills but also on anAll elements of economy, environmental and social for the individual employee. choring their knowledge in the organisation. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 44 The average number of employees in EKF in 2013 was In 2013, salary ratio was slightly in favour of women Per cent of women in workforce 96. The total number of employees was 99 as per 31 for employees with a master degree and women in the December 2013, which is used for sake of consistenmanagement group; it was slightly in favour of men cy in report calculations. This is an increase of 14 per for the group of employees without a master degree. 100 cent compared with the last year. The average age is approximately the same as in 2012, at 41.1 years. Gender equality in management 80 As a consequence of an amendment to a bill of parThe percentage of women in the workforce has deliament, our focus on gender equality throughout the 60 creased from 2012, from 48.3 to 46.0 in 2013. The company has been given further velocity. In 2012, percentage of women in the management group has the Danish Parliament adopted a bill with the aim of 40 increased during that same timespan from 26.7 per creating a more equal distribution of men and womcent in 2012 to 28.6 per cent in 2013. en on company boards of directors. The bill made 20 changes to the Danish Financial Statement Act addAt EKF, we monitor the ratio of salary men to women ing a section 99b, effective from 1 April 2013, requir0 and have reported this since 2010. Here we measure ing certain types of companies to set target figures 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the ratio of salary in three different employee groups: and implement policy for gender equality. The amendemployees with education less than a master degree, ment to the Act follows the general corporate social  umber of employees, N  ercentage of women P employees with a master degree and our management responsibility reporting requirements issued for large end of year in workforce group. In addition, we have calculated the ratio for our Danish Corporations. In order to comply with the act, management group excluding executive management. the company is required to report on the status of EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 45 fulfilment of the set targets. EKF will implement a Salary ratio of women to men in EKF policy on this in 2014. for 2010-2013 EKF’s Board of Directors consists of five men and A ratio of 1 indicates equal remuneration – three women in addition to EKF’s executive managea ratio higher than 1 indicates remuneration in woman’s favour ment comprising of two men and one woman. This equals an allocation of 64/36 men to women. 2 EKF is aware that there is an under-representation of 1.8 women on the Board of Directors and on the executive management team. The difference is due in part 1.6 to the fact that the sum of seats on the Board of Directors including executive management totals 11. 1.4 A completely equal distribution is therefore impossible. EKF seeks to encourage the under-represented gender 1.2 in accordance with the law, but this is not prioritised higher than professional and human skills. 1 The distribution of men and women at management 0.8 level has a clear under-representation of women. Of 12 managers only three are women. EKF does not ex0.6 perience the under-representation as problematic, but we are pay attention should the under-representation 0.4 become larger. 0.2 RESOURCE CONSUMPTION 0 AND TRANSPORTATION 2010 2011 2012 2013 Since moving to new premises in June 2012, EKF disposes of larger and newer offices. This building, shared Group 1: Employees with education less than a master degree Group 4: Management Group excluding top management with several other firms, features the newest technolGroup 2: Employees with a master degree Equal salary ogy, ensuring a heightened focus on resource manageGroup 3: Management Group ment efficiency. Our new premises are energy labelled EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 46 Electricity consumption 2010-2013 in energy efficiency class C indicating relatively low energy consumption. We planned to do a baseline MWh MWh per employee study on energy consumption1, but we realised that 200 2.5 2013 is more likely to serve as a baseline year in order to have a full year’s data. 160 2.0 In addition, EKF manages our use of transportation 120 1.5 prudently, matching needs for effective transportation options. We track the emissions of our land and 80 1.0 air travel as well as the kilometres travelled by other transportation (domestic courier, etc.) to be able to 40 0.5 monitor the trends in our travel patterns as well as their environmental impacts. 0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 While electricity consumption decreased from 162 MWh in 2012 to 133 MWh in 2013, heat consumption E  lectricity consumption Consumption per employee increased slightly from 255 MWh to 260 MWh. Due to an increase in employees at the EKF offices, the conHeat consumption 2010-2013 sumption per employee decreased both for electricity and heat. They are at the lowest since 2010. MWh MWh per employee 400 4 The building’s procedures for tenants’ share of heat consumptions are undergoing specification. This 300 3 means that only heat consumption from district heating of EKF’s own offices is accounted for here. EKF is 200 2 working towards obtaining an overview of its share of total heat consumption related to common areas 100 1 (canteen, reception etc.) in the building, and will update as new numbers become available. 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 The energy label is based on categories A to G, A indicating the Heat consumption (fjernvarme) Consumption per employee lowest energy consumption. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 47 Our water consumption has decreased since moving Resource consumption and transportation to the new office building. As our routines for registration of water consumption used in the common areas Resource consumption 2010 2011 2012+ 2013 of the building (canteen, reception, etc.) are still being improved, we are only reporting on the consumption in Electricity consumption (MWh) Total 145 146 162 133 direct relation to our own offices, and we will use the Per employee 1.96 1.81 1.86 1.34 year 2013 as our baseline. This is marked in the table. Heat consumption (MWh) Total 210 239 255 261 At our new premises, procedures for solid waste and Per employee 2.84 2.95 2.93 2.63 recycling have yet to be established by our building administrator and service providers. EKF is working conWater consumption (m3) Total 451 570 495 73 tinuously to exert our influence and provide support to Per employee 6.1 7.0 6.1 0.7 be able to achieve the best possible level of recycling under the circumstances. The results for 2013 show Paper consumption (tonnes) Total 3.5 4.5 3.0 4.5 that there is still work to be done in order to downPer employee (in kg) 47 55 34 45 size the amount of combustible waste (including waste from the canteen) and paper. Awaiting solutions from Transportation by taxi (km) Total 4,350 5,652 9,333 11,570 our building service provider, EKF has set up recycling Per employee 59 70 107 117 facilities for paper, providing nearby kindergartens with drawing paper through our recycling systems. This is a Transportation by flight (km) Total 1,270,000 920,000 1,520,000 1,570,000 solution we find acceptable while working on a more Per employee 17,100 11,400 17,500 15,900 long-term sustainable solution for the whole building. Transportation by domestic courier (km) Total 1,630 1,000 970 960 The amount of paper for recycling has gone up noPer employee 22 12 11 10 ticeably. However, the change can be explained in the rough measures on the amounts. At our new premises, we have yet to find a more accurate way to calculate +D ue to relocation to new offices the energy and water data are a combination of data from both locations. Some data are based on the amounts of paper for recycling, since currently it is estimates and therefore not all data are of the desired quality this year, although best efforts have been made to provide estimates as accurate as possible. based on an assumption that containers are 100 per cent full when picked up by the recycling company. During 2014, we will work towards finding a more accurate calculation. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 48 In 2013 EKF introduced new solutions to save paper, Solid waste management 2010-2013 including a new approach to submitting items for approval by the Board of Directors electronically. The new Waste (tonnes) 2010 2011 2012+ 2013 paper savings approach is not reflected in the conCombustible 9.2 7.5 11.5 22.4 sumption that has gone up for 2013. The increase in Cardboard for recycling 0.51 0.55 0.58 n.a. paper consumption may be explained by increased acPaper for recycling 1.59 5.54 2.08 4.82 tivity in EKF. We increased our customer base to 549 customers in 2013 from 460 in 2012. We will monitor Electrical products 0.29 0.07 0.34 n.a. this going forward, and during 2014 we will think about Bottles/glass and packing glass 0.04 0.08 0.14 n.a. new solutions to increase the paper savings. Food waste++ 0.47 0.85 1.31 n.a. In Total 12.1 14.6 15.6 27.2 Air Emissions Emissions of CO2, SO2 and NOx associated with EKF’s In total per employee 0.16 0.18 0.18 0.28 daily operations are calculated based on distance of + A  t our new premises the system for sorting and registering amounts of all types of waste have yet to be established, and transportation in 2013 and the consumption of electherefore the amount of waste during the second part of the 2012 has been estimated based on the first half of the year. ++  This is a new indicator where 2012 data are estimated based on 2011. tricity and heat. EKF’s business and large project portfolio spans variPaper consumption 2010-2013 ous locations globally which requires international travel for meetings, site visits and follow-ups. This is to Paper consumption (tonnes) kg (per employee) ensure EKF meets our business goals of providing our 100 5 customers with best possible advice on exports and trade as well as to ensure compliance with environ80 4 mental and social international standards. Travel needs vary with the nature of projects and may change con60 3 siderably from year to year. The number and distance of air travel have maintained a steady level in 2013 40 2 compared to 2012; however as the number of employees has increased, air emissions per employee 20 1 have slightly decreased. The number of flights in 2013 was 426, compared to 381 in the previous year. 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total paper consumption (tonnes) Paper consumption per employee (kg) EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 49 Air emissions associated with EKF’s energy The calculated CO2 emissions related to EKF’s energy use and transportation activities and transportation in 2013 is equal to a total of 330 tonnes, or 3,300 kg per employee. This is a decrease from a total of 340 tonnes and 3,900 kg per employResource consumption 2010 2011 2012 2013 ee in 2012, respectively. Air emissions due to air transCO2 emissions Total (tonnes) 290 250 340 330 portations are the largest single source of emissions. Approximately 64 per cent of CO2 emissions in 2013 Per employee (kg) 3,900 3,100 3,900 3,300 are due to air travel, compared to 60 per cent in 2012. SO2 emissions Total (tonnes) 0.10 0.09 0.12+ 0.11 Transportation by taxi increased by 24 per cent from Per employee (kg) 1.3 1.1 1.3 1.1 2012 to 2013. Domestic transport by courier reNOx emissions Total (tonnes) 0.63 0.52 0.75 0.75 mained very similar. Per employee (kg) 8.5 6.4 9.1 7.6 Of NOx and SO2 emissions in 2013, 78 per cent and + Updated last year’s number to 0.116 (~0.12) to reflect updated SO2 emissions. 53 per cent respectively may be contributed to air transportation emissions. Compared to air travel, Air transport 2010-2013 CO2 emissions from the EKF office activities and local transport are calculated at 118 tonnes, a decrease Per employee (km) Total EKF (km) of 15 per cent from the previous year. Likewise, NOx 20,000 2,000,000 emissions decreased by 15 per cent and SO2 emissions decreased by ten per cent compared to 2012. 16,000 1,600,000 12,000 1,200,000 8,000 800,000 4,000 400,000 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 A  ir transport per employee Air transport (km) EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 50 The calculated emissions from EKF’s office activities and PURCHASING OF GOODS AND SERVICES CO2 emissions 2013 employee impact constitute a small fraction of the estiAlthough limited in scale, EKF uses a number of supplimated reduction related to EKF’s project portfolio. For ers of office equipment and supplies, consumer goods 2013, CO2 emissions related to office operations have and IT. The procurement of IT, which is the key combeen calculated at 330 tonnes, compared to the total ponent in value terms, is primarily carried out through annual emissions from projects estimated at 2.9 million the Danish official state procurement. tonnes CO2. The EKF office proportion constitutes 0.01 per cent of the estimated emissions from projects. As a result of the internal gap analysis performed in 2013, EKF’s procurement policy was identified as an However, although 99.99 per cent of our environmenarea of potential improvement. A new procurement tal impacts are traced back to the projects undertaken policy will be implemented, under which further reby EKF, our efforts to reduce our footprint also inquirements on issues pertaining to environmental and cludes our internal consumption patterns, the attitudes human rights, as well as anti-corruption are enforced. of our company as a whole and our employees, as well as our influence with our suppliers and our partners. We hope to continue our efforts in EKF’s new domicile to consume responsibly and sustainably. D  omestic emission  ir transport emission A 36% 64% EKF CSR REPORT 2013 CSR IMPACTS Employee data – 2013 51 Indicator Matrix C C+ B B+ A A+ The Indicator Matrix of the CSR Report lists the contents Mandatory Self statement dislosed and the location of the respective disclosures. Note that some disclosures are reported directly in the Optional Examined by third parties matrix, whereas others are located in the report text or Optional GRI checked on EKF’s homepage and can be accessed by following the hyperlinks. The structure of the matrix is defined by the third version of the Global reporting Initiative (GRI) EKF states that this report represents application level A based on the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.0. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 52 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Introduction by CEO 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Introduction by CEO Our Partners EKF in figures Data and Performance 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization. Introduction by CEO 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. What we do on EKF’s website 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, About EKF on our website subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Contact us on our website 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with See relevant sections of this report: Transaction Overview and World Map either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. See section on Regulation About EKF’s legal form on our website 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of For overview on our website: customers/beneficiaries). EKF in figures and cases See also the following relevant sections of this report: Introduction by CEO EKF in figures EKF’s partners Transaction Overview EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 53 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. About EKF on our website EKF’s annual report on our website. See also employee data for 2013 under the section Management of human resources and working conditions under CSR impacts – internal operations. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. No significant changes. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. No awards received. 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Scope and Purpose in this report. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). April 2013 (for the reporting year 2012) 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Scope and Purpose in this report. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Scope and Purpose in this report. 3.5 Process for defining report content. The process of defining report content has included internal workshops to identify CSR risks and their materiality for EKF. The selection of report content as well as internal prioritization of topics in the report is also informed by the ongoing dialogue we have with our stakeholders. For more information, see this report: Introduction by CEO EKF’s partners Scope and Purpose 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, The boundary of this report is set by EKF's sphere of influence, and the suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. information covers EKF's transactions as well as facilities and operations over which we have direct control. For more information, see this report: Introduction by CEO EKF’s partners Scope and Purpose 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness None. principle for explanation of scope). EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 54 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, One entity only. and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techEKF’s Methodology for the annual project sustainability overview as found niques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other informaon our website. tion in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and None. the reasons for such restatement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement None. methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Standard Disclosure Indicator Matrix in this report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. No external assurance sought. 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governInformation about EKF’s governance structure on our website: ance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Boards of Directors Management 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Information about EKF’s governance structure on our website: Boards of Directors Management 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the Information about EKF’s governance structure on our website: highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Boards of Directors Management 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the EKF is an administrative unit under the Danish State. For employees highest governance body. a works committee is formed according to Danish law, see section on Management of human resources and working conditions under CSR impacts – internal operations of this report. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 55 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior No linkage implemented yet. managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are Relevant information on our website: avoided. Business and Ethics and Openness Policy 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest Relevant information on our website: governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and Business and Ethics social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Relevant information on our website: relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their CSR policy and sub-policies implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification Scope and Purpose in this report and relevant information on our website: and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant Environmental and Social Sustainability Policy risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with Relevant information on our website: respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Board of Directors 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the EKF's procedures include environmental and social due diligence of organization. its transactions following Danish/EU law. For further information, see relevant information on our website: Environmental and Social Sustainability Policy 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiaEKF promotes CSR in an international setting in this report. tives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international EKF promotes CSR in an international setting in this report. advocacy organizations in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues or Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. EKF promotes CSR in an international setting in this report. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 56 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. EKF actively revisits the identification of its most relevant stakeholders in a dynamic process. See section on Stakeholders in this report for more information. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by EKF promotes CSR in an international setting in this report. stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how EKF promotes CSR in an international setting in this report. the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) DMA PS Disclosure on Management Approach PS Aspects Product Portfolio Information on the guarantees issued by EKF on our website: What we do. FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. Information on CSR at EKF and specific sub-policies on our website, including Environmental and Social Sustainability Policy. FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. Relevant information in this report includes CSR Data and Performance and Assessment and management of environmental and social risks and impacts. FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with environmental For the processes on monitoring clients’ implementation of compliance, and social requirements included in agreements or transactions. see section on Equator Principles and Our process in this report. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social For information on improving staff competency see section on policies and procedures as applied to business lines. Stakeholders under Our Partners and Competency development under CSR Impacts – Internal Operations. FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social Relevant information in this report includes EKF promotes CSR in an risks and opportunities. international setting, Our process and Assessment and management of environmental and social risks and impacts EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 57 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles Audits EKF has undergone an audit with regards to its internal policies and processes, including CSR work. See section on CSR Achievements for more information. Active Ownership Information on CSR at EKF and specific sub-policies on our website. DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic PerformanceCOMM Introduction by CEO in this report. Further information on EKF in figures on our website. Market presence Transaction Overview in this report. Indirect economic impacts In this report: Introduction by CEO and Transactions in 2013. Further information on EKF in figures on our website. DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials CSR Data and Performance and Resource efficiency and pollution prevention under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Energy CSR Data and Performance and Resource efficiency and pollution prevention under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Water CSR Data and Performance and Resource efficiency and pollution prevention under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Biodiversity CSR Data and Performance and Resource efficiency and pollution prevention under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 58 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles Aspects Emissions, effluents and waste CSR Data and Performance and Resource efficiency and pollution – continued prevention under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Products and services Resource efficiency and pollution prevention under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Compliance Resource efficiency and pollution prevention under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Transport Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations. Overall CSR Data and Performance in this report. DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Aspects Employment Management of human resources and working conditions under CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Labor/management relations Management of human resources and working conditions under CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Occupational health and safetyCOMM Labour and working conditions under Management of human resources and working conditions under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Training and education Management of human resources and working conditions and Competency development under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations. Diversity and equal opportunity Management of human resources and working conditions and Gender equality in management under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 59 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Purchasing of Goods and Services under CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Non-discrimination Management of human resources and working conditions and Gender equality in management under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Management of human resources and working conditions under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Child labor Human Rights under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Forced and compulsory labor Human Rights under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Security practices Community Health, Safety, and Security under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Indigenous rights Human Rights and Indigenous peoples under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Community Community Health, Safety, and Security under section on CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. Corruption EKF’s Business and Ethics Policy, found on our website. See also section Transactions in 2013, and section on Purchasing of Goods and Services under CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Public policy EKF participates in interministerial cooperation on CSR. As the Danish ECA, EKF does not give financial or in-kind contributions to political parties or related activities. Anti-competitive behavior Information about EKF and our cooperation procedures on our website. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 60 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles Aspects Compliance Information on EKF’s Environmental and Social Sustainability Policy on – continued our website. For further information on compliance see sections under CSR acheivements, Equator Principles and Transaction Overview in the report. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Customer health and safety No direct customer health and safety impacts. Management of indirect health and safety risk related to transactions described in e.g. the report Labour and working conditions and Community health, safety and security. Product and service labelling EKF conducts an annual customer satisfaction survey via an online questionnaire, the link to which is sent to customers via email. EKF's financial products are not subject to product and service labelling which are consequently not included in the DMA. FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. See Business Ethics policy on our website. Marketing communications EKF's communication and legal departments ensures that marketing efforts comply with relevant Danish legislation, so that marketing communication conforms with accepted ethical or cultural standards. Customer privacy EKF's approach to ensuring customer privacy is described in our Openness policy available on our website. Compliance Our CSR, Legal, and risk&compliance departments have the main purpose to ensure compliance with laws and other committments related to our financial products. See also the report sections under CSR acheivements, Equator Principles and Transaction Overview in the report for more information. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 61 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators PRODUCT AND SERVICE IMPACT Product portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) Data on portfolio and sectors provided in sections Transactions in 2013 and by sector. and Transaction overview in this report. For a general overview see information on EKF business on our website. FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each None. business line broken down by purpose. FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit None. for each business line broken down by purpose. Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social Relevant information in this report: Assessment and management of policies and risk assessment procedures. environmental and social risks and impacts and Our Process. Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the Relevant information in this report: Our Partners and Transactions reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues. in 2013 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. Relevant information in this report: Transactions in 2013 FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting Not relevant. EKF holds no shares. organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 62 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles ECONOMIC Economic performance EC1COMM Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, See annual reports on our website. employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due Considering EKF’s activities, climate change is not considered to directly 7 to climate change. pose significant risks to its operations. Consequently its financial implications are not estimated by EKF. Indirectly climate change can be seen to present opportunities through demand for financing of renewable energy projects. Assessment of transactions also includes consideration of climate change risks where relevant, see also Climate workshop under section on Our partners for activities related to climate change described in this report. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. All employees are covered by the state pension scheme, which is regulated by law and is a part of the social security system in Denmark. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. EKF is an independent administrative unit under the Danish State. See EKF in two minutes on our website for further information. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant EKF follows labour and wage levels under Danish Law. 1 locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations See section on Purchasing of Goods and Services under CSR Impacts – of operation. Internal Operations of this report. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local comNot applicable as it is not relevant for EKF's operations. 6 munity at significant locations of operation. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 63 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily EKF’s financial (commercial) engagement in projects contributes indirectly for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. to public benefit through economic activity. This benefit is estimated as value of local employment generated in relation to the projects in section on Local employment under CSR Impacts – Transactions in this report. However, EKF does not invest directly in any infrastructure with the primary aim to provide public benefit from that infrastructure, neither through commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent Relevant information in this report: CSR Data and Performance. of impacts. For additional information see EKF in figures on our website. ENVIRONMENTAL Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts 8 – Internal Operations in this report. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not applicable as it is not relevant for EKF's operations. 8, 9 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. None. 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts 8 – Internal Operations in this report. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Not applicable as it is not relevant for EKF's operations. 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, Information regarding EKF cleantech guarantee on our website. 8, 9 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts 8, 9 – Internal Operations in this report. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 64 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts 8 – Internal Operations in this report. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not applicable as it is not relevant for EKF's operations. 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not applicable as it is not relevant for EKF's operations. 8, 9 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Not applicable as it is not relevant for EKF's operations. 8 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in Biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of living natural 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. resources in this report. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of living natural 8 resources in this report. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Biodiversity conservation and sustainable management of living natural 8 resources in this report. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats Not applicable as it is not relevant for EKF's operations. 8 in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16COMM Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. CO2 emissions and reduction under section on CSR impacts – 8 Transactions and Air Emissions under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not applicable as it is not relevant for EKF's operations. 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. CO2 emissions and reduction under section on CSR impacts – 7, 8, 9 Transactions in this report. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not applicable as there are no emissions of ozone depleting substances 8 related to EKFs operation. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 65 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Nitrogen Oxides – NOX and Sulphur Dioxide – SO2 under section on CSR 8 impacts – Transactions and Air Emissions under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not applicable, as water discharge limited to sanitary wastewater from of8 fice facilities to municipal treatment system. EN22COMM Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts 8 – Internal Operations in this report. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. None 8 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the 8 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats 8 significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact CSR Data and Performance and Assessment and management of 7, 8, 9 mitigation. environmental and social risks and impacts in this report. Our Process under section About EKF, as well as our new CSR Policy online. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. This is not applicable, as financial products are not packaged. 8, 9 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for None 8 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Resource Consumption and Transportation under section on CSR Impacts 8 used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. – Internal Operations in this report. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 66 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 7, 8, 9 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Management of human resources and working conditions under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Management of human resources and working conditions under section 6 on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time None employees, by major operations. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Management of human resources and working conditions under section 1, 3 on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether All employees are either employed according to a collective bargaining 3 it is specified in collective agreements. agreement or by individual contracts which refer to agreements with relevant unions. These agreements specify provisions for consultation and negotiation in case of significant operational changes. See also Management of human resources and working conditions under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations of this report. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and Abide by Danish rules, see also Management of human resources and 1 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. working conditions under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations of this report. The percentage of the total workforce represented is not reported on, as this information is not available. EKF is not required to provide this information according to Danish rules, and meets the information required through details provided in the CSR report. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 67 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of No injuries or work-related facalities. For other data, see Management of 1 work-related fatalities by region. human resources and working conditions under section on CSR Impacts Internal Operations in this report. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Management of human resources and working conditions and specifically 1 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Work-life balance under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Management of human resources and working conditions under section 1 on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Management of human resources and working conditions and specifically Competency development under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations of this report. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Competency development under section on CSR Impacts – Internal employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Operations in this report. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. All employees and management receive performance and development reviews annually. See Competency development under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations of this report. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according Management of human resources and working conditions under section 1, 6 to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations of this report. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Management of human resources and working conditions and Gender 1, 6 equality in management under section on CSR Impacts – Internal Operations in this report. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 68 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and procurement practices HR1COMM Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights EKF considers Human Rights risks in screening of all transactions. EKF 1,2,3,4,5,6 clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. includes human rights clauses in all projects (100%) above USD 10 million (considered significant agreements in the context of this indicator) and all other projects as deemed necessary in the screening and review process, and according to approach described in section under Transactions in 2013 in our report. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human EKF has so far not systematically screened its significant suppliers and 1,2,3,4,5,6 rights and actions taken. contractors on human rights. However, EKF has implemented a new procurement policy that will take effect in 2014. Here, all significant suppliers and contractors will undergo screening on human rights. See also section on Purchasing of Goods and Services under CSR impacts – internal operations in this report. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human This type of training is provided for EKF’s employees, but this specific 1,2,3,4,5,6 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. information is not available as the specific amount of training varies according to areas of responsibility. Therefore, the percentage of the total hours of employee training and percentage of employees trained on policy and procedures concerning aspects of human rights relevant to operations is not reported on. Training of employees with respect to human rights is described in this report under sections Human Rights under section on CSR Achievements as well as Competency development under section on CSR impacts – internal operations in this report. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. None 1, 2, 6 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective barNone 1, 2, 3 gaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 69 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures Sections on Human Rights and Labour and working conditions under CSR 1, 2, 5 taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. impacts – Transactions in this report. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Labour and working conditions under CSR impacts – Transactions in this 1, 2, 4 and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. report. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures Not applicable as EKF has no security personnel. 1, 2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Section on Indigenous peoples under CSR impacts – Transactions in this report. 1, 2 SOCIAL: SOCIETY Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the Sections on Indigenous peoples and Cultural heritage under CSR impacts impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. – Transactions in this report. FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. Not applicable, as EKF is not involved in retail banking and has no private customers. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. EKF's premises are wheelchair accessible. It is worth to note that EKF is not involved in retail banking and has no private customers which makes this indicator less applicable, with the exeption of ensuring reasonable access for physically disabled people to our premises. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Sections on Transactions in 2013 and Assessment and management of 10 environmental and social risks and impacts in this report. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 70 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. Competency development under section on CSR impacts – internal 10 operations in this report. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. All transactions have to sign an anti-corruption declaration. In case that 10 corruption occurs, EKF's guarantee iss nullified. Within EKF: n.a. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. EKF participates in interministerial cooperation on CSR, see this report 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, e.g. section on Our partners. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related Not applicable, as the danish ECA, EKF does not give financial or in-kind 10 institutions by country. contributions to political parties or related activities. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly None practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for There have been no such sanctions non-compliance with laws and regulations. SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for Process for assessing indirect health and safety risk related to transac1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such tions described in e.g Indigenous peoples and Cultural heritage under CSR procedures. impacts – Transactions in this report. EKF only provides financial products, that as such do not have direct customer health and safety impacts. The reporting thus focuses on the E&S due diligence process which addresses indirect health and safety risks related to transactions. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 1 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 71 Profile Level of UN GC disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Principles Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Not applicable, as EKF is a financial institution which products are not 8 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. subject to product information labelling. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 8 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer EKF conducts an annual customer satisfaction survey. satisfaction. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. None Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing None. Adherance to relevant laws is assured by the communications and communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. legal departments. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses 1 of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning None the provision and use of products and services. EKF CSR REPORT 2013 GRI MATRIX Indicator Matrix 72 EKF Lautrupsgade 11 2100 Copenhagen Denmark T +45 3546 2600 ekf@ekf.dk www.ekf.dk 73
