Principle Mellon Application (in brief) Mellon Application (extensively) 2013 Annual CSR Report Page 1 Businesses should support and respect the 1. NewComer's Guide Mellon respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and holds 1-3 protection of internationally proclaimed human 2. CSR Charter the protection of human rights of its employees as a high priority in the rights 3. Code of Conduct context of it's CSR and HR written company policies, which are summed up in the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct, and diffused in the company's everyday practices and interactions. The company also makes sure all its' suppliers and manufacturers represented support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights with the completion of an evaluation questionnaire administered by the Procurement department (applicable to all principles) 2 Businesses should make sure that they are 1. NewComer's Guide Mellon makes a point to ensure the company is not complicit with not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. CSR Charter human rights abuse, through written company policies such as the 3. Code of Conduct Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 1.Mellon syndicate Mellon respects the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and association and the effective recognition of 2. Collective Agreements Rights at Work and upholds the freedom of association. This respect is the right to collective bargaining 3. Local Labour Law also exemplified by the presence of an employees' syndicate within the company. Mellon also recognizes the right to collective bargaining by adopting the collective agreements and local labour law in the countries of its presence. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory all forms of forced and compulsory labour 2. CSR Charter labour by denouncing such practices and complying to local labour law in the countries of its presence. 5 Businesses should uphold the effective 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the effective abolition of child of all forms of forced and abolition of child labour 2. CSR Charter compulsory labour by denouncing such practices and complying to local 3. Code of Conduct labour law in the countries of its presence. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of 1. Selection Policy Mellon upholds the elimination of discrimination regarding employment 1-3 discrimination in respect of employment and 2. CSR Charter and occupation with written company policies (e.g. Selection Policy) at occupation 3. Newcomer's Guide all levels by applying an equal opportunities policy in its day-to-day 4. ISO Procedures (ISO 9001) practices, at all phases of personnel management (recruitment and 5. Equal Opportunities EU selection, payments and promotions). program In addition, the company follows ISO procedures that ensure an objective recruitment process and has also participated in an EU program for the improvement of work-life balance of its employees. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 1. RoHS Direcive Mellon as a VAR (value added reseller) it not in the manufacturing 1, 5 approach to environmental challenges 2. WEEE Directive industry, however the company makes sure all suppliers adhere to 3. CSR Charter environmentally friendly guidelines. More specifically, Mellon ensures its 4. Green CSR initiatives suppliers are in full compliance with RoHS and WEEE directives. (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree Moreover, the majority of our partners have received the international planting,etc.) certification for the environmental management system ISO 140001. Finally, our suppliers have explicit to their activity certifications from the corresponding local and international carriers. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to 1. WEEE Directive Mellon believes businesses should support initiative to promote greater promote greater environmental responsibility 2. CSR Charter environmental responsibility as demonstrated in the relevant policies 3. Company energy the company adopts and adheres to, its CSR Charter and the WEEE consumption monitoring policy directive. Moreover, the company monitors its environmental footprint and undertakes initiatives to counterbalance it. 9 Businesses should encourage the Green CSR initiatives Mellon has undertaken a number of green initiatives, such as recycling, development and diffusion of environmentally (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree park cleaning, tree planting etc. In addition, an effort is made to create friendly technologies planting,etc.) environmental awareness among personnel through training and participation in such initiatives. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in 1. Code of Conduct Mellon believes in working against corruption in all its forms, as stated all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2. ISO Procedures in the Code of Conduct and demonstrated in its ISO policies, such as 3. Chart of Authority vendor management and evaluation process, official and registered contract approval process and by the company's annual customer satisfaction survey. Finally, a chart of authority is applied to simplify the authorization process, while ensuring transparent processes. Glossary: RoHS: The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) EU Directive bans the placing on the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment (containing more than agreed levels of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybromiated bipheny).The aim is to increase the amount of e-waste that is appropriately treated and reduce the number that go to the final disposal. WEEE Directive: The WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directive imposes the responsibility for the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment on the manufacturers of such equipment. ISO 14001 is a standard for environmental management systems to be implemented in any business, regardless of size, location or income. The aim of the standard is to reduce the environmental footprint of a business and to decrease the pollution and waste a business produces. The ISO 14001 environmental management standards esixt to help organizations minimize how their operations negatively affect the environment. ISO 9001 specifies requirements for a quality management system where an organization needs to demonstrate its ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, and aims to enhance customer satisfaction through the effective application of the system, including processes for continual improvement of the system and the assurance of conformity to customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Together we can do more Mellon is a dynamic multinational group present in Central and Southeastern Europe that provides technological solutions and outsourcing services that aim to facilitate the transactions and interactions of organizations with strong consumer business, including financial institutions, public utilities, telecommunication providers and retail chains. As with all our corporate ventures, we aim our social responsibility program to be meaningful and consistent with our corporate culture. To ensure this, we try our activities in this area to be: • relevant • achievable • consequential • measurable • interactive For us at Mellon, the best way to align our corporate orientation with societal expectations is to capitalize on our competencies as an organization and as individuals, in a way that offers value to our wider natural, structured and human environment. With the power of our people more than 2.500 spread in a socio-economically diverse region of 11 countries, we have the resources, the momentum and most importantly the will to contribute to the improvement of the social and environmental conditions. The main areas on which Mellon Group of Companies social responsibility policy and practices focus are: Children and Local Communities, Personnel, Environment, Culture and Sports. In 2013, with sensitivity to the socioeconomic strains ensued by the global financial crisis, we have focused our initiatives on people local communities, children and our employees. --------------------For the 7th consecutive year Mellon Group of Companies organized in December 2013 ‘Mellon Photo Competition', with the participation of employees from 11 companies in 7countries of the Group. This year in particular, in the event of the company’s 20th anniversary in 2014, the theme of the competition was around Mellon. All competing photos illustrate this report for 2013. We would like to thank everyone for their participation. --------------------A year of awards It is worth noting that during 2013, two of our companies were awarded or their social sensitivity – Mellon Romania at the CSR Romanian Awards and Mellon Solutions (FYROM) at the Contact Center World Awards. --------------------1 ...for Local Communities & Children... We are supportive of local communities and children; our contribution to their well-being is manifold: • We utilize local resources in order to promote financial prosperity. In particular, we employ local staff at a ratio of 90/10 and cooperate with local suppliers, contractors and professionals • We transfer our know-how supporting the development of local economic and technical infrastructure • We encourage participation at a corporate and individual level, aiming to reinforce social cohesion and support the cultural particularities that emerge • We encourage local cultural activities and support that contribute to the affluence of local communities • We forbid and renounce any illegal forms of employment and malpractices (child labour, environmental pollution, etc.) ... Our Initiatives... • Continuing Support to the Aegean Team In 2013 for the 6th consecutive year, Mellon Group of Companies supported the Aegean Team (Omada Aigaiou), which carried out its annual sailing of the Aegean Sea (the 19th) between the 16th and 26th of May through the islands Anafi, Astypalea, Amorgos, Koufonissia and Donoussa. The doctors of the organization, utilizing their ambulance vessel, which is outfitted with state of the art medical equipment for preventive medicine, conducted full medical exams of various specialities on adults, children and elderly. The organization also provided information on various health issues, and also assisted the islands on educational, athletic and other infrastructure. From our side, we remain cordially close to the organization, supporting the Team both financially and practically, with the voluntary participation of the President and Managing Director of the Group in the annual sailing. • NGO Support for Children and Women During the year, we have supported NGOs devoted to special populations, such as children and women. In Greece in particular, we supported NGO EDRA, by hosting an Easter Bazaar for them at our offices. During the Christmas season, the Smile of the Child NGO was supported through a similar action. Colleagues responded positively and aided the organizations through their purchases, also utilizing the opportunity to shop from the ease of the office. In addition, we have supported the City of Athens Homeless Shelter, as well as the Smile of the Child by donating to them good that we collected through campaigns (schooling, baby equipment, clothing, footwear). We participated with a whip round to an initiative to improve the building conditions of a school of our town. Our actions to support special populations, however, go beyond the Greek borders. Our subsidiaries have been notably sensitive and motivated during 2013. Mellon Romania in particular visited the Ciserii orphanage twice during 2013 and donated toys, clothing and food to the children with the opportunity of the International Children’s Day. The company 2 also visited the children’s cancer hospital Marie Curie during the Christmas season to distribute presents adhering to the tradition of the last years. Mellon Serbia, supported NGO Atina, an organization that takes care of children and women victimized by trafficking, in various ways, such as visiting, distributing gifts and donating basic equipment. Mellon Solutions (FYROM) finally, participated in a race for the support of female cancer patients. 3 ...for Our People... We believe in our people and appreciate their fundamental contribution in spearheading Mellon's successful growth. The personal and professional development of our employees is the cornerstone of our HR practices, always observing the local labor regulations in each country. • We promote mutual respect, honesty and trust among the Group's employees • We adopt equal opportunities policies at all levels, placing special emphasis on an objective evaluation process and without any discrimination toward members of populations challenged in any way • We design individual career paths and implement them through promotions and internal transfers • We organize seminars and support the participation of employees in training programs • We maintain a high quality work environment, creating pleasant working conditions ... Our Initiatives... • Company Events & Discounts The companies of the Group organize various company events, such as Christmas or New Year's parties for employees, as well as competitions, such as the annual Photo Competition. In addition, different group activities for team-building purposes are held. In 2013, outdoor sports team-building events were organized (carting and paragliding) in Bulgaria and Serbia respectively. We make an effort to keep our employees up to date about exhibitions and different familyoriented and fun activities for children and also to obtain special discounts and corporate offers or discounts for the facilitation of daily activities. • Volunteer Team Having come to realize already that for many organizations offering volunteer work can be as important as providing financial aid, we have composed a volunteer team of employees, which participates in various activities of NGOs (like the Smile of the Child), such as the creation of small boxes for christening candies 'bobonieres' (traditional sugar almond sweets), the sorting out of food and cloth donations, the preparation of packages with food supplies for impoverished families in their support. For the employees, Mellon's volunteerism helps create a sense of participation and contribution by the members of the team, as well as in the cultivation of a team spirit. • Blood Bank For over a decade now, the Greek companies of Mellon have been maintaining a blood bank for the employees and their first degree relatives. Indicatively, during 2013, 35 bottles of blood were collected of which 23 were used to cover the needs of Mellon employees. 4 ...for Sports... Guided by the eternal values of sports, such as participation, peace, equality, cooperation and sportsmanship, we promote sports initiatives and encourage the participation of personnel in sports’ activities. • A healthy mind in a healthy body We support sports events and initiatives, and promote internally the sports interest and activities of colleagues. Having noticed the increasing popularity of running and the desire of a number of colleagues to participating in such races, we have participated in the spring of 2013 at the charity corporate running race Corporate Relay with 4 teams and a sponsorship. The run was in support of the Together for the Child organization. Similarly, in the autumn of the same year Mellon has sponsored 10 athletes-employees by covering their participation, travelling and accommodation expenses for the Spetses Mini Marathon (on the island of Spetses). Moreover, we supported local initiatives, such as the children sports games Spetsolympiakoi , and made a financial contribution to the women’s basketball team Peristeri. In countries other than Greece, our companies in Romania and Serbia, have composed and maintain employee football teams. Mellon Serbia especially organized in 2013 its second football tournament. ...for Culture... Supporting Henry Ward Beecher's motto that real culture is the culture that helps us work towards the social improvement of all , we respect cultural differences, adhere to local moral conventions, habits and cultural features and promote involvement with cultural events, enacting our beliefs with every opportunity. • Present in art: 2013 Athens Biennale For the first time, we have sponsored an art exhibition, the – well known in the artistic milieu -2013 Athens Biennale. The modern art exhibition took place during the 2013 fall and gave the opportunity to Mellon employees in Athens to visit the event. 5 ...for the Environment... Aiming to inspire a factual environmental conscience, we design and realize activities with a longterm impact. Our environmental behaviour is in line with existing societal aspirations and we incorporate in our operation and business strategy, policies regarding environmental responsibility, by: • Adopting processes that preserve natural resources • Managing products and waste in ways that limit energy dissipation • Saving on energy resources • Implementing internal and external communication systems that contribute to the sustainability of natural resources and reduce the usage of consumable materials • Monitoring our energy footprint and striving to reduce it • Actively participating in recycling, and actively participating in environmental activities • Supporting environmental non-governmental organizations (NGOs) ... Our Initiatives... • Recycling Everyday We have incorporated the recycling of plastic, paper, ink and batteries in our daily business routine, encouraging further development of such practices and supporting their adoption outside the office as an everyday habit. • WEEE Directive We are registered to and observe. Where applicable, the WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) European Union Directives regarding the management of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. • Parks’ Cleaning Initiatives Mellon Romania participated in September for the 3rd year in the national cleaning initiative ‘Let’s do it Romania’ by collecting garbage from Park Obor in Bucharest. 6 NGOs that we supported during 2013 • Aegean Team (Omada Aigaiou): a team of doctors that works for the assistance and relief of the inhabitants of the remote islands of Greece. • EDRA: active in the mental health and retardation domains, provides social care services. • City of Athens Homeless Shelter (KYADA): a foundation by the Municipality of Athens that aims to tackle problems faced by humans who, for whatever reason, are without shelter or whose home is unsafe and inadequate. • Smile of the Child: protects children’s rights and aims to ensure their physical mental and emotional balance through various functions. • Together for Children: a group of organizations offering coordinated services such as material, emotional, medical and moral support to infants, children, teenagers and adolescents as well as psychosocial support to families. • Atina (Serbia): implements projects of long-term social inclusion of victims of human trafficking, while providing immediate support (psychosocial, legal, medical, etc.) to children and women victimized by trafficking. • Ciresarii (Romania): it hosts, nurtures and occupies children who have lost their parents. • Marie Curie (Romania): the largest children’s cancer hospital of the country. United Nations Global Compact Mellon Group of Companies has, since 2007, been a member of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility. Moreover since June 2011, in an effort to progress our responsible business development, we signed the United Nations Global Compact, a strategic policy initiative for the commitment of companies to align their operations and strategies with the following ten universally accepted principles: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 7
