Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2013 Annual Report Contents Letter from the CEO 2 Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO 10 Business Highlights in 2013 14 Five-Year Financial Highlights 15 Letter from the Chairwoman 16 Core Values 20 Management Discussion and Analysis 21 Industry Trends 49 Independent Auditor’s Report 54 Consolidated Financial Statements 55 Summary and Notes Risk Factors 106 Corporate Governance Report 108 Sustainable Development 129 Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and 143 Exchange Rates 2 Letter from the CEO Letter from the CEO Apply the spirit of the tortoise to catch up with the Dragon spacecraft There is a fable about the race between a tortoise I. Large companies are not necessarily and a hare. The hare was born a fast runner, but synonyms for complacency or conservativeness; during the race, it had a rest from time to time, it is not inevitable for them to perish, or taking an afternoon tea or having a nap on the otherwise we would not strive to be one. grass. The tortoise surpassed the hare and won the race in the end. Can BMW match Tesla’s pace? This has been an issue of debate for some time at Huawei. Most Huawei is like a big tortoise. In the past 25 years, believe that Tesla vehicles represent a disruptive we have crawled along, not seeing the flowers on innovation and will surpass BMWs. I think that the road. While many people have become rich, BMW may not lose the game if they take an open riding on the rising economy over the last two approach to improve themselves. We know there decades, we still are on our journey of hard work are several elements of a car: powertrain, smart and dedication. When we look up to find in front driving (from on-line map, automatic shifting, of us the likes of Dragon spacecraft and Tesla, bump shielding, all the way to unmanned driving), and look at ourselves – the clumsy way we move mechanical wearing, and safety and comfort. BMW ahead, we can’t help but think, “Can we catch up is strong in the last two areas, and they can and surpass them?” catch up too on the first two if they are open Letter from the CEO 3 and progressive. You could argue of course that 1. We must stay focused. We are a company with Tesla can buy the capabilities they don’t have, but limited capabilities and resources. We can only I’m not saying BMW has to reinvent the wheel catch up with or surpass US companies within to establish themselves in the first two areas. limited areas. A force applied over a smaller BMW needs success, not a narrow sense of pride surface area can get us larger pressure, and then that everything has to come through its own breakthroughs would be possible. The Strategy innovation. & Development Committee proposed the idea of surpassing US companies and enjoying the Huawei is like BMW, in that we are also a big ride, and I guess maybe that’s because they are company. We live in an information society that is confident in our profitability in the next few years fast-changing with lots of disruptive innovations. and want to invest more in the strategic areas. Can we continue to survive? Admit it or not, this However, we can possibly surpass US companies is a question right in front of us. It took us 25 only when our area of focus is as big as the years to build a good platform and accumulate tip of a needle. If we enlarge the focus area to some resources. Those are our treasures, as they the size of the head of a match or the end of a came after loads of money being wasted by our stick, surpassing US companies will be out of the executives and experts into projects and products question. that had failed. Of course the money wasted comes from what you have earned in the first We only allow employees to leverage their initiative place, and more importantly without such wastes, and creativity along the main route, or in other we would not be where we are today. We value words in areas of our strategic business focus. Blind the success we have gained through learning from innovation would simply disperse our investment our failures. If we continue to be progressive, and energy. Businesses that are not on the main with the courage to shatter our own vested route have to learn from successful companies, interest and embrace new things, Huawei may not maintain stable and reliable operations, and keep necessarily lag behind. When we spot a strategic the management system rational, effective, and opportunity, we can catch up quickly by pouring simple. We must avoid innovating blindly. If there in tons of resources. Different ways of investment is cry for innovation everywhere, that will be a can be used, not just by piling up people. This death song for us. is quite different from the way small companies approach innovation. People are the most valuable. The age of Big Data might be terrifying, because Employees who are open-minded, progressive, nobody knows exactly what is Big Data, and data brave to break established advantages and keep traffic will be incredibly huge. The Big Data I’ve up with the times are our most solid cornerstone. been talking about is different from the industry With such people in the company, we can possibly definition. The industry looks at Big Data from catch up with the Teslas of the world. information search, not data size, point of view. 4 Letter from the CEO As Wu Hequan from the Chinese Academy of The network might loosen what has kept people Engineering said, data creates value only when it within bounds. Without this bondage, can we still is mined, analyzed, inducted, and utilized. By Big press forward like a torrent? Many people are Data, I mean the surging and overwhelming data amazed when they hear us sing the song Huawei streams, and the fact that no one knows how People. They wonder why so many people are still much data has to be transmitted and stored. Of singing such a song in such an age. At Huawei we course, we hope what is transmitted is all useful still have a nucleus of several thousand people. information, but we cannot stop garbage from United together, they rally and lead the rest of being transmitted and stored back and forth, 150,000 employees. We will definitely win. which makes Big Data even bigger. Don’t get lured by the success of the Internet. We are an Internet 2. We must continue to be dedicated. The tortoise company too, in the sense that we produce “iron in the fable is a symbol of persistent effort, and sheet” for pipes that transmit data streams for such a spirit of Huawei must not change. The the Internet. Moving forward, there will be fewer tortoise spirit also means that our effort and companies that can produce “iron sheet” for pipes dedication should be sensible. We don’t need our as wide as the Pacific Ocean; companies that run people to have their blood boiled up because that the pipes will be in the number of hundreds, and cannot power up the base stations. What we need companies managing information in the number of is a controlled passion that allows our people to thousands. Don’t envy the prominence of others; work intensely but with order. Value creation has don’t get so stirred about the Internet. Employees to be the yardstick for everything we do. who have such passion should come down-to-earth and try to use the Internet approach to optimize We must be conscious of the power of the United our internal supply transactions toward higher States. They have advanced systems, flexible efficiency and timely and accurate operations. Our mechanisms, clear property rights, and respect annual turnover of commercial notes, including and protection of individual rights. With such a internal handovers, has exceeded CNY2,500 billion, sound business ecosystem, the US has attracted the expected to reach 5,000 billion pretty soon. And world’s best talent, in the number of hundreds of we have more than 5,000 points of supply. There millions, to invent and innovate on the American is significant value there, from improving contract soil. The light that never goes out in the Silicon accuracy and reducing waste via thorough analyses Valley continues to shine. The US is not lagging of contract scenarios. Why not do the “Internet” behind; it is still a model for us to learn from. Isn’t internally to better connect our operations? We Tesla a good example? Catching up will never be as have to remain focused, for decades, on improving easy as coining catchwords. Too many catchwords our capability for the information pipes. Don’t tow are a waste in management. “Enjoying the ride” as our huge ship away from the main route. Eric Xu put it, means we make constant effort for development, fearless of failures or sacrifices. All the work has to be measured by the value created. Letter from the CEO 5 Will ultra-broadband be the last battle in the With the establishment of the 2012 Laboratories, electronic equipment manufacturing industry? I we intend to use the tool of self-criticism to don’t know what others think about it; but to question ourselves, our status quo, our future me, it will. If we fail in the ultra-broadband age, thoughts, and the questioning itself. 2012 we will have no more chance to turn it around. I Laboratories is studying the approaches of adapting was in Moscow not long ago. I told our people to disruptive technical innovations, as well as the there that the city of Moscow is one circle after ways of applying sustaining innovations to today’s another, and the country’s most powerful and technologies in order to make them future-proof. wealthiest people live in the area encircled by In the age of Big Data, we must move decisively MKAD (the Moscow Ring Road). For more than to seize the high ground and create high-end ten years however, no Huawei equipment has been products that meet customer needs. With regard deployed within MKAD. Can our ultra-broadband to our low-and-mid-ranged products, consumer prosper in Siberia? If we cannot grab opportunities electronics from Germany and Japan should be in high-value locations with massive data traffic, the benchmark for the hardware, which ideally then our business in that market will eventually does not need any maintenance throughout the shrink and we will be marginalized. Today the service life; the software can be upgraded online. paradigm of value distribution is being redefined. Our high-end products are not absolutely stable, To survive, we must strive to establish ourselves at so our services have to come along. high-value regions with massive data traffic. Our technology is being used in Tokyo, London, and The times are moving way too fast. If we are many other major cities. I believe we will also build complacent and stand still just for three months, our presence within MKAD of Moscow. we will be erased from history. We survive till today because we have been embracing self-criticism 3. Self-criticism is the most important behavior since a long time ago. In 2013, our Board for survival. It has started in our company since members reflected on the company’s problems we embraced the beliefs that “from the ashes the in the Bombarding Huawei series; our midand phoenix is reborn” and “those who climbed out of senior-level managers wrote and published the pit of setbacks are sages”. Such self-correction Management Issues in Our Eyes. There were a has helped us to maintain steady growth over the mountain of such introspective articles. I reviewed years. and edited every piece of them before being published. Our people can also post their critical Our company moves forward on two wheels: opinions at our online forum. Sooner or later there technology innovation based on customer needs, will be departments coming out to resolve these and scientific exploration into the longer future. issues. The company will keep improving itself. Huawei must have the courage to embrace disruptive innovations through self-reinvention and self-criticism. While fully tapping into the value of our installed business, we should not be pushing away disruptive innovations in the fear they might smash our “golden bowl”. 6 Letter from the CEO II. Core values are the heart and soul of an soldiers in huge number. The CC3s in our company organization. The organizational structure in today are mobilizing the resources they need the future must fit in with the information through prompt and accurate calibration using society. Organizational setup is meant to serve the corporate platform. And the support to the nimble strategies and tactics. frontline, be it sales, delivery, services, or finance, is being provided remotely. CC3s are not alone in Over the past 25 years, with the help of Western the field; on project estimation, bidding, delivery, consulting firms and the efforts of several thousand or finance, they have with them the support from HR professionals, business managers and experts, hundreds in the back office via the network. This is we have established a pyramid model for human what Ken Hu has described as “the squad leaders’ resources management as Ken Hu described. This fight”. Leaders at CC3s should have the courage has helped us to reach almost USD40 billion in to fight; they should also keep the big picture sales revenue. The several thousand outstanding in mind with the ability of strategic thinking. managers and experts who have developed and That’s why we put forward the concept of evolved the pyramid model are great ones. We “major-general-company-commanders”. Why not should grant them the honor of “human resources colonel-company-commanders? It’s a deliberate heroes”. Without their efforts and success, exaggeration to make it more eye-catching. They today’s pyramid restructuring would have been are not real major generals of course. Nobody can impossible. Pyramid-styled management is right grant you that title. Unless you buy some buttons for mechanized warfare in the past, in which the and have them sewn on your collar. One button cannon-shot was near and communication systems will make you a major general, and two will make not as advanced. Soldiers as a result must fight you a lieutenant general. face-to-face. When the general on the top of the pyramid signaled “Go” with his hand, tankmen 1. The difference in compensation to employees at the bottom drove thousands of tanks onto needs to be widened, based on the value they each the battlefield; and soldiers in tens of thousands contribute. “Engines” in the organization have to charged forward fighting enemies eye-to-eye. This be fueled to the full so that they can pull the train was the only way to have enough firepower. In to run faster and deliver more. To live our core modern warfare however, as powerful long-range values, we must have a group of people who set weaponry is available, operations are done using the example. People’s compensation is not based satellites, broadband, Big Data, missiles, airplanes, on their scope of management; it has to be based aircraft carriers, and many more. Electromagnetic on their contribution and responsibility-adjusted waves become the new battlefield. Those who result in the first place, and then their dedication. call for and command all the resources may Now the direction of our human resources policy not be the general atop the pyramid, but CC3s has been set. For next steps, we need to allow (Customer Centric 3) right at the frontline. The some flexibility in HR policies at different scenarios, power projected from a thousand miles away environments and regions. is more effective than the face-to-face fight of Letter from the CEO 7 I introduced the second law of thermodynamics 3. The internal talent market and the Strategic from natural science into social science. The Reserves are established as an important means to intention is to widen the compensation gap so improve capability. Bench resources are developed that we will have a nucleus of several thousand through real projects in the field. people to lead the rest of us forward. We must always keep our team active to avoid “entropic The internal talent market is a place for finding death”. We will never allow the “black hole” to Garcia and for dedicated employees, not a cradle exist in our organization. Slacking off is that “black for the laggards. The talent flow it facilitates hole”. We must not let it suck away our light, heat, will allow employees to find the most suitable and vitality. positions and also drive managers to improve their management. When things get moved, vitality is 2. We will experiment with the idea of gained. “major-general-company-commanders”. Projects should be staffed with the right management and Through the Strategic Reserves like the “Tiger expert teams based on project value and difficulty Teams”, the strategic competition department, as well as the value and contribution that the and project managers, we aim to expedite the projects have delivered. In the traditional pyramid, circulation of organizations, talents, technologies, those at the bottom are people of the lowest management approaches, and experience in the levels. But those are also the people who face course of project operations. Also from project customer CEOs, confront complex projects, and operations, we can identify more outstanding deal with extreme difficulties. People that were managers and experts to lead our company toward staffed at this level were far away from what they future progress. should be. We would like everyone to understand that hope We are having people with major-generals’ is in their own hands. If they work hard, they will capability be company-commanders. Only get good results. If they are made of gold, they the offices that are profitable can have will shine sooner or later. Do not moan or live in “major-general-company-commanders”. I’m not memories; keep striving forward. For those who are sure whether some of you would like to be Lei united as a team in both good times and bad, their Feng-style major-generals, doing all the good things names and their deeds may very likely not appear wanting nothing in return. Well I’m not a supporter on the stone tablet of merits; such tablets record to this idea. Lei Feng is a kind of spirit; it cannot the achievements of generals. However, those be used as a mechanism. The experiment has to who have nothing engraved on the stone tablet start from profitable representative offices that can of merits might become commanders-in-chief afford senior experts and managers. In this way, in the future, organizing tens of thousands of high-quality resources are channeled to high-quality men. Nobody knows how the inner world of customers. To have more capable resources to commanders-in-chief develops. Selflessness is better serve high-quality customers, you have to greatness. make more money from such customers in the first place; or otherwise where you can get the money. 8 Letter from the CEO III. Nimble strategies and tactics come from is about value creation, not value distribution. We rigorous, well-organized, simple, and solid must continue to strengthen our customer and management. supplier interfaces and simplify internal accounting and measurement. Data traffic is growing, and our company is likely to become bigger. We can grow in size, but Huawei’s management improvement, as Guo complexity in management must not increase. Ping said, has to be built on the improvement in project management. The eight critical roles We aim to transition our corporate governance for project management should be well selected from a centralized model to a new one. Under the and developed. Mature procedures and a large new governance model, those who can hear the management team with high caliber have to be gunfire call for support; frontline organizations established. We need to build a pool of managers have both responsibilities and authorities; and and experts on project management through the corporate functions provide enablement and Strategic Reserves. As people in the pool move from supervision. Such a model must be built on project to project, good methods and capabilities an effective management platform including are passed on to representative offices. We should among others, processes, data, information and be good at identifying the “golden seeds”, and authorities. Over the past twenty-plus years, have them blossom out at different locations. with the help of Western consultants, we have These transformations represent opportunities for established a rather integrated platform that various organizations to create value; they are also provides guidance and support to the frontline. the test bed to identify and develop future leaders. In the next five to ten years, we will build on this foundation and gradually move decision making The company’s management transformation closer to the frontline with the right level of over the years has produced a lot of outstanding support for them to exercise authority. people. We will begin to select and commend the “Ten Whiz Kids” to encourage those unknown Guo Ping said our growth should no longer be heroes who have contributed to the company’s driven by scale, but efficiency and effectiveness. development. Guo Ping said we should look for Project operations management is an important those “Whiz Kids”. And I think we have to find way to get there; it is also a basic skill required them and honor them with recognition; such search of all the managers. Performance management and commendation should cascade down the both embodies and supports improved leadership organization, so that those who have contributed management and business transformation. We to our success will feel inspired. While we select should take a broader and longer perspective outstanding talent for the future, we should not in understanding responsibility-adjusted result forget those who have made contributions in the and performance. We have already optimized past. Only in this way can our steps toward the the performance metrics and we will continue future be more solid. It is a law of history for the to reduce the number of in-the-course metrics. new to replace the old. However, we should never Results are more important than the course. forget those who have put their best times, their We must go in the right direction on finance health, or even their lives into Huawei, and the management transformation. Finance management role they have played in paving the way for the company’s sustainable development. Letter from the CEO 9 We must take a holistic view to advance the overall hard winter; we chose the “chicken rib” strategy, management system. It should be systematic, increasing the investment into areas where others constructive, and simple. The management system were stepping back. In the end we caught up. That has to be well connected, and processes be was a difficult time for the world, and even more harmonized from end to end, to avoid silos from so for Huawei. Without the courage to change, isolated transformation. We must respect facts and we would not be here today. Now we are seeking ensure the match between the financial book and changes again, but the situation we are in is much the physical assets. We allow no lies. Whenever better, and this time we change for prosperity and possible, we should try to skip one hop in the effective growth. We should have more confidence handover of our internal operations data, provided to overcome any hardship and difficulty, and more necessary separation of duties are observed, so as importantly to surpass ourselves. to increase the operating efficiency. From the east of the Pacific to the west of the Further progress is expected not only in Atlantic, from the north of the Arctic Ocean to the technology and the market. We must also make south of Southern South America, from the high our management rigorous, well-organized, and plateaus of Bolivia to the low lands of the Dead simple. Internal transactions are to be done Sea, and from the boundless tropical rainforests electronically over time, built on transparent to the scorching deserts... Tens of thousands of data. A closed-loop management of planning, Huawei people, leaving behind their home and budgeting, and accounting will be implemented family, work diligently in every corner of the world to ensure sustainable business development. There to bring network coverage to all. Where there are has to be a balance between making investment people, there are dedicated Huawei employees. We and mitigating risks. take on the mission of supporting communications services to nearly three billion people. Such a Managers should get to know each other’s area. mission keeps inspiring us to move forward. Financial managers should know business and business managers know finance. We will have The road ahead is broad and wide; our prospects well-organized exchange of managers to facilitate are brighter than ever. It’s a grand cause to be such knowledge transfer. Frontline teams with engaged, a cause that gives us unmatched pleasure mixed knowledge and experience are better and glory. positioned to seize opportunities in an efficient, timely, and solid way, to balance project wins with healthy business operations, and to take advantage of the LTC and IFS processes that have been deployed. The closed-loop management will be used to improve the appraisal and selection of managers. Ren Zhengfei When we had the management conference back Chief Executive Officer in 2002, the IT bubble just burst and Huawei was on the verge of bankruptcy with low level of confidence. The Board of Directors believed in changing the industry landscape during the 10 Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO For the past two decades, together with our customers and partners, we have created a stably connected world. In the future, we will continue to be dedicated to our vision as we endeavor to become the leader of the ICT infrastructure industry and create greater value for our customers. We seek to make this connected world a better place to live and open the door for infinite opportunities and possibilities. A driving force to move the world forward ICT technologies – Huawei’s area of focus for the past 25 years – are changing from a support system Connect closely to the world that improves work efficiency to a production system that drives value creation. The result is As everything becomes increasingly connected, it that individuals, businesses, and organizations is difficult to imagine a time without networks or will become increasingly dependent on new an instantaneous flow of information, just as 20 business models, new orders, and new patterns years ago we could not imagine that information for collaborative innovation and cross-boundary would so rapidly and profoundly change how we sharing. live and work today. Provide connectivity As an important contributor to these historical changes, Huawei has never been more closely By adapting to and staying at the forefront of connected to the world than it is now. This level industry trends over the past 25 years, we have of connectivity has two implications. First, ICT narrowed the gap with our peers and become a technologies have been deployed in more than top three player in the global market, fulfilling a 170 countries and regions, helping more than 3 dream our founder Mr. Ren Zhengfei set out in billion people connect to the world, communicate the company’s early days. Our efforts have made anytime, anywhere, and easily acquire and share Huawei what it is today, helped our employees information. Second, this connected world achieve their dreams, and, more importantly, is reshaping politics, economics, business, and contributed significantly to society and the progress production at an incredible speed and with of civilization. formidable force. Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO 11 From narrowband to broadband, from fixed to We aim to support the highest volume of digital mobile, from voice to video, and from device to content, tens of millions of individual applications, cloud, Huawei has been at the forefront during and millions of enterprise applications to enable each of these technological transformations, and users to work, live, and study in the cloud. We has ascended to new heights through collaboration hope to establish absolute leadership in the with our peers. From the summit of Mount Everest network field, helping customers build networks to the Arctic Circle, from vast mountainous rural as wide as the Pacific Ocean. We will enable areas to densely-populated metropolises, and from consumers to stream HD videos anytime, anywhere, emerging economies in Asia, Africa, and Latin via 10 Gbit/s broadband that supports holographic America to developed markets in Europe, Huawei communication and delivers 100 times the speed has built ubiquitous broadband networks, crossing of existing 4G networks. We are poised to provide borders to remove barriers to connectivity. From a rich variety of affordable smart devices that online shopping systems that handle hundreds deliver superior experience and connect tens of of thousands of transactions per minute to the millions of enterprises and hundreds of millions of discovery of the God particle at 50 trillion collisions individuals and families. per second, from high-speed smart transportation systems to gigantic online education systems, 2013: Innovate continuously and facilitate and from financial data platforms to telemedicine effective growth diagnosis systems, Huawei has harnessed Big Data and leveraged cloud computing to drive In the fiscal year 2013, Huawei achieved innovation. From flagship devices that offer a CNY239.025 billion in sales revenue, an increase of superior experience to affordable smartphones, 8.5% year-on-year, and CNY21.003 billion in net and from home entertainment centers to wearable profits. Our strong performance can be attributed devices, Huawei has made smart devices accessible to the improved global macro economy, a better to more people, enabling them to embrace mobility business environment, and the effective execution and enjoy the conveniences brought by technology. of our corporate strategy. Our operating cash flow and asset to liability ratio remained stable, and our Build a better connected world operating efficiency continued to improve. The future will hold a better connected world, In anticipation of future trends, we launched the where everyone can share everything. Alongside SoftCOM network architecture in 2013. In new our customers and partners, we will build the areas such as cloud computing and storage, we world’s most efficient and integrated digital made notable progress, delivering competitive IT logistics system to ensure full connectivity between infrastructure solutions to customers. In enterprise people, people and things, and things and things. and data center networking, we launched the agile Doing so will facilitate the free sharing of ideas. We network architecture, the world’s first agile switch, will continue to pursue dreams, spark innovation, and a data center switch offering the industry’s and drive the evolution of technologies, industries, largest capacity at 64T. Our NFV-ready solutions and human interaction to create a better connected are recognized by the industry and leading carriers. world. This auspicious start has given us a head start at the outset of network architecture transformation. 12 Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO Encouraging results have also been delivered in customers, and strategic markets, thus laying a our traditional areas of strength. We reinforced solid foundation for our future development. In the our leadership position in the global LTE market; product and technology domains, we will focus our our 400G routers have been commercially deployed investment on the SoftCOM network architecture by 49 customers on a considerable scale. We in order to build a future-oriented leadership, were the first to launch a 1T router line card, establish our competitive advantage, and create a 40T WDM prototype, and a new architecture long-term value for customers. for All-Optical Switching Networks (AOSNs). In the device market, particularly in the smartphone Rapidly adapt to change segment, we significantly improved product quality and brand competitiveness, thereby boosting our History has proven that Huawei has the ability to popularity among consumers. adapt to market changes through self-restructuring. In response to the ICT convergence trend, we 2014: Strive for goals that bring value to will further promote our internal organizational Huawei transformation, simplify management, and delegate authority to frontlines to ensure that our In 2014, the global economy will continue to organizations in all three dimensions – customers, recover. The increased coverage of ultraproducts, and regions – create value for customers broadband and mobile broadband, especially and take responsibility for our company’s effective LTE, is set to bring new opportunities for the growth, market competitiveness, and customer further development of the telecommunications satisfaction. To adapt to changes in the business industry. Smart devices will become an intrinsic environment, we will strengthen delegation to necessity for digital natives and emerge as an field organizations so that they can operate more extension of the human sensory system. Driven by flexibly and respond to customers’ high-value needs the transformation of IT systems and the digital more quickly. This transformation will increase the restructuring of traditional industries, IT systems operating efficiency of our organizations, further are becoming a production system and a core unlock our potential, and enable us to better serve competency for enterprises. Thus, 2014 marks a customers. new beginning – not just for Huawei – but for the industry as a whole. While continuing to focus on Glocalize our operations strategy and simplify management in 2014, we will also work to expedite our effective growth The business world is changing rapidly. and lay the foundation for development over the Protectionism and cyber security are just a few of next decade. the challenges and risks that we face. Under any circumstance, supporting the stable and secure Focus on strategic domains operations of customers’ networks is our most honored commitment to our customers as well as To seize valuable strategic opportunities, in 2014, one of our core strategies. We will work closely we will invest more efforts and resources in our with all stakeholders to address cyber security future growth. We must have the courage to invest challenges. in strategic domains, core technologies, strategic Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO 13 In 2014, we will continue to globalize by tortoise has been evolving for millions of years pooling together the world’s best resources to and has outlived animals of all sizes, including improve our efficiency and capabilities. We will dinosaurs. In this process, it has surpassed itself. delegate authority to local management teams, regardless of nationality, so that they can be truly We live in an era of opportunities, challenges, accountable for local operations. We will optimize and risks. No one can accurately forecast or steer the operations and management mechanisms of the future amid such complex environments and subsidiaries outside of China to ensure compliance, uncertain markets; Huawei is no exception. This build a harmonious business environment, and leaves us no choice but to hold onto our core contribute to local communities as a responsible values, focus on our pipe strategy, engage fully in corporate citizen. what we do, and continuously evolve and develop at a solid pace. Unite as many people as possible Huawei is still a young company, and the ICT We must unite as many people as possible as industry is booming. A connected world has we move forward. All outstanding employees, unlocked opportunities beyond our imagination. regardless of their age, nationality, gender, Against this backdrop, our 150,000 dedicated and cultural background, have equal access to employees must have the courage to take the lead, our platform to leverage their talents, develop surpass themselves, and dominate the era. How themselves, and contribute to the company and many struggles are there in life? At Huawei, our society at large. We will have a more human touch philosophy is – no matter whether we can succeed when managing our people and business. We or not, let’s enjoy the ride! respect and trust our employees, and encourage them to grow with the company. The overall Huawei’s growth would not have been possible compensation will be made more competitive and without the trust and support of our customers our long-term incentives will be made available and partners. Let us join hands to create a better to a larger number of high-performing Huawei connected world! employees across the world. All these initiatives are designed to motivate our organization and employees (including managers) to create more value for our customers. Achieve the goal of surpassing and enjoy the ride The spirit of the tortoise has enabled Huawei to survive. The tortoise is focused, persistent, and highly adaptable to environmental change. It travels across land and sea, regardless of weather Eric Xu and temperature, subsisting on seaweed. The Rotating and Acting CEO 14 Business Highlights in 2013 Business Highlights in 2013 Enhancing resource integration worldwide Changing the future with agile networks We set up the Financial Risk Control Center We launched the world’s first serviceand user (FRCC) in London to manage global financial experience-centric agile network architecture, risks and ensure that our financial operations along with the first-of-its-kind agile switch S12700. remain efficient, secure, and standard-compliant. These offerings are ideal for such new applications Our European Logistics Center was put into as cloud computing, Bring Your Own Device official operation in Hungary, covering countries (BYOD), Software-Defined Networking (SDN), throughout Europe, Central Asia, the Middle East, Internet of Things (IoT), multi-service support, and and Africa. Big Data. Leading 5G research and innovation Enhancing brand competitiveness of smart devices As a major facilitator of 5G projects initiated by By adhering to a consumer-centric approach the European Union and a founding member of and a “Make it Possible” brand proposition, the 5G Innovation Centre (5GIC) in the UK, we we continued to focus on a quality strategy. released a 5G white paper, proactively constructed Our flagship device, the Ascend P6, achieved a global 5G ecosystem, and carried out joint extraordinary results in terms of both brand research in close collaboration with more than awareness and profit. Historical breakthroughs 20 universities worldwide. We played an active were made in our smartphone business, and we role in contributing to the development of future were ranked among the top three globally. Global wireless technologies, industry standards, and the brand awareness of our mobile phones saw an industry chain. annual increase of 110%. Enabling large-scale commercial use of 400G Building service value routers Huawei is committed to increasing service Our commercial 400G router solution was competitiveness. The capabilities of our service recognized by 49 customers and put into solutions and worldwide delivery organizations large-scale commercial use. We were the first to are continuing to advance, enabling us to deliver launch a 1T router line card for backbone routers, uniformly high-quality services on a global scale, a super-large-capacity 40T WDM prototype, and a tailored to local needs. The HUAWEI SmartCare® new AOSN architecture. CEM solution has further extended our leadership in the telecom CEM area through scaled delivery of Maintaining our global leading position in LTE verifiable business value and constant innovation. We have worked with the TM Forum (TMF) to We remained the leader in commercial LTE develop a CEM metrics system, becoming a deployment worldwide. Our solutions have been leading player in the development of industry deployed in more than 100 capital cities and nine CEM standards. Our Managed Services have financial centers. outperformed the market throughout the year. Huawei has become an industry-leading managed service provider (MSP) with strong business growth. In addition, we have steadily grown our consulting and system integration services and developed key capabilities in end-to-end network planning and evolution services. Five-Year Financial Highlights 15 Five-Year Financial Highlights 2013 CNY Million 2013 2012* 2011* 2010* 2009* (USD Million)** Revenue 39,463 239,025 220,198 203,929 182,548 146,607 Operating profit 4,809 29,128 20,658 18,796 31,806 22,773 Operating margin 12.2% 12.2% 9.4% 9.2% 17.4% 15.5% Net profit 3,468 21,003 15,624 11,655 25,630 19,430 Cash flow from 3,724 22,554 24,969 17,826 31,555 24,188 operating activities Cash and short-term 13,529 81,944 71,649 62,342 55,458 38,214 investments Working capital 12,412 75,180 63,837 56,996 60,899 43,286 Total assets 38,226 231,532 210,006 193,849 178,984 148,968 Total borrowings 3,803 23,033 20,754 20,327 12,959 16,115 Owner’s equity 14,243 86,266 75,024 66,228 69,400 52,741 Liability ratio 62.7% 62.7% 64.3% 65.8% 61.2% 64.6% * As a result of the application of new International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and amendments to IFRSs and to conform to current year’s presentation, certain comparative figures have been restated. ** Translated into United States dollar (“USD”) using the closing rate as at December 31, 2013 of USD1.00 = CNY6.0569 Cash flow from Revenue Operating profit operating activities CAGR: 13% CAGR: 6% CAGR: -2% CNY Million CNY Million CNY Million 250,000 239,025 35,000 35,000 220,198 31,806 31,555 203,929 30,000 29,128 30,000 200,000 182,548 24,969 25,000 25,000 24,188 22,773 22,554 146,607 20,658 150,000 20,000 18,796 20,000 17,826 100,000 15,000 15,000 10,000 10,000 50,000 5,000 5,000 0 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 Year 09 10 11 12 13 Year 09 10 11 12 13 Year 16 Letter from the Chairwoman Letter from the Chairwoman networking, has further accelerated the integration of the digital and physical worlds. Billions of people have mobile devices and tens of billions of “things” are connected to M2M modules with ubiquitous broadband access made available by mobile, fixed, and enterprise networks, generating copious amounts of data every few seconds. How can such a massive volume of data be transmitted, processed, stored, and presented? Huawei builds highly efficient and fully-connected digital logistics systems with this purpose in mind. Innovation connecting everyone Driven by information-based development, we are no longer restricted by physical boundaries – our world is becoming flat. With mobile networks entering the LTE era, cloud technologies have Flowing water brings energy, vitality, and boundless made businesses and organizations more efficient, potential. The increasing flow of information while individuals can easily find entertainment and around the world is similar in that it enables shop, study, and job-hunt through a rich variety of humanity to share knowledge, ideas, and wisdom. smart devices. As the costs associated with information flow are constantly reduced and efficiency is significantly ICT is the engine that powers innovation boosted, society becomes more educated and worldwide. We develop innovative technologies empowered. This is remarkable progress! that can provide access to those who don’t have any, and faster access to those who do. In 2013, Today, information-based developments penetrate we deployed LTE solutions in over 100 countries social-economic activities and nearly every aspect around the world, allowing people to enjoy easy of our daily life as we embrace an era with massive and fast access to wireless networks. We called data traffic. The new wave of ICT, characterized for the industry to add 500MHz frequency bands by mobile broadband, cloud computing, Big Data to propel the mobile broadband industry forward analytics, the Internet of Things (IoT), and social and make broadband access available to a wider Letter from the Chairwoman 17 group of people. We published a 5G white paper advantages and manage these resources and established our vision and key technological consistently across the globe. We are working goals for 5G development and deployment in the hard to ensure a global industry chain grounded hope of making 5G available sooner to advance in win-win approaches and reciprocal obligations the ICT industry and improve quality of life for to help build a sound business ecosystem for all. We launched the world’s first service – and the long-term development of the industry. As a user experience-centric agile network architecture, responsible corporate citizen, we always contribute along with the first-of-its-kind agile switch S12700. significantly to the local markets in which we These offerings are ideal for such new applications operate. as cloud computing, Bring Your Own Device (BYOD), Software-Defined Networking (SDN), IoT, We have fully leveraged the capabilities and cost multi-service support, and Big Data. In addition, advantages in different regions, including finance, we will increase our investments in innovation services, consulting, and human resources, and and research on basic scientific and engineering have set up over 40 centers of expertise (COEs) and technologies to drive the industry forward with over 30 shared service centers (SSCs). In 2013, we leading core technologies. set up the Financial Risk Control Center (FRCC) in London to manage global financial risks and ensure Huawei’s products and services have enabled that our financial operations remain efficient, nearly half of the world’s population to enjoy easy secure, and compliant. Our European Logistics and affordable access to information networks. Center, based in Hungary, makes the best use We firmly believe that such networks increase of regional resources and covers Europe, Central opportunity and should be available to everyone. Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. By localizing our operations and cooperating extensively with Glocalized operations local and global partners, we have improved our overall capabilities. In addition, our value chain In the context of globalization, we believe that enables fluid capability transfer across the entire open, cooperative, and free trade policies are world, creating great value. Through glocalization, guarantees for improving the competitiveness of we have created tens of thousands of jobs in the ICT industry and promoting the development local communities and helped to advance the ICT of the digital economy. With a global view in mind, industry in each market. Today, over 70% of our we integrate the best resources with comparative employees outside of China are local hires. 18 Letter from the Chairwoman Building a robust network Inspiring organizational vitality The ICT industry relies on a global supply chain. As our company becomes more globalized and Each smartphone, tablet, PC, TV, and even our business continues to develop, our Board of home appliance has a global supply network, Directors (BOD) needs to represent a wider range which makes it increasingly difficult to trace the of areas and embrace broader management views source of security risks and threats. Society is that will enable it to make timely and informed increasingly dependent on networks, and the decisions, thereby helping to ensure sustainable scale and complexity of networks are increasing and effective growth in today’s fiercely competitive exponentially, increasing risks. market. To this end, we increased the number of BOD members from 13 to 17. New members To mitigate risks, we have incorporated security were voted in by representatives of shareholding requirements into our internal processes and employees on December 27, 2013. The four new established an auditable, sustainable, and directors have each worked at Huawei for over 10 trusted security assurance system. In the spirit years and possess extensive experience in markets, of cooperation, we have actively participated technologies, and management; their experience in standards activities in IEEE, IETF, OMA, UPnP and insights will contribute significantly to the Forum, Wi-Fi Alliance, and other such organizations development of the company. to help ensure network robustness and security. In 2014, we will gradually restructure our business In 2013, we continued to support stable network organizations to suit the era of ICT convergence. operations in over 170 countries and regions, This is the only way we can provide solutions that particularly during critical incidents, natural can fully meet customers’ evolving needs. While disasters, and special events, including Hajj, the building closer connections and partnerships with Ya’an earthquake in China, and Typhoon Haiyan customers to help them achieve success, we ensure in the Philippines. our own health and sustainable growth. Letter from the Chairwoman 19 Sowing seeds of opportunity have yet to be connected. Joining the connected world, they will acquire more knowledge, receive In 2013, we deployed TD-LTE solutions in Africa, a better education, and have more development dramatically increasing access speeds and wireless opportunities. broadband coverage. This, in turn, reduced the cost of wireless broadband access and allowed more I would like to extend my sincere gratitude to all people to enjoy high-speed broadband networks. staff members and their loved ones, and to our customers, partners, and industry organizations We also actively promoted the development of worldwide. As we move forward, let us work ICT professionals and knowledge transfers in local together to create a better connected world – for communities to help them join the digital society. everyone. As of the end of 2013, Huawei’s “Telecom Seeds for the Future” program covered over 70 universities in more than 20 countries, benefiting over 10,000 students. We firmly believe that everyone should have citizenship in the digital society that will soon connect the entire world. Universal access is a step towards creating a level playing field. Information networks, which so many of us take for granted, Sun Yafang hold the potential to change the lives of those who Chairwoman of the Board 20 Core Values Core Values Customer s First rk wo De di am ca Te tio Core n Values C In Im ont te pr inu gr ov o em us ity en t Openness & Initiative Customers First Dedication H u a w e i e x i s t s to s e r v e c u s to m e r s , w h o s e We win customers’ respect and trust primarily demands are the driving forces behind our through dedication. This includes every effort development. We continuously create long-term we make to create value for customers and to value for customers by being responsive to their improve our capabilities. We value employees' needs and requirements. We measure our work contributions and reward them accordingly. against how much value we bring to customers, because we can only succeed through our customers’ success. Continuous Improvement Openness & Initiative Continuous improvement is required for us Driven by customer needs, we passionately to become better partners for our customers, pursue customer-centric innovations in an open improve our company and grow as individuals. manner. We believe that business success is the This process requires that we actively listen and ultimate measure of the value of any technology, learn in order to improve. product, solution or process improvement. Integrity Teamwork Integrity is our most valuable asset. It drives We can only succeed through teamwork. By us to behave honestly and keep our promises, working closely in both good times and bad, we ultimately winning our customers’ trust and lay the foundation for successful cross-cultural respect. collaboration, streamlined inter-departmental cooperation and efficient processes. Management Discussion and Analysis 21 Management Discussion and Analysis Our Value Propositions Resonating with the revolutionary changes taking place in the information industry, Huawei continuously innovates to meet customer needs and advance our technological leadership. We openly cooperate with industry partners, focus on building future-proof information pipes, and continuously create value for our customers and society at large. Based on these value propositions, Huawei is dedicated to enriching life and improving efficiency through a better connected world. In addition, we strive to be the first choice and best partner for telecom carriers and enterprise customers while becoming a brand of choice among consumers. Enriching life and improving efficiency through a better connected world Ubiquitous Broadband Agile Innovation Inspired Experience Mobile and smart Insights into the industry’s Simplified and personalized Large capacity and ultraopportunities in the Big Data era service experience broadband Integrating resources for efficient True-to-life and diversified Diversified access anytime collaboration Zero wait time and rich anywhere Rapid delivery of innovative services communication Continuous and smooth evolutions Innovation of services and business Creating value through models experience Continuously innovating for our customers and advancing our technology leadership; cooperating for win-win outcomes Ubiquitous Broadband The Internet makes it easier to disseminate and Given that the requirements for network obtain information, and stimulates people’s desire connectivity, bandwidth, reliability, and security are to go online anytime, anywhere using any device. far from being satisfied, Huawei is committed to This level of connectivity enables users to access helping carriers increase network capacity, optimize more content and applications and enjoy the network management, and enable Internet-based convenience made possible by mobile offices. operations. We continuously innovate new Enterprises are migrating their services from IT architectures (such as SoftCOM), Single platforms, systems to data centers and clouds, which in and new technologies. By delivering products and turn places higher requirements on networks. solutions with leading technologies and smooth Harnessing future data surges requires networks evolution, we help customers build highly efficient with enhanced capacity, coverage, and efficiency. network infrastructures that provide on-demand Huawei aims to bring the benefits of networks to services to users and offer them easy access to more people. ubiquitous broadband. 22 Management Discussion and Analysis Agile Innovation Inspired Experience The ICT industry is still developing rapidly. New A superior user experience is the basis of business trends such as mobility, cloud computing, Big success. The experience with the product itself is Data, and social networking are driving the important, but the experience of cloud services industry into new frontiers. In addition, significant provided by the product is more important. digitalization changes are taking place in the real Future smart devices, including wearable smart world. The Internet is driving the modernization devices, are gaining wider market appeal thanks and restructuring of traditional industries. to enhanced user experience made possible by such features as precise emotion recognition and Enterprises and industries must rapidly gain insights context awareness. into business opportunities and continuously enhance IT-enabled organizational collaboration Our goal is to provide industry-leading device in order to launch new products and new services products. Through innovations in key technologies into markets better and faster. IT is transforming (e.g., ambient intelligence, voice interaction, from a support system into a production system and new materials), industry designs, and cloud and has become a core competence of enterprises. services, we will take the user experience to a new level. Huawei provides data center infrastructure solutions based on cloud computing to help customers enhance utilization of storage and computing resources, and enable business systems to be quickly deployed, easily operated and maintained, and efficiently managed. Huawei also provides mobile office solutions that help customers improve work efficiency. Our intelligent data analysis system leverages Big Data technologies to help customers gain insights into business opportunities and make agile business innovations. The next 30 years will witness the gradual replacement of private data centers by public cloud data centers. Huawei is positioned to help carriers build public clouds and seize the tremendous opportunities presented by enterprise ICT cloud services. Management Discussion and Analysis 23 Business Review 2013 In 2013, Huawei’s well-balanced presence Over the next three to five years, the CAGR of worldwide helped the company achieve stable and Huawei’s sales revenue is estimated to stand at healthy growth in the carrier network, enterprise, approximately 10% and consumer businesses. Annual sales revenue amounted to CNY239,025 million, an 8.5% increase over the previous year. CNY Million 2013 2012 YoY China 84,017 73,579 14.2% Sales from the Chinese market totaled CNY84,017 America 31,428 31,846 (1.3%) million, an increase of 14.2% year-on-year. The Asia Pacific 38,925 37,359 4.2% carrier network business continued to maintain EMEA 84,655 77,414 9.4% modest growth, while the enterprise and Total 239,025 220,198 8.5% consumer businesses both achieved rapid growth, increasing by over 35%. Thanks to the growth of infrastructure networks, professional services, and CNY Million 2013 2012 YoY smartphones, Huawei earned CNY84,655 million Carrier Network 166,512 160,093 4.0% from Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA), Business which marks an increase of 9.4% in sales revenue Enterprise Business 15,263 11,530 32.4% year-on-year. Due in large part to the development Consumer Business 56,986 48,376 17.8% of emerging markets in Southeast Asia, Huawei Others 264 199 32.5% maintained its growth momentum in the Asia Total 239,025 220,198 8.5% Pacific Region and achieved CNY38,925 million in sales revenue, up 4.2% year-on-year. In the Americas, the infrastructure network business grew robustly and the consumer business enjoyed continued growth in Latin American countries. However, due to business slowdown in North 239,025 America, Huawei earned CNY31,428 million in sale Huawei achieved CNY239,025 million in sales revenue in the Americas, down 1.3% year-on-year. revenue, an increase of 8.5% year-on-year. 24 Management Discussion and Analysis Carrier Network Business wireless network capabilities to promote industry development. Multi-dimensional collaboration Over the past 20 years, an increasingly more was undertaken to develop higher bandwidth mobile digital society has profoundly changed the and improve user experience by facilitating the way people work and live. Over the next 20 years, evolution of LTE. We continued to adhere to the this digital world will be further integrated into “hybrid copper and fiber” strategy to promote the physical world. With ubiquitous Internet, such the sound development of FBB. A pipe as wide as integration will yield unlimited possibilities and the Pacific Ocean has been constructed for IP and drive the emergence of innumerable technological WDM to support the increase in traffic. innovations and applications. To integrate various content and applications, we As this integration progresses, consumer needs developed enterprise cloud service platforms to are shifting from basic connections to content explore and cultivate cloud opportunities with and applications, thereby adding thrust to the ICT carriers; built video-centric multimedia service industry as it figures out new ways to keep up platforms to help carriers develop in-home services; with the changing demands. Enabling consumers collaborated with carriers to provide services to access desired content and applications faster for consumers, home and enterprise users; and is quickly becoming the differentiating factor worked with carriers to transform their operations between competing carriers. The following support systems (OSS) into business enablement key factors decide which carriers maintain systems based on Internet architecture. competitiveness: Regarding agile and efficient business operations, ■ Ability to build ubiquitous networks and deliver we built mobile Internet service platforms to help optimal network experience carriers transform towards personal consumption ■ Capacity to integrate a broad range of content services, and developed the HUAWEI SmartCare ® and applications customer experience management (CEM) ■ Competency in executing agile and efficient solution to help carriers transform to user-centric business operations operations. Remaining steadfast with Huawei’s 2013 overall Thanks to our focus on the pipe strategy as well strategy, our focus remained on improving as our customer-centric product and business & information transfer, processing, and storage. service solution strategies, we are becoming the We provided integrated products, services, and most trusted business and strategic partner of solutions to help carriers build networks capable carriers. In 2013, sales revenue from our carrier of delivering optimal customer experience. network business totaled CNY166,512 million, an increase of 4% year-on-year. Our sound financial Continuous and persistent technical and performance has enabled us to be more innovative architectural innovation is the key to cultivating in development of technologies, products, and an optimal network experience. We invested in business & service solutions, therein equipping us SoftCOM to promote the development of SDN and with the means to provide continuous strategic NFV and help carriers build a data center-based support for the transformation and development network architecture. We continued to invest of carriers. in the research of 5G technology and improve Management Discussion and Analysis 25 Wireless Networks partner for all the top three carriers in the country providing mobile broadband services. In addition, Sales revenue from our wireless network we have maintained our leadership position in equipment totaled CNY52,503 million in 2013. the UMTS/HSPA+ market and have deployed 297 commercial UMTS networks worldwide, of which More than a decade of relentless efforts 97 networks have been upgraded to use the and continuous innovation in the mobile 42 Mbit /s Dual Carrier HSPA+ technology. By communications field have taken Huawei from leveraging our world-leading multi-band and super deploying distributed base stations to establishing wideband electronic control antenna solutions, we our SingleRAN solution as an industry standard have established a leadership role in the global LTE and developing the industry-leading end-toantenna market and provided services to over 360 end mobile broadband (MBB) solution. All these networks in 155 countries. remarkable achievements have positioned Huawei as a true industry leader, no longer merely to be As verified by 3GPP, Huawei has contributed the perceived just a product provider. most high-quality LTE/LTE-A standard patents since 2010. Specifically, we have demonstrated our Mobile broadband is changing the world and strong capability for standards development by bringing with it great opportunities and unlimited contributing 466 granted proposals to LTE/LTE-A growth potential. With our end-to-end MBB core standards, achieving the global No.1 position solutions, we are committed to paving the way and constituting nearly 25% of all proposals for carriers to succeed in the mobile broadband granted globally. We currently hold key positions era. Ubiquitous ultra-broadband networks provide ranging from chairperson and board member to end users with an inspired experience. Network director, workgroup leader, and speaker in over architecture optimization and end-to-end resource 100 standards organizations (such as 3GPP, ETSI, collaboration effectuate rapid and efficient IEEE, and ITU-T). network construction and service deployment capabilities for carriers. Enhanced and open Almost without realizing it, mobile broadband network capabilities will continue to drive carrier has expanded its reach into nearly every part of business innovation and revenue growth. everyday life. Looking forward, we will increase investment in future key technologies and By the end of 2013, Huawei had deployed over 500 standards on wireless networks. We will invest at wireless networks worldwide, serving over two least USD600 million into 5G technology research billion end users. With the vigorous development and innovation by 2018, and expect that by 2020, of the global mobile industry, large-scale LTE such countless “things” as cars, meters, medical deployment was launched worldwide. The issuance equipment, and home appliances will all be of 4G licenses in China gave fresh impetus to the connected to 5G networks. We will be presented global mobile industry. We remained the leader with unprecedented development opportunities in commercial LTE deployment worldwide. Our in the communications industry as well as the LTE solutions have been deployed in more than healthcare, retail, transportation, banking, media, 100 capital cities and nine financial centers. In education, and manufacturing industries, and China, Huawei has become the most important people will lead better, fuller lives rewired to the age of hyper-connectivity. 26 Management Discussion and Analysis Fixed Networks satisfying increasing requirements for bandwidth from subscribers. Sales revenue from our fixed network equipment totaled CNY45,085 million in 2013. During the construction of high-speed ultrabroadband networks, we constantly focus on The fourth information revolution, represented by customer needs and lead the development of the cloud computing and Big Data, smart devices, HD/ fixed network industry. In the IP network field, ultra HD video content, and the popularization of Huawei has taken a leadership role in the core over the top (OTT) products are leading the ultrarouter domain with the launch and large-scale broadband industry into a new era. commercial implementation of the first 400G/1T core router one year ahead of other industry To enhance the social and economic value of players. Our 1T router line card won a prestigious the ultra-broadband industry, we proposed the award from InfoVision at the Broadband World BOOST ultra-broadband business strategy. This Forum 2013. In the optical transport network strategy focuses on bandwidth management, field, we were the first to launch the all-optical industry cooperation, collaboration between switching network (AOSN) architecture, a critical fixed and mobile networks, and on-demand milestone in the development of optical network network construction, helping carriers address technologies. Our 40T WDM equipment supports the new challenges posed by the ubiquitous ultraup to 10 million users concurrently playing HD broadband environment. We advocate that carriers video on demand and lays a solid foundation improve user experience, achieve differentiated for the construction of a high-speed transport operations, and provide higher bandwidth at no network as wide as the Pacific Ocean. In the access extra charge by providing appealing content and network field, we launched the Vectoring system, implementing bandwidth management. In addition, which provides the industry’s highest capacity, we are strengthening industry cooperation with capable of concurrently supporting 100 Mbit/s OTT service providers by embracing the shift from broadband access for 768 users. The world’s first the traditional OTT cooperation model into the Via Fiber to the Door (FTTD) solution leverages existing the Telecom (VTT) model. This approach promotes cable resources to help carriers quickly provision joint development of content and broadband services and increase ultra-broadband speed based technology to create win-win outcomes. To on customer needs. enhance the overall return on investment (ROI) for carriers, fixed broadband can be jointly deployed In 2013, our innovative fixed network products and with mobile broadband. This provides users with solutions and excellent service gained worldwide access to converged fixed and mobile broadband customer recognition. Huawei’s 400G core router anytime, anywhere with unified service packages won 49 customers worldwide and became the while improving efficiency in network construction world’s largest supplier for commercial 400G to the benefit of carriers. On-demand network core routers. We helped Russia’s MegaFon build construction can be implemented in the last mile the world’s longest 100G WDM network across to leverage existing copper wires, coaxial cables, the Eurasian continent, and constructed over power lines, and so forth, thereby achieving two hundred 100G WDM commercial networks, optimum use of fiber and deployment resources covering more than 200,000 kilometers in total – and alleviating pressure in terms of ROI while more than five loops around the earth. We offered Management Discussion and Analysis 27 both fiber and copper access in the ubiquitous planning, collaborative design, smooth network ultra-broadband era. Our Vectoring solution evolution, and spectrum efficiency to maximize shipments ranked No. 1 in the world and Vectoring their ROI. Changes in the business environment, solutions have been widely deployed by more use of services and applications, together with than 20 carriers, including Eircom, Telecom Italia, user behavior are driving carriers to invest more in Swisscom, British Telecom, and Telekom Malaysia. CEM to cultivate further commercial opportunities. As a leading supplier of IP microwave products, The demand for Managed Services (outsourcing) we deployed more than 40 second-generation remains strong, with the scope becoming E-band microwave networks, becoming the largest broader and deeper. The rapid evolution of new supplier in this field. technologies and network architectures such as SDN/NFV and cloud data centers is bringing greater Moving forward, fixed broadband networks will challenges in all domains, including network face many opportunities and challenges. Carriers planning, design, operation, and maintenance. will gradually adopt SDN/NFV for simplified management, flexible deployment, and its open To enable carriers to stay abreast of the trends capabilities. The maturity of the 4K video industry and stay competitive in a volatile market, Huawei chain poses higher requirements for network has set services as a priority for our strategic bandwidth and adds further impetus to fixed investment. During 2013, we have continued to broadband development. In the FMC2.0 era that increase investment in service solutions, platforms, features mutual penetration and integration of and tools, while establishing local service CT, IT, and the Internet, full-service operations delivery organizations and supporting platforms (including fixed, mobile, and content services) around the world. In addition, we have been will be the key initiatives to enhance customer committed to creating greater value for carriers. experience. In the face of opportunities and We have established strategic collaboration challenges brought by development in the industry, and joint innovation initiatives with carriers, we will continue to nurture an open and innovative increased investment in joint innovation with attitude, provide more competitive solutions to carriers, and constructed a number of global develop the industry, and become a strategic Centers of Expertise (COEs), such as the Service partner that even more global customers rely Operation Center (SOC) in Jakarta, Indonesia; upon. the Big Data COE in Dublin, Ireland; the Global Network Evolution and Experience Center (GNEEC) Global Services in Beijing, China; and the Customer Experience Transformation Center (CETC) in Shenzhen, China. 2013 was another year of strong growth in Huawei Global Services. Sales amounted to CNY52,047 In the CEM field, the HUAWEI SmartCare ® CEM million. solution has maintained its leadership position in the industry. Huawei, in collaboration with the TM The major industry trends in 2013 were carriers’ Forum, has led the creation of the CEM Metrics focus on efficiency, innovation, and growth. The Guidebook, establishing Huawei as the industryrapid evolution of network technologies, services, leader in standardizing CEM measurements. The and applications has led to a shortage of spectrum, guidebook contains over 420 key quality indicators requiring carriers to place increased emphasis on (KQIs) related to customer experience. In 2013, we 28 Management Discussion and Analysis continued to expand its capabilities in customer multi-scenario collaborative planning and design, experience consulting, service modeling, and integrated verification and simulation, and dynamic CEM metrics. We have introduced 100G probes refarming. Furthermore, we have continued to into large-scale commercial use and developed invest and innovate in several growing areas SEQ Analyst to provide mature big data storage such as green cloud data center integration and and analysis capabilities. Meanwhile, we have OSS. In addition, we have integrated advanced continued to innovate in network and service geographical technologies for big data analysis optimization techniques. The end-user oriented into our network planning and optimization tools, SOC solution has reached maturity and enabled increasing our competitiveness in information and Huawei to be the first in the industry to establish data analysis. We have maintained steady growth collaborative closed-loop management with the throughout 2013. Specifically, we have provided Network Operation Center (NOC), helping carriers network planning and design services for more transform to experience-centric operations. By than 500 carriers worldwide, provided end-tothe end of 2013, the HUAWEI SmartCare ® CEM end network evolution services for 30 carriers, solution was being widely used in Europe, the deployed 110 LTE networks and indoor distributed Middle East, and Asia Pacific. Through successful systems at 26,000 hotspots, and maintained project delivery, we have brought verifiable technical and market leadership in refarming business value to carriers in terms of VIP care, technologies. By the end of 2013, we had provided brand promotion, business development, and end integrated services to 330 data centers for carriers user retention. around the world, including 70 cloud data centers. In Managed Services, we are continuing to develop In the network construction and maintenance field, the next generation Managed Services solutions we have successfully completed more than 950 key to enhance the total value of ownership (TVO) projects in 2013, including network modernization for operators. The solutions, which include our projects and national broadband projects. We innovative strategic alignment and operations have successfully provided network assurance transformation model, Managed Services Unified services to 178 key events, including Formula One Platform (MSUP) that support ICT and FMC racing and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation converged operations, and best-in-class OSS (APEC) summit. Throughout, we have maintained tools (E-iNOC), can deliver broad value including an overall high level of customer satisfaction. operational efficiency enhancement, together with network and service quality improvements. Huawei Looking ahead, the emergence of new has become an industry leading Managed Services technologies, the convergence of IT and CT, as Provider in terms of market share and solutions well as the constant increase of costs will present that can align with carriers’ business strategies, new challenges for carriers in terms of operations serving over 120 carriers in more than 75 countries and maintenance. We will continue to strengthen in 2013. investment in service solutions and related tools and platforms, develop the technical skills and In the consulting and system integration field, working efficiency of our global service personnel, we are committed to increase ROI for carriers and enhance joint innovation with customers to and facilitate the smooth evolution of services provide them with more valuable and competitive and networks. We have made significant service solutions, maximizing their ROI, and helping breakthroughs in a number of areas, including them transform to value-oriented operations. precise site planning, multimode/multi-vendor/ Management Discussion and Analysis 29 Carrier Software & Core Networks markets in Europe and the US by enhancing multiscreen experiences to meet market demands while Sales revenue in our carrier software and core our digital enterprise services saw 100% growth network business totaled CNY16,877 million in in the IPCC BPO solution. 2013. In the BSS field, we have been committed to The telecom industry is rapidly entering the digital building strategic transformation capabilities in era. No longer merely focused on providing basic terms of digital enablement of business processes connections and large-scale telecommunication and our next-generation digital enablement services, carriers are transforming to build a platform. By providing open telecom capabilities diversified digital ecosystem. In the future, carrier and monetizing the data assets, we expanded business models will transform from man to the operation ecosystem and customer group, machine, from voice services to diversified digital and provided online customer experience. We services, from a closed value chain to an open continuously expanded our global market presence ecosystem, and from unilateral business models to in the BSS field. The new-generation Convergent multilateral business models. Accordingly, carriers Billing System has been put into commercial use will gradually shift their business focus from worldwide, further dominating the market. Nextnetwork asset management to both customer asset generation Business Support System (NGBSS) management and network asset management. continued to facilitate in-depth operation transformation, helping carriers achieve business Facing the digital wave, we focused on digital success. services, business support system (BSS), core network, and IT infrastructure based on customer In the core network field, we helped carriers asset management. By providing open telecom strengthen their core business by best real-time capabilities necessary to aggregate massive communication solutions, monetize the network amounts of digital content and applications, digital capabilities by Communication as a Service (CaaS), and Internetized operation processes and systems, and value the data assets by Data Analysis as a future-oriented network control capabilities, and Service (DAaaS), expanding carriers’ pipe business. cloud-based IT infrastructure, we have helped We established a leading position in the VoLTE carriers implement the strategic transformation to market and have become a strategic partner of digital services. Deutsche Telekom, China Mobile, PCCW, and other leading carriers. Our IMS won the National In the digital service field, we developed the nextScience and Technology Progress Award of China. generation unified open telecom platform, built a Our SingleSDB has provided services for 3 billion complete digital service ecosystem, and leveraged users worldwide and maintained a “zero incident” open telecom capabilities and integrated massive record for six consecutive years. Our SmartPCC digital content to help carriers bring in more continued to direct the industry’s development accounts, tap into the value of customer assets, and grew over 40% in sales year-on-year. As an and implement the strategic transition to digital industry leader, we played an important role in services. In 2013, the SDP-based digital service the development of NFV, and worked together transformation in hosting model brought revenue with Deutsche Telekom and China Mobile to growth of 67%, and our SDP held the largest implement cloud-based verification and testing market share. Our digital home services focused on for core networks by adopting NFV concepts and video and made significant headway into high-end technologies. 30 Management Discussion and Analysis In the IT infrastructure field, we focused digital operating system, and help carriers increase on Internetized innovation concepts and revenue, optimize their business models, and technologies, developed the cloud operating improve operation efficiency, so as to become the system FusionSphere, rebuilt infrastructure for best business partner for carrier transformation to ICT convergence, and helped carriers transform digital services. to digital services. We achieved 116% growth in 2013. Our high-end storage products have been Network Energy deployed by the top three carriers in China, and we have been ranked No.1 among all suppliers Our network energy product line focuses on the in high-end storage testing for China Mobile’s development opportunities of LTE, data centers, centralized procurement project. Our UDS cloud energy conservation and emissions reduction; and storage system has been put into commercial deploys power supply solutions in line with primary use in the European subsidiaries of Vodafone; IT product solutions. By adhering to the “efficient, management services have been used by South secure, reliable, and evolution-compliant” core Africa MTN and by three Telefonica subsidiaries in concept, our network energy product line provided Colombia, Mexico, and Venezuela; and the telecom communications energy and data center energy public cloud solution has been commercially solutions necessary to fully address the demands deployed at over 20 sites worldwide. for ICT power supply applications. In 2013, we fully utilized the advantages of With the rapid development of LTE networks collaboration between pipes and the four areas around the world, construction and maintenance (digital services, BSS, core network, and IT of telecommunication sites became more complex. infrastructure) in the carrier software and core Hence, carriers were calling for highly-efficient, network field, and built solutions for customer asset reliable, and intelligent network energy products management. The MBB Value Growth Solution to accommodate future network evolution. In (VGS) continued to promote mobile broadband the communications energy field, we were the traffic operations, came into service in the Western first to launch a 98% conversion efficient power European, South Pacific, and North Latin American supply (the highest efficiency ever commercially markets, and became well recognized among released), and were the only vendor to provide customers. We also worked with carriers to explore a full range of high-efficiency power products and develop areas including Big Data and M2M. and solutions in the industry. Huawei provided We have become a core member of the Big Data full services for world-leading carriers. We have Benchmark of Transaction Processing Performance worked with leading carriers, such as China Council (TPC), and lastly our Big Data platform Mobile, Vodafone, KPN, and British Telecom, has been commercially deployed in over 10 sites on all-around energy conservation to help them worldwide. implement their energy conservation strategies. In addition, carriers in developing countries suffered In the years to come, in the carrier software and high OPEX due to power shortages and high core network field, we will continue to focus on carbon dioxide emissions. In response, Huawei “customer asset management” and network asset launched the Alternative Energy Solution, which management ; adhere to the software platform significantly decreased carrier OPEX by reducing strategy; create an open, cooperative, and winfuel consumption and thereby increasing customer win digital ecosystem; develop an internetized profit. Our Alternative Energy Solution has been Management Discussion and Analysis 31 deployed by Airtel, Telefonica, Mobilink, Safaricom, achieved rapid growth in sales revenue from the and other carriers, having significantly reduced China Region. For markets outside of China, we O&M costs for these customers while lowering further consolidated our resources in developed carbon dioxide emissions. regions such as Western Europe and such emerging markets as Russia, Southeast Africa, As the digital society develops, data centers based and Latin America. In these markets, we also on big data processing and cloud computing recorded relatively rapid growth and achieved continued to experience rapid development, large-scale sales with industry customers and requiring innovative data center energy solutions channel partners. to ensure service continuity and protect customer investments. The advanced modular design of our As the influence of innovative ICT technologies like container data center solution and micro-module cloud computing, Big Data, mobility, and social data center solution has been widely recognized networking continues to increase and as the IoT by the industry. Our Desktop Cloud Container Data and mobile Internet develop rapidly, the physical Center was awarded Tier III Design Certification world and the digital world are merging at an from Uptime Institute. The mobile warehouse accelerating pace. Driven by digital restructuring modular data center jointly built by Huawei and in the ICT era, ICT is turning into a production China Mobile Heilongjiang Branch was named the system and a core competence for enterprises. We “Green” Data Center of the Year at the Datacenter continue to take an open and cooperative attitude, Dynamics Awards (affectionately known as the innovate, focus on ICT infrastructure solutions, “Oscars” of the data center industry). In addition, and work with our partners to provide innovative, our full range of high-efficiency UPS products differentiated, and leading products and solutions addressed a wide range of uninterruptible large-, to our enterprise customers. medium-, and small-capacity power supply needs. Currently, our UPS solutions have been deployed in In the enterprise networking field, we launched the high-end industries and by key carriers, including world’s first agile network solution, along with the Saudi Telecom, Telenor, 21Vianet, as well as the world’s first agile switch S12700 which has a fully top three carriers in China. These solutions have programmable Ethernet Network Processor (ENP). been implemented globally in Europe, Africa, With a service-, user-, and experience-centric agile the Asia Pacific, and other regions, providing network architecture, the agile network solution uninterruptible power supply services for all delivers five unprecedented functionalities: industries. ubiquitous service, full-scale security collaboration, IP quality perception, in-depth wired and wireless Enterprise Business convergence, and smooth evolution to SDN, thereby enabling networks to be more agile for By adhering to the “focus” and “being integrated” services. The IP network management model strategies, our enterprise business embarked on has transitioned from single-point best effort a development fast track in 2013. Sales revenue to full-scale control. The CloudEngine 12816 we reached CNY15,263 million, an annual increase launched is a data center switch that boasts the of approximately 32%. We made significant industry’s largest switching capacity of 64 Tbit/s breakthroughs in product competitiveness and and an impressive virtualization capability of market presence. Amid global economic recovery 1:16. The USG6000, our next-generation firewall and challenges, we seized opportunities and product, identifies up to 6,000 applications, over 32 Management Discussion and Analysis 20% above the industry average. This firewall performance test records at Standard Performance helps customers achieve refined policy control. Evaluation Corporation (SPEC) 105 consecutive The AR530, our first next-generation industrial times. Our storage products also passed the SPEC switching router that targets the IoT, combines five million operations per second (OPS) and SPCrouting, switching, security, wireless, and industrial 1 one million input/output operations per second bus features on a single platform. Currently, our (IOPS) performance tests, winning a global leading enterprise networking products and solutions advantage in product performance. The Huawei have been successfully deployed in many projects, OceanStor 18000 series Enterprise Storage System, including China’s National e-Government Network, our enterprise-class high-end storage product, Agricultural Bank of China, China’s State Grid, won the 2013 New Product Innovation Leadership the backbone network of Alibaba, Automatically Award in High-End Storage Market from Frost Switched Optical Network (ASON) of the Three & Sullivan and the Red Dot Award for Product Gorges Dam across China’s Yangtze River, Borussia Design in Germany. The OceanStor 18000 series Dortmund Stadium in Germany, Baidu’s Data is also the only storage product that won this Center, and APT Satellite Company’s Data Center. prestigious award in the industrial design field. In 2013, our revenue from data communications We have built more than 330 data centers for products jumped by 44%. Our share in the customers worldwide. Our storage solutions and enterprise router market was ranked by Gartner server products have been deployed in more as the second largest worldwide for the fourth than 100 countries. We have become a storage consecutive year. In Gartner’s Magic Quadrant for partner of Vodafone, University of California at the Wired and Wireless LAN Access Infrastructure Santa Cruz (UCSC), CSS Insurance of Switzerland, report, our switch and WLAN products appeared Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China in the Challengers quadrant. Huawei was selected Construction Bank, and Agricultural Bank of China. by Technology Business Research (TBR) as the We also partnered with the China Merchants Bank fastest-growing company in the global data center to innovate its Big Data platform for financial data networking market for second year in a row. and helped Taobao make e-transaction history Huawei’s full series of FW, UTM, and IPS products during the November 11 (widely referred to as for the security domain were listed in Gartner’s “double-eleven” and known as “Singles’ Day” in Magic Quadrant. According to statistics released China) online shopping spree. by IDC in 2013, Huawei ranked number one in the combined firewall and UTM market in China. In the unified communications and collaboration (UC&C) field, we worked closely with partners In the IT field, by adhering to the concept of “Make in the industry chain to provide UC&C solutions IT Simple, Make Business Agile”, we continued ranging from basic platforms to experience and to launch innovative IT products and solutions. application. In 2013, we launched a series of main Featured offerings included the industry’s first products, including the 96 series MCU, TE series distributed cloud data center solution, FusionInsight videoconferencing endpoints, Intelligent Video (the industry’s first enterprise-class Big Data Surveillance (IVS) 2.0, and Contact Center (CC) analytics platform that supports geographic 2.0. Our main products serve a large number of redundancy spanning over 1,000 km), and Huawei industry customers worldwide, including Saudi Appliance for SAP HANA . Through continuous ® Aramco, Ministry of Education of Uzbekistan, differentiated innovations, our servers set new and Wing Lung Bank of Hong Kong. According to Management Discussion and Analysis 33 Gartner’s Magic Quadrant 2013, our UC products In vertical industries, we adhere to the “being maintained its position in the Challengers quadrant integrated” strategy and integrate our main and our CC products maintained the top spot in products into the solutions of our partners to this quadrant. The 2013 MarketScape report for jointly create greater value for customers. In the the UC&C market released by IDC elevated Huawei government and public sector, our Smart City, UC to the “Major Players” zone. e-Government, Emergency Command, e-Education, and Healthcare solutions were integrated by In the enterprise wireless field, our eLTE broadband more than 200 partners and supported 64 key trunking solution was widely deployed in multiple projects worldwide in 2013. For example, our projects across government, transportation, and Smart City solution was deployed by Mobily of energy industries. These projects include the safe Saudi Arabia, helping to build efficient and safe city project of Venezuela, Zhengzhou Metro Line cities. Our Public Safety solution helped Laos build 1, Tianjin municipal government network, Nanjing an efficient Emergency Command system that municipal government network, Ghana municipal features visualized dispatching, faster reaction, government network, IB-RED in Spain, and the and more accurate decision-making. In the energy Ozarowice project in Poland. We have been field, our Underground Mining Communication awarded 41 commercial eLTE contracts. Zhengzhou solution built industry-leading underground Metro Line 1 is the world’s first urban rail transit information highways for Shendong Coal Group, line to adopt 4G LTE technology. Our eLTE solution making it more safe and productive. Our all-IP provided the Passenger Information System (PIS) solution on power transmission and transformation and vehicle-mounted video surveillance services communications facilitated the build-out of a highon this line. Our solution effectively addressed speed and reliable power data network for Eskom, the problems associated with the current trainthe biggest power company in South Africa. In ground radio system, including decentralized the transportation field, our GSM-R solution construction, vulnerability to interference, and successfully served the high-speed rail between service discontinuity. We continued to enhance our Sochi and its surrounding major cities, contributing GSM-R solution, which can evolve to LTE smoothly to the success of the 2014 Winter Olympics in and is the industry leader in terms of reliability Sochi. Our intelligent transportation solution and performance. This solution has covered helped Moldova effectively alleviate traffic. As for approximately 14,000 km of railway and has been the financial services field, our check image data widely deployed by our customers in Russia, South management solution helped the Agricultural Bank Africa, Turkey, Morocco, and Serbia. Our GSM-R of China effectively manage a massive 10 PB in solution also helped facilitate smooth operation on check image data, reducing its management costs the Harbin-Dalian High-Speed Railway, the world’s by 20%. Our desktop security solution for the first high-speed railway in areas of deep freeze. financial services industry helped Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Industrial Bank build secure and BYOD has become a widely-accepted working style controllable business and office platforms. for enterprises. With our partners, we built mobile platforms featuring rich applications and promoted Huawei Enterprise Channel business has developed the highly secure one-stop BYOD solution. This steadily. Meanwhile, our channel policy, process, solution was adopted by large enterprises, financial and IT support system have become significantly services organizations, and educational institutions, more mature. By the end of 2013, we had more such as Haier Group, China Minsheng Bank, and than 5,000 channel partners worldwide. Huawei education bureaus in South Africa. 34 Management Discussion and Analysis provided more support to our partners with equal importance to marketing and sales, develop respect to training & certification, Marketing innovative, differentiated, leading, and easy-toDevelopment Fund (MDF), finance, etc. and integrate ICT products and solutions, and cultivate proactively conducted joint marketing activities specialized channel partners. In the enterprise with them. Both the quantity and quality of our market, we will continue to work hard to surpass partners have considerably increased. A sound and ourselves, strive to become the best innovation open channel ecosystem is taking shape. partner of our enterprise customers in the ICT infrastructure domain, enthusiastically embrace Huawei Enterprise Services provides ICT services opportunities and challenges in the ICT era, keep for the enterprise market, covering the entire up with technological trends, remain customernetwork lifecycle. It includes technical consulting, centric, and continue to create value for customer network planning, network design, deployment, business success. technical support, network optimization, as well as technical and pre-sales training and certification. Consumer Business We are dedicated to building a strong global ecosystem of service partners through certification, 4G LTE is developing rapidly. In particular, the authorization, enablement, incentives, and allChinese market will lead the high-speed growth around service support. Through this partner of LTE around the globe in the coming years. This ecosystem we serve customers by leveraging will present historic opportunities for the rapid our respective advantages. By the end of 2013, development of our smart devices. By relying on we had more than 800 certified and authorized our end-to-end and leading advantages in 4G LTE, service partners. Together with our partners we will continue to launch high-quality mobile we delivered over 5,000 projects during 2013. phones by centering on consumer experience, We have established a global ICT training and improve consumer satisfaction by combining certification program, including Huawei’s in-house experience in hardware, applications, and services, training centers, authorized training partners, and and strive to become a leading global smart device education projects with more than 30 universities. brand. Our training and certification program has helped develop ICT professionals around the globe. By In 2013, our consumer business continued to the end of 2013, we trained more than 16,000 maintain effective growth, earning sales revenue individuals and certified more than 3,000 of CNY56,986 million, an annual increase of engineers. approximately 18%. Annual shipments totaled 128 million units. Historical breakthroughs were made The information society is coming at an unstoppable in our smartphone business, and we were ranked pace. No industries and enterprises can be outside among the top three globally. We continued to of it. To ride on this trend, enterprises must focus on a quality strategy and launched flagship embrace advanced ICT technologies & solutions devices, such as the Ascend P6 and the Ascend for digital reforming to build leading advantages Mate. The Ascend P6 was sold in more than 100 into the future. In 2014, we will continue to countries, achieving extraordinary results in terms make investments, consolidate resources, and of both brand awareness and profit. Our Emotion prioritize the build-up of marketing and channel UI took user experience to a new level, and our capabilities and teams in the enterprise business. investment in the Huawei Fan Club has begun We will use marketing to promote sales, attach to pay off. Our share in the mobile broadband Management Discussion and Analysis 35 LTE market further increased and we made Our profit from home devices grew steadily. Our landscape-shaping breakthroughs in telematics. share in the fixed access market grew from 14% Our share in the home access market further to 21%, and we maintained our global leadership expanded, with tablet sales increasing by more position in the fixed wireless terminal market. We than 200%. cooperated with many top carriers and Multiple System Operators (MSOs) on set-top box (STB) In the past year, our smartphone shipments products. We have established a comprehensive reached 52 million units, an annual increase of product portfolio with low-end, mid-range, and more than 60%. Smartphones accounted for high-end tablets, and have seen tablet sales more than 87% of total mobile phone shipments. increase by more than 200%. As for the revenue from channel sales, while consolidating our carrier channels, we further Our Emotion UI took user experience to a new expanded non-carrier channels. The revenue from level. The number of cloud service users exceeded open channels (excluding e-commerce channels) 10 million, with more than 1 million active users. accounted for 45% of our total revenue and In terms of user engagement, we implemented a that from e-commerce channels accounted for series of innovative marketing models, such as the 5%. In addition, the proportion of shipments of “Tomorrow’s Partners” program, which achieved our mid-range and high-end devices priced at some favorable results. More than six million more than CNY1,500 rose significantly to 12%, Huawei fans enrolled in this program. demonstrating that our quality strategy has yielded some success. In 2013, we unveiled our “Make it Possible” brand proposition for the consumer business. By focusing The global shipments of our mobile broadband on consumer experience, we conducted a series devices reached 44.5 million sets in 2013; we have of branding campaigns worldwide, including maintained a leading share in this market for six sponsoring football games and clubs, such as consecutive years. We continued to optimize the La Liga in Spain, A.C. Milan in Italy, Borussia overall product landscape. Global shipments of Dortmund in Germany, and Arsenal in the UK. LTE products reached approximately eight million These campaigns significantly boosted brand units, an annual increase of 103%. We actively awareness for Huawei mobile phones. According implemented a diversified channel strategy. In to a survey by Ipsos, the global brand awareness 2013, the shipments of our mobile broadband of our mobile phones reached 52% in 2013, an devices through open channels exceeded four increase of 110% year-on-year. This figure was million sets and we developed large channel 68% in China, an increase of 113% compared markets outside of China, such as Saudi Arabia, with the previous year. In addition, the brand India, Germany, and the Philippines. Our Internet awareness of our mobile phones grew significantly marketing efforts in the Chinese e-commerce in Europe, South America, and Southeast Africa. market also started to show results. Breakthroughs Brand awareness rose by 230% in Germany, 213% were made in telematics. We cooperated closely in Italy, 200% in the UK, and 140% in Spain. with multiple top international automobile manufacturers on the front-end module and Our consumer business targets people of action established strategic partnerships with multiple who are also idealists — challengers who have automobile brands. vision, initiative, and belief that dreams can be realized through hard work. We strive to bring 36 Management Discussion and Analysis the latest in technology to consumers everywhere. markets, which helped promote our large-scale In product development, we adhere to a quality sales. In the development of e-commerce channels, strategy, attaching the utmost importance to sales from these venues began to generate results improving consumer experience. We strive to in 2013. Many of our products remained top break through technical limitations to provide sellers online, such as the Ascend Mate, Honor innovations tailored to consumer requirements. 3 Outdoor, MediaQ M310, Honor 3C, and Honor By doing so, we enable more people from around 3X. More than 10 million users pre-ordered the the world to reap the benefits of technological Honor 3C, setting a new sales record for Huawei progress and realize their dreams. The Ascend mobile phones. product lineup includes the D series with the ultimate in technology, the P series with the The development of 4G LTE is in full swing ultimate in fashion, the G series that offers the around the globe, and a “borderless network” is best blend of performance and cost, and the Y becoming reality. With different 4G LTE products series that delivers the best in terms of accessibility. and Huawei’s future-proof innovative technologies, In the future, we will leverage our advantages in consumers can connect using ultra-broadband intelligent 4G LTE technologies, strive to make with zero wait time anytime, anywhere. This level the impossible possible, and provide ubiquitous of connectivity provides added conveniences high-speed connections to consumers. Our goal and opportunities for consumers whether they is to enable customers to better experience are in the office, on the move, or at home — unparalleled technologies. smart devices are becoming the most important thing consumers take along. We are a latecomer In 2013, we made notable achievements in channel to the smart device field. 4G LTE presents a development. Our revenue from open channels unique strategic opportunity for us to surpass grew by 98% year-on-year. In open markets where our competitors worldwide by leveraging our retail accounts for a high proportion of all sales, advantages in 4G LTE networks as well as leading such as China, Russia, Italy, the UK, Saudi Arabia, technologies and patents. With our proven track the Philippines, and South Africa, the sales of our record in the communications field, we will lay smartphones grew by more than 80%. In addition, hold of this historic opportunity, deliver an inspired we established strategic partnerships with top experience, and bring more pleasant surprises to distributors and retailers in China, Western consumers worldwide. Europe, the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and other Management Discussion and Analysis 37 Results of Operations 2013 2012 YOY (%) CNY Million Restated Revenue 239,025 220,198 8.5% Gross profit 98,020 87,686 11.8% – Gross margin 41.0% 39.8% 1.2% Total operating expenses and other income 68,892 67,028 2.8% – as % of revenue 28.8% 30.4% (1.6%) Operating profit 29,128 20,658 41.0% – Operating margin 12.2% 9.4% 2.8% Net finance expenses 3,942 2,039 93.3% Income tax expenses 4,159 2,758 50.8% Net profit 21,003 15,624 34.4% Sales revenue in 2013 amounted to CNY239,025 million, which represents an increase of 8.5% year-on-year. Net profit grew by 34.4% year-on-year to CNY21,003 million. The improvement in profitability is mainly attributed to internal continuous management transformations that reduced operational costs. Thanks to the rising proportion of the enterprise business as well as improved profits from the consumer business, gross margin increased by 1.2% year-on-year. 38 Management Discussion and Analysis Total Operating Expenses and Other Income 2013 2012 YOY (%) CNY Million Restated Research and development expenses 30,672 29,747 3.1% – as % of revenue 12.8% 13.5% (0.7%) Selling and administrative expenses 38,943 38,667 0.7% – as % of revenue 16.3% 17.6% (1.3%) Other (income)/operating expenses, net (723) (1,386) (47.8%) – as % of revenue (0.3%) (0.6%) 0.3% Total operating expenses and other income 68,892 67,028 2.8% – as % of revenue 28.8% 30.4% (1.6%) In 2013, the company’s total expenses ratio decreased by 1.6% due to internal efforts aimed at continuously improving operational efficiency. Specifically, the selling and administrative expenses ratio declined by 1.3%, the research and development expenses ratio fell 0.7%, and the ratio of other income and other operating expenses (as % of revenue) rose 0.3%. Net Finance Expenses 2013 2012 YOY (%) CNY Million Restated Net foreign exchange loss 3,686 1,085 239.7% Other net finance expenses 256 954 (73.2%) Total net finance expenses 3,942 2,039 93.3% Net finance expenses in 2013 amounted to CNY3,942 million, an increase of CNY1,903 million from 2012. This was attributable to an increase of CNY2,601 million year-on-year in net foreign exchange loss and a decrease of CNY698 million year-on-year in other net finance expenses. Management Discussion and Analysis 39 Financial Position December 31, December 31, YOY (%) CNY Million 2013 2012 Non-current assets 44,688 40,538 10.2% Current assets 186,844 169,468 10.3% Total assets 231,532 210,006 10.3% Among which: Cash and short-term investments 81,944 71,649 14.4% Trade receivables 59,880 55,101 8.7% Inventories 24,929 22,237 12.1% Non-current liabilities 33,602 29,351 14.5% Among which: Long-term borrowings 19,990 16,077 24.3% Current liabilities 111,664 105,631 5.7% Among which: Short-term borrowings 3,043 4,677 (34.9%) Trade payables 31,290 33,536 (6.7%) Owner’s equity 86,266 75,024 15.0% Total liabilities and owner’s equity 231,532 210,006 10.3% Cash and short-term investment balance as of December 31, 2013 rose by 14.4% year-on-year to CNY81,944 million. Huawei’s days of sales outstanding (DSO) as of December 31, 2013 was 90 days, which is the same as that of 2012. Inventory balance increased by 12.1% year-on-year. The inventory turnover days (ITO) increased by four days to 64 days compared with 60 days in 2012. Trade payables balance decreased by 6.7% year-on-year. Huawei’s days of payables outstanding (DPO) as of December 31, 2013 was 80 days, 11 days shorter than that of 2012. Total short-term and long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2013 amounted to CNY23,033 million, an increase of 11.0% year-on-year from CNY20,754 million in 2012. 40 Management Discussion and Analysis Cash Flow from Operating Activities 2013 2012 YOY (%) CNY Million Restated Net profit 21,003 15,624 34.4% Adjustment for depreciation, amortization, 5,550 3,164 75.4% and non-operating loss, net Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations (618) (244) 153.3% Cash flow before change in 25,935 18,544 39.9% operating assets and liabilities Change in operating assets and liabilities (3,381) 6,425 (152.6%) Cash flow from operating activities 22,554 24,969 (9.7%) Cash flow from operating activities in 2013 decreased by 9.7% year-on-year to CNY22,554 million. This decrease was attributable to: ■ Net profit growth of 34.4% year-on-year due to rapid growth of consumer and enterprise businesses and reduction of internal management and operation costs. ■ Adjustment for depreciation, amortization, and non-operating loss, net contributed CNY5,550 million to the cash flow from operating activities, increasing by CNY2,386 million year-on-year. ■ In 2013, the change in operating assets and liabilities tied up in the cash flow from operating activities amounted to CNY3,381 million. Financial Risk Management In 2013, Huawei continuously amended and improved its financial risk management policies and processes to further enhance the company’s capability to withstand financial risks and better support its business development. Liquidity Risk Huawei has continuously improved its system for cash flow planning, budgeting, and forecasting to better assess its short-term and medium to long-term liquidity needs. The company has implemented a variety of prudent financial measures to fulfill its overall liquidity needs, including centralizing cash management, maintaining a reasonable level of funds, and gaining access to adequate and committed credit facilities. In 2013, Huawei established the Financial Risk Control Center (FRCC) in London and set up a global liquidity risk monitoring team, to further improve its liquidity risk monitoring and management capabilities. As of December 31, 2013, cash and short-term investments increased by 14.4% year-on-year to CNY81,944 million. An adequate capital reserve and a stable cash flow from operating activities enabled Huawei to manage its liquidity and borrowing risks, thus ensuring financial stability for the company. Management Discussion and Analysis 41 Liquidity Trends CNY Million 2013 2012 YOY (%) Cash flow from operating activities 22,554 24,969 (9.7%) Cash and short-term investments 81,944 71,649 14.4% Long-term and short-term borrowings 23,033 20,754 11.0% In addition to maintaining liquidity, Huawei also optimized the debt maturity structure to a more reasonable level. CNY Million 1 year or below Above 1 year Total borrowings 3,043 19,990 Foreign Exchange Risk The Group’s functional currency is CNY and has foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling, and financing in currencies other than CNY, which are mainly USD and EUR. According to the foreign exchange policy guidelines of the Group, material foreign exchange exposures are hedged unless hedging would be uneconomical due to market liquidity and/or hedging cost. The Group uses the value at risk (VaR)* model to measure its foreign currency exposures, and uses the following techniques to mitigate such risks: ■ Natural hedging: The Group continuously structures their operations to match its receivables and payables in a foreign currency, to the extent possible. ■ Financial hedging: For certain currencies where natural hedging does not fully offset the foreign currency position, the Group hedges using a combination of short and long-term foreign currency loans. With other conditions unchanged, exchange rate fluctuations will impact the group’s net profit as follows: Impact on net profit CNY million 2013 CNY appreciates 5% against USD (1,454) CNY appreciates 5% against EUR (173) 2012 CNY appreciates 5% against USD (1,009) CNY appreciates 3% against EUR (140) * The VaR model is a statistical tool. Huawei uses this model to estimate the quantitative value of foreign exchange exposures under a certain confidence level within a period of time based on the Group’s net assets in foreign currencies, historical exchange rate fluctuations, and the relevancy between exchange rates. 42 Management Discussion and Analysis Interest Rate Risk Huawei’s interest rate risk arises from its long-term borrowings and long-term receivables. Through the analysis of its interest rate exposures, the company uses a combination of fixed-rate and variable-rate bank loans to mitigate interest rate risks. Interest-bearing long-term financial instruments held by the Group as of December 31, 2013 2013 2012 Effective Amount Effective Amount interest rate interest rate CNY Million CNY Million Fixed-rate long-term financial instruments – Long-term receivables – – 1.98% (70) – Long-term borrowings 4.59% 3,722 4.60% 3,788 Total 3,722 3,718 Floating-rate long-term financial instruments – Long-term receivables – – 4.20% (337) – Long-term borrowings 2.41% 16,268 2.24% 12,289 Total 16,268 11,952 As of December 31, 2013, assume that the interest rate fluctuates by 50 basis points, with other variables unchanged, the Group’s net profit and owner’s equity will increase (decrease) by CNY 81 million (in 2012, the amount was CNY65 million). For the financial instruments that are held at the end of the reporting period and expose the Group to fair value change risks due to interest rate fluctuations, the impacts on net profit and owner’s equity in the preceding sensitivity analysis are a re-measurement of the financial instruments based on the new interest rate, assuming that the interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period. For the floating-rate and non-derivative financial instruments that are held at the end of the reporting period and expose the Group to cash flow change risks due to interest rate fluctuations, the impacts on net profit and owner’s equity in the preceding sensitivity analysis are impacts on interest expense or income estimated on an annual basis due to interest rate fluctuations. The analysis of the previous year is based on the same assumptions and methods. Management Discussion and Analysis 43 Credit Risk Research and Development The company has established and implemented Huawei has set up 16 R&D centers in such countries globally consistent credit management policies as Germany, Sweden, the US, India, Russia, Japan, and practices, processes, IT systems, and credit Canada, Turkey, and China. Huawei employs risk assessment tools. In addition, dedicated credit approximately 70,000 product and solution R&D management organizations have been established employees, comprising 45% of our total global across all regions and business units. The company workforce. has used risk assessment models to determine customer credit ratings and credit limits. It has also We focus investment in key technologies, implemented risk control points over key processes architectures, and standards in the ICT field with along the end-to-end sales cycle to manage credit the aim of providing broader, smarter, and more risks in a closed-loop manner. Huawei’s Credit energy-efficient pipes that require zero wait time Management Dept regularly assesses global credit and create a better experience for users. We are risk exposures, estimates potential losses, and committed to continuous innovations, and have determines bad debt provisions as appropriate. made significant achievements in the fields of In the event that a credit risk for a specific future 5G communications, network architecture, customer or outstanding trade receivable becomes computing, and storage. We have worked closely inappropriately high, a special handling process is with partners from industry, academia, and initiated to mitigate the risk. research institutes, enabling us to take the lead in researching, innovating, and implementing future Sales Financing networks. We have also set up 28 joint innovation centers with leading carriers to translate leading With global coverage, Huawei’s sales financing technologies into competitive edges and business team maintains close contact with customers to success for customers. understand their financing needs and taps into diversified financing resources around the world. As of December 31, 2013, we had filed 44,168 As a bridge for communication and cooperation patent applications in China, 18,791 outside China, between financial institutions and customers, the and 14,555 under the Patent Cooperation Treaty sales financing team provides customers with (PCT). Of these applications, 36,511 have been professional financing solutions that continuously granted. contribute to customer success. Third-party financial institutions engage with Huawei in export We apply mainstream international standards credit, leasing, and factoring activities to obtain from the industry, work closely with global tier-1 benefits and they bear the associated risks. Huawei carriers, and contribute positively to expanding has established systematic financing policies and the ICT industry. We actively proposed to project approval processes to strictly control identify at least additional 500 MHz spectrum financing risk exposures. Huawei shares risks with for international mobile telephony (IMT) at the financial institutions only on certain projects and World Radiocommunication Conference 2015 makes provisions for risk contingencies, ensuring (WRC-15), and published a white paper titled 5G: A that business risks are under control. Technology Vision. In addition, we worked to boost such network capabilities as service exposure and service chaining in the areas of System Architecture 44 Management Discussion and Analysis Evolution (SAE) and Policy and Charging Control work collectively to reduce the unexpected risks (PCC). We also took the lead in developing resulting from the abuse of technology. Network Functions Visualization (NFV) standards to build an ICT convergence standards ecosystem; In 2013, Mr. John Suffolk, Huawei’s Global Cyber promoted the incubation of the Carrier SDN Security Officer, authored the second edition of industry; pushed the development of IP/Internet our cyber security white paper titled Cyber Security security rules that expand interoperability and Perspectives: Making cyber security a part of a robustness; led the Flex-OTN standards and were Company’s DNA — A set of integrated process, recognized as a major contributor of 100GE/400GE policies and standards. The paper investigates standards; and took the initiative at IEEE 802.11 how we can infuse cyber security into our to launch and lead research into next generation company’s DNA and promote the formulation and Wi-Fi standards. By the end of 2013, Huawei had implementation of uniform international cyber joined more than 170 industry standards and open security standards. We are more than happy to source organizations, including 3GPP, IETF, IEEE, share our understanding and practices in the ITU, BBF, ETSI, TMF, WFA, CCSA, GSMA, OMA, area of cyber security in the hope of inspiring a ONF, INCITS, OpenStack, and OpenDaylight. We more open, rational, cooperative, and constructive hold 185 positions in these organizations and dialogue across the public and private sectors on serve as a board member for ETSI, CCSA, OMA, a wider range of issues. In doing so, we hope to OASIS, and WFA, as well as numerous other realize our common cyber security objectives. organizations. In 2013, Huawei submitted more than 5,000 proposals to standards organizations. In 2013, we optimized each aspect of Huawei to address challenges with cyber security and embed Huawei’s R&D expenditure totaled CNY30,672 cyber security requirements into our end-to-end million in 2013, accounting for 12.8% of the corporate policies and processes, including company’s annual revenue. Huawei has strategy and governance, standards and processes, cumulatively spent more than CNY151,000 million laws and regulations, personnel management, on R&D over the last decade. research and development, verification, third-party supplier management, manufacturing, delivery, Cyber Security issue response, traceability, and audits. Huawei employees have adopted improvement measures Huawei views building and fully implementing into their daily work to provide customers with an end-to-end global cyber security assurance more secure products, solutions, and services. system as a key corporate strategy and considers cyber security a shared global challenge. Global ■ In the past year, we continued cyber security collaboration among suppliers, customers, and awareness training and education for all Huawei policy and law makers is crucial to meaningfully staff, thereby encouraging an atmosphere and addressing global cyber security threats. As culture conducive to promoting cyber security such, all stakeholders must share knowledge awareness education and regulating employee and expertise, be practical and cooperative, and behavior across the company. Management Discussion and Analysis 45 ■ We have embedded cyber security requirements ■ Our manufacturing capabilities continue into our Integrated Product Development (IPD) to improve in tandem with our security process. Cyber security is built into everyone’s capabilities. Our standardized end-to-end daily work as well as each product and service, manufacturing supply chain system enables meaning that cyber security is everyone’s job. us to more efficiently resolve security risks We have also improved the approach that during manufacturing in a safe manner while instructs employees to design, develop, and retaining quality, thus ensuring the integrity of deliver our products with security in mind. our hardware and software. Apart from independent verification, each step of our work can be examined, improved, and ■ We have embedded key cyber security automated. management requirements into all our service delivery activities and stringently manage ■ We have greatly strengthened and improved employees who have access to customer our Cyber Security Technical Competence networks, thus ensuring the security of Center to incorporate security into design, delivered products and services. improve product robustness, and enhance privacy protection. ■ When things do go wrong or customers and researchers identify possible security issues, ■ We have established a multi-layer cyber security we respond quickly and effectively to any evaluation process that allows our products vulnerability through our closely connected to be independently tested and evaluated by Product Security Incident Response Team different teams; that is, our Internal Cyber (PSIRT) and core R&D processes. In addition, our Security Lab, the UK Cyber Security Evaluation barcode system and electronic manufacturing Centre (CSEC), customer evaluation teams, system enable us to forward or backward track and third-party audit and evaluation teams. 98% of the components used in our offerings By doing so, we continuously provide our within just a few minutes. customers with optimum security assurance. ■ As auditing plays a crucial role in ensuring ■ We have enhanced our comprehensive supplier what a company or department claims is true management system to monitor and evaluate and effective, we ensure the implementation the delivery and security performance of our of cyber security policies, processes, and qualified suppliers. We select suppliers that can standards through our internal audit team. contribute to the quality and security of our This allows us to provide more effective and purchased products and services and in turn comprehensive oversight on cyber security. benefit our customers. 46 Management Discussion and Analysis Huawei is passionate about being transparent Revenue Recognition and open. We encourage full and frequent communication with all stakeholders, including The application of accounting principles related customers, industry, governments, and media. We to the measurement and recognition of revenue aim to raise the understanding of cyber security, requires the company to make significant judgments seek views and ideas for reducing security risks, and estimates. Even for the same product, the and collectively improve trust in terms of cyber company often has to determine the appropriate security. accounting treatment after analyzing the contract terms and conditions. When installation, training, We not only care about resolving past and present and other services are rendered and sold together cyber security issues. We also seek to lay the with a product, the company determines whether foundation for future development. Sticking to our the deliverables should be treated as separate commitment, we will continuously collaborate with units of accounting and recognizes the revenue all stakeholders to enhance our security capabilities accordingly. When there are multiple transactions in design, development, deployment, and other with the same customer, the company applies areas. We will continue to position cyber security significant judgments to determine whether separate assurance as one of our core strategies, maintain contracts are considered as part of one arrangement open and transparent policies, and act responsibly based on contracts terms and conditions. When in our operations to ensure a secure cyber world an equipment that requires installation is delivered for tomorrow. and accepted by a customer at different stages, the company determines whether to recognize revenue Critical Accounting Estimates by stages based on assessment of whether the completed project is able to be used by the customer, The consolidated financial statements, on which and whether the obtained certificate of acceptance this Management Discussion and Analysis was would support payment collections. based, have been prepared in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). Revenue recognition is also impacted by various For details, see note 1(a) to the consolidated factors, including the creditworthiness of the financial statements summary. customer. The company regularly reviews estimates of these factors to assess its adequacy. If these The application of IFRSs requires the company estimates were to change, revenue will be to make judgments, estimates and assumptions impacted accordingly. that will directly affect the company’s reporting of its financial position and operating results. The For a construction contract, revenue is recognized accounting estimates and assumptions discussed using the percentage of completion (POC) method, in this section are those that the management measured according to the percentage of contract considers to be the most critical to the company’s costs incurred to date to the estimated total costs consolidated financial statements. for the contract. If at any time these estimates indicate the POC contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately as a cost. Management Discussion and Analysis 47 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Inventories Write-down The company’s gross accounts receivable balances The company’s inventory balances were CNY24,929 were CNY64,220 million and CNY58,588 million million and CNY22,237 million as of December as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. respectively. The allowances for doubtful accounts Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or were CNY4,340 million, or 6.8% of the gross net realizable value. The difference between the accounts receivable balance as of December 31, cost of the inventory and the net realizable value is 2013, and CNY3,487 million, or 6.0% of the recorded as inventory provision. Net realizable value gross accounts receivable balance as of December is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course 31, 2012. The allowances are recorded based of business, less the estimated costs of completion on the collectability of accounts receivable from and the estimated costs necessary to make the customers. The company regularly reviews the sale. The following factors are considered for the allowances for doubtful accounts by considering recognition of net realizable value: purposes of factors such as historical experiences, customer the inventories held, inventory aging, percentage creditworthiness, the age of accounts receivable of inventory utilization, inventory categories and balances, and current economic conditions that conditions, and subsequent events with material may affect a customer’s ability to pay. influences on inventory value. The company reviews the inventory provisions periodically to The company’s provisions for doubtful accounts ensure its accuracy and reasonableness. charged to the statement of profit or loss were CNY1,075 million and CNY3,479 million The company’s inventory provisions charged to the for fiscal years ended December 31, 2013 and statement of profit or loss were CNY1,231 million December 31, 2012, respectively. If key customers’ and CNY17 million for fiscal years ended December creditworthiness deteriorates, or if the default 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. risk is higher than the historical trend, or if other circumstances arise, the estimates of the Provision for Warranties recoverability of amounts due to the company could be overstated, and additional allowances When recognizing revenue, the company estimates could be required, which could have an adverse the possible future liabilities that it may incur impact on the company’s profit. under its product warranty obligations and records a warranty provision. The warranty provision balances were CNY2,963 million and CNY2,407 million as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. The company’s products are generally covered by a warranty period of 12 months. The company accrues for warranty costs as part of cost of sales based on historical expenditure on material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overheads. 48 Management Discussion and Analysis The warranty provisions accrued for fiscal years the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 company recognizes tax liabilities for anticipated were CNY3,491 million and CNY2,844 million, tax issues based on estimates of whether respectively. additional taxes will eventually be due. The company adequately accrues for tax liabilities for Increases in warranty claims or higher cost of all open audit years based on its assessment warranty services will lead to actual warranty of many factors, including past experiences and expenses exceeding the accrued warranty interpretations of tax law. Deferred tax assets are provisions, and will in turn adversely affect the recognized to the extent that future taxable profits company’s gross margin. will be available against which the assets can be utilized. Income Tax Assessment of tax exposures and recognition relies The company is subject to income taxes in China on estimates and assumptions and may involve a and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant series of complex judgments about future events. judgment is required in determining the Where the final tax outcome of these future events consolidated provision for income taxes. is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income During the ordinary course of business, there tax and deferred tax provisions for the period in are many transactions and calculations where which such decision is made. Industry Trends 49 Industry Trends Riding the digitization trend into a new industrial age The history of human society and civilization Therefore, enterprises must restructure their advancement is also a history of scientific mindset, business, marketing, R&D, operation, and technological development. Numerous and service models, based on the Internet rather ICT technologies over the past half century, than simply overlaying traditional models with the culminating in various ingenious Internet Internet as a tool. Among them, restructuring of innovations, have shattered the limits of time mindset is of paramount importance, as action and space, bringing the human civilization into comes after that. an unprecedented new frontier. Today, we are entering an era of omnipresent networking and ■ Infiltrating beyond value delivery into value information. However, this is just the start of a creation, the Internet is set to redefine greater information revolution. We are at the door traditional industries to the next wave of digital society. Business processes, though complicated, mainly “Internet+” drives the integration of the comprise value creation and value delivery. digital and physical worlds and shapes the Value delivery is what we usually refer to as next wave of information revolution information flow, capital flow, and logistics flow. All the three flows have been smoothed out Today, we are living in a time of Internet and through mushrooming e-commerce platforms. In information omnipresence, but the digital and other words, the Internet has fully infiltrated and physical worlds are still parallel to each other transformed the value delivery process. As a result, and not closely intertwined. For all industries the digital and physical worlds are integrated, and and enterprises, “Internet+” will be the focus of the business chain is restructured, reducing or even innovation. Traditional industries and enterprises eliminating many intermediate processes. are in particular need to realize digital reformation by leveraging the power of the Internet, driving Currently, the Internet is starting its infiltration deeper integration of the physical and digital into value creation, especially the R&D and worlds. This has become a new growth trend for manufacturing fields. This infiltration is them. comprehensive. It has a technical dimension, as we see in the case of Tesla redefining automobiles ■ The Internet is not just mere infrastructure, using IT and the Internet. It also implies changes but more a brand new mindset in the R&D model, toward, for example, user participation and crowd sourcing. The The essence of the Internet is being connected manufacturing field is not immune to this. After anytime, anywhere. Being an infrastructure the steam engine, electricity, and IT, the Internet is element just like the power grid, the Internet has driving the fourth Industrial Revolution, or Industry greatly boosted social productivity and reduced 4.0, enabling the integration of efficient mass cost. However, the value of the Internet is far more production with the diversity of individualized than providing connectivity. Its impact is profound manual workshops. With the infiltration of the and revolutionary, as it represents a brand new Internet and ICT into the value creation field, the mindset, with the core being “all connected at integration of the digital and physical worlds goes zero distance” among people, enterprises and their deeper. Transformation of traditional industries customers, and business partners. has just begun. 50 Industry Trends ■ Through data analytics, a core competence It is no exaggeration to say that the core of the for businesses today, the Internet will Internet mindset is user-centricity. In designing create new information monopolies and products, delivering inspired experience, and asymmetry while shattering the old ones promoting brand image via word of mouth, user involvement is a must. However, this is not The Internet makes information dissemination and simply the building of online communities and access impossibly easy. It breaks the traditional user forums; it involves the transformation of monopoly of knowledge and information by management, R&D, and technological architecture. certain industries and enterprises, who will find it hard to grab the high value they used to enjoy. ■ ICT is becoming the core of enterprise But every coin has two sides. While shattering the competitiveness that enables innovation old one, the Internet has created new monopolies and redefinition of the market and asymmetry of information at a higher level. The Internet giants are collecting massive user and In the information age, the enterprise ICT system is transaction data, and leveraging Big Data analytics not just a support system that improves efficiency to fully explore user behaviors, thus creating new and reduces cost, but a customer-centric business information asymmetry and monopolies over the and production system. It is shifting the focus from other enterprises and service providers. A new “digital management and IT assets” to “digital monopoly at a higher lever then takes shape. products and data assets.” It is fair to say that Information has become an asset more important ICT has become the core competence and engine than physical infrastructure. Information and that propels an enterprise’s business development data operation are and will continue to be core and enables innovation for enterprises to redefine competences that carry great weight. the market. This is true for any enterprise, be it big or small, from automobile manufacturers to ■ As power in the value chain shifts toward hotdog stands. Irrespective of business scope and users, users have to be fully engaged with size, future enterprises must first be “high-tech” their wisdom pooled together to build a enterprises, fully leveraging ICT to upgrade and new commanding height transform themselves. Otherwise, they will be left with no chance, just like riding a horse in an With the traditional information monopoly attempt to catch up with a high-speed train. shattered and information transparency increasing in general, users are getting more power. As we embrace the next wave of digital society, we Enterprises must go further than just responding are seeing the infiltration of the Internet into value to and meeting customer needs. A higher-level creation and a deeper integration of the digital of user-centricity is required that involves users and physical worlds. “Internet+” has become the in every business process, from requirement focus of innovation in traditional industries and a collection, product ideation and design, R&D, starting point for their reformation towards digital. testing, production, marketing, to after-sales services. Only by leveraging users’ collective wisdom can enterprises prosper, together with customers. Industry Trends 51 Digital reformation: Riding the trend to win ■ Reforming business: Business models in the future information age focusing on product digitalization and cloud services are a must for enterprises The digital society represents an irreversible trend. in the information era. Cloud services are Riding on the trend to establish competitive all about operations of users and their strengths for today and into the future, and data. By taking advantages of business embracing digital reformation by applying the model transformations powered by cloud Internet mindset and ICT technologies, becomes an computing, enterprises can leverage inevitable choice. Such reformation toward digital ICT-enabled cloud services to rebuild the is not about just using the Internet as a tool; it is telecom industry. far more comprehensive and profound. As discussed above, the integration of the digital ■ Reforming mindset: Building a new and physical worlds is reflected in the trend of business mindset around the core of “all products towards digital. Every industry must connected at zero distance” figure out how to digitalize products. Cloud service is a new business model and business mindset. When the Internet becomes omnipresent, it While it differs with enterprises, ranging from becomes an underlying business mindset too. products, after-sales services, online information Enterprises have to embrace the Internet as an services, online games, to e-commerce, and intrinsic mindset. Then they rebuild the external e-banking services, its core boils down to user formalities like business, marketing, and service and data operation at a higher level, instead models around the concept of “all connected at of just product operation itself. Without cloud zero distance.” Reformation of internal systems services, enterprises lack the foundation for such should then follow, to reengineer the management, operations. The importance of cloud services as the R&D, and operation models. Enterprise, in such a foundation for future business is well illustrated by way, will be redefined culturally, organizationally, the example of Nike. and process-wise. This trend creates a great strategic opportunity Mindset change is a very painful choice, but a must for the telecom industry, as the ICT infrastructure for industries and enterprises in transition. When required for enterprise cloud services would a new era dawns, the life-or-death question is become a basic cloud offering itself. When we not whether to change or not, but how fast you look at the past history from 1900 to 1930, we can change. see enterprises relinquishing their own power 52 Industry Trends generators and using electricity from power ■ Reforming ICT infrastructure: Building plants, as well as the beginnings of IT deployment DC-centric ICT infrastructure to fully through primitive systems such as punchers and explore the value of information and data, tabulators. For the next 30 years, we expect to the so-called “digital oil” see history repeat itself, as enterprises back out of their own data centers and opt for purchased For enterprises and carriers, ICT infrastructure ICT cloud services. With cloud computing-based is the foundation that supports their business business model transformation, enterprise ICT will transformation and digital reformation. In the be moved to the public cloud, which represents information age, information & data analytics a market of similar magnitude to the telecom and operation become core competences for any market, a strategic business opportunity worth enterprise. To explore the value of enterprise trillions of dollars to the industry. data, the so-called digital oil, data mining and governance are key. With Big Data analytics, ■ Reforming operations: Internetized enterprises are endowed with new intelligence operation to deliver “all online” and “on and wisdom to gain customer insights, conduct demand” services in an automatic and accurate product development, perform precision intelligent way, shifting focus from internal marketing, ensure informed management and control to external services decisions, and realize energy conservation. As mentioned before, power is shifting toward In the future, all business activities will be digitized. users irreversibly, with the Internet’s all-connected Data centers (DCs) will become the core of ICT and zero-distance features shattering time and infrastructure, or the “switching center in the space limits as well as asymmetrical information digital age.” It is the place where information is distribution. Internetized operation becomes a stored, processed, and exchanged; it is also the must for enterprises. By doing so, they allow hub where services are handled and transactions users to obtain services on demand, giving users made. Thus, building DC-centric ICT infrastructure their most desired freedom, freedom of choice. To becomes a necessity in the information age. support on-demand services, online operation is an indispensable foundation. What we are talking ■ Reforming technologies: Redefining about here is not simply online interface to interact IT and network architec tures with with users, but user-oriented online operation software-defined, scale-out computing to drive all of an enterprise’s internal processes models, thus setting the trend for the next online, with automation and intelligence built on wave of technology revolution that. Driving behind the success of business innovation In other words, reforming operations is not simply is the force of technological innovation. It is with providing online customer service and sales; it these two wings that the Internet is set to fly high. is reforming all processes to meet customers’ According to the new interpretation of Moore’s law on-demand requirements, with the focus shifting from Turing Award-winner Jim Gray, the volume from internal management and control to external of data traffic generated every 18 months now customer services. equals that for all of human history. Facing such Industry Trends 53 a huge amount of data traffic, which could surge the scale-up model, which is confined by material suddenly and unpredictably, ICT infrastructure and processing constraints, scale-out allows for must be more agile and scalable, which renders huge capacity and low cost. Software-defined the traditional hardware-based architecture and and scale-out computing models are transforming pre-planned construction model outdated. To traditional IT and network architectures, setting the support business development into the future, trend for the next wave of technology revolution. brand new technological architectures that allow for agility and scalability are needed. The information society is coming at an unstoppable pace. No industries and enterprises This is exactly where software-defined and can be outside of it. To ride on this trend, scale-out computing models come in, which are enterprises must embrace an Internet mindset becoming the new normal. Software definition and advanced ICT technologies & solutions for refers not only to the IT domain, such as digital reforming to build leading advantages into software-defined storage and software-defined the future. The future belongs not only to Internet DC, but also to the network domain, including companies based on the virtual world, but also software-defined networking (SDN) and network to those deeply rooted in the physical world. function virtualization (NFV). It realizes more Huawei will continue to focus on the pipe strategy flexible architectures via software, on the basis surrounding ICT infrastructure, and develop our of programmable hardware. As for the scale-out SoftCOM strategy, which integrates the latest ICT computing model, it is permeating everywhere, ideas and technologies. We will continue to work from underlying multi-core chips to distributed hand-in-hand with our partners to help realize storage, from parallel computing to fully digital reforming of traditional industries, pushing distributed network architecture. Different from the information society to a new height. 54 Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report Independent auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements summary to the Board of Directors of Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. We are the auditor of Huawei Investment Management’s responsibility for the consolidated & Holding Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the financial statements summary “Group”). We have audited the consolidated financial statements of the Group prepared in Management is responsible for the preparation of accordance with International Financial Reporting a consolidated financial statements summary on Standards (the “audited consolidated financial the basis described in Note 1(a). statements”) for the year ended December 31, 2013. We have issued an unqualified audit report Auditor’s responsibility dated March 10, 2014 on the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year Our responsibility is to express an opinion on ended December 31, 2013. the consolidated financial statements summary based on our procedures, which were conducted Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. is not a in accordance with International Standard public company and is not required to publish its on Auditing 810, “Engagements to Report on audited consolidated financial statements under Summary Financial Statements”. Our work included the Company Law of the People’s Republic of examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting China. the consistency of the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements summary to The Group publishes a consolidated financial the audited consolidated financial statements of statements summary set out on pages 55 to 105 the Group. We have not performed an audit on comprising the consolidated statement of financial the consolidated financial statements summary, position as at December 31, 2013, the consolidated accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. statement of profit or loss, the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, Opinion and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, which is In our opinion, the consolidated financial derived from the audited consolidated financial statements summary derived from the audited statements of the Group. The audited consolidated consolidated financial statements of the Group for financial statements and the consolidated financial the year ended December 31, 2013 are consistent, statements summary do not reflect the effects of in all material respects, with those consolidated events that occurred subsequent to the date of financial statements, on the basis described in our report on the audited consolidated financial Note 1(a). statements. The consolidated financial statements summary does not contain all the disclosures required by International Financial Reporting Standards in the KPMG Huazhen (Special General Partnership) preparation of the audited consolidated financial Certified Public Accountants statements of the Group, and that reading the 9th Floor, China Resources Building consolidated financial statements summary is not 5001 Shennan East Road a substitute for reading the audited consolidated Shenzhen 518001, China financial statements of the Group. March 28, 2014 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 55 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 2013 2012 Note CNY million CNY million Restated (Note 2) Revenue 3 239,025 220,198 Cost of sales 141,005 132,512 Gross profit 98,020 87,686 Research and development expenses 30,672 29,747 Selling and administrative expenses 38,943 38,667 Other (income)/operating expenses, net 4 (723) (1,386) Operating profit before financing costs 29,128 20,658 Net finance expenses 6 3,942 2,039 Share of associates’ results 13 (4) 1 Share of joint ventures’ results 14 28 236 Profit before taxation 25,162 18,382 Income tax 7 4,159 2,758 Profit for the year 21,003 15,624 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 20,919 15,609 Non-controlling interests 84 15 Profit for the year 21,003 15,624 The notes on pages 58 to 105 form part of this consolidated financial statements summary. 56 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Consolidated Statement of Financial Position December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 Note CNY million CNY million Assets Property, plant and equipment 9 22,209 20,366 Long-term leasehold prepayments 10 2,761 2,361 Intangible assets 11 2,410 1,689 Goodwill 12 3,343 3,389 Interest in associates 13 270 243 Interest in joint ventures 14 211 250 Other investments 15 584 549 Deferred tax assets 16 11,577 9,805 Trade receivables 18 335 497 Other receivables 19 14 407 Other non-current assets 974 982 Non-current assets 44,688 40,538 Other investments 15 8,545 4,469 Inventories 17 24,929 22,237 Trade and bills receivable 18 65,534 59,829 Other receivables 19 14,437 15,407 Cash and cash equivalents 20 73,399 67,180 Assets held for sale 21 – 346 Current assets 186,844 169,468 Total assets 231,532 210,006 Equity Equity attributable to equity holders 86,207 75,048 of the Company Non-controlling interests 59 (24) Total equity 86,266 75,024 Liabilities Borrowings 22 19,990 16,077 Defined benefit obligations 9,608 9,686 Deferred government grants 2,746 2,218 Deferred tax liabilities 16 476 784 Provisions 26(a) 782 586 Non-current liabilities 33,602 29,351 Borrowings 22 3,043 4,677 Income tax payable 4,034 1,653 Trade and bills payable 23 31,980 40,273 Other payables 24 67,889 55,379 Provisions 26(a) 4,718 3,649 Current liabilities 111,664 105,631 Total liabilities 145,266 134,982 Total equity and liabilities 231,532 210,006 The notes on pages 58 to 105 form part of this consolidated financial statements summary. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 57 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 2013 2012 Note CNY million CNY million Cash flows from operating activities Cash receipts from customers 293,317 258,332 Cash paid to suppliers and employees (269,598) (230,991) Other operating cash flows (1,165) (2,372) Net cash from operating activities 22,554 24,969 Net cash used in investing activities (8,037) (5,426) Net cash used in financing activities (7,126) (9,180) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 7,391 10,363 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 20 67,180 57,192 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1,172) (375) Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 20 73,399 67,180 The notes on pages 58 to 105 form part of this consolidated financial statements summary. 58 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Summary 1. Basis of preparation of the consolidated (c) Translation of foreign currencies financial statements summar y and significant accounting policies i) Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions during (a) Basis of preparation the year are translated to the respective functional currencies of group entities at Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the the foreign exchange rates ruling at the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together transaction dates. Monetary assets and referred to as the “Group”) have prepared a liabilities denominated in foreign currencies full set of consolidated financial statements are translated to the functional currency at (“consolidated financial statements”) for the foreign exchange rates ruling at the end the year ended December 31, 2013 in of the reporting period. Exchange gains and accordance with all applicable International losses are recognised in profit or loss. Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”), which collective term includes all applicable Non-monetary assets and liabilities that individual IFRSs, International Accounting are measured in terms of historical cost Standards (“IASs”) and Interpretations in a foreign currency are translated using issued by the International Accounting the foreign exchange rates ruling at the Standards Board (“IASB”). transaction dates. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements that are stated at fair value are translated summary has been prepared and presented using the foreign exchange rates ruling at based on the audited consolidated financial the dates the fair value was measured. statements for the year ended December 31, 2013 in order to disclose material ii) Foreign operations financial and operational information. The results of foreign operations, except The intended users of the consolidated for foreign operations in hyperinflationary financial statements summary can obtain economies, are translated into CNY at the access to the audited consolidated financial exchange rates approximating the foreign statements for the year ended December exchange rates ruling at the dates of the 31, 2013 upon consent of the Group’s transactions. Statement of financial position Management through the email address, items are translated into CNY at the closing information@huawei.com. foreign exchange rates at the end of the reporting period. The resulting exchange (b) Functional and presentation currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated All financial information in the consolidated separately in equity in the exchange reserve. financial statements summary is presented If the operation is a non-wholly-owned in Chinese Yuan (“CNY”), which is the subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate Company’s functional currency. All amounts share of the exchange difference is allocated have been rounded to the nearest million. to the non-controlling interests. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 59 The results of foreign operations in The consideration transferred does not hyperinflationary economies are translated include amounts related to the settlement to CNY at the exchange rates ruling at of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts the end of the reporting period. Prior to generally are recognised in profit or loss. translating the financial statements of foreign operations in hyperinflationary Any contingent consideration payable is economies, their financial statements for measured at fair value at the acquisition the current year are restated to account for date. If the contingent consideration changes in the general purchasing power is classified as equity, then it is not of the local currencies. The restatement is remeasured and settlement is accounted based on relevant price indices at the end for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent of the reporting period. changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or When a foreign operation is disposed of in loss. its entirety or partially such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, Goodwill arising on a business combination the cumulative amount in the exchange represents the excess of: reserve related to that foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the (i) the aggregate of the fair value of gain or loss on disposal. the consideration transferred, the recognised amount of any nonWhen the Group disposes of only part of controlling interests in the acquiree and its interest in a subsidiary that includes a the fair value of the Group’s previously foreign operation while retaining control, held equity interest in the acquiree; over the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling (ii) the net fair value of the acquiree’s interests. When the Group disposes of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities only part of its investment in an associate assumed as at the acquisition date. or a joint venture that includes a foreign operation while retaining significant When (ii) is greater than (i), then this excess influence or joint control, the relevant is recognised immediately in profit or loss proportion of the cumulative amount is as a gain on a bargain purchase. reclassified to profit or loss. Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated (d) Business combinations and goodwill impairment losses (see note 1(l)). Goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit, The Group accounts for business or groups of cash generating units, that is combinations using the acquisition method expected to benefit from the synergies of when control is transferred to the Group the combination and is tested annually for (see note 1(e)). The consideration transferred impairment (see note 1(l)). in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred. 60 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (e) Subsidiaries and non controlling Non-controlling interests are presented interests in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, separately from Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the equity attributable to the equity holders of Group. The Group controls an entity when the Company. Non-controlling interests in it is exposed, or has rights, to variable the results of the Group are presented on returns from its involvement with the entity the face of the consolidated statement of and has the ability to affect those returns profit or loss and the consolidated statement through its power over the entity. When of profit or loss and other comprehensive assessing whether the Group has power, income as an allocation of the total profit only substantive rights (held by the Group or loss and total comprehensive income for and other parties) are considered. the year between non-controlling interests and the equity holders of the Company. An investment in a subsidiary is consolidated into the consolidated financial statements Changes in the Group’s interests in from the date that control commences until a subsidiary that do not result in a loss the date that control ceases. Intra-group of control are accounted for as equity balances and transactions and cash flows transactions, whereby adjustments are and any unrealised profits arising from made to the amounts of controlling intra-group transactions are eliminated in and non-controlling interests within full in preparing the consolidated financial consolidated equity to reflect the change statements. Unrealised losses resulting from in relative interests, but no adjustments intra-group transactions are eliminated in are made to goodwill and no gain or loss the same way as unrealised gains but only is recognised. to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, it is accounted for as a disposal Non-controlling interests represent the of the entire interest in that subsidiary, with equity in a subsidiary not attributable a resulting gain or loss being recognised in directly or indirectly to the Company, and in profit or loss. Any interest retained in that respect of which the Group has not agreed former subsidiary at the date when control any additional terms with the holders of is lost is recognised at fair value and this those interests which would result in the amount is regarded as the fair value on Group as a whole having a contractual initial recognition of a financial asset (see obligation in respect of those interests that note 1(o)) or, when appropriate, the cost meets the definition of a financial liability. on initial recognition of an investment in For each business combination, the Group an associate or joint venture (see note 1(f)). can elect to measure any non-controlling interests either at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests’ proportionate share of the subsidiary’s net identifiable assets. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 61 (f) Associates and joint ventures the joint venture, the Group’s interest is reduced to nil and recognition of further An associate is an entity in which the Group losses is discontinued except to the extent has significant influence, but not control that the Group has incurred legal or or joint control, over its management, constructive obligations or made payments including participation in the financial and on behalf of the investee. For this purpose, operating policy decisions. the Group’s interest is the carrying amount of the investment under the equity method A joint venture is an arrangement whereby together with the Group’s long-term the Group and other parties contractually interests that in substance form part of the agree to share control of the arrangement, Group’s net investment in the associate or and have rights to the net assets of the the joint venture. arrangement. Unrealised profits and losses resulting from An investment in an associate or a joint transactions between the Group and its venture is accounted for in the consolidated associates and joint ventures are eliminated financial statements using the equity to the extent of the Group’s interest in the method. Under the equity method, the investee, except where unrealised losses investment is initially recorded at cost, provide evidence of an impairment of the adjusted for any excess of the Group’s asset transferred, in which case they are share of the acquisition-date fair values recognised immediately in profit or loss. of the investee’s identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment (if any). If an investment in an associate becomes an Thereafter, the investment is adjusted for investment in a joint venture or vice versa, the post acquisition change in the Group’s retained interest is not remeasured. Instead, share of the investee’s net assets and any the investment continues to be accounted impairment loss relating to the investment for under the equity method. (see note 1(l)). Any acquisition-date excess over cost, the Group’s share of the postIn other cases, when the Group ceases to acquisition, post-tax results of the investees have significant influence over an associate and any impairment losses for the year are or joint control over a joint venture, it is recognised in the consolidated statement of accounted for as a disposal of the entire profit or loss, whereas the Group’s share of interest in that investee, with a resulting the post-acquisition post-tax items of the gain or loss being recognised in profit or investees’ other comprehensive income is loss. Any interest retained in that former recognised in the consolidated statement investee at the date when significant of profit or loss and other comprehensive influence or joint control is lost is recognised income. at fair value and this amount is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition of a When the Group’s share of losses equals financial asset (see note 1(o)). or exceeds its interest in the associate or 62 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (g) Investment property Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of an item of property, plant and Investment properties are land and/ equipment are determined as the difference or buildings which are owned or held between the net disposal proceeds and under a leasehold interest (see note 1(k)) the carrying amount of the item and are to earn rental income and/or for capital recognised in profit or loss on the date of appreciation. retirement or disposal. Investment properties are stated at cost ii) Subsequent costs less accumulated depreciation (see note The cost of replacing part of an item of 1(h)(iii)) and impairment losses (see note property, plant and equipment is recognised 1(l)). Depreciation is calculated to write off in the carrying amount of the item if it is the cost of items of investment property, probable that the future economic benefits less their estimated residual value, if any, embodied within the part will flow to the using the straight line method over their Group and its cost can be measured reliably. estimated useful lives. Rental income from The carrying amount of the replaced investment properties is accounted for as component is derecognised. The costs of described in note 1(s)(iv). the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or (h) Other property, plant and equipment loss as incurred. i) Recognition and measurement iii) Depreciation Items of property, plant and equipment Depreciation is calculated to write off are stated at cost less accumulated the cost of items of property, plant and depreciation and impairment losses (see equipment, less their estimated residual note 1(l)). Cost includes expenditure that value, if any, using the straight line method is directly attributable to the acquisition over their estimated useful lives as follows: of the assets. The cost of self-constructed items of property, plant and equipment Estimated includes the cost of materials, direct labour, useful lives the initial estimate, where relevant, of the Freehold land and construction in costs of dismantling and removing the items progress are not depreciated and restoring the site on which they are Buildings 20 years located, and an appropriate proportion of Machinery, electronic equipment 3 to 10 years production overheads and borrowing costs and other equipment (see note 1(t)). Motor vehicles 5 years Decoration and leasehold 2 to 5 years Construction in progress is transferred to improvements other property, plant and equipment when it is ready for its intended use. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 63 Where parts of an item of property, plant recognised as expenses in profit or loss in and equipment have different useful lives, the period in which they are incurred. the cost or valuation of the item is allocated on a reasonable basis between the parts ii) Other intangible assets and each part is depreciated separately. Other intangible assets that are acquired Both the useful life of an item of property, by the Group are stated at cost less plant and equipment and its residual value, accumulate d am or tis ation (w here if any, are reviewed annually. the estimated useful life is finite) and impairment losses (see note 1(l)). (i) Long-term leasehold prepayments iii) Amortisation Long-term leasehold prepayments represent Amortisation of intangible assets with finite land premium, resettlement fees and related useful lives is charged to profit or loss on a expenses in obtaining the relevant land use straight-line basis over the assets’ estimated rights. Long-term leasehold prepayments useful lives. The following intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated with finite useful lives are amortised from amortisation and impairment losses (see the date they are available for use and their note 1(l)). estimated useful lives are as follows: Amortisation is charged to the consolidated Software 3 years statement of profit or loss on a straight-line Patents 3 to 22 years basis over the period of the land use rights Trademark 10 years which is generally not exceeding 50 years. Both the period and method of amortisation (j) Intangible assets are reviewed annually. i) Research and development Intangible assets are not amortised while Research and development costs comprise their useful lives are assessed to be all costs that are directly attributable to indefinite. Any conclusion that the useful research and development activities or that life of an intangible asset is indefinite is can be allocated on a reasonable basis reviewed annually to determine whether to such activities. Because of the nature events and circumstances continue to of the Group’s research and development support the indefinite useful life assessment activities, the criteria for the recognition of for that asset. If they do not, the change in such costs as assets are generally not met the useful life assessment from indefinite until late in the development stage of the to finite is accounted for prospectively from project when the remaining development the date of change and in accordance with costs are immaterial. Hence both research the policy for amortisation of intangible costs and development costs are generally assets with finite lives as set out above. 64 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (k) Leased assets made. Contingent rentals are charged to profit or loss in the accounting period in An arrangement, comprising a transaction which they are incurred. or a series of transactions, is or contains a lease if the Group determines that the (l) Impairment of assets arrangement conveys a right to use a specific asset or assets for an agreed period i) Impairment of investments in debt and of time in return for a payment or a series equity securities and others receivables of payments. Such a determination is made Investments in debt and equity securities based on an evaluation of the substance and other current and non-current of the arrangement and is regardless of receivables that are stated at cost or whether the arrangement takes the legal amortised cost or are classified as availableform of a lease. for-sale securities are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether i) Classification of assets leased to the Group there is objective evidence of impairment. Assets that are held by the Group under Objective evidence of impairment includes leases which transfer to the Group observable data that comes to the attention substantially all the risks and rewards of of the Group about one or more of the ownership are classified as being held under following loss events: finance leases. Leases which do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ■ significant financial difficulty of the ownership to the Group are classified as debtor; operating leases. ■ a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal ii) Operating lease charges payments; Where the Group has the use of assets ■ it becoming probable that the debtor held under operating leases, payments will enter bankruptcy or other financial made under the leases are charged to reorganisation; profit or loss in equal instalments over the ■ significant changes in the technological, accounting periods covered by the lease market, economic or legal environment term, except where an alternative basis that have an adverse effect on the is more representative of the pattern of debtor; and benefits to be derived from the leased ■ a significant or prolonged decline in the asset. Lease incentives received are fair value of an investment in an equity recognised in profit or loss as an integral instrument below its cost. part of the aggregate net lease payments Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 65 If any such evidence exists, any impairment characteristics, such as similar past due loss is determined and recognised as status, and have not been individually follows: assessed as impaired. Future cash flows for financial assets which are assessed ■ For investments in associates and joint for impairment collectively are based on ventures accounted for under the equity historical loss experience for assets with method (see note 1(f)), the impairment credit risk characteristics similar to the loss is measured by comparing the collective group. recoverable amount of the investment with its carrying amount in accordance If in a subsequent period the amount of with note 1(l)(ii). The impairment an impairment loss decreases and the loss is reversed if there has been a decrease can be linked objectively to favourable change in the estimates used an event occurring after the impairment to determine the recoverable amount in loss was recognised, the impairment accordance with note 1(l)(ii). loss is reversed through profit or loss. A reversal of an impairment loss shall ■ For unquoted equity securities carried not result in the asset’s carrying amount at cost, the impairment loss is measured exceeding that which would have been as the difference between the carrying determined had no impairment loss amount of the financial asset and the been recognised in prior years. estimated future cash flows, discounted at the current market rate of return for ■ For available-for-sale securities, the a similar financial asset where the effect cumulative loss that has been recognised of discounting is material. Impairment in the fair value reserve is reclassified losses for equity securities are not to profit or loss. The amount of the reversed. cumulative loss that is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between ■ For trade and other current receivables the acquisition cost (net of any principal and other financial assets carried at repayment and amortisation) and amortised cost, the impairment loss is current fair value, less any impairment measured as the difference between loss on that asset previously recognised the asset’s carrying amount and the in profit or loss. present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s Impairment losses recognised in profit original effective interest rate (i.e. the or loss in respect of available-foreffective interest rate computed at initial sale equity securities are not reversed recognition of these assets), where the through profit or loss. Any subsequent effect of discounting is material. This increase in the fair value of such assets assessment is made collectively where is recognised in other comprehensive these financial assets share similar risk income. 66 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Impairment losses in respect of If any such indication exists, the asset’s available-for-sale debt securities are recoverable amount is estimated. In reversed if the subsequent increase in addition, for goodwill, intangible assets that fair value can be objectively related to are not yet available for use and intangible an event occurring after the impairment assets that have indefinite useful lives, the loss was recognised. Reversals of recoverable amount is estimated annually impairment losses in such circumstances whether or not there is any indication of are recognised in profit or loss. impairment. Impairment losses are written off against ■ Calculation of recoverable amount the corresponding assets directly, except for The recoverable amount of an asset is impairment losses recognised in respect of the greater of its fair value less costs of trade and bills receivable, whose recovery is disposal and value in use. In assessing considered doubtful but not remote. In this value in use, the estimated future cash case, the impairment losses for doubtful flows are discounted to their present debts are recorded using an allowance value using a pre-tax discount rate that account. When the Group is satisfied that reflects current market assessments recovery is remote, the amount considered of time value of money and the risks irrecoverable is written off against trade and specific to the asset. Where an asset bills receivable directly and any amounts does not generate cash inflows largely held in the allowance account relating independent of those from other assets, to that debt are reversed. Subsequent the recoverable amount is determined recoveries of amounts previously charged to for the smallest group of assets that the allowance account are reversed against generates cash inflows independently the allowance account. Other changes in (i.e. a cash-generating unit). the allowance account and subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written ■ Recognition of impairment loss off directly are recognised in profit or loss. An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss if the carrying amount of ii) Impairment of other assets an asset, or the cash-generating unit to Internal and external sources of information which it belongs, exceeds its recoverable are reviewed at the end of each reporting amount. Impairment losses recognised period to identify indications that the in respect of cash-generating units are following assets may be impaired or, except allocated first to reduce the carrying in the case of goodwill, an impairment loss amount of any goodwill allocated to the previously recognised no longer exists or cash-generating unit (or group of units) may have decreased: and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (or group ■ investment property and other property, of units) on a pro rata basis, except that plant and equipment; the carrying value of an asset will not be ■ long-term leasehold prepayments; reduced below its individual fair value ■ other long-term deferred assets; less costs of disposal (if measurable) or ■ intangible assets; and value in use (if determinable). ■ goodwill Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 67 ■ Reversals of impairment losses related revenue is recognised. The amount In respect of assets other than goodwill, of any write-down of inventories to net an impairment loss is reversed if there realisable value and all losses of inventories has been a favourable change in are recognised as an expense in the period the estimates used to determine the the write-down or loss occurs. The amount recoverable amount. An impairment loss of any reversal of any write-down of in respect of goodwill is not reversed. inventories is recognised as a reduction in the amount of inventories recognised as an A reversal of an impairment loss is expense in the period in which the reversal limited to the asset’s carrying amount occurs. that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised (n) Construction contracts in prior years. Reversals of impairment losses are credited to profit or loss Construction contracts are contracts in the year in which the reversals are specifically negotiated with a customer for recognised. the construction of an asset or a group of assets, where the customer is able to (m) Inventories specify the major structural elements of the design. The accounting policy for contract Inventories are carried at the lower of cost revenue is set out in note 1(s)(ii). When the and net realisable value. outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, contract costs are Cost is calculated using the standard cost recognised as an expense by reference to method with periodical adjustments of the stage of completion of the contract cost variance to arrive at the actual cost, at the end of the reporting period. When which approximates weighted average cost it is probable that total contract costs formula. The cost of inventories includes will exceed total contract revenue, the expenditures incurred in acquiring the expected loss is recognised as an expense inventories and bringing them to their immediately. When the outcome of a existing location and condition. In the case construction contract cannot be estimated of manufactured inventories and work in reliably, contract costs are recognised as progress, cost includes an appropriate share an expense in the period in which they are of overheads based on normal operating incurred. capacity. Construction contracts in progress at the Net realisable value is the estimated selling end of the reporting period are recorded price in the ordinary course of business, less at the net amount of costs incurred plus the estimated costs of completion and the recognised profit less recognised losses estimated costs necessary to make the sale. and progress billings, and are presented in the consolidated statement of financial When inventories are sold, the carrying position as “gross amount due from thirdamount of those inventories is recognised party customers for contract works” (as as an expense in the period in which the an asset) or “gross amount due to third68 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes party customers for contract works” (as by the Group is recognised as a separate a liability), as applicable. Progress billings asset or liability. The Group derecognises not yet paid by the customer are included a financial liability when its contractual in the consolidated statement of financial obligations are discharged, cancelled, or position under “other receivables”. expire. Amounts received before the related work is performed are included under “other Financial assets and financial liabilities are payables”. offset and the net amount presented in the consolidated statement of financial (o) Financial instruments other than position when, and only when, the Group derivatives has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis Non-derivative financial assets of the or to realise the asset and settle the liability Group comprise financial assets at fair simultaneously. value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, cash and cash equivalents and ii) Measurement available-for-sale financial assets. ■ Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Non-derivative financial liabilities of the A financial asset is classified as at Group comprise interest-bearing loans and fair value through profit or loss if it borrowings, and other financial liabilities. is classified as held-for-trading or is designated as such on initial recognition. i) Recognition and derecognition Directly attributable transaction costs Non-derivative financial assets and financial are recognised in profit or loss as liabilities are recognised in the consolidated incurred. At the end of each reporting statement of financial position when the period the fair value is remeasured, Group becomes a party to the contractual with any resultant gain or loss being provisions of the instrument. recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss does The Group derecognises a financial asset not include any dividends or interest when the contractual rights to the cash earned on these investments as these flows from the asset expire, or it transfers are recognised in accordance with the the rights to receive the contractual cash policies set out in note 1(t). flows in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership ■ Loans and receivables of the financial asset are transferred, or it Loans and receivables are initially neither transfers nor retains substantially all recognised at fair value and thereafter of the risks and rewards of ownership and stated at amortised cost less allowance does not retain control over the transferred for impairment of doubtful debts (see asset. Any interest in such derecognised note 1(l)), except where the receivables financial assets that is created or retained are interest-free loans made to related Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 69 parties without any fixed repayment three months of maturity at acquisition. terms or the effect of discounting Bank overdrafts that are repayable on would be immaterial. In such cases, demand and form an integral part of the receivables are stated at cost less the Group’s cash management are also allowance for impairment of doubtful included as a component of cash and debts. cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows. From time to time, the Group transfers its trade receivables to banks or financial ■ Available-for-sale financial assets institutions; the bank or the financial Available -for-sale financial assets institution fully bears the collection risk are non-derivative financial assets without the right to receive payments that are not classified in any of the from the Group in the event a loss above categories of financial assets. occurs due to the non-collectibility Available-for-sale financial assets are of the receivables transferred. The recognised initially at fair value plus any Group’s customers make payments of directly attributable transaction costs. the receivables transferred directly to At the end of each reporting period the bank or the financial institution. In the fair value is remeasured, with any such case, trade receivables transferred resultant gain or loss being recognised are derecognised from the consolidated in other comprehensive income and statement of financial position. The accumulated separately in equity in the excess of the carrying amount of trade fair value reserve. As an exception to receivables over cash received from the this, available-for-sale financial assets banks or financial institutions is included that do not have a quoted price in an in “other (income)/operating expenses, active market for an identical instrument net” in the consolidated statement of and whose fair value cannot otherwise profit or loss. be reliably measured are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial ■ Cash and cash equivalents position at cost less impairment losses Cash and cash equivalents comprise (see note 1(l)). Dividend income is cash at bank and on hand, demand recognised in profit or loss in accordance deposits with banks and other financial with the policy set out in note 1(t) and, institutions, and short-term, highly liquid where these investments are interestinvestments that are readily convertible bearing, interest calculated using the into known amounts of cash and which effective interest method is recognised are subject to an insignificant risk of in profit or loss in accordance with the changes in value, having been within policy set out in note 1(t). 70 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes When these assets are derecognised or settlement is deferred and the effect would impaired (see note 1(l)), the cumulative be material, these amounts are stated at gain or loss is reclassified from equity to their present values. profit or loss. ii) Defined benefit obligations ■ Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Group’s obligation in respect of defined Interest-bearing loans and borrowings benefit plans is calculated separately for are recognised initially at fair value each plan by estimating the amount of less attributable transaction costs. future benefit that employees have earned Subsequent to initial recognition, in return for their service in the current and interest-bearing loans and borrowings prior periods; that benefit is discounted to are stated at amortised cost with any determine the present value. The calculation difference between the amount initially is performed by management using the recognised and redemption value being projected unit credit method. recognised in profit or loss over the period of the loans and borrowings, Service cost and interest cost on the together with any interest and fees defined benefit obligations are recognised payable, using the effective interest in profit or loss. Service cost is allocated method. by function as part of “cost of sales”, “research and development expenses”, ■ Other financial liabilities “selling and administrative expenses”. Trade and other payables are Current service cost is measured as the initially recognised at fair value and increase in the present value of the subsequently stated at amortised cost defined benefit obligations resulting from unless the effect of discounting would employee service in the current period. be immaterial, in which case they are When the benefits of a plan are changed, stated at cost. or when a plan is curtailed, the portion of the changed benefit related to past (p) Employee benefits service by employees, or the gain or loss on curtailment, is recognised as an expense in i) Short term employee benefits and contributions profit or loss at the earlier of when the plan to defined contribution retirement plans amendment or curtailment occurs and when Salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave related restructuring costs or termination and contributions to defined contribution benefits are recognised. Interest cost on retirement plans are accrued in the year defined benefit obligations for the period in which the associated services are is determined by applying the discount rendered by employees. Where payment or rate used to measure the defined benefit Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 71 obligation at the beginning of the reporting ii) Provision for onerous contracts period to the defined benefit obligations. A provision for onerous contracts is The discount rate is the yield at the end recognised when the expected benefits to of the reporting period on high quality be derived by the Group from a contract corporate bonds that have maturity dates are lower than the unavoidable cost of approximating the terms of the Group’s meeting its obligations under the contract. obligations. The provision is measured at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of Remeasurements arising from defined terminating the contract and the expected benefit plans are recognised immediately net cost of continuing with the contract. in other comprehensive income and Before a provision is established, the Group shall not be reclassified to profit or loss recognises any impairment loss on the in a subsequent period. However, the assets associated with that contract. remeasurement amounts recognised in other comprehensive income may be iii) Other provisions and contingent liabilities transferred within equity. Remeasurements Provisions are recognised for other liabilities include actuarial gains and losses. of uncertain timing or amount when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation (q) Provisions and contingent liabilities arising as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic i) Provision for warranties benefits will be required to settle the The Group provides warranty on its products obligation and a reliable estimate can be for a period typically covering 12 to 24 made. Where the time value of money months. The Group estimates the costs is material, provisions are stated at the that may be incurred under its warranty present value of the expenditure expected obligations and records a liability in the to settle the obligation. amount of such costs when revenue is recognised. Warranty costs generally include Where it is not probable that an outflow parts, labour costs and service centre of economic benefits will be required, or support. Factors that affect the Group’s the amount cannot be estimated reliably, warranty liability include the number of the obligation is disclosed as a contingent installed units, historical and anticipated liability, unless the probability of outflow rates of warranty claims. The Group of economic benefits is remote. Possible periodically reassesses its warranty liabilities obligations, whose existence will only and adjusts the amounts as necessary. be confirmed by the occurrence or nonoccurrence of one or more future events are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. 72 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (r) Income tax temporary differences, provided those differences relate to the same taxation Income tax for the year comprises current authority and the same taxable entity, tax and movements in deferred tax assets and are expected to reverse either in the and liabilities. Current tax and movements same period as the expected reversal of in deferred tax assets and liabilities are the deductible temporary difference or in recognised in profit or loss except to the periods into which a tax loss arising from extent that they relate to items recognised the deferred tax asset can be carried back in other comprehensive income or directly or forward. The same criteria are adopted in equity, in which case the relevant when determining whether existing amounts of tax are recognised in other taxable temporary differences support the comprehensive income or directly in equity, recognition of deferred tax assets arising respectively. from unused tax losses and credits, that is, those differences are taken into account if Current tax is the expected tax payable on they relate to the same taxation authority the taxable income for the year, using tax and the same taxable entity, and are rates enacted or substantively enacted at expected to reverse in a period, or periods, the end of the reporting period, and any in which the tax loss or credit can be adjustment to tax payable in respect of utilised. previous years. The limited exceptions to recognition Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise of deferred tax assets and liabilities are from deductible and taxable temporary those temporary differences arising from differences respec tively, being the the initial recognition of goodwill, the differences between the carrying amounts initial recognition of assets or liabilities of assets and liabilities for financial that affect neither accounting nor taxable reporting purposes and their tax bases. profit (provided they are not part of a Deferred tax assets also arise from unused business combination), and temporary tax losses and unused tax credits. differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that, in the case Apart from certain limited exceptions, all of taxable differences, the Group controls deferred tax liabilities, and all deferred the timing of the reversal and it is probable tax assets to the extent that it is probable that the differences will not reverse in that future taxable profits will be available the foreseeable future, or in the case of against which the asset can be utilised, are deductible differences, unless it is probable recognised. Future taxable profits that may that they will reverse in the future. support the recognition of deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary The amount of deferred tax recognised is differences include those that will arise measured based on the expected manner from the reversal of existing taxable of realisation or settlement of the carrying Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 73 amount of the assets and liabilities, using liabilities on a net basis or realise and tax rates enacted or substantively enacted settle simultaneously. at the end of the reporting period. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. (s) Revenue recognition The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset Revenue is measured at the fair value of is reviewed at the end of each reporting the consideration received or receivable. period and is reduced to the extent that Provided it is probable that the economic it is no longer probable that sufficient benefits will flow to the Group and the taxable profits will be available to allow the revenue and costs, if applicable, can be related tax benefit to be utilised. Any such measured reliably, revenue is recognised in reduction is reversed to the extent that it profit or loss as follows: becomes probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available. i) Sale of goods and provision of services Revenue from sale of goods is recognised Current tax balances and deferred tax when the significant risks and rewards of balances, and movements therein, are ownership of goods have been transferred presented separately from each other and to the buyer. Revenue from provision of are not offset. Current tax assets are offset services is recognised at the time when against current tax liabilities, and deferred the services are provided. No revenue tax assets against deferred tax liabilities, if is recognised if there are significant the Group has the legally enforceable right uncertainties regarding the recovery of the to set off current tax assets against current consideration due, associated costs or the tax liabilities and the following additional possible return of goods. Revenue excludes conditions are met: value added tax or other sales taxes and is after deduction of any trade discounts. ■ in the case of current tax assets and liabilities, the Group intends either ii) Contract revenue to settle on a net basis, or to realise When the outcome of a construction the asset and settle the liability contract can be estimated reliably, revenue simultaneously; or from a fixed price contract is recognised ■ in the case of deferred tax assets and using the percentage of completion liabilities, if they relate to income taxes method, measured by reference to the levied by the same taxation authority on percentage of contract costs incurred to either: date to estimated total contract costs for ■ the same taxable entity; or the contract. ■ different taxable entities, which, in each future period in which significant When the outcome of a construction amounts of deferred tax liabilities or contract cannot be estimated reliably, assets are expected to be settled or revenue is recognised only to the extent of recovered, intend to realise the current contract costs incurred that it is probable tax assets and settle the current tax will be recoverable. 74 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes iii) Government grants the fair value of held-for-trading financial Government grants are recognised in the assets. Interest income is recognised as consolidated statement of financial position it accrues using the effective interest initially when there is reasonable assurance method. Dividend income from listed and that they will be received and that the unlisted investments is recognised when Group will comply with the conditions the equity holder’s right to receive payment attaching to them. Grants that compensate is established; dividend income from listed the Group for expenses incurred are investments is recognised when the share recognised as other income in profit or loss price of the investment goes ex-dividend. on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred. Grants Finance expenses comprise interest expense that compensate the Group for the cost of on borrowings, unwinding of the discount an asset are recognised as deferred income on provisions and impairment losses and consequently are effectively recognised recognised on available-for-sale financial in profit or loss on a systematic basis over assets. Borrowing costs that are directly the useful life of the asset. attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset which necessarily iv) Rental income from operating leases takes a substantial period of time to get Rental income receivable under operating ready for its intended use or sale are leases is recognised in profit or loss in equal capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. instalments over the periods covered by Other borrowing costs are expensed in the the lease term, except where an alternative period in which they are incurred. basis is more representative of the pattern of benefits to be derived from the use of The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part the leased asset. Lease incentives granted of the cost of a qualifying asset commences are recognised in profit or loss as an when expenditure for the asset is being integral part of the aggregate net lease incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred payments receivable. Contingent rentals and activities that are necessary to prepare are recognised as income in the accounting the asset for its intended use or sale are in period in which they are earned. progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially (t) Finance income and expenses all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale Finance income comprises dividend and are interrupted or completed. interest income on funds invested (including available-for-sale financial assets), gains on Foreign exchange gains and losses are the disposal of available-for-sale and heldincluded under finance income or expenses for-trading financial assets, and changes in on a net basis. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 75 (u) Non-current assets held for sale Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale, and on subsequent A non-current asset (or disposal group) remeasurement while held for sale, are is classified as held for sale if it is highly recognised in profit or loss. As long as a probable that its carrying amount will be non-current asset is classified as held for recovered through a sale transaction rather sale, or is included in a disposal group that than through continuing use and the asset is classified as held for sale, the non-current (or disposal group) is available for sale in asset is not depreciated or amortised. its present condition. A disposal group is a group of assets to be disposed of (v) Segment reporting together as a group in a single transaction, and liabilities directly associated with Operating segments, and the amounts of those assets that will be transferred in the each segment item reported in the financial transaction. statements, are identified from the financial information provided regularly to the Immediately before classification as held Group’s most senior executive management for sale, the measurement of the nonfor the purposes of allocating resources current assets (and all individual assets and to, and assessing the performance of, liabilities in a disposal group) is brought upthe Group’s various lines of business and to-date in accordance with the accounting geographical locations. policies before the classification. Then, on initial classification as held for sale and until Individually material operating segments disposal, the non-current assets (except are not aggregated for financial reporting for certain assets as explained below) or purposes unless the segments have similar disposal groups are recognised at the lower economic characteristics and are similar of their carrying amount and fair value in respect of the nature of products less costs to sell. The principal exceptions and services, the nature of production to this measurement policy so far as the processes, the type or class of customers, consolidated financial statements of the the methods used to distribute the products Group are concerned are deferred tax or provide the services, and the nature assets, assets arising from employee benefit of the regulatory environment. Operating and financial assets (other than investments segments which are not individually in associates and joint ventures). These material may be aggregated if they share a assets, even if held for sale, would continue majority of these criteria. to be measured in accordance with the policies set out elsewhere in note 1. 76 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 2. Changes in accounting policies The IASB has issued a number of new IFRSs and amendments to IFRSs that are first effective for the current accounting period of the Group. Of these, the following developments are relevant to the consolidated financial statements summary: Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements – Presentation of items of other comprehensive income IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11, Joint arrangements IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities IFRS 13, Fair value measurement Revised IAS 19, Employee benefits Amendments to IFRS 7 – Disclosures – Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Group has not applied any new standard or interpretation that is not yet effective for the current accounting period. Impacts of the adoption of new or amended IFRSs are discussed below: Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements – Presentation of items of other comprehensive income The Group has chosen to use the new title “statement of profit or loss” as introduced by the amendments in the consolidated financial statements summary. IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements IFRS 10 replaces the requirements in IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements relating to the preparation of consolidated financial statements and SIC 12 Consolidation – Special purpose entities. It introduces a single control model to determine whether an investee should be consolidated, by focusing on whether the entity has power over the investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and the ability to use its power to affect the amount of those returns. As a result of the adoption of IFRS 10, the Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to determining whether it has control over an investee. The adoption does not change any of the control conclusions reached by the Group in respect of its involvement with other entities as at January 1, 2013. IFRS 11, Joint arrangements IFRS 11, which replaces IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, divides joint arrangements into joint operations and joint ventures. Entities are required to determine the type of an arrangement by considering the structure, legal form, contractual terms and other facts and circumstances relevant to their rights and obligations under the arrangement. Joint arrangements which are classified as joint operations under IFRS 11 are recognised on a line-by-line basis to the extent of the joint operator’s interest in the joint operation. All other joint arrangements are classified as joint ventures under IFRS 11 and are required to be accounted for using the equity method in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Proportionate consolidation is no longer allowed as an accounting policy choice. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 77 As a result of the adoption of IFRS 11, the Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to its interests in joint arrangements and re-evaluated its involvement in its joint arrangements. The Group has reclassified the investments from jointly controlled entity to joint venture. The investments continue to be accounted for using the equity method and therefore this reclassification does not have any material impact on the financial position and the financial performance of the Group. IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities IFRS 12 brings together into a single standard all the disclosure requirements relevant to an entity’s interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated structured entities. The disclosures required by IFRS 12 are generally more extensive than those previously required by the respective standards. To the extent that the requirements are applicable to the Group, the Group has provided those disclosures in note 13 and 14. IFRS 13, Fair value measurement IFRS 13 replaces existing guidance in individual IFRSs with a single source of fair value measurement guidance. IFRS 13 also contains extensive disclosure requirements about fair value measurements for both financial instruments and non-financial instruments. To the extent that the requirements are applicable to the Group, the Group has provided those disclosures in note 9. The adoption of IFRS 13 does not have any material impact on the fair value measurements of the Group’s assets and liabilities. Revised IAS 19, Employee benefits Revised IAS 19 introduces a number of amendments to the accounting for defined benefit plans. Among them, revised IAS 19 requires all actuarial gains and losses to be recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. As a result of the adoption of revised IAS 19, the Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to defined benefit plans, for which actuarial gains and losses were previously recognised in profit or loss. This change in accounting policy has been applied retrospectively with consequential adjustments to comparatives for the year ended December 31, 2012 as follows: Effect of As previously adoption of reported revised IAS 19 As restated CNY million CNY million CNY million Consolidated statement of profit or loss for the year ended December 31, 2012: Defined benefit plan expense 2,240 (291) 1,949 Income tax 2,711 47 2,758 Profit for the year 15,380 244 15,624 78 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Amendments to IFRS 7 – Disclosures – Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The amendments introduce new disclosures in respect of offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities. Those new disclosures are required for all recognised financial instruments that are set off in accordance with IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation and those that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement that covers similar financial instruments and transactions, irrespective of whether the financial instruments are set off in accordance with IAS 32. 3. Revenue 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Sale of goods and provision of services 238,948 220,084 Rental income 77 114 239,025 220,198 4. Other (income)/operating expenses, net 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Expense on factoring 550 762 Government grants (465) (750) Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, (985) (719) and intangible assets Others 177 (679) (723) (1,386) Government grants During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Group received unconditional government grants of CNY307 million (2012: CNY588 million) in respect of its contributions to the development of research and innovation in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”). These grants were directly recognised as other income. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Group received government grants of CNY686 million (2012: CNY523 million) which were conditional upon completion of certain research and development projects. These grants were initially recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as deferred government grants and amortised through the consolidated statement of profit or loss on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the related research and development expenses are incurred. During the year ended December 31, 2013, conditional government grants of CNY158 million (2012: CNY162 million) were recognised in profit or loss. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 79 5. Personnel expenses 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Restated (Note 2) Expenses recognised in respect of defined benefit plan 1,338 1,539 Contributions to defined contribution retirement plans 6,497 5,865 Total costs on post-employment plans 7,835 7,404 Salaries, wages and other benefits 44,615 39,979 52,450 47,383 6. Net finance expenses 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Restated (Note 2) Interest income (839) (844) Net gain on disposal of available-for-sale wealth (1,056) (785) management products Interest expense 1,358 1,758 Net foreign exchange loss 3,686 1,085 Interest cost on defined benefit obligations 469 410 Others 324 415 3,942 2,039 7. Income tax Taxation in the consolidated statement of profit or loss represents: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Restated (Note 2) Current tax Provision for the year 6,384 3,262 (Over)/under-provision in respect of prior years (78) 108 6,306 3,370 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2,147) (612) 4,159 2,758 80 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 8. Segment reporting The Group divides its business into three operating Revenue information in respect of business segments in accordance with the types of products segments and services provided: 2013 2012 ■ Carrier Network Business CNY million CNY million Develops and manufactures a wide range of Carrier Network 166,512 160,093 wireless networks, fixed networks, carrier Business software and core networks, as well as services Enterprise Business 15,263 11,530 solutions to telecommunications operators. Consumer Business 56,986 48,376 Others 264 199 ■ Enterprise Business Total 239,025 220,198 Develops integratable information and communications technology (“ICT”) products and solutions including enterprise network Revenue information in respec t of infrastructure, cloud-based green data centers, geographical segments enterprise information security and unified communication & collaboration, and delivers 2013 2012 these solutions to vertical industries such CNY million CNY million as governments, public utilities, enterprises, China 84,017 73,579 energy, power, transportation and finance. Europe, the Middle East and Africa 84,655 77,414 ■ Consumer Business (EMEA) Develops and manufactures mobile broadband Asia Pacific 38,925 37,359 devices, home devices, smartphones, as well as Americas 31,428 31,846 the applications on these devices, and delivers Total 239,025 220,198 them to consumers and businesses. The reportable segments are determined based on the Group’s organization structure, management requirement and reporting system. Each reportable segment is managed separately because each requires different technology and marketing strategies. The financial information of the different segments is regularly reviewed by the Group’s most senior executive management for the purpose of resource allocation and performance assessment. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 81 9. Property, plant and equipment Machinery, Decoration electronic Freehold Motor Construction Investment and Buildings equipment Total land vehicles in progress property leasehold and other improvements equipment CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million Cost: At January 1, 2012 50 7,357 14,412 484 5,304 567 4,272 32,446 Exchange adjustment (1) (2) (14) (3) (17) – (8) (45) Additions – 3 2,693 92 2,730 – 810 6,328 Transfer from construction in progress – 1,969 1,131 – (4,253) – 1,153 – Disposals and reclassification – (634) (588) (33) – (133) (515) (1,903) At December 31, 2012 49 8,693 17,634 540 3,764 434 5,712 36,826 At January 1, 2013 49 8,693 17,634 540 3,764 434 5,712 36,826 Exchange adjustment (1) (12) (341) (22) (70) – (65) (511) Additions 58 13 2,530 83 3,179 – 239 6,102 Transfer from construction in progress – 758 544 – (1,963) – 661 – Disposals – (24) (866) (57) – – (45) (992) At December 31, 2013 106 9,428 19,501 544 4,910 434 6,502 41,425 Accumulated depreciation: At January 1, 2012 – 1,845 8,568 303 – 289 2,810 13,815 Exchange adjustment – (1) (25) (1) – – (5) (32) Depreciation charge for the year – 442 2,131 79 – 23 1,131 3,806 Disposals and reclassification – (120) (517) (28) – (27) (437) (1,129) At December 31, 2012 – 2,166 10,157 353 – 285 3,499 16,460 At January 1, 2013 – 2,166 10,157 353 – 285 3,499 16,460 Exchange adjustment – (2) (176) (11) – – (42) (231) Depreciation charge for the year – 408 2, 403 68 – 22 856 3,757 Disposals – (18) (667) (49) – – (36) (770) At December 31, 2013 – 2,554 11,717 361 – 307 4,277 19,216 Carrying amounts: At December 31, 2012 49 6,527 7,477 187 3,764 149 2,213 20,366 At December 31, 2013 106 6,874 7,784 183 4,910 127 2,225 22,209 82 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Investment property The Group leased out certain buildings to third The fair value of investment property is determined parties. Such buildings are classified as investment by the Group internally by reference to market property. conditions and discounted cash flow forecasts. The Group’s current lease agreements, which were The carrying value of investment property as entered into on an arm’s-length basis, are taken at December 31, 2013 is CNY127 million (2012: into account when estimating future cash flow. CNY149 million). The fair value of investment The fair value measurement is categorised into property as at December 31, 2013 is estimated by level 3 of the three-level fair value hierarchy as management to be CNY252 million (2012: CNY273 defined in IFRS 13, Fair value measurement. million). 10. Long-term leasehold prepayments* 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million At January 1 2,361 2,223 Additions 462 198 Amortisation for the year (62) (60) At December 31 2,761 2,361 * For more information, please refer to the Appendix to 2013 Annual Report: Land Use Rights and Building Property. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 83 11. Intangible assets Software Patents Trademark Total CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million Cost: At January 1, 2012 1,409 976 77 2,462 Additions 309 707 5 1,021 Disposals (31) (8) – (39) At December 31, 2012 1,687 1,675 82 3,444 At January 1, 2013 1,687 1,675 82 3,444 Exchange adjustment (26) (2) 1 (27) Additions 615 606 4 1,225 Disposals (27) (99) (1) (127) At December 31, 2013 2,249 2,180 86 4,515 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses: At January 1, 2012 807 468 24 1,299 Exchange adjustment 1 – – 1 Amortisation for the year 238 167 7 412 Disposals (17) (1) – (18) Impairment losses 52 – 9 61 At December 31, 2012 1,081 634 40 1,755 At January 1, 2013 1,081 634 40 1,755 Exchange adjustment (14) (1) – (15) Amortisation for the year 264 192 7 463 Disposals (19) (78) (1) (98) At December 31, 2013 1,312 747 46 2,105 Carrying amounts: At December 31, 2012 606 1,041 42 1,689 At December 31, 2013 937 1,433 40 2,410 The amortisation charge for the year is included in “cost of sales”, “research and development expenses”, “selling and administrative expenses” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. The impairment losses are included in “other (income)/operating expenses, net” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. 84 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 12. Goodwill 2013 2012 Note CNY million CNY million Cost: At January 1 3,609 218 Exchange adjustment (87) (28) Acquisitions through business combinations 29(c) 44 3,419 At December 31 3,566 3,609 Accumulated impairment losses: At January 1 220 – Exchange adjustment 3 4 Impairment loss – 216 At December 31 223 220 Carrying amounts: At December 31 3,343 3,389 Impairment tests for cash-generating units containing goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (“CGU”) or group of CGUs, which is either an operating segment or at a level not larger than an operating segment, as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Sectors under Enterprise business group 3,139 3,229 International Turnkey Systems Technologies W.L.L. – – (“ITS Bahrain”) Beijing Huawei Longshine Information Technology 154 154 Company Limited (“Beijing Huawei Longshine”) Others 50 6 3,343 3,389 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 85 Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s CGUs The key assumptions for the calculation of valueexpected to benefit from the synergies of the in-use include the discount rates and growth rates acquisitions. For annual impairment assessment applied. The discount rates used are pre-tax rates purposes, the recoverable amount of the CGUs and reflect specific risks relating to the respective are based on their value-in-use calculations. The CGU or group of CGUs. Cash flows beyond the value-in-use calculations apply a discounted cash aforementioned approved financial budget’s flow model using cash flow projections based periods are extrapolated using an estimated on financial budgets approved by management growth rate applied. The growth rate does not covering five-year, eight-year and five-year period exceed the long-term average growth rate for for sectors under Enterprise business group, the business in which the CGU or group of CGUs ITS Bahrain and Beijing Huawei Longshine, operates. Discount rates and growth rates applied respectively, based on their industry expertise. for the calculation of value-in-use are as follows: As at December 31 2013 2012 % % Sectors under Enterprise business group – Discount rate 17.0 14.5 – Terminal value growth rate 5.0 10.0 ITS Bahrain – Discount rate N/A 36.4 – Terminal value growth rate N/A 4.0 Beijing Huawei Longshine – Discount rate 17.9 19.1 – Terminal value growth rate 3.0 3.0 During the year ended December 31, 2012, impairment loss of CNY216 million related to goodwill allocated to ITS Bahrain was recognised and the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated was reduced to nil. 86 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 13. Interest in associates Details of the Group’s interest in the material associates are as follows: Form of Place of Proportion of Name of associate business incorporation ownership interest Principal activity structure and business 2013 2012 TD Tech Holding Limited Incorporated Hong Kong, PRC 49% 49% Research and development, (“TD Tech”) production and sale of TDSCDMA telecommunication products Tianwen Digital Media Technology Incorporated Beijing, PRC 49% 49% Development, publication and (Beijing) Co., Ltd. operation of digital media related (“Tianwen Digital Media”) services All of the associates are accounted for using the equity method. Summarised financial information of the material associates, reconciled to the carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements summary, are disclosed below: TD Tech Tianwen Digital Media 2013 2012 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million Gross amounts of the associates’ Current assets 369 1,194 302 257 Non-current assets 56 76 8 8 Current liabilities (429) (1,189) (60) (15) Non-current liabilities (87) (3) (2) (3) Equity (deficit) (91) 78 248 247 Revenue 3,972 2,801 139 10 (Loss)/profit (170) 78 1 (58) Reconciled to the Group’s interest in the associates Gross amounts of net assets (91) 78 248 247 of the associate Group’s effective interest 49% 49% 49% 49% Group’s share of net assets (45) 38 122 121 of the associate Goodwill – – 5 5 Net loss not shared by the Group 45 – – – Carrying amount in the consolidated financial – 38 127 126 statements summary Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 87 Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Aggregate carrying amount of individually immaterial 143 79 associates in the consolidated financial statements summary Aggregate amounts of the Group’s share 42 (10) of those associates’ profit/(loss) 14. Interest in joint ventures Details of the Group’s interests in the material joint ventures are as follows: Form of Place of Proportion of Name of joint venture business incorporation ownership interest Principal activity structure and business 2013 2012 Huawei Marine Systems Co., Incorporated Hong Kong, PRC 51% 51% Construction and operation of Ltd. (“Huawei Marine”) submarine fibres Chengdu Huawei Incorporated Chengdu, PRC 49% 49% Investment, lease of property Investment Co., Ltd. and machinery, developments of (“CD Investment”) high technology products and provision of related services, sale of telecommunication and electronic products All of the joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. 88 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Summarised financial information of the material joint ventures, reconciled to the carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements summary, are disclosed below: Huawei Marine CD Investment 2013 2012 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million Gross amounts of the joint ventures’ Current assets 439 447 173 49 Non-current assets 20 28 1,422 1,612 Current liabilities (322) (333) (239) (313) Non-current liabilities (13) (17) (1,137) (1,054) Equity 124 125 219 294 Included in the above assets and liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents 98 74 4 3 Non-current financial liabilities (excluding trade and other – – (1,137) (1,054) payables and provisions) Revenue 498 583 241 60 Profit/(loss) 20 (34) (75) (67) Included in the above profit/(loss): Depreciation and amortisation 11 10 190 46 Interest income – – – – Interest expense – – 72 22 Income tax expense 1 1 1 – Reconciled to the Group’s interest in the joint ventures Gross amounts of net assets 124 125 219 294 of the joint venture Group’s effective interest 51% 51% 49% 49% Carrying amount in the consolidated financial 63 64 107 144 statements summary Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 89 Aggregate information of joint ventures that are not individually material: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Aggregate carrying amount of individually immaterial joint 41 42 ventures in the consolidated financial statements summary Aggregate amounts of the Group’s share of those joint (1) (186) ventures’ loss 15. Other investments 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Available-for-sale financial assets: – Unlisted equity securities stated at cost 477 502 – Listed equity securities stated at fair value 118 76 – Debt securities 5 7 – Wealth management products (i) 8,545 4,456 Held-for-trading equity securities – 13 9,145 5,054 Less: Impairment losses (ii) (16) (36) 9,129 5,018 Non-current portion 584 549 Current portion 8,545 4,469 9,129 5,018 (i) The Group purchased certain wealth management products from commercial banks with maturity less than one year. The principal and earnings of these wealth management products were not guaranteed. These wealth management products were classified as available-for-sale in accordance with the policy set out in note 1(o). (ii) As at December 31, 2013 and 2012, certain of the Group’s available-for-sale equity and debt securities were individually determined to be impaired on the basis of a material decline and adverse changes in the market in which the investees operated which indicated that the cost of the Group’s investment in them may not be recovered. Impairment losses on these investments were recognised in accordance with the policy set out in note 1(l). 90 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 16. Deferred tax assets and liabilities (a) The components of deferred tax assets/(liabilities) recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Accruals and provisions 5,740 4,745 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 269 321 Provision for impairment losses 971 1,088 Unrealised profit 3,131 2,487 Tax losses 107 236 Undistributed profits of subsidiaries (159) (468) Fair value adjustments on business combinations (75) (92) Others 1,117 704 Total 11,101 9,021 Reconciliation to the consolidated statement of financial position: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Net deferred tax assets recognised in the consolidated 11,577 9,805 statement of financial position Net deferred tax liabilities recognised in the consolidated (476) (784) statement of financial position 11,101 9,021 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 91 (b) Deferred tax assets not recognised At December 31, 2013 and 2012, deferred tax assets were not recognised in relation to certain unused tax losses and other deductible temporary differences. The unrecognized unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences are analysed as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Other deductible temporary differences 1,008 574 Tax losses 1,463 1,396 2,471 1,970 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of certain provisions for impairment losses and other provisions as management believes that these provisions are unlikely to be allowed for tax deduction by the relevant tax authorities. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of certain unused tax losses as it was determined by management that it is not probable that future taxable profits against which the tax losses can be utilised will be available before they expire. 17. Inventories (a) Inventories in the consolidated statement of financial position comprise: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Raw materials 5,990 6,313 Work in progress 4,150 2,462 Finished goods 6,077 5,734 Goods delivered but not completely installed 8,712 7,728 24,929 22,237 (b) The analysis of the amount of inventories recognised as an expense and included in profit or loss is as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Carrying amount of inventories sold 99,694 96,551 Write down of inventories 1,231 17 100,925 96,568 92 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 18. Trade and bills receivable 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Trade receivables Trade receivables due from related parties 691 525 Trade receivables due from third parties 59,189 54,576 59,880 55,101 Bills receivable Bank acceptance bills 2,224 2,078 Commercial acceptance bills 2,967 2,106 Letter of credit receivables 798 1,041 5,989 5,225 65,869 60,326 Non-current portion 335 497 Current portion 65,534 59,829 65,869 60,326 (a) Ageing analysis At the end of the reporting period, the ageing analysis of trade receivables due from third parties is as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Not past due 43,903 37,430 Less than 90 days past due 10,698 11,960 90 days to 1 year past due 7,575 6,983 1 year and above past due 1,353 1,690 63,529 58,063 Less: Allowance for doubtful debts (4,340) (3,487) Total 59,189 54,576 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 93 (b) Impairment of trade receivables due from third parties Impairment losses in respect of trade receivables due from third parties are recorded using an allowance account unless the Group is satisfied that recovery of the amount is remote, in which case the impairment loss is written off against the trade receivables due from third parties directly (see note 1(l)). The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables due from third parties during the year is as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million At January 1 3,487 3,548 Exchange adjustment (520) (63) Impairment loss recognised 1,075 3,479 Collection of previously written-off debtors 411 – Uncollectible amounts written off (113) (3,477) At December 31 4,340 3,487 19. Other receivables 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Advance payments to suppliers 1,605 2,388 Withholding taxes receivable 4,620 4,797 Pledged deposits 1,805 1,832 Gross amount due from third-party customers for contract works 228 1,340 Others 6,193 5,457 14,451 15,814 Non-current portion 14 407 Current portion 14,437 15,407 14,451 15,814 94 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 20. Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Cash in hand 5 15 Deposits with banks and other financial institutions 61,794 67,165 Highly liquid short-term investments 11,600 – Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of 73,399 67,180 financial position and consolidated statement of cash flows As at December 31, 2013, the Group had certain short-term investments purchased from commercial banks with maturity less than three months. These short-term investments were highly liquid, readily convertible into known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. These short-term investments were all subsequently matured and settled in January 2014. 21. Assets held for sale According to an agreement entered into by the Company and a third party, the Company committed to sell certain of its property, plant and equipment to the third party with a total consideration of CNY2,800 million. Pursuant to the agreement, the Company shall deliver the related property, plant and equipment to the third party before the end of March 2013. As a result, the related property, plant and equipment were classified as held for sale. The sale of the related property, plant and equipment was completed in two batches in the latter half of 2012 and the first half of 2013 with a net gain of CNY761 million and CNY986 million recognised, respectively. 22. Borrowings 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Short-term loans and borrowings: – Intra-group guaranteed 2,022 2,266 – Unsecured 25 1,991 2,047 4,257 Long-term loans and borrowings: – Intra-group guaranteed 18,351 14,464 – Unsecured 1,644 1,048 – Corporate bond 991 985 20,986 16,497 23,033 20,754 Non-current portion 19,990 16,077 Current portion 3,043 4,677 23,033 20,754 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 95 Terms and debt repayment schedule Terms and conditions of outstanding loans and borrowings are as follows: 1 year 1 to Over Total or less 5 years 5 years CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million Intra-group guaranteed bank loans: CNY – variable at 5.9% p.a. 577 157 420 – Euro (“EUR”) – variable at 1.41% ~ 1.92% p.a. 3,571 577 2,994 – Japanese yen – variable at 809 809 – – 0.97% ~ 1.28% p.a. Indian rupee – variable at 1,213 1,213 – – 9.9% ~ 11.75% p.a. United States dollar (“USD”) – fixed at 2,726 – 2,726 – 4.33% p.a. USD – variable at 1.68% ~ 2.71% p.a. 11,472 – 11,472 – Ethiopian birr – fixed at 9.5% p.a. 5 – 5 – 20,373 2,756 17,617 – Unsecured bank loans: Bangladeshi taka – variable at 24 24 – – 14.5% p.a. CNY – variable at 5.9% ~ 6.55% p.a. 1,644 262 858 524 Singapore dollar – fixed at 2.5% p.a. 1 1 – – 1,669 287 858 524 Corporate bond: CNY – fixed at 5.30% p.a. 991 – 991 – 23,033 3,043 19,466 524 The carrying amount of the above loans and borrowings approximates to the fair value. Certain of the Group’s banking facilities are subject to the fulfillment of covenants relating to certain of the borrower’s statement of financial position ratios, as are commonly found in lending agreements with financial institutions. If the Group were to breach the covenants, the draw down facilities would become payable on demand. The Group regularly monitors its compliance with these covenants. As at December 31, 2013, none of the covenants relating to draw down facilities had been breached (2012: nil). Corporate bond On May 11, 2012, Proven Honour Capital Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, issued a corporate bond with a principal amount of CNY1,000 million and three years maturity at an annual interest rate of 5.30%. This corporate bond is fully guaranteed by the Company. 96 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 23. Trade and bills payable 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Trade payables Trade payables due to related parties 761 840 Trade payables due to third parties 30,529 32,696 31,290 33,536 Bills payable Bank acceptance bills 378 1,794 Letter of credit payables 312 4,943 690 6,737 31,980 40,273 24. Other payables 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Interest payable 634 1,174 Advances received 12,694 8,661 Accrued expenses – Staff related 17,820 14,414 – Supplies related 11,777 9,797 Other taxes payable 7,824 5,640 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 2,053 1,759 Gross amount due to third-party customers for contract works 416 2,331 Others 14,671 11,603 67,889 55,379 25. Construction contracts The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date for the Group, included in the gross amount due from/to third-party customers for contract works as at December 31, 2013, is CNY8,067 million (2012: CNY26,723 million). Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 97 26. Provisions and contingencies (a) Provisions 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Provision for warranties (i) 2,963 2,407 Other provisions (ii) 2,537 1,828 5,500 4,235 Non-current portion 782 586 Current portion 4,718 3,649 5,500 4,235 Movement in provisions during the year is as below: Provision for Other Total warranties provisions CNY million CNY million CNY million At January 1, 2012 1,962 1,842 3,804 Provisions made during the year 2,844 1,384 4,228 Provisions utilised during the year (2,399) (1,398) (3,797) At December 31, 2012 and January 1, 2013 2,407 1,828 4,235 Provisions made during the year 3,491 1,332 4,823 Provisions utilised during the year (2,935) (623) (3,558) At December 31, 2013 2,963 2,537 5,500 (i) Provision for warranties The provision for warranties relates primarily to equipment sold during the year. The provision is determined based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products and services and anticipated rates of warranty claims for its products. The Group expects to settle the majority of the liability within the next twelve months. (ii) Other provisions Other provisions are mainly for onerous contracts and outstanding litigations and claims. 98 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (b) Contingencies i) In July 2011, InterDigital Corporation (“IDC”) On February 4, 2013, the Shenzhen Intermediate filed a complaint with the United States People’s Court ruled that IDC had violated International Trade Commission (the “USITC” the PRC’s Anti-Monopoly Law and ordered or “Commission”) and the United States District IDC to compensate the Group for damages of Court for the District of Delaware against CNY20 million. The Court also ruled that the Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. (“Huawei royalty rates licenses to Huawei Tech for IDC’s Tech”) and Futurewei Technologies Inc. Chinese essential standard patents in wireless (“Futurewei”), both wholly-owned subsidiaries communication should not exceed 0.019% of of the Company. The complaint alleged that the actual sales prices of Huawei Tech’s wireless sales of imported 3G wireless devices by the devices. said subsidiaries within the United States had infringed IDC’s 3G wireless patents and On March 11, 2013, IDC filed appeals to the requested for issuance of exclusion order Guangdong Higher People’s Court in respect of and cease and desist order in relation to the the rulings made by the Shenzhen Intermediate accused 3G wireless devices concerned (“the People’s Court. On October 25, 2013, the first complaint”). Guangdong Higher People’s Court upheld the Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court’s ruling In December 2011, Huawei Tech filed a which is the final ruling. complaint against IDC in the PRC for violation of the fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory On June 28, 2013 and December 19, 2013, (“FRAND”) policies and the PRC’s Antithe USITC ruled in favor of Huawei Tech, Monopoly Law. In June 2012, Huawei Tech Futurewei and USA Device in respect of the filed another complaint with the European first complaint in the initial determination and Commission (the “EC”) to request an the final determination, respectively. investigation into the licensing fees requested by IDC, which it deemed exploitative, On December 23, 2013, Huawei Tech, discriminatory, and in violation of the FRAND Futurewei and USA Device reached a settlement policies as well as the EC’s antitrust law. agreement with IDC to withdraw or dismiss all the ongoing legal actions against each other. On January 2, 2013, IDC filed another two Under the settlement agreement, the parties complaints with the USITC and the United will solve their dispute through arbitration. States District Court for the District of Delaware against Huawei Tech, Futurewei, and Huawei At this stage, the Group is unable to predict Device USA Inc. (“USA Device”), another the outcome of the litigation, or reasonably wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The estimate a range of possible loss, if any, given complaints further alleged that the sales of the current preliminary status of the litigation. certain 3G and 4G wireless devices sold by the said subsidiaries within the United States had infringed three of IDC’s other patents. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 99 ii) On May 23, 2012, Flashpoint Technology Inc. to predict the outcome of the litigation, or (“Flashpoint”) filed a complaint with the USITC, reasonably estimate a range of possible loss, if requesting the Commission to commence an any, given the current status of this litigation. investigation under Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 into certain electronic imaging iii) On July 24, 2012, Technology Properties devices manufactured by four alleged infringing Limited LLC (“TPL”) filed a complaint with companies and their affiliates by reason of the USITC, requesting the Commission to patent infringement and requested for issuance commence an investigation under Section 337 of an exclusion order and cease and desist of the Tariff Act of 1930 into certain wireless order in relation to the electronic imaging consumer electronics devices and components devices concerned. Huawei Tech and Futurewei manufactured by thirteen companies and were named as respondents. On August 2, their affiliates by reason of alleged patent 2012, the Administrative Law Judge granted infringement and requested for issuance of an a joint motion to substitute Huawei Device exclusion order and cease and desist order in Co., Ltd. (“Huawei Device”) and USA Device relation to the electronic products concerned. for Huawei Tech and Futurewei. Flashpoint Huawei Tech was named as one of the thirteen also filed another complaint before the United companies. On August 21, 2012, the USITC States District Court for the District of Delaware decided to institute Section 337 investigation in for the same reason against Huawei Device and relation to the electronic products concerned. USA Device. The legal action before District TPL also filed another complaint before the Court of Delaware was stayed. United States District Court for the Northern District of California for the same reason. On September 30, 2013, the Administrative On September 6, 2013, the Administrative Law Judge of the USITC issued an initial Law Judge of the USITC issued an initial determination in respect of Flashpoint’s determination that the Group did not infringe complaint with USITC that Huawei Device the asserted patent. On February 19, 2014, and USA Device did not infringe the asserted the USITC issued a final determination that the patents. At this stage, the Group is unable Group did not infringe the asserted patent. 100 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 27. Operating leases (a) Leases as lessee As at December 31, 2013 and 2012, the total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Within 1 year 618 472 After 1 year but within 5 years 878 577 After 5 years 65 58 1,561 1,107 The Group leases a number of warehouses, factory facilities, office premises and staff apartments under operating leases. The leases typically run for an initial period of one to five years. None of the leases includes contingent rentals. During the year ended December 31, 2013, CNY2,392 million was recognised as an expense in the consolidated statement of profit or loss in respect of operating leases (2012: CNY2,334 million). (b) Leases as lessor The Group leases out certain of its properties under operating leases (see note 3 and note 9). As at December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Group’s total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are receivable as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Within 1 year 23 100 After 1 year but within 5 years 1 9 24 109 During the year ended December 31, 2013, CNY77 million was recognised as rental income in the consolidated statement of profit or loss (2012: CNY114 million). Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 101 28. Capital commitments (a) Acquisition and construction of buildings Capital commitments of the Group in respect of acquisition and construction of buildings outstanding at December 31, 2013 and 2012 not provided for in the consolidated financial statements summary were as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Contracted for 3,378 2,094 Authorised but not contracted for 2,945 4,376 6,323 6,470 (b) Other capital commitments Other contracted capital commitments outstanding at December 31, 2013 and 2012 not provided for in the consolidated financial statements summary were as follows: 2013 2012 CNY million CNY million Establishment of an associate – 25 29. Group enterprises (a) Parent and ultimate controlling party The Group’s ultimate controlling party is the Union of Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 102 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (b) Major subsidiaries Place of Proportion of Name of subsidiary incorporation ownership interest Principal activity and business 2013 2012 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% Development, manufacture and sale of telecommunication products and the technical support & maintenance of electrical equipment and spare parts Huawei Software Technologies PRC 100% 100% Development, manufacture and sale of software and Co., Ltd. (“Huawei Software Tech”) new products in mobile communication area and rendering of related services Shanghai Huawei Technologies PRC 100% 100% Development, sale, consultancy service and after-sale Co., Ltd. service of telecommunication equipment Beijing Huawei Digital Technologies PRC 100% 100% Development, sale, and technical support of mobile Co., Ltd. communication products, import and export of goods and techniques Shenzhen Huawei Technologies PRC 100% 100% Development, manufacture, sale and provide service Software Co., Ltd. of communication software and related products HUAWEI TECHNICAL SERVICE PRC 100% 100% Installation, technology consultancy service and CO., LTD. maintenance of telecommunication equipment and auxiliary products Huawei Machine Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% Development, manufacture and sale of telecommunication products; offering of technology services HiSilicon Technologies Co., Limited PRC 100% 100% Design, development and sale of semiconductors of telecommunication products Huawei Tech. Investment Co., Ltd Hong Kong 100% 100% Trading of imported materials, sale of overseas device (“Huawei Tech Investment”) (exclude the United States) and overseas machineries Huawei Device Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% Development, manufacture and sale of mobile communication products and electrical parts Huawei International Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% 100% Trading of telecommunication equipment Huawei Technologies Coöperatief U.A. Netherlands 100% 100% Investor of overseas subsidiaries PT. Huawei Tech Investment Indonesia 100% 100% Trading of telecommunication equipment Huawei Technologies Japan K.K. Japan 100% 100% Design, development, manufacture and sale of telecommunication and information products, provide auxiliary products and services Huawei Device (Hong Kong) Hong Kong 100% 100% Sale and maintenance of electrical equipment and Co., Ltd. mobile communication products Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 103 (c) Acquisition of subsidiaries iii) On March 30, 2012, Huawei Tech Investment, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, i) On August 6, 2013, Huawei Tech Investment, acquired the remaining 49% stake in Huawei a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Digital Technologies (Hong Kong) Co., Limited acquired 100% equity interest in Caliopa (formerly “Huawei Symantec Technologies Co., NV (“Caliopa”) from third parties for a Ltd.”) (“Huawei Digital HK”) from Symantec consideration of EUR7 million (equivalent to Hardware Holding LLC (“Symantec Hardware”) CNY56 million). for a consideration of USD530 million (equivalent to CNY3,337 million). As a result Caliopa is located in Belgium and principally of this acquisition, the Group’s equity interest engaged in developing silicon photonics-based in Huawei Digital HK increased from 51% to optical solutions in the telecommunication 100% and Huawei Digital HK became a whollyindustry. In 2013, all of Caliopa’s services were owned subsidiary of Huawei Tech Investment, provided to entities within the Group. which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. ii) On December 10, 2013, Huawei Technologies (Australia) PTY Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary Huawei Digital HK is a Hong Kong-based joint of the Company, acquired 100% equity interest venture established by Huawei Tech Investment in Fastwire PTY Limited (“Fastwire”) from a and Symantec Hardware in 2008. Huawei third party for a consideration of USD19 million Digital HK is principally engaged in research (equivalent to CNY117 million). and development, production and sale of network storage and security products. Fastwire is located in Sydney and provides Operation Supporting System services to In the period from the acquisition date to telecommunication operators. December 31, 2012, Huawei Digital HK contributed revenue of CNY3,225 million and In the period from the acquisition date to net loss of CNY69 million to the Group’s results. December 31, 2013, Fastwire contributed If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, revenue of CNY1 million and net loss of 2012, management estimate that consolidated CNY3 million to the Group’s results. If the revenue would have been increased by acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2013, CNY4,289 million, and consolidated profit management estimate that consolidated for the year would have been decreased by revenue would have been increased by CNY30 CNY375 million. In determining these amounts, million, and consolidated profit for the year management have assumed that the fair value would have been decreased by CNY9 million. adjustments that arose on the acquisition date In determining these amounts, management would have been the same if the acquisition have assumed that the fair value adjustments had occurred on January 1, 2012. that arose on the acquisition date would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred iv) On March 31, 2012, Huawei Software Tech, on January 1, 2013. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired the remaining 48% stake in Beijing 104 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Huawei Longshine from Longshine Information In the period from the acquisition date to Technology Company Limited (“Longshine December 31, 2012, Beijing Huawei Longshine Information”) for a consideration of CNY116 contributed revenue of CNY130 million and million. As a result of this acquisition, the profit of CNY13 million to the Group’s results. Group’s equity interest in Beijing Huawei If the acquisition had occurred on January 1, Longshine increased from 52% to 100% and 2012, management estimate that consolidated Beijing Huawei Longshine became a whollyrevenue would have been increased by CNY130 owned subsidiary of the Company. million, and consolidated profit for the year would have been decreased by CNY9 million. Beijing Huawei Longshine is a China-based In determining these amounts, management company established in 1996. Beijing Huawei have assumed that the fair value adjustments Longshine is principally engaged in production that arose on the acquisition date would have and sale of network communication products, been the same if the acquisition had occurred computer hardware and software and provision on January 1, 2012. of related services. The above acquisitions had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities on the acquisition date: Recognised values on acquisition 2013 2012 Beijing Huawei Caliopa Fastwire Huawei Digital HK Longshine CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million Note 29(c)(i) Note 29(c)(ii) Note 29(c)(iii) Note 29(c)(iv) Property, plant and equipment 2 1 88 2 Available-for-sale financial assets – – 26 – Intangible assets 26 116 375 92 Trade and other receivables 5 7 509 62 Inventories – – 543 16 Cash and cash equivalents 3 1 1,025 33 Trade and other payables (15) (15) (1,629) (24) Borrowings – (1) (170) (63) Defined benefit obligations – – (313) – Deferred tax liabilities (1) – (61) (14) Total net identifiable assets 20 109 393 104 Acquisition-related costs 1 3 28 – Consideration, satisfied by cash 56 117 3,337 116 Analysis of the net outflow of cash and cash equivalents in respect of the acquisitions: Cash consideration paid 53 117 3,337 116 Cash and cash equivalents acquired (3) (1) (1,025) (33) Net cash outflow 50 116 2,312 83 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 105 Goodwill Goodwill was recognised as a result of the acquisitions as follows: Recognised values on acquisition 2013 2012 Beijing Huawei Caliopa Fastwire Huawei Digital HK Longshine CNY million CNY million CNY million CNY million Note 29(c)(i) Note 29(c)(ii) Note 29(c)(iii) Note 29(c)(iv) Total consideration 56 117 3,337 116 Fair value of pre-existing interest – – 315 142 Fair value of identifiable net assets (20) (109) (393) (104) 36 8 3,259 154 Caliopa The goodwill is attributable mainly to the skills and technical talent of Caliopa’s work force. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Fastwire The goodwill is attributable mainly to the skills and technical talent of Fastwire’s work force, and the synergies expected to be achieved from integrating Fastwire into the Group’s existing network business. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 30. Comparative figures As a result of the application of new IFRSs and amendments to IFRSs and to conform to current year’s presentation, certain comparative figures have been adjusted to provide comparative amounts in respect of items disclosed for the first time in 2013. Further details of these developments are disclosed in note 2. 106 Risk Factors Risk Factors All risk factors mentioned in this Annual Report, Huawei has incorporated risk management factors particularly those outlined in this section, refer into its strategic planning and business planning to key future uncertainties that may affect processes; through strategic planning, all domains the company’s business objectives. They were systematically identify and assess their risks. In identified from the company’s strategic planning, the 2013 business plan, all domains developed business model, external environment, and risk countermeasures, thereby giving managerial financial system. Major risk factors are events that priority to risk monitoring and reporting in daily will significantly impact the company’s competition operations. The company ensures the continuity of landscape, reputation, financial conditions, business operations by clarifying major risks during operating results, and long-term prospects within strategic decision making and planning, while also the next 18 months. Hereinafter, all risk factors preemptively controlling risks in business plans and refer to major risk factors. execution. Huawei’s Risk Management System Strategic Risks Based on the Committee of Sponsoring Intense competition: The markets in which Huawei Organizations of the Treadway Commission operates are highly competitive in terms of product (COSO) framework, in line with our organizational price, functionality, and service quality, as well structure and operating model, and by referring as the timing of new product launch. The rapid to the ISO31000 risk management standards, development of science and technology, and Huawei designed and established an enterprise risk changes in alternative technologies or industry management (ERM) system, issued corresponding standards will lead to shorter product lifecycles ERM policies and processes, and optimized our and may attract more new entrants into the ERM organizations and operating mechanism. The markets in which we operate. ERM system consists of three major roles: In this market context, we will remain committed ■ The Finance Committee (FC) makes routine to thoroughly understanding, digging out, and decisions on corporate risk management. satisfying diversified customer requirements. To ■ All business executives are responsible for secure and strengthen our competitive advantage risk management of their assigned business and continuously improve our operating results, we domains. will launch products and services of even higher quality to the market while reducing the total costs ■ The Enterprise Risk Mgmt Dept assists the for our customers. FC and coordinates all business executives in managing all major risks. Risk Factors 107 External Risks Natural disasters: Earthquakes, floods, and other natural disasters may impact the company’s supply Economic environment: Many uncertainties and chain operations, and slow down or even prevent downside risks will persist in the global economy in delivery in a certain region or even all regions. the future. To improve financial conditions, telecom carriers may postpone investments or initiate other Operational Risks cost-cutting measures. These factors could result in reduced demand for network infrastructures Supply continuity: Although Huawei strives to avoid and services, which would in turn affect Huawei’s procurement from single-source suppliers, it is not operating results. always possible due to objective factors. Finding an alternative supplier or redesigning products may Country-specific risks: Huawei conducts business be time-consuming and costly. As such, supply and in more than 170 countries and regions. Operating delivery of our products to our customers could in these countries involves certain risks, such as be seriously affected if any of our single-source civil unrest, economic and political instability, suppliers were unable to ensure continuous supply imposition of exchange controls, sovereign debt or met with product quality issues. To mitigate this crisis, supervision over the right of operations, and risk, we periodically assess and conduct audits on labor issues. All these risks require Huawei to have our suppliers, and preemptively initiate component a high aptitude for risk management. replacements or solution redesign. Legal risks: In certain regions where we operate, Rising labor costs: Increasing labor costs in China the complex legal environments may pose various may offset the company’s efforts to improve adverse impacts although we strive to comply with efficiency and ultimately affect our profitability. all local laws and regulations. Information security and intellectual property Trade barriers: Today, as Huawei conducts business right (IPR): While Huawei has judiciously adopted around the world, the complex international information security measures to protect our IPR, economic and financial conditions along with they may not be adequate to prevent infringement increasingly fierce industry competition may or improper use of our information, patents, or challenge Huawei with different types of trade licenses. Misappropriations of this nature will barriers in some countries. Measures resulting in cause losses to Huawei even though we may be trade barriers have become more complicated and protected to some extent by intellectual property include trade investigations, the imposing of large law. amounts of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties, and setting special product quality and technical Financial Risks specifications. All of these measures may impact the free trade of Huawei products. Although we For further information on financial risks, see proactively respond to mitigate risks from such “Financial Risk Management” on pages 40 to 43 trade barriers, these barriers may still adversely of this Annual Report. affect Huawei’s operating results. 108 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Structure Adhering to “customers as our focus and dedicated employees as our foundation” from our core values, we continue to improve our corporate governance structure, organizations, processes, and appraisal systems to achieve long-term effective growth. Shareholders’ Meeting Independent Board of Directors Supervisory Board Auditor (Executive Committee) Human Resources Strategy & Development Finance Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee CEO/Rotating CEOs Group Functions Financial HR  Finance Corporate Strategy BP&IT Cyber Investment Development Marketing Security Ethics & Management JCR PR&GR Legal Affairs Internal Audit Compliance Service BG Platform (SBG) 2012 Laboratories Integrated Business Services (IBS) Carrier Network Enterprise Consumer Manufacturing BG BG BG Huawei University Huawei Internal Services Regional Organizations In 2014, we will gradually restructure our business organizations in order to establish our innovative and technological advantages in the era of ICT convergence, and to provide solutions that can fully meet different customers’ needs, so as to deliver a superior user experience. In addition, we will build closer connections and partnerships with customers and help them achieve business success while ensuring healthy, sustainable, and effective growth for our company. Shareholders Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (“the Company” or “Huawei”) is a private company wholly owned by its employees. Shareholders of Huawei are the Union of Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the “Union”) and Mr. Ren Zhengfei. Through the Union, the company implements an Employee Shareholding Scheme (the “Scheme”), which involved 84,187 employees as of December 31, 2013. The Scheme effectively aligns employee contributions with the company’s long-term development, fostering Huawei’s continued success. Mr. Ren Zhengfei is the individual shareholder of the Company and also participates in the Scheme. As of December 31, 2013, Mr. Ren’s investment accounts for nearly 1.4% of the Company’s total share capital. Corporate Governance Report 109 The Shareholders’ Meeting and the Mr. Wang Kexiang, Mr. Lv Ke, Mr. Yang Kaijun, Representatives’ Commission Mr. Jiang Yafei, Ms. He Tingbo, Mr. Sun Ming, Mr. Wu Kunhong, Mr. Zhao Yong, Ms. Yan Weimin, The Shareholders’ Meeting is the highest authority Mr. Tang Xiaoming, Mr. Wang Jiading, Mr. Wei within the Company, and is comprised of two Chengmin, Mr. Xiong Lening, Mr. Li Shanlin, Mr. Xu shareholders: the Union and Mr. Ren Zhengfei. Chi, Mr. Yang Shu, Mr. Song Liuping, Mr. Zhou Hong, Ms. Chen Jun, and Mr. Hui Chun. The Company’s major issues, which involve the decisions of the Union as the shareholder of Board of Directors and Committees the Company, shall be primarily reviewed and decided by the Representatives’ Commission The Board of Directors (BOD) is the decision(the “Commission”). The Commission consists making body for corporate strategy and of all representatives of shareholding employees management. The BOD guides and oversees the (“Representatives”) and exercises rights on behalf overall business operations and makes decisions of these shareholding employees. In 2013, the on significant strategic issues. The BOD has Commission held three meetings. At the meetings, established the Human Resources Committee, the the Commission received reports on the company’s Finance Committee, the Strategy & Development 2012 operational performance, consolidated Committee, and the Audit Committee to assist and financial statements, and the operations of the support BOD operations. Supervisory Board. In addition to reviewing and approving proposals about profit distribution, The key roles and responsibilities of the BOD capital increases, and regulations on the byinclude: elections of members of the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board, the Commission elected ■ Deciding on the company’s strategic directions; four additional members to the Board of Directors. approving its medium-to-long-term business plan; monitoring the execution of the plan. The 51 Representatives and 9 Alternate ■ Providing advice and guidance to management Representatives are elected by the active regarding significant issues, including major shareholding employees with a term of five risks and market changes. years. In the event that there is a vacancy in the ■ Reviewing the company’s business operations, Representatives, the Alternate Representatives shall organization, and processes; approving take up the vacancy in sequence. The existing major organizational restructurings, business Commission was elected in December 2010. At transformations, and process transformations. present, the Representatives are Ms. Sun Yafang, ■ Approving the company’s major financial Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Hu Houkun, Mr. policies, financial arrangements, and business Ren Zhengfei, Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding transactions. Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, Ms. Chen Lifang, Mr. ■ Approving the company’s operational and Wan Biao, Mr. Zhang Ping’an, Mr. Yu Chengdong, financial results; approving the company’s Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. Ren Shulu, financial statements. Mr. Tian Feng, Mr. Deng Biao, Mr. Zhou Daiqi, Mr. ■ Establishing the company’s monitoring Cai Liqun, Mr. Jiang Xisheng, Mr. Yin Xuquan, mechanisms and overseeing their execution. Mr. Yao Fuhai, Mr. Zha Jun, Mr. Li Yingtao, Ms. Ji ■ Establishing the company’s governance Ping, Mr. Tao Jingwen, Mr. Zhang Shunmao, Mr. structure and organizing its optimization and Ding Shaohua, Mr. Li Jin’ge, Mr. Wang Shengli, deployment. 110 Corporate Governance Report ■ Deciding on the selection, appraisal, and In 2013, the attendance record for each Director compensation of the Chief Executive Officer; is as follows: approving the appointment and compensation of other members of senior management. Director Meetings Attended ■ Approving the corporate-level HR planning and Ms. Sun Yafang 12 major HR policies. Mr. Guo Ping 12 In 2013, the BOD held 12 meetings. Throughout Mr. Xu Zhijun 12 the year, the BOD reviewed and approved the Mr. Hu Houkun 12 company’s medium-to-long-term business plan, Mr. Ren Zhengfei 12 the annual business plan and budget, revisions Mr. Xu Wenwei 12 to the Articles of Association, operations of the Mr. Li Jie 12 committees of the BOD, organization building and accountability, and other major HR and financial Mr. Ding Yun 12 policies and activities. In addition, the BOD Ms. Meng Wanzhou 12 organized a training session for its members in Ms. Chen Lifang 11 which they had in-depth discussions about training Mr. Wan Biao 7 topics with external experts. Mr. Zhang Ping’an 12 On December 27, 2013, the Representatives Mr. Yu Chengdong 11 elected four additional members to the BOD, increasing the number of BOD members from 13 to Note: 17. Currently, BOD members are Chairwoman Ms. ■ Mr. Li Yingtao, Mr. Li Jin’ge, Ms. He Tingbo, and Mr. Sun Yafang; Deputy Chairmen Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Wang Shengli were elected to the BOD on December 27, 2013, and did not attend BOD meetings in 2013. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Hu Houkun, and Mr. Ren Zhengfei; Executive Directors Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. The BOD has established the Executive Committee, Ding Yun, and Ms. Meng Wanzhou; Directors Ms. which acts as the executive body of the BOD while Chen Lifang, Mr. Wan Biao, Mr. Zhang Ping’an, Mr. the BOD is adjourned. Members of the Executive Yu Chengdong, Mr. Li Yingtao, Mr. Li Jin’ge, Ms. Committee include Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Xu Zhijun, He Tingbo, and Mr. Wang Shengli. Mr. Hu Houkun, Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding Yun, and Ms. Meng Wanzhou. In 2013, the Executive Committee of the BOD held 21 meetings. Corporate Governance Report 111 Human Resources Committee The Human Resources Committee meets on a monthly basis and convenes special sessions The Human Resources Committee manages and as needed. At the invitation of the committee, improves the core elements of organizational business executives and subject matter experts may management such as organization, talent, attend the meetings as non-voting participants. incentives, and culture. Under the authorization The Human Resources Committee held 12 meetings of the BOD, this committee develops and decides in 2013 to meet the requirements of the BOD, the on key policies and transformation initiatives global development needs of multiple business related to HR management and oversees their groups, and the challenges of managing diversified implementation. To support business development, talent. the committee ensures that HR policies reflect the company’s HR management philosophy and In 2013, the committee continued to conduct core concepts while also considering the business strategic planning regarding HR management. characteristics and management models of Focusing on the “Talent Pyramid” and its departments at all levels. solution architecture, the committee developed management systems for managerial and The key roles and responsibilities of the Human professional positions. To address the problems Resources Committee include: and needs related to incentive management, the committee optimized the company’s compensation ■ Managing the succession plans, allocation, and incentive structure and ensured that it was appointments or removals, performance effectively implemented. To adapt to business appraisals, compensation, and incentives for key development needs, the committee restructured managers and talent under the authorization of relevant organizations and continued to solidify the BOD. the flexible governance mechanism for headcount ■ Managing overall incentive policies, benefit budgeting that aligns with business needs. The policies, the compensation structure, and job committee continuously carried out major tasks matching. related to employee disciplinary compliance. In ■ Managing policies for organizational addition, the committee made expected progress development and optimization; managing the in areas such as development of HR management HR budget and staffing for each budgetary frameworks and policies and supervision of the unit. implementation of key decisions and policies. ■ Managing employee learning and development policies and providing guidance. To help managers at all levels better understand ■ Setting policies related to employee disciplinary the company’s major HR policies issued in recent compliance and managing disciplinary actions years, the Human Resources Committee held the in the case of major violations. 2013 Huawei Annual Management Conference. ■ Setting policies related to the occupational At the conference, in-depth discussions about health and safety of employees and providing corporate vision and major directions and policies guidance. regarding talent and incentive management were ■ Managing strategic HR plans and key HR conducted, and consensus was reached. The transformation initiatives. discussions facilitated the effective implementation of corporate policies in organizations at all levels. 112 Corporate Governance Report The Human Resources Committee is comprised ■ Reviewing the capital structure plan; making of 15 members, including BOD members, senior proposals for major financing activities, the business executives, and senior HR experts. The asset structure, and profit distribution. Chairman of the committee is Mr. Hu Houkun. The ■ Reviewing the company’s key financial policies, members include Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. annual financial statements, and issues related Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding Yun, Ms. Meng to information disclosure. Wanzhou, Mr. Li Yingtao, Mr. Wan Biao, Ms. He ■ Reviewing capital operations and strategic Tingbo, Mr. Zhang Ping’an, Mr. Zha Jun, Mr. Tian cooperation projects, submitting proposals Feng, Mr. Peng Bo, and Mr. Li Shanlin. to the BOD, and periodically assessing the execution of such projects. Finance Committee ■ Reviewing the company’s risk management framework, advising on trade compliance The Finance Committee is positioned as the issues, and establishing a business continuity overall enterprise value integrator of the company. management system. Under the authorization of the BOD, the Finance Committee exercises macro-control over the The Finance Committee meets on a monthly basis company’s business operations, investment and convenes special sessions as needed. Based activities, and enterprise risks, helping to strike on business needs and requirements of the BOD, a dynamic balance between opportunities and the Finance Committee held 13 meetings in 2013. resources. This facilitates the company’s effective At the meetings, the committee reviewed such growth. items as the company’s medium-to-long-term business plan, annual budgeting plan, operational The key roles and responsibilities of the Finance management, capital operations projects, the Committee include: capital structure, enterprise risk management, and subsidiary and joint venture management. ■ Aligning resources with business needs based The Finance Committee discussed and established on the company’s resources and resource relevant financial policies and systems, reviewed acquisition capabilities. and decided on relevant activities, and monitored ■ Setting financial objectives for the growth the execution of these activities. and investment projects of the company and responsibility centers; determining the The Finance Committee is comprised of 15 standards, structure, and pace for resource members, including BOD members and financial investments. experts. The Chairman of the committee is Mr. Guo ■ Measuring the monetary value of key strategies, Ping. The members include Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Hu conducting forward-looking forecasts and Houkun, Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding Yun, analysis, and submitting proposals to the BOD. Ms. Meng Wanzhou, Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Yi Xiang, ■ Reviewing the company’s annual budgeting Mr. Fang Weiyi, Mr. Zou Zhilei, Mr. CT Johnson, plan, approving the annual budget for each Mr. Qiao Nengdong, Mr. Yao Fuhai, and Mr. Xiong responsibility center, and ensuring closedLening. loop management of the corporate-level plan, budget, accounting, and performance appraisals. Corporate Governance Report 113 Strategy & Development Committee The SDC held 12 regular meetings in 2013 and a four-day event comprised of strategy development The Strategy & Development Committee (SDC) workshops in September. During 2013, the SDC develops, sets, and executes the company’s reached 28 resolutions on business direction, strategic directions. The SDC gains insight into positioning, and investment focus. In accordance major trends concerning the industry, technologies, with the positioning and responsibility determined and customer needs; and identifies opportunities by the BOD, the SDC focused on formulating the and paths for the company’s development. company's strategy and steering its direction, Through macro -management of industrial guided each business unit to continue along the investments, technologies, business models, path of strategic focus, innovation, differentiation, and transformations, the SDC ensures that the and leadership to build future-proof core company continues to achieve effective growth competences based on the pipe strategy and through concerted efforts. industry development trends, and managed the company's business presence and the focus of The key roles and responsibilities of the SDC its industrial investment portfolio. On this basis, include: the SDC improved and institutionalized processes and methodologies for strategy management, ■ Managing the company’s medium-to-longsystematically analyzed the uncertainties in the term strategic plan, key initiatives, and major future development of the ICT industry, and objectives of the year. continuously promoted key strategic initiatives, ■ Managing the company’s brand strategy, such as globalization, SoftCOM, and 5G, to architecture, and characteristics, as well as support the company's long-term sustainable the publicity strategy and direction of the development. company. ■ Managing the company’s strategy for strategic The SDC is comprised of 15 members, including partnerships and alliances, as well as the BOD members, senior business executives, and selection of strategic partners and allies. senior subject matter experts. The Chairman of the ■ Managing the company’s business portfolios committee is Mr. Xu Zhijun. The members include and scope. Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Hu Houkun, Mr. Xu Wenwei, ■ Managing the company’s pricing policies, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, commercial authorization principles, and actual Mr. Yu Chengdong, Mr. Li Yingtao, Mr. Liang Hua, pricing of key strategic products. Mr. Zhang Ping’an, Mr. Zha Jun, Mr. Deng Biao, ■ Managing the company’s medium-to-longMr. Wang Shengqing, and Mr. Zhang Shunmao. term technology development plan, standards and patent strategy, and major technology Audit Committee investments. ■ Managing the company’s medium-to-long-term The Audit Committee oversees internal controls business transformation strategy, process and under the authorization of the BOD. The oversight management system structure, quality policies, responsibilities include monitoring the internal etc. control system, internal and external audits, and ■ Reviewing the company’s business portfolios corporate processes, as well as compliance with frequently to ensure investments are made in laws and regulations and the Business Conduct the strategic domains. Guidelines (BCG). 114 Corporate Governance Report The key roles and responsibilities of the Audit on topics such as risk management and internal Committee include: control construction and promotion, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the annual ■ Approving the internal audit plan of the year; internal audit planning and the annual planning reviewing the scope of the internal audit plan, for global process control construction, and resources required for its execution, and the received reports on the trend analysis of Internal results of the execution. Control Maturity (ICM), the Semi-Annual Control ■ Approving corporate policies related to internal Assessment (SACA), GPOs’ control improvements, control management; approving the company’s the internal control framework and responsibility internal control development plan and key system assessment, etc. The Audit Committee also milestones; regularly assessing the company’s improved employee compliance with Huawei’s overall internal control posture. BCG by publicizing major audit findings and non■ Overseeing the effectiveness of the ethics compliance cases. In addition, the Chairman of and compliance function, and the company’s the Audit Committee discussed the management compliance with legal and regulator y improvement proposal with the external auditor. requirements as well as corporate policies. ■ Reviewing the selection of external auditors; The Audit Committee is comprised of eight reporting the change of external auditors to members, including members of the Supervisory the BOD for approval, and approving all related Board, BOD members, and subject matter experts. fees; assessing the effectiveness of external The Chairman of the committee is Mr. Liang Hua. auditors’ performance. The members include Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. Ren ■ Supervising the integrity, completeness, and Shulu, Mr. Tian Feng, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Peng Zhijun, legal compliance of the company’s financial Mr. Hui Chun, and Mr. Zhou Daiqi. statements; reviewing accounting policy compliance and application as well as disclosure Supervisory Board of financial statements. ■ The Audit Committee approves the control Pursuant to the requirements of the Company KPIs at the beginning of each year, and has the Law of the People’s Republic of China, Huawei right to summon Global Process Owners (GPOs) has established a Supervisory Board. The key and business executives to report their control roles and responsibilities of the Supervisory work. Board include overseeing the company’s financial and operational performance, monitoring the The Audit Committee meets on a quarterly basis responsibility fulfillment of BOD members and and convenes special sessions as needed. At senior management, as well as the standardization the invitation of the Audit Committee, business of BOD operations. Members of the Supervisory executives and subject matter experts may attend Board attend BOD meetings as non-voting the meetings as non-voting participants. The Audit participants. Committee held five meetings in 2013. Focusing Corporate Governance Report 115 In 2013, the Supervisory Board held four meetings. Rotating CEOs At the meetings, the Supervisory Board reviewed and approved regulations on its own operations, Huawei implements the rotating CEO system and developed a work plan for the next three years. under the leadership of the BOD. Acting as the According to the work plan, the Supervisory Board primary person of the company’s operations and will strengthen its operations in three aspects: crisis management during his tenure, the Rotating supervision of the responsibility fulfillment of BOD and Acting CEO is responsible for the company’s members and senior management, monitoring survival and development. of the financial performance of the company, and building of the Supervisory Board itself. In The Rotating and Acting CEO is responsible for addition, the Supervisory Board reviewed and convening and chairing the meetings of the assessed the company’s financial performance, Executive Committee of the BOD. During routine and received reports by the company’s supervisory management decision making, the Rotating and departments. Throughout the year, members of Acting CEO apprises members of the BOD and the the Supervisory Board attended 12 meetings of Supervisory Board of his responsibility fulfillment the BOD as non-voting participants, monitoring in a timely manner. the financial performance of the company, the responsibility fulfillment of BOD members and Three Deputy Chairmen take turns to act as the senior management, and the standardization of Rotating and Acting CEO for a tenure of six BOD operations. In 2013, the Supervisory Board months. In 2013, the acting tenures for the three began to appraise the annual responsibility rotating CEOs are as follows: fulfillment of BOD members. ■ Mr. Guo Ping: October 1, 2012 – March 31, 2013 The Supervisory Board is comprised of five ■ Mr. Hu Houkun: April 1, 2013 – September 30, members, who were elected by all the 2013 Representatives. The members of the Supervisory ■ Mr. Xu Zhijun: October 1, 2013 – March 31, 2014 Board are Chairman Mr. Liang Hua, and members Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. Ren Shulu, Mr. Tian Feng, and Mr. Deng Biao. 116 Corporate Governance Report Members of the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board, and the BOD Committees ‘ Members of the Board of Directors From the left in the first row: M r. Li Jin’ge, Mr. Guo Ping, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Ren Zhengfei, Mr. Hu Houkun, Ms. He Tingbo, Mr. Li Jie From the left in the second row: Ms. Chen Lifang, Mr. Wan Biao, Mr. Zhang Ping’an, Ms. Sun Yafang, Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Yu Chengdong, Mr. Ding Yun, Mr. Li Yingtao, Mr. Wang Shengli Corporate Governance Report 117 Director Biographies Ms. Sun Yafang Mr. Xu Zhijun (Eric Xu) Ms. Sun joined Huawei in 1989, and had served Born in 1967, Mr. Xu holds a doctorate degree as an engineer of the Marketing & Sales Dept, from Nanjing University of Science & Technology. Director of the Training Center, President of the Mr. Xu joined Huawei in 1993 and has served Procurement Dept, General Manager of Wuhan as President of the Wireless Product Line, Chief Office, President of the Marketing & Sales Dept, Strategy & Marketing Officer, Chief Products & Chair of the Human Resources Committee, Chair Solutions Officer, Chairman of the Investment of the Business Transformation Executive Steering Review Board, Deputy Chairman of the Board, Committee (BT-ESC), Chair of the Strategy and Rotating CEO, and Chairman of the Strategy & Customer Standing Committee, and President of Development Committee. Huawei University. Since 1999, Ms. Sun has been the Chairwoman of the Board. Mr. Hu Houkun (Ken Hu) Born in 1968, Mr. Hu holds a bachelor’s degree Prior to joining Huawei, Ms. Sun worked as a from Huazhong University of Science and technician at the state-owned Xinxiang Liaoyuan Technology. Mr. Hu joined Huawei in 1990 and has Radio Factory in 1982, a teacher at China Research served as President of the Marketing & Sales Dept Institute of Radio Wave Propagation in 1983, in China, President of the Latin America Region, and an engineer at Beijing Research Institute of President of the Global Sales Dept, Chief Sales & Information Technology in 1985. Service Officer, Chief Strategy & Marketing Officer, Chairman of the Corporate Global Cyber Security Ms. Sun was born in 1955, and graduated in 1982 Committee, Chairman of the BOD of Huawei USA, with a bachelor’s degree from Chengdu University Deputy Chairman of the Board, Rotating CEO, and of Electronic Science and Technology. Chairman of the Human Resources Committee. Mr. Guo Ping Mr. Ren Zhengfei Born in 1966, Mr. Guo holds a master’s degree Born on October 25, 1944 into a rural family from Huazhong University of Science and where both parents were school teachers, Mr. Technology. Mr. Guo joined Huawei in 1988 and Ren Zhengfei spent his primary and middle school has served as an R&D project manager, General years in a remote mountainous town in Guizhou Manager of Supply Chain, Director of Huawei Province. In 1963, he studied at the Chongqing Executive Office, Chief Legal Officer, President of Institute of Civil Engineering and Architecture. the Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept, President of After graduation, he was employed in the civil the Corporate Development Dept, Chairman and engineering industry until 1974 when he joined President of Huawei Device, Deputy Chairman of the military’s Engineering Corps as a soldier tasked the Board, Rotating CEO, and Chairman of the to establish the Liao Yang Chemical Fiber Factory. Finance Committee. Subsequently, Mr. Ren had taken positions as a 118 Corporate Governance Report Technician, an Engineer, and was lastly promoted Ms. Meng Wanzhou (Cathy Meng) as a Deputy Director, which was a professional Born in 1972, Ms. Meng holds a master’s degree role equivalent to a Deputy Regimental Chief, but from Huazhong University of Science and without military rank. Because of his outstanding Technology. Ms. Meng joined Huawei in 1993. performance, Mr. Ren was invited to attend the She obtained her M.A. in 1998. Ms. Meng has National Science Conference in 1978 and the served as Director of the International Accounting 12th National Congress of the Communist Party Dept, CFO of Huawei Hong Kong, President of of China in 1982. Mr. Ren retired from the army the Accounting Mgmt Dept, President of the Sales in 1983 when the Chinese government disbanded Financing & Treasury Mgmt Dept, and currently, the entire Engineering Corps. He then worked in CFO of Huawei. the logistics service base of the Shenzhen South Sea Oil Corporation. As he was dissatisfied with his Ms. Chen Lifang job, he decided to establish Huawei with a capital Born in 1971, Ms. Chen graduated from Northwest of CNY21,000 in 1987. He became the CEO of University in China. Ms. Chen joined Huawei in Huawei in 1988 and has held the title ever since. 1995 and has served as Chief Representative of the Beijing Representative Office, Vice President of Mr. Xu Wenwei (William Xu) the International Marketing Dept, Deputy Director Born in 1963, Mr. Xu holds a master’s degree from of the Domestic Marketing Management Office, Southeast University. Mr. Xu joined Huawei in 1991 President of the Public Affairs and Communications and has served as President of the International Dept, and Corporate Senior Vice President. Technical Sales & Marketing Dept, President of the European Area, Chief Strategy & Marketing Officer, Mr. Wan Biao Chief Sales & Service Officer, President of the Joint Born in 1972, Mr. Wan holds a bachelor’s degree Committee of Regions, CEO of the Enterprise BG, from the University of Science and Technology of and President of the company’s Strategy Marketing China. Mr. Wan joined Huawei in 1996 and has Dept. served as Director for the UMTS RAN System, President of the UMTS Product Line, President of Mr. Li Jie (Jason Li) the Wireless Product Line, CEO of Huawei Device, Born in 1967, Mr. Li holds a master’s degree from and President of the Russia Region. Xi’an Jiaotong University. Mr. Li joined Huawei in 1992 and has served as Regional President, Mr. Zhang Ping’an (Alex Zhang) President of the Global Technical Service Dept, Born in 1972, Mr. Zhang holds a master’s degree President of the Human Resource Mgmt Dept, and from Zhejiang University. Mr. Zhang joined Huawei President of the Joint Committee of Regions. in 1996 and has served as Product Line President, Senior Vice President, Vice President of Strategy & Mr. Ding Yun (Ryan Ding) Marketing, Regional Vice President, Vice President Born in 1969, Mr. Ding holds a master’s degree of the Global Technical Service Dept, CEO of from Southeast University. Mr. Ding joined Huawei Huawei Symantec, COO of the Enterprise BG, and in 1996 and has served as Product Line President, currently, President of the Carrier Software & Core President of the Global Solution Sales Dept, Network Business Unit. President of the Global Marketing Dept, Chief Products & Solutions Officer, and CEO of the Carrier Network BG. Corporate Governance Report 119 Mr. Yu Chengdong (Richard Yu) Ms. He Tingbo (Teresa He) Born in 1969, Mr. Yu holds a master’s degree Born in 1969, Ms. He holds a master’s degree from from Tsinghua University. Mr. Yu joined Huawei in Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications. 1993 and has served as 3G Product Director, Vice She joined Huawei in 1996 and has since served as President of the Wireless Technical Sales Dept, Principal ASIC Engineer, R&D Director of HiSilicon, President of the Wireless Product Line, President President of HiSilicon, Vice President of the 2012 of the European Area, Chief Strategy & Marketing Laboratories, and member of the Human Resources Officer, Chairman of Huawei Device, and CEO of Committee. the Consumer BG. Mr. Wang Shengli (Victor Wang) Mr. Li Yingtao Born in 1963, Mr. Wang holds a master’s degree Born in 1969, Mr. Li holds a doctorate degree from Wuhan University. He joined Huawei in 1997 from Harbin Institute of Technology. Mr. Li joined and served as Regional Vice President, Regional Huawei in 1997 and has served as Chief of the President, and President of the Asia Pacific Region. Sweden Research Center, Director of the Product He is now President of the European Region, Mgmt Dept of Wireless Marketing, Director executive member of the Management Team of of the Research Dept of Products & Solutions, the Joint Committee of Regions, Director of the Director of the General Technology Office of overseas subsidiaries’ Board Bureau, and Chairman Products & Solutions, President of the Central of the Board of Huawei Technologies Cooperatief, Research & Development Unit, President of the U.A. 2012 Laboratories, Director of the Integrated Technology Management Team, member of the Human Resources Committee, and member of the SDC. Mr. Li Jin’ge Born in 1968, Mr. Li holds a bachelor’s degree from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications. Mr. Li joined Huawei in 1992 and has served as Regional Vice President, Regional President, President of the Global Technical Sales Dept, President of the Sub-Sahara Area, member of the Joint Committee of Regions, member of the Finance Committee, and President of the Asia Pacific Area. 120 Corporate Governance Report Members of the Supervisory Board From the left: Mr. Deng Biao, Mr. Ren Shulu, Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Tian Feng, Mr. Peng Zhiping Supervisory Board Member Biographies Mr. Liang Hua (Howard Liang) Committee, and currently, President of the Internal Born in 1964, Mr. Liang holds a doctorate degree Service Mgmt Dept. from Wuhan University of Technology. Mr. Liang joined Huawei in 1995 and has served as President Mr. Tian Feng of Supply Chain, CFO of Huawei, President of the Born in 1969, Mr. Tian holds a bachelor’s degree Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept, President of the from Xidian University. Mr. Tian joined Huawei in Global Technical Service Dept, and Chairman of 1995 and has served as EVP of the Middle East the Audit Committee. and Northern Africa Area, President of the Middle East Region, President of the China Region, CEO Mr. Peng Zhiping (Benjamin Peng) of Huawei Agisson, Vice President (acting) of the Born in 1967, Mr. Peng holds a master’s degree Human Resource Mgmt Dept, EVP of Huawei from Fudan University. Mr. Peng joined Huawei in University, Director of the Institute of Education 1996 and has served as President of the Terminal of Huawei University, Director of the Disciplinary Product Line, President of the Optical Network and Supervisory Sub-committee of the Human Product Line, President of the Supply Chain Mgmt Resources Committee, and executive member of Dept, President of the Procurement Qualification the Management Team of the Joint Committee Mgmt Dept, Chief Operations & Delivery Officer, of Regions. President of the Integrated Business Services (IBS), and Chief Supply Chain Officer. Mr. Deng Biao (Alex Deng) Born in 1971, Mr. Deng holds a bachelor’s degree Mr. Ren Shulu (Steven Ren) from Jiangxi University. Mr. Deng joined Huawei Born in 1956, Mr. Ren holds a bachelor’s degree in 1996 and has served as President of the Access from Yunnan University. Mr. Ren joined Huawei Network Product Line, President of the Network in 1992 and has served as President of Shenzhen Product Line, President of the Carrier Software & Smartcom Business Co., Limited, Chairman of Core Network Business Unit, and President of the the Capital Construction Investment Management Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept. Corporate Governance Report 121 Committee Member Biographies Only the biographies of committee members not listed in “Director Biographies” or “Supervisory Board Member Biographies” are included in this section. (The order in which the biographies are provided is based on the number of strokes needed to complete the Chinese character that corresponds to the member’s surname.) Mr. Wang Shengqing (Ken Wang) Mr. Zou Zhilei Born in 1972, Mr. Wang holds a master’s degree Born in 1971, Mr. Zou holds a bachelor’s degree from Huazhong University of Science and from Hefei University of Technology. Mr. Zou Technology. Mr. Wang joined Huawei in 1997 joined Huawei in 1998 and has served as and has served as Deputy Director of the Mobile General Manager of the Xi’an Representative Technical Sales Dept in China, Deputy Director Office, General Manager of the Guangzhou (acting) of the Technical Sales Dept in the Asia Representative Office, President of the Northern Pacific Area, Deputy General Manager of the Africa Region, President of the Global Sales Dept Indonesia Representative Office, Director of the under the Enterprise BG, President of the Global Telefonica Account Dept, and President of the Sales and Service Dept under the Enterprise BG, Marketing & Solution Dept. and currently, EVP of the Carrier BG and member of the Finance Committee. Mr. Fang Weiyi Born in 1965, Mr. Fang holds a master’s degree Mr. CT Johnson, CPA from the Aeronautics Computing Technique Born in 1968, Mr. Johnson received an MBA in Research Institute. Mr. Fang joined Huawei in Finance and a Master of Science in Accounting at 1995 and has served as an engineer, Director of the University of Texas at Dallas. He worked as an the Intelligent Network Product Line, Director Auditor with Ernst & Young starting in 1993 (US, of the Strategy and Planning Dept, President of Russia), as Finance Director for InBev from 1998 the Finance Mgmt Dept, President of the Sales & (Russia) and then as a turn around CFO for multiple Delivery Finance Mgmt Dept, and currently, CFO companies starting in 2000 (US, Germany). He of the Carrier Network BG and member of the joined Ericsson in 2006 as the Controller for Finance Committee. the North America Region, later becoming the head of their Hosted Services Business, and finally Mr. Li Shanlin taking over as head of Commercial Management. Born in 1968, Mr. Li holds a master’s degree from In 2012, Mr. Johnson joined Huawei and served Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics. as Corporate Controller in the Group Finance Mr. Li joined Huawei in 1996 and has served as Mgmt Dept, and is now Director of the Contract an R&D project manager, Department Manager at Commerce and Fulfillment Mgmt Dept and member Huawei Technologies India Private Limited, Deputy of the Finance Committee. Chief of the Beijing Research Center, Director of the R&D Dept of the Data Communications Product Line, Deputy Director of the HR Branch of Products & Solutions, Vice President of the Human Resource Mgmt Dept, and member of the Human Resources Committee. 122 Corporate Governance Report Mr. Zhang Shunmao (Patrick Zhang) Mr. Zha Jun Born in 1966, Mr. Zhang holds a master’s degree Born in 1971, Mr. Zha holds a master’s degree from Fudan University. Mr. Zhang joined Huawei from Zhejiang University. Mr. Zha joined Huawei in in 1992 and has served as Director of the Switch 1997 and has served as an R&D product manager, Business Dept of the Central Research Dept, Vice Director of the IMS Product Line, President of President of the Technical Support Dept, Corporate the Router and Network Security Product Line, Senior Vice President, EVP of the Marketing Dept, President of the Network Product Line, President President of the Fixed Network Product Line, of the Fixed Network Business Unit, member of President of the Wireless Product Line, EVP of the the Human Resources Committee, and member Latin America Area, President of the Northern Latin of the SDC. America Region, and President of the Enterprise Business Marketing & Solutions Dept. Mr. Yao Fuhai Born in 1968, Mr. Yao holds a bachelor’s degree Mr. Yi Xiang (Steven Yi) from the University of Electronic Science and Born in 1975, Mr. Yi holds a bachelor’s degree Technology of China. Mr. Yao joined Huawei in from Wuhan University. Mr. Yi joined Huawei in 1997 and has served as Director of the Pricing 1998 and has served as Director of the Sales Mgmt Center, Vice President of the Business Process Dept in the Asia Pacific Area, General Manager of & IT Mgmt Dept, Vice President of the Strategy the Pakistan Representative Office, President of the Cooperation Dept, Vice President of the Global Middle East Region, President of the Middle East Technical Sales Dept, President of the Global and Africa Area, and currently, President of the Technical Service Dept, and currently, President Sales & Delivery Finance Mgmt Dept, Deputy CFO of the Procurement Qualification Mgmt Dept, of Huawei, and member of the Finance Committee. Director of the Group Procurement Management Committee, and member of the Finance Mr. Zhou Daiqi Committee. Born in 1947, Mr. Zhou graduated from Xidian University. Mr. Zhou joined Huawei in 1994 and Mr. Peng Bo (Vincent Peng) has served as an ATM product manager, Chief Born in 1976, Mr. Peng holds a bachelor’s degree Engineer and General Manager at the Multimedia from Harbin Institute of Technology. Mr. Peng Dept, Director of the Hardware Dept, Chief of the joined Huawei in 1999 and has served as Account Xi’an Research Center, Director of the HR Branch Manager of the Customer Relationship Mgmt of Products & Solutions, and currently, Chief Ethics Dept, Account Manager of the Hong Kong & Compliance Officer, Director of the Corporate Representative Office, President of the Vodafone Committee of Ethics and Compliance, and member Account Dept, Vice President of the Western of the Audit Committee. European Region, President of the Accounts Business Dept, President of the Global Sales Dept under the Carrier Network BG, member of the Carrier Network BG EMT, member of the Human Resources Committee, and member of the SDC. Corporate Governance Report 123 Mr. Peng Zhijun (Peter Peng) Independent Auditor Born in 1969, Mr. Peng holds a master’s degree from Shanghai University of Finance and An independent auditor is responsible for auditing Economics. Mr. Peng joined Huawei in 1997 and a company’s annual financial statements. In has served as Director of the Investment Mgmt accordance with applicable accounting standards Dept, CFO of the Latin America Area, Director of and audit procedures, the independent auditor the Tax Mgmt Dept, Vice President of the Finance expresses an opinion as to whether the financial Mgmt Dept, Deputy Director of the Business statements are true and fair. Control and Enterprise Risk Mgmt Dept, and currently, Chief Risk Review Officer and member The scope of the financial audit and the annual of the Audit Committee. audit results are subject to review by the Audit Committee. Any relationship or service that may Mr. Hui Chun (Clark Hui) potentially affect the objectivity and independence Born in 1963, Mr. Hui holds a master’s degree from of the independent auditor can be discussed with Huazhong University of Science and Technology. the Audit Committee. The independent auditor Mr. Hui joined Huawei in 1989 and has served as may discuss any issues identified or any difficulties President of the Procurement Qualification Mgmt encountered during the course of the financial Dept, Vice President of Finance & President of audits with the Audit Committee. the Business Control Dept, Vice President of the Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept, and currently, KPMG has been Huawei’s independent auditor Director of the Engineering Inspection Dept and since 2000. member of the Audit Committee. Business Structure Mr. Qiao Nengdong (Joe Qiao) Born in 1973, Mr. Qiao holds a master’s degree The company has established three BGs. Each from Nankai University. Mr. Qiao joined Huawei BG is a responsibility center for the end-to-end in 1998 and has served as Vice President of the operations in a particular customer domain. Accounting Mgmt Dept, CFO of the Northern BGs are the main driving force behind Huawei’s Africa Region, CFO of the Enterprise BG, and operations. Each BG is responsible for ensuring currently, Director of the General Procurement effective growth and improving efficiency for the Qualification Dept and member of the Finance company as well as achieving business objectives Committee. and ensuring customer satisfaction for its business domain. Service BGs (SBGs) are responsibility Mr. Xiong Lening centers that provide end-to-end support and Born in 1969, Mr. Xiong holds a bachelor’s degree services for BGs. SBGs shall continuously increase from Zhejiang University. Mr. Xiong joined Huawei efficiency and reduce operating costs. The Group in 1993 and has served as Deputy Director of Functions provide BGs with support, services, and the Development and Pilot (D&P) Dept, General supervision. They are positioned to offer accurate, Manager of the Chengdu Representative Office, timely, and effective services to field offices and Director of the Beijing Branch, Director of the strengthen supervision while delegating sufficient China Mobile Account Dept, Vice President of the authority to field offices. China Region, EVP (acting) of the Russia Region, and currently, President of the Supply Chain Mgmt Dept and member of the Finance Committee. In 2014, we will gradually restructure our organization. 124 Corporate Governance Report Continuous Improvement of Management and other business domains. Besides this, we Systems streamlined our processes end-to-end. We employed the Six Sigma methodology to enhance Huawei established global management systems the ability of all employees to improve. We also to promote and pass down our corporate culture promoted continuous improvements through while achieving effective business management. quality measurements, reviews, and assessments in The aim is to: accordance with the best practices of the industry. ■ Advocate customer centricity and further To ensure that the products and services we enable customer success. provide to our customers are effective and ■ Ensure risks are controlled and business reliable, we had our systems certified by multiple continuity is guaranteed. independent third parties. Additionally, Huawei ■ Shoulder corporate social responsibilities (CSR) obtained certification in ISO9001/TL9000 (quality), to promote sustainable social development. ISO14001 (environment), OHSAS18001 (health and safety), and ISO27001 (information security). Huawei’s management systems are based on Huawei also obtained certification in SA8000 (CSR) ISO9001 (an international standard for quality in the device domain. management systems) and TL9000 (an international standard for quality management systems of the Huawei has also successfully passed the telecom industry). Through continuous evolutions, comprehensive audits, regular assessments, and Huawei has developed the capabilities of making stringent reviews conducted by 33 of the world’s frequent self-assessments and improvements top 50 carriers as well as by enterprises and to continuously meet the requirements and industries. The items covered include financial expectations of customers and other stakeholders. stability, quality management, delivery, supply chain management, knowledge management, We fulfilled the requirements of our management project management, information and cyber systems in accordance with our corporate strategy. security, risk management, EHS, CSR, and We continuously strengthened the capabilities business continuity management. We enjoy wide of our customer-centric management systems recognition from our customers in these key based on integrated business processes to domains, as evidenced by their choice of Huawei effectively support our business development and as a strategic partner. continuous improvement. In addition, on the basis of excellent business practices, we developed a Huawei continued to entrust professional thirdcomprehensive process system, encompassing party market survey companies to conduct operating, enabling, and supporting processes. customer satisfaction surveys around the globe. Through these processes, we incorporated Based on customer feedback, we summarized requirements associated with quality, internal and identified our top issues, made improvements controls, Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS), accordingly, and managed the issues in a closedcyber security, and CSR into marketing, R&D, loop manner to further improve customer supply chain, procurement, delivery, service, satisfaction. Corporate Governance Report 125 Strategy to Execution of transformation programs, we ensured prompt responses to and end-to-end management of Huawei launched its “Develop Strategy to Execute customer requirements, further lowered our (DSTE)” strategy management system to enable internal operating costs, and improved our strategy-driven business planning, budgeting, and business operational efficiency, thereby bolstering performance appraisal. This action aims to ensure the company’s strategic goals of globalization and that the medium-to-long-term strategic objectives sustainable development. of the company and each business unit are taken into account in the annual plan and budgets, ■ Deepened Transformation of Customer thus helping ensure that business units are well Relationship Management (CRM): Huawei coordinated. This action also aims to effectively developed process-based organizations manage corporate investments and assist the for customer-centric marketing, sales, and company in achieving its strategic and business services to ensure that we remain focused objectives. on customer expectations and requirements, improve efficiency, and reduce risks and During the annual business planning and costs in order to create maximum value for budgeting, Huawei utilizes balanced scorecards to customers and enable their and eventually measure its organizational performance. Corporate Huawei’s success. To date, we have completed strategic objectives are broken down into the development of the Lead to Cash (LTC) organizational performance objectives at all levels. process and the IT system, and optimized At Huawei, work reports are conducted level-bythem for regions based on local conditions. level, personal business commitments (PBCs) are The Manage Client Relationship (MCR) process managed for employees, and the applications has been implemented effectively in 14 regions of organizational and individual performance and 10 key account departments worldwide to results are strengthened. These approaches ensure effectively manage customer relationships and that organizational and individual objectives are customer satisfaction. aligned with the company’s objectives and that the company’s strategy is effectively understood and ■ Continuous Customer Issue Management implemented across the organization. Transformation: The Issue to Resolution (ITR) process has been launched and fully deployed, Management Transformations allowing us to handle non-technical problems, complaints, and other customer concerns In 2013, Huawei focused on strengthening the in addition to technical issues. As such, we integration of its process architecture, ensuring ensure that issues raised by customers are the smoothness of main business flows, further resolved in accordance with contracts in a delegating authority to field offices based on timely and effective manner to protect service processes, better aligning organizations with continuity and cyber security of customer processes, and improving process performance equipment and networks. This initiative also and operations. In addition, we incorporated drives the company to improve its products and the design of internal controls into the process management to ensure customer satisfaction. management system. By implementing a variety 126 Corporate Governance Report ■ Continuous Integrated Financial Services (IFS) to change related processes, organizations, Transformation: Huawei is building a global resource allocation mechanisms, and appraisal financial management system to facilitate the mechanisms so that projects are treated as company’s sustainable and profitable growth independent operating units. To improve through data-based management. Huawei organizational efficiency, Huawei also deploys a is close to finishing the streamlining of its resource buy-and-sell mechanism that enables financial and business processes and data at project teams to buy resources from Group the transaction level. As such, we are now Functions. In addition, Huawei has devoted focusing on developing comprehensive financial more efforts to knowledge management, capabilities related to operations and decision document management, and knowledge making. communities to enhance knowledge and experience sharing, thus improving employees’ ■ Continuous Optimization of the Integrated efficiency. Product Development (IPD) Process: Huawei has deployed the One Track development model Organizational Capabilities through the Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) system, achieving process integration and Functional departments at Huawei, such as finance, ensuring data consistency. We have integrated HR, business process & IT, sales support, service & operation systems that support end-to-end delivery, and administrative affairs, have widely R&D activities, from product requirement, deployed the shared service model to integrate design, implementation, validation, version resources and support the improvement of the building, to release. In addition, a complete IT company’s business capabilities and operational system that supports R&D activities has almost efficiency. Huawei has established over 40 Centers been developed. These measures have helped of Expertise (COEs) across 16 countries, with improve R&D efficiency and product quality the focus on filling capability gaps and sharing while ensuring that cyber security and product expertise. By integrating global professional compliance requirements are defined and talent, we are able to make breakthroughs in key fulfilled in the product R&D process. We have technologies, share professional experiences, and optimized innovation management in terms of improve business capabilities. In addition, Huawei process architectures, built innovation DNAs has set up more than 30 Shared Service Centers in the company’s process and management (SSCs) worldwide. Some mature SSCs, such as the systems, and continued to develop the service finance and contract fulfillment SSCs, are shifting and device IPD processes to support the their roles from regional to global integration development of new industries. centers. The bidding, IT, HR, supply chain, and logistics SSCs have also been established and ■ Continuous Projec t Management and started operations. COEs and SSCs aim to better Knowledge Management: Huawei is making provide quality and efficient services to the three efforts to build a management culture BGs and regional organizations, enabling them to focused on project operations, and continues focus more on customers. Corporate Governance Report 127 Establishment of the Internal Control System made in terms of internal controls to the CFO of Huawei, and assists the CFO in building the Huawei has designed and implemented an internal internal control environment. The Internal Audit control system based on its organizational structure Dept independently monitors and assesses the and operational model. The internal control effectiveness of internal controls for all operational framework and its related management system activities. apply to all business and financial processes of the company and its subsidiaries and business units. Risk Assessment The system of internal controls is based on the COSO model, which consists of five components: Huawei has established a dedicated internal control Control Environment, Risk Assessment, Control and risk management department to regularly Activities, Information & Communication, and assess risks related to all business processes around Monitoring. The internal control system also the globe. This department identifies, manages, includes internal controls for financial statements and monitors significant risks, forecasts potential to ensure that the financial statements are true, risks caused by changes in both the internal complete, and accurate. and external environments, and submits risk management strategies along with risk mitigation Control Environment measures for decision making. All process owners are responsible for identifying, assessing, and A control environment is the foundation for an managing business risks and taking internal control internal control system. Huawei is dedicated measures accordingly. Huawei has established a to maintaining a corporate culture of integrity, mechanism for improving internal controls and risk placing a high value on business ethics, and strictly controls in order to efficiently manage critical risks. complying with laws and regulations. Huawei has established BCG to define the company’s Control Activities standards for acceptable conduct. Huawei also provides training programs, requires all employees Huawei has established the Global Process to acknowledge their understanding of and Management System (GPMS) and the Business commitment to complying with the BCG, and Transformation Management System (BTMS), asks all employees to sign the BCG on a regular released the global Business Process Architecture basis. Huawei has a well-established governance (BPA), and appointed Global Process Owners structure with clear authority delegation and (GPOs) based on the BPA. As the role responsible accountabilities. The governance structure is for building processes and internal controls, comprised of the BOD, its committees, Group GPOs identify Key Control Points (KCPs) and the Functions, and multi-level administrative teams. Separation of Duties Matrix for each process Huawei has clearly defined roles and responsibilities and apply them to all regions, subsidiaries, and for its teams to ensure checks and balances. The business units. GPOs organize monthly compliance CFO of Huawei is in charge of internal control tests on the KCPs to continuously monitor the management. The Business Control Dept identifies effectiveness of internal controls and publish test areas for improvement, reports improvements reports. GPOs optimize processes and internal 128 Corporate Governance Report controls based on business pain points to improve Monitoring operational efficiency and help achieve business objectives. In addition, GPOs perform SemiThe company has established an internal complaint Annual Control Assessments (SACAs) to assess channel, an investigation mechanism, and an the effectiveness of the overall process design and accountability system. We have clearly defined execution effectiveness of each business unit, and guidelines in the Agreement on Honesty and then report the results to the Audit Committee. Integrity, which stipulates that suppliers can report any improper conduct concerning Huawei Information & Communication employees through the channels provided in the agreement. The Internal Audit Dept independently The company has established information assesses the effectiveness of the company’s and communication channels to ensure timely internal controls and investigates any suspected acquisition of external information from violations of the BCG. The Internal Audit Dept customers, suppliers, and other parties. Huawei reports the audit and investigation results to the has created formal channels for transferring Audit Committee and senior management. Huawei internal information. Huawei has also established has established and implemented a mechanism an online forum that provides a channel for for internal control appraisal, accountability, and employees to communicate freely with each other. impeachment of GPOs and regional managers. Corporate management holds regular meetings The Audit Committee and the CFO of Huawei with departments at all levels to effectively pass regularly review the effectiveness of the company’s on management orientation and ensure that internal controls and receive reports on action management decisions are effectively implemented. plans for internal controls and the progress of plan All business policies and processes are available on execution. Both have the right to request that the the company’s intranet. Managers and process GPOs or top management of each business unit owners regularly organize training programs on provide explanations for identified internal control business processes and internal controls to ensure issues and, if necessary, take corrective actions. that all the up-to-date information is available The Audit Committee and the CFO of Huawei may to all employees. The company has established also suggest that the Human Resources Committee a mechanism for process owners at all levels to take disciplinary action or propose impeachment regularly communicate with one another, review when necessary. the execution effectiveness of internal controls, and follow up on resolving internal control issues. Sustainable Development 129 Sustainable Development In 2013, we redoubled our efforts to manage our sustainability initiatives. We have incorporated sustainability requirements into our business activities and have built sustainability into our operations, making sustainability an integral part of the day-to-day work for every Huawei employee. We continued to focus on our four sustainability strategies: bridging the digital divide, supporting stable and secure network operations, promoting environmental protection, and seeking win-win development. Our goal is to ensure harmony in the economy, environment, and society. Bridging the Digital Divide Communications for All Resolving Communications Challenges for 8 Million People in Remote Areas of the “Mountain Kingdom” Located in the Himalayas, Nepal is known as the “Mountain Kingdom” as it has many mountains with elevations of over 6000 km above sea level. Nepal’s mountainous terrain makes transportation in this developing country rather difficult. In the country, goods are mainly carried by manual labor, oxen, or helicopters. Electricity supply is another major challenge for the country. Every winter, some areas of the country suffer from power outages of up to 16 hours every day. Carriers in Nepal have long been troubled by such issues The Huawei SingleSite solution makes as difficult construction of common base stations, long communications convenient for construction periods, and high construction costs, and Nepalese in mountainous areas thus have been unable to more effectively promote local communications. People in Nepal could not even make smooth calls, let alone communicating with the outside world. After gaining a deep understanding of the conditions in Nepal, Huawei helped local carriers deploy integrated base stations in rural areas using the Huawei SingleSite solution. The deployment of energy-efficient outdoor base stations powered by solar energy significantly helped carriers lower their site construction costs, effectively reduced the dependency of base stations on electric power, and quickly achieved signal coverage in the relevant areas. By the end of 2013, Huawei rolled out 2G networks in mid-west, western, and far west Nepal, the country’s three remote mountainous areas, providing coverage for over 8 million people. Convenient communications have made the lives of the Nepalese much easier. As part of our efforts to bridge the digital divide, Huawei is committed to providing people across all geographic areas with easy access to basic voice communications services. Our products and solutions have been deployed in more than 170 countries and regions, including a large number of underdeveloped countries and regions. 130 Sustainable Development Broadband Inclusion for All Providing High-Speed Broadband Access for More Africans According to analysis by the International Telecom Union (ITU), only 6.7% of African homes had access to broadband connections by 2013. In Europe, this figure reached up to 77%. African users are eager to gain access to the Internet. What they need is fast, reliable, and affordable broadband services. Given that Africa has rigid demands for broadband access but lacks fixed network resources, wireless broadband becomes especially important for bridging the digital divide in Africa. With its ultra-high downlink bandwidth and industry chain maturity, Huawei’s TD-LTE solution increased the Huawei’s TD-LTE solution effectively improves the penetration of broadband services in Africa penetration of broadband access in Africa while reducing the cost of wireless broadband access. In the past, broadband access was a luxury that could be afforded only by wealthy individuals and enterprises in Africa. Now, Huawei’s TD-LTE solution has changed broadband access from a luxury to a basic ICT service accessible to ordinary people in Africa. Wireless broadband is developing rapidly, playing an increasingly important role in reducing the number of Africans who lack internet connections. More and more Africans have gained access to high-speed broadband services and benefited from the efficiency and convenience of the information society. Huawei enables broadband inclusion for all, ensuring that broadband is available everywhere. As an active member of broadband projects in different regions, Huawei seeks to bridge the broadband divide around the globe. In addition, Huawei enthusiastically promotes future-proof ICT technologies to improve people’s livelihoods and provide local communities with easy access to the information society. Sustainable Development 131 Nurturing ICT Talent Telecom Seeds for the Future Program The Telecom Seeds for the Future Program offers hands-on ICT training, scholarships, work experience, and internships to students from different countries. By the end of 2013, the Program had been extended to benefit more than 10,000 students from over 70 universities in more than 20 countries, including Australia, France, Germany, Ghana, Indonesia, Kenya, Morocco, Norway, and Spain. Students are participating in hands-on ICT training As issues surrounding broadband access are gradually resolved, the task of nurturing digitally literate ICT professionals has moved up our agenda. As of the end of 2013, Huawei had established 45 global training centers to nurture professionals for local communities and transfer knowledge to them. In close collaboration with local higher education institutes and other organizations, Huawei offers scholarships and internships to excellent students in order to support ICT education and nurture talent. 132 Sustainable Development Application of ICT Technologies Providing Aid for Visually Impaired Students Visually impaired students find it challenging to switch between computers because they can hardly detect the differences of different computers and desktops. Huawei virtual desktop technology takes the needs of the visually impaired students into consideration and allows for customization based on the needs of individual students. As a result, students have no difficulty using different devices, and can easily log in to a familiar graphical user interface (GUI) from any device. Visually impaired students learn with Huawei’s Desktop Cloud In March 2013, Huawei successfully completed the installation of 80 classroom ports for the Shanghai School for the Blind. The Huawei Desktop Cloud system provides students with quick and easy access to connectivity and an improved learning experience. A high school student surnamed Pan said, “The cloud desktop system gives us the chance to log in to the desktop easily in different classrooms, and seamlessly connect with our tablets and mobile phones, which makes learning easier.” Huawei actively promotes the application of ICT technologies for consumers, governments, the public sector, and industries such as transportation and energy. Our customized ICT solutions help different geographic areas and groups use ICT technologies to increase their economic status, work efficiency, and competitiveness. Sustainable Development 133 Supporting Stable and Secure Network Operations Network Stability Supporting Network Stability in Response to the Ya’an Earthquake On April 20, 2013, a magnitude 7.0 earthquake hit Ya’an, Sichuan Province, creating widespread destruction and a wave of more than 4,000 aftershocks. Electricity and water supplies were cut off, roads were blocked, and critical telecommunication lines and wireless base stations were destroyed, affecting thousands of people. Bad weather, powerful aftershocks, and landslides proved ongoing challenges to the effort to restore communications. In the wake of the earthquake, Huawei quickly Huawei staff is working on the frontline in Ya’an initiated an emergency plan, established an emergency command center in Ya’an to coordinate local efforts, and worked alongside carriers, government agencies, subcontractors, and relief workers to carry out rescue efforts. In spite of the danger posed from numerous aftershocks, possibility of building collapse, and landslides, Huawei employees courageously went to such severely stricken areas as Baoxing and Lushan immediately after the disasters occurred to collaborate with local carriers in providing communications for rescue and relief efforts. Huawei designated more than 400 employees to disaster-stricken areas to restore equipment. All Huawei communications equipment was recovered by midday on April 26. Through dedication and collaboration with related parties, we quickly restored communications for local communities and provided effective support for relief efforts. In 2013, Huawei ensured smooth communications for nearly 3 billion people worldwide and supported the stable operations of over 1,500 networks for more than 600 customers in over 170 countries and regions. We spared no effort in guaranteeing network availability during 181 critical events, natural disasters (including the Ya’an earthquake and Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines), and special occasions (such as Hajj). 134 Sustainable Development Cyber Security Huawei's Cyber Security White Paper In 2013, Huawei released the second version of our cyber security white paper, Cyber Security Perspectives: Making cyber security a part of a company’s DNA – A set of integrated processes, policies and standards. In 网络安全透视 构筑公司的网络安全基因 the white paper, Huawei discussed ways to make cyber security a part of —— 一套综合流程、政策与标准 约翰 萨福克 ● 高级副总裁 | 全球网络安全官 华为技术有限公司 our DNA, and called for the development and implementation of consistent 2013年10月 international cyber security standards. “We confirm our company’s unswerving commitment to continuing to work with all stakeholders to enhance our capability and effectiveness in designing, developing, and deploying secure technology.” Huawei’s cyber security white paper —— Chairman of the Huawei Global Cyber Security Committee Cyber security assurance has been one of Huawei’s core strategies. It has long been an area of focus of our company. In 2013, we comprehensively incorporated cyber security requirements into our corporate policies and business processes in 12 domains, such as strategy & governance, laws & regulations, personnel management, R&D, and verification. We have developed and implemented an end-to-end global cyber security assurance system. Promoting Environmental Protection Green Pipe 20,000 Base Stations Powered by Natural Resources Normal base stations are usually powered by diesel generators. This not only generates carbon dioxide and other hazardous emissions; it also requires carriers to regularly refuel base stations and designate skilled workers for maintenance, resulting in extra travel and maintenance expenditures. Base stations powered by renewable energy have low operation costs, conserve energy, and are environmentally friendly. Renewable energy is therefore Solar-powered base stations in an ideal power supply solution for base stations. Inner Mongolia, China Huawei has deployed approximately 20,000 green base stations worldwide. Wind and solar energy can be leveraged to supply most of the power used by these base stations, saving 80% of fuel consumption. This helps carriers reduce carbon dioxide emissions during network expansions and lower their operational expenditures. Sustainable Development 135 Huawei emphasizes green concepts in the entire product lifecycle, including design, R&D, manufacturing, delivery, and service. We make continuous innovations in our technology, aiming to increase the resource utilization efficiency of our products. We also provide customers with world-leading products and solutions that are highly energy efficient and environmentally friendly, helping customers reduce their operational expenditures and decrease their carbon emissions. Green Operations Reducing Carbon Footprints with Solar Power Stations In recent years, Huawei has actively researched and utilized new energy solutions to help reduce the carbon footprints of our products while reducing our operational expenditures. In particular, the solar power stations used at Huawei’s Dongguan Campus generated 3.5 million kWh of power in 2013, which is equivalent to a 3,228 ton reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. In addition, Huawei plans to build solar power Solar power stations at Huawei’s station projects at other Huawei campuses, including Dongguan Campus Shenzhen, Hangzhou, and Nanjing. Once these stations are put into use, they will generate more power for Huawei’s operations. This, in turn, will help the company achieve the goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions and contribute to the building of a low-carbon society. Huawei not only actively responds to climate change, but also takes concrete measures to increase the efficiency of energy utilization, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and build ourselves as a role model of environmentally-friendly operations. By strengthening our energy management and leveraging our management and technological approaches to energy conservation, Huawei saved 41.98 million kWh of electricity in 2013, which is equivalent to a 38,000 ton reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. 136 Sustainable Development Green Partner Huawei Green Partner Certification The Huawei Green Partner (HW GP) Program aims to encourage our suppliers to systematically manage their environmental protection efforts and pay attention to green initiatives throughout product lifecycles, ranging from “green” design to “green” manufacturing. By controlling the use of prohibited materials from sources, we strive to establish a green supply chain. In 2013, Huawei upgraded the HW GP standards HW GP award ceremony to GP2.0 by adding the requirements for the environment management system as well as energy and greenhouse gas management. In 2013, 34 suppliers passed our HW GP certification. Huawei makes every effort to ensure that our products meet environmental protection requirements, and that our partners operate in compliance with environmental protection laws and regulations. During supplier qualification, selection, performance management, and material selection, we clarify environmental protection requirements for suppliers and their materials. By enforcing clear requirements for our suppliers to adopt better approaches to energy conservation and emissions reduction, we play an active role in promoting carbon emissions reduction and environmental protection in the industry chain. Green World Huawei SmartExchange Program Contributes to Circular Economic Growth The Huawei SmartExchange Program encourages consumers to trade in old mobile phones for recycling or reuse, in exchange for a discounted new smartphone. As a result, this Program reduces e-waste and encourages environmentally responsible consumer behavior. In 2013, Huawei developed the SmartExchange platform in France and collected 300 used mobile phones through a pilot program. We ensured that SmartExchange platform no phone ended up in a landfill, and reduced the equivalent of 13 tons of carbon dioxide emissions. In 2014, we plan to continue to work with our partners to expand the reach, visibility, and benefits of this initiative. The SmartExchange Program is expected to further reduce e-waste and give a strong impetus to circular economic growth. Sustainable Development 137 A wide variety of our green integrated ICT solutions enable industries to conserve energy and reduce emissions. As such, Huawei is an active player in promoting an energy-conserving, environmentallyfriendly, and low-carbon society. Seeking Win-Win Development Caring for Employees Making Employees Happier At Huawei, we advocate the motto of “work hard, play hard”. Apart from emphasizing good work performance and helping employees increase individual capabilities by providing them with broad development platforms, Huawei also strives to increase employee happiness and help them achieve a work-life balance. In 2013, Huawei championed a variety of activities to help employees experience the pleasure of being part A variety of activities for employees of our “big family”, remain mentally and physically healthy, and have a fulfilling life outside of work. These activities include “Family Day,” “3+1” (make a friend, join in a sports activity, take up a hobby, and read a thought-provoking book), and “Looking for Huawei Health-Conscious Employees”. Huawei considers our employees to be our most valuable assets and the key to retaining our competitiveness and leadership position in the long run. Employee health, safety, and benefits are at the top of our mind. We provide reasonable and timely rewards to dedicated employees. Also, we give employees access to broad platforms where they can realize their individual value. 138 Sustainable Development Social Charity An Overview of Huawei’s Major Social Charity Activities in 2013 France – Launched the SmartExchange program to promote mobile recycling – Partnered with the Institute of Civil Service to support young people Spain – Launched the SmartBus program to promote the responsible use of ICT United Kingdom – Supported the Prince's Trust Foundation Portugal – Launched the SmartBus program to promote the responsible use of ICT US – Supported the K to College non-profit organization Kenya – Partnered with SlumCode to fight against digital illiteracy – Partnered with Red Cross as its strategic relief partner – Supported the Lewa Charity marathon Venezuela Tanzania – Donated Huawei MediaPads to – Promoted e-education in schools outstanding students Uganda – Supported a charity marathon to protect the environment Nigeria – Supported the ICT training of 1,000 girls – Supported the Nungtso Charity Fund South Africa – Supported the Khulisani Foundation to promote ICT education Launch of the Telecom Seeds for the Future Program Sustainable Development 139 Hungary – Supported top ICT students through the Huawei Innovative Leaders of Tomorrow Scholarship Belgium – Launched the InnoApps Challenge to foster youth entrepreneurship Turkey – Supported the region of Van in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Turkcell and Turkey Education Association (TEV) for post-disaster relief China India – Guaranteed to stable – Supported students enrolled communication in Ya'an after the in Chinese universities through 2013 earthquake and donated the Huawei Maitree Scholarship 3000 handsets to the quakeProgram stricken area – L aunched social charitable Philippines activities to donate books to – Implemented the Instant Network children in remote areas, helping with Vodafone Foundation in them realize their dreams disaster-stricken areas following Typhoon Haiyan Japan – Supported the Charity Relay Run Singapore to support community activities – Launched a GPON Training in the disaster areas of Tohoku Centre as part of Telecom Seeds for the Future United Arab Emirates – Supported a charity marathon to raise awareness about education Australia – Supported the Children’s Hospital to train nurses – Supported the Tour de Cure Foundation to fight against cancer 140 Sustainable Development At Huawei, our social charity activities are designed to attain four goals: bridging the digital divide, creating opportunities through education, promoting environmental initiatives, and contributing to the communities where we operate. Specifically, we contribute to local communities by supporting charity, education, environmental protection, health, and disaster relief efforts. We aim to become part of local communities, create value for them, and help them achieve prosperity and sustainability. Operations in Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Huawei abides by business ethics, operates with integrity, complies with applicable laws and regulations in countries where we operate, and prohibits bribery and corruption. In 2013, Huawei continuously optimized our control mechanism for preventing and eliminating bribery and corruption, and required all employees worldwide to adhere to the Huawei Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) and attend associated training. Furthermore, Huawei also asked all partners and suppliers to sign the Anti-Bribery, Honesty, and Integrity Agreement. Huawei abides by ethical business practices, conforms to international conventions as well as laws of local countries, and operates with integrity. We adhere to the BCG, implement “transparent procurement” and “transparent sales”, and oppose bribery and corruption. In addition, we advocate fair competition and obey antidumping and antitrust laws and regulations defined by local countries. We protect our own intellectual property rights (IPR) while respecting the rights of other IPR holders, and ensure that Huawei complies with international IPR regulations. All these initiatives aim to create a harmonious business ecosystem. Sustainable Development 141 Sustainability Risk Management Ensuring Safety in Engineering Delivery To meet customer requirements and comply with applicable laws and regulations, Huawei has set up specialized departments for Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) management of subcontractors and engineering delivery activities through cooperation with subcontractors. As a result, our delivery employees are protected against health and safety hazards, and our engineering delivery activities will not adversely affect the environment. Huawei has developed four EHS management strategies Huawei’s executives are conducting security check at the engineering delivery site for delivery projects: “practice EHS leadership and build an EHS culture and atmosphere,” “require EHS Absolute Rules Do Don’t subcontractors to implement EHS,” “apply the Wear a seat belt Never work under alcohol minimum EHS standards and comply with EHS when driving or drugs absolute rules,” and “warn about accidents ahead Wear protective equipment Never exceed speed limits when working at heights when driving of time, report violations, and hold violators accountable.” These strategies are set to achieve the Operate powered-on equipment only when qualified Never use the phone when driving EHS goal of “zero accidents, injury, and pollution” during project delivery. For high-risk areas, such as transporting equipment, working at heights, and operating powered-on equipment during project delivery, we have developed “six absolute rules for EHS management of delivery projects” as the EHS management red lines. All delivery personnel must obey these rules. Building security leadership is crucial for security management in engineering delivery. Huawei’s executives have become more and more concerned about security management and set an example by participating in security management at construction sites. In 2013, Huawei executives at the regional vice president level and above paid 77 visits to project sites for security checks. Sustainability risk management is a priority during our operation activities and service processes. We are mindful of EHS management during engineering delivery, and have continuously invested more in this regard and extended EHS management requirements to subcontractors. We also spare no effort to provide secure products to our customers and consumers. Additionally, we have established a sustainability management system and continuously improve our approaches to managing sustainability risks. We are becoming a global and industry leader in sustainability. 142 Sustainable Development Supply Chain Management Collaboration on Sustainability Means Better Business On September 25, 2013, Huawei hosted the Fifth Huawei Core Partner Convention in Shenzhen under the theme of “Collaboration on Sustainability Means Better Business”. The event attracted 341 attendees, including representatives from government agencies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), sustainability experts, executives of 170 suppliers, and carrier customers (including British Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, Orange, and Vodafone). Fifth Huawei Core Partner Convention Huawei Rotating and Acting CEO Eric Xu addressed the audience, and emphasized the need for Huawei to collaborate with suppliers worldwide for win-win development. Customers and NGOs shared ideas about the trends and requirements of sustainability. Representatives from suppliers presented their best practices in sustainability. The conference was well received by the representatives present. In 2013, apart from extensively adopting customer-oriented methods for managing supplier CSR risks, Huawei also transformed our risk management approach into one that focuses on efficiency management. We have incorporated sustainability requirements into our supplier management process, helped suppliers develop their capabilities and awareness, and boosted our procurement efficiency to set the trend for sustainability initiatives across the industry chain. For details, please see Huawei 2013 Corporate Sustainability Report. Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates 143 Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates Abbreviations Abbreviations Full name AOSN All Optical Switching Network ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode BG Business Group BPO Business Process Owner BSS Business Support System BYOD Bring Your Own Device CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate CEM Customer Experience Management CETC Customer Experience Transformation Center CRM Customer Relationship Management CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DSTE Development Strategy to Execution EHS Environment, Health and Safety EMT Executive Management Team ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute FMC Fixed Mobile Convergence FTTD Fiber To The Door GNEEC Global Network Evolution and Experience Center GPON Gigabit-capable Passive Optical Network GPS Global Position System GSM Global System for Mobile communications HSPA High-Speed Packet Access IAS International Accounting Standards ICT Information and Communications Technology IDC Internet Data Center IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard IFS Integrated Financial Services IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem IP Internet Protocol IPCC BPO IP Call Center Business Process Outsourcing IPD Integreted Product Development IT Information Technology ITR Issue To Resolution ITU International Telecommunication Union LTE Long Term Evolution MBB Mobile Broad Band MSUP Managed Services Unified Platform NFV Network Functions Virtualization NGBSS Next Generation Business Support System NOC Network Operation Center OMA Open Mobile Alliance OSS Operations Support System 144 Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates Abbreviations Full name OTN Optical Transport Network PCC Policy and Charging Control PCT Patent Cooperation Treaty POC Percentage of Completion RAN Radio Access Network SBG Service Business Group SDB Service Database SDN Software Defined Networking SDP Service Delivery Platforms SOC Service Operation Center SP Strategic Plan STB Set Top Box TD-SCDMA Time Division-Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TMF TeleManagement Forum TVO Total Value of Ownership UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System VGS Value Growth Solution Financial Terminology Operating profit Days of payables outstanding (DPO) Gross profit less research and development Trade payables at the end of the year divided by expenses, selling and administrative expenses, plus cost of sales, and multiplied by 360 days other (income)/operating expenses, net Cash flow before change in operating assets Cash and short term investments and liabilities Cash and cash equivalents plus other current Net profit plus depreciation, amortization, investments unrealized exchange loss, interest expense, loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment Working capital and intangible assets, and other non-operating Current assets less current liabilities expenses, less unrealized exchange gain, interest income, investment income, gain on disposal of Liability ratio property, plant and equipment and intangible Total liabilities expressed as a percentage of total assets, and other non-operating income. assets Exchange rates Days of sales outstanding (DSO) Exchange rates used in the annual report: Trade receivables at the end of the year divided by revenue, and multiplied by 360 days CNY/USD 2013 2012 Inventory turnover days (ITO) Average rate 6.1424 6.3049 Inventory at the end of the year divided by cost Closing rate 6.0569 6.2285 of sales, and multiplied by 360 days Copyright © 2014 HUAWEI INVESTMENT & HOLDING CO., LTD. All Rights Reserved. GENERAL DISCLAIMER THE INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN PREDICTIVE STATEMENTS INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, STATEMENTS REGARDING THE FUTURE FINANCIAL AND OPERATING RESULTS, FUTURE PRODUCT PORTFOLIO, NEW TECHNOLOGY, ETC. THERE ARE A NUMBER OF FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS AND DEVELOPMENTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED IN THE PREDICTIVE STATEMENTS. THEREFORE, SUCH Copyright INFORMATION © IS2014 HUAWEI PROVIDED INVESTMENT FOR REFERENCE PURPOSE&ONLY HOLDINGAND CONSTITUTES All Rights CO., LTD.NEITHER Reserved. AN OFFER NOR AN ACCEPTANCE. HUAWEI MAY CHANGE THE INFORMATION AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE. GENERAL DISCLAIMER THE INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN PREDICTIVE STATEMENTS INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, STATEMENTS REGARDING THE FUTURE FINANCIAL AND OPERATING RESULTS, FUTURE PRODUCT PORTFOLIO, NEW TECHNOLOGY, ETC. THERE ARE A NUMBER OF FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS AND DEVELOPMENTS TO DIFFER Printed MATERIALLYonFROM environmentally THOSE EXPRESSEDfriendly OR IMPLIED paper. IN THE PREDICTIVE STATEMENTS. THEREFORE, SUCH post-consumer INFORMATION IS PROVIDED FORacid-free content, & chlorine REFERENCE free paper. PURPOSE ONLY AND CONSTITUTES NEITHER AN OFFER NOR AN ACCEPTANCE. HUAWEI MAY CHANGE THE INFORMATION AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE. Download the Annual Report App： Printed on environmentally friendly paper. post-consumer content, acid-free & chlorine free paper.
