CAP and Corporate Social Responsibility in 2013 CAP is committed to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and the principles of the UN Global Compact. These guide the way the we work and the way we implement policies, processes and programs to clearly align our thrust for business growth with our obligations to the society. The CSR policy recognises the company's role in the following broad areas: Leadership with vision and values, market place activities, Workforce activities, Supply Chain activities, Community activities, Stakeholder engagement and Environmental concerns. The Journey has been rewarding and we are encouraged to keep doing good. Leadership, Vision and Values We regard ethical leadership and practice as critical to responsible business and are committed to conducting our business according to ethical, professional and legal standards. Shared Values: The CAP community strives to live its shared values of integrity, Respect for the individual, Customer Focus, Team Spirit, Innovation and Openness and Communication. UACN Code of Ethics: CAP is a signatory to the uacn code of ethics and conduct which outlines expected pattern of conduct for all employees including the rejection of any form of inducement giving or receiving. Whistle blowing: The whistle blowing procedure in place ensures that e-mails are anonymously received, discretely investigated and a report sent to the Audit Committee. Marketplace activities Our service mission is to delight our customers with exceptional quality products and services. We aspire to provide peace of mind for our customers. Some of the marketplace activities are:Product Information Integrity: Precise and concise information about our products are provided to customers through clear and proper labelling and products information bulletin. Value/Culture Alignment of Dealers: Dealers and their employees are educated on the values of the company and are supported to imbibe them. Customer involvement in improvement processes: Product knowledge and suggestions for improvement are discussed regularly with our customers at different customer/consumer engagement fora. Customer satisfaction surveys are also conducted as part of the feedback system. Capacity building of dealers and users: Several training and development intitiatives are conducted annually for our dealers, painters and other users of our products. HSE Compliance of Dealers: Dealers' outlets are regularly assessed for compliance with HSE standards and practices. Corretive actions are takem as appropriate to ensure conformity. Careline Unit: The Customer Careline unit collates and monitors feedback from our customers and other stakeholders. This is fed into our process and customer satisfaction improvement initiatives. Workforce Activities we aspire to be an employer of choice. We recognise that our success is dependent on the calibre and motivation of our People. Recruitment and Retention: Our policy involves the right placement of people in the right roles and retention of talented people. Annual employee surveys are conducted to provide information on what employees' value and where they want us to improve. Training and Development: The annual training plan achievement is measured to monitor performance and progress. Effectiveness of training programs is also monitored through annual performance appraisal of staff and delegation of responsibilities. Feedom of association and collective bargaining: Our employees belong to a vibrant local union and an industry wide trade union. Self-development: The tuition costs of pre-approved and relevant programs of study are fully paid for by the company. The Creche: A friendly creche is operated at the company's headoffice at Ikeja to promote baby-mother bonding. Recognition: We recognise the achievement of employees who display exemplary traits of integrity, dedication to duty, customer focus and initiative in line with our shared values. Life after Work training: We constantly remind staff of the inevitability of retirement and train them to face the challenges of that situation when it occurs. Stakeholder engagement: Appointment and fair treatment of suppliers and contractors: Suppliers of goods and services are appointed using defined criteria that do not discriminate on the basis of religion, tribe or sex. We strive to treat them fairly and settle their invoices on due dates. Fair treatment of shareholders: All shareholders are treated equally. Safety, Health and Environmental Activities we are committed to providing a working environment that is safe for all employees, contractors, customers and members of the public. The company is ISO 9001:2008 certified and also in the process of certification to the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Standards. This will reduce our environmental liability, reduce costs as a result of potentially lower insurance rates, increase profits through potential process improvements and show the external community that we are environmentally responsible. HSE Policy and Manual: This sets out the company policy on HSE and actions/guidelines for maintenance of a safe workplace. HSE assessments and fire drills are conducted regularly. Effluent Treatment: In 2009, we further upgraded our effluent treatment plant to meet the Federal and Lagos State statutory requirements. This had been on-going as part of the company's strategy to undertake a phased modernisation of the factory. Environmental Assessment: We conduct periodic environmental assessment of our operations. The environmental assessment report is submitted to the regulatory agencies for verification. In line with our commitment to operate our businesses in an environmentally friendly manner, we hosted the 2012 Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency's Annual Tree Planting Campaign. Promoting sustainable environment; We maintain a vibrant relationship with the Nigeria Conservation Foundation. We also ensure that our operations are carried out with minimum impact on the environment. Promoting healthy lifestyle: We conduct health seminars, provide the environment for recreation and share knowledge on the essence of living well. We have a gym and other recreational facilities to promote healthy living through regular exercise and relaxation. Community Activities CAP values community leadership and responsibility. We are committed to playing a responsile and responsive role in the community. In 2013, we undertook the following projects:  We donated two (2) Desktop Computers to Lagos Metropolitan Development & Governance Project  We donated paints to GTB Training School for the renovation of Boys’ Correctional Facility Oregun, Ikeja  We donated paints to LEAP Africaa non-profit organization  We renovated and repainted Model Nursery and Primary School Olusosun, Oregun  We donated paints and also repainted the complex centre of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN)  We donated paints to JCI (Olabisi Onabanjo University Campus Chapter)  We donated paints for the creation of a tyre playground for children at Langbasa Community School in Ajah, Lagos  We donated N100,000 (One Hundred Thousand Naira only) towards the 2013 fund-raising dinner of the Sickle Cell Foundation Nigeria  We donated N150,000 (One Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira only) towards the leadership conference for secondary school prefects organized by Students’ Time Magazine  We donated paints to Little Sisters of the Poor (Home for the Elderly) in Enugu  We donated N100,000 (One Hundred Thousand Naira only) towards the 2013 Lindy’s Gem Foundation Fun Day. CAP A Participant in the UN Global Compact Initiative In August 2006, the company was accepted by the United Nations' Secretary General as a participant in the Global compact initiative-raising the bar in human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. We have joined the local network and are committed to propagating the values of the Global Compact. Global Compact Principle Action Taken/Impact Achieved 1 Businesses should support and The staff handbook provides guidelines on Staff respect the protection of internationally welfare,disciplinary and grievance procedures. proclaimed human rights Employees are made aware of their rights at the workplace and are assured of fair treatment always. 2 Businesses to ensure that they are not CAP is represented at leadeship levels in the complicit in human rights abuses. employers federation and at national association with a view to assist the process of human rights observance. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom CAP workers belong to a vibrant local union. CAP of association and the effective recognises the union's right to collective bargaining recognition of the right to collective and implements industry's collective agreement on bargaining. schedule. 4 The elimination of all forms of forced Employees discuss, negotiate and agree their terms and compulsory labour; of employment and are free to accept/reject the terms without coercion. CAP employs 8 hour work day and annual leave with full benefits. The effective abolition of Child labour; CAP will not employ anyone under the age of 18 years and will not do business with any supplier that engages in child labour utilisation. 5 The elimination of discrimination in CAP is an equal rights employer, without respect of employment and discrimination on account of sex, tribe, religion or 6 occupation. profession. 7 Businesses should support a We have undertaken product substitutions in our precautionary approach to operations based on environmental considerations. environmental challenges; We have initiated a relationship with the Nigeria Conservation Foundation in this areas. 8 Undertake initiatives to promote geater We work closely with agencies to monitor our environmental responsibility; environmental performance and sustain improvements. We conduct quarterly environmental audits. We ensure regualr maintenance of our effluent system. 9 Business should encourage the In making decisions to buy or use products and development and diffusion of services, we appraise their environmental environmentally friendly technologies. friendliness. 10 Businesses should work against all All CAP employees are governed by an ethics code. forms of corruption, including extortion In addition, all employees are provided with pocketand bribery. sized portraits of the company's shared values as constant reminders of our compass. DONATION OF PAINTS TO LITTLE SISTERS OF THE POOR (HOME FOR THE NEEDY) ENUGU DONATION OF PAINTS TO JCI (OLABISU INABANJO UNIVERSITY CAMPUS CHAPTER) DONATION OF 2 (TWO) DESKTOP COMPUTERS TO LAGOS METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT & GOVERNANCE PROJECT RENOVATION AND REPAINTING OF MODEL NURSERY AND PRIMARY SCHOOL OLUSOSUN, OREGUN BEFORE AFTER DONATION OF PAINTS AND REPAINTING OF MAN COMPLEX CENTRE, IKEJA DONATION OF PAINTS FOR THE CREATION OF TYRE PLAYGROUND AT LANGBASA COMMUNITY SCHOOL, AJAH
