BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 Dedicated to an efficient and responsible agriculture BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 1 EXECUTIVE MESSAGE BIOGROW IN A (COCO)NUT SHELL p. 4 p. 6 BIOGROW CSR BIOGROW CSR BIOGROW STRATEGY p. 12 COMMITMENTS CSR ACTION p. 14 PLAN p. 17 ENVIRONMENT p. 20 SUPPLIERS & SUBCONTRACTORS p. 28 EMPLOYEES LOCAL COMMUNITIES p. 33 p. 25 KPI p. 36 CUSTOMERS p. 30 BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 2 CEO message …………………………. 4 CSR director message ……………….. 5 Biogrow in a (coco)nut shell ……….. 6 Life-cycle ………………………............ 9 « Building a sustainable model for Biogrow » « There will be about 9 billion people to feed by 2050 in the world according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation. Behind this problematic lies another issue: what agricultural model and practices will we implement to feed the world’s population? At the origin of Biogrow, was the desire to produce alternatives to current types of substrates that would have lower environmental impacts. We want to contribute to and promote the development of an environmentally responsible agriculture using natural organic substrates. We developed our first production site in Sri Lanka back in 1998 benefiting from the country’s large coconut resources. We experienced new ways to produce and adapted to a different culture. Since 1998, Biogrow’s development has been continuous, increasing its production capacity and volumes (multiplied by 4), gaining new markets and improving its production process. The company’s workforce even grew from about 50 employees in 1998 to about 300 in high season in 2013. Nevertheless, we are now looking for ways to continuously develop our business while limiting our environmental and social impacts. By limiting our energy consumption, promoting responsible farming and a sustainable agricultural production model with less fertilizers and pesticides, improving the wellbeing of our employees and local communities, we want to contribute to the management of more global issues, such as climate change, access to food and the economic and social development of a post-war Sri Lanka. These issues may induce direct impacts on our development, such as decreasing productivity of coconut estates due to climate change strengthening competition or the deterioration of the quality of our raw material supplies. If we do not start to address them correctly, these issues could become risks in the long-term. We decided to develop a corporate social responsibility strategy to promote sustainable development within our business but also to our external partners. We believe that a formalised strategy and the implementation of actions will help us improve our impacts on our local environment while contributing to the management of more global issues. We see sustainable development as an opportunity to develop our company by reducing some of our operational costs (e.g. energy consumption, waste production) and by promoting our responsible behaviour towards our stakeholders. It is our responsibility to encourage the development of more sustainable behaviours and corporate culture, and to integrate every employee in this great movement. Our 2016 action plan aims at giving the tools to our managers to reach our targets and to change the company’s impacts. We hope to reach these targets and to have every employee completely involved into this movement. We know the way may get complicated sometimes, but we will do our best to respect our commitments and to reach our objectives. » Bruno Vila, CEO Biogrow Lanka BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 4 « Create shared value and promoting sustainable development in Sri Lanka » « Biogrow has been producing coir-based substrates for the past 15 years in Sri Lanka. From the very first day, the company has been involved with local communities as well as concerned by its environmental footprint. Working with a natural product such as coconut makes us even more concerned by these issues. A great number of families’ incomes rely on this business and it is part of our responsibilities to ensure the viability of their business and to support them in their activity. In addition, protecting the environment serves our supply of quality raw materials. 2013 has been the year of assessing the current situation. This first corporate sustainable report (CSR) is proudly showing off the situation. For the first time we have been able to assess the life cycle of our production process and we plan to use it to improve our processes. This tool will help us to improve the efficiency of our processes in order to be more responsible. We have also committed to the UN Global Compact 10 principles of sustainable development. This significant and meaningful commitment is a great opportunity to ensure that all people working at Biogrow act responsively towards the communities and the environment. We are also getting the ECOCERT certification, which ensures that our product can be used in organic agriculture and respects the environment. This is a new step in building and consolidating trust with our suppliers and clients. Regarding communities, we have implemented some actions locally to help local kids to grow. We created a library for a local school near one of our factory, with the help of Asia Foundation and the National Library of Sri Lanka. Finally, we decided to start an ambitious programme of monitoring and increasing our sustainable performance. Reaching our 2016 objectives will depend on the involvement of all Biogrow workers and business partners. Every year we will be able to monitor changes and improvements brought to our processes, in order to ensure that we keep the right direction for all stakeholders. The whole team at Biogrow is dedicated to reaching our objectives. » Thibaut de Saint-Denis, Director in charge of Corporate Social Responsibilty BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 5 Company profile Biogrow Lanka (Pvt) Ltd is a Sri Lankan subsidiary of SARL Vila, which produces fruits and vegetables in greenhouses in the south of France. Other subsidiaries of SARL Vila are located in India and in Brazil. Biogrow has been operating in the field of coconut-based organic substrates for now 15 years in Sri Lanka. The company has three main operating sites in Sri Lanka : Negombo for its administrative center, Wariyapola and Madurankuliya for its production. Thanks to the work of more than 300 employees in Sri Lanka during high season, Biogrow produces annually more than three million slabs of coconut-based organic substrates serving more than 150 customers worldwide. In addition, the company employs about 40 workers through its subcontractors. Visit our website : www.bio-grow.com 2013 Slabs produced by Biogrow 3,154,949 3,288,747 2,713,594 2 ;573 ;334 240 MAIN PRODUCTION SITES AND MARKETS Headquarters Subsidiaries Main markets Europe is our first market in terms of Belgium. From these harbours, shipments with about 25% volume with about 60% of our shipments our products are then distributed of our shipments ending in heading to this area. The share of the in many European countries. St. Petersburg. In 2012, French market is also significant as it Russia represented about 90 adds up to a total of more than 20% of Asia is our second largest market, of the 361 containers we all Biogrow’s 2012 shipments. Other with Russia being the most produced. destinations include Italy, Spain and important destination for our BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 6 3 sites in Sri Lanka + 28% of production between 2010 and 2012 3.3 million slabs produced in 2012 4.3 million slabs produced in 2012 including subcontractors 3.6 % of electricity consumed in 2012 compared to 2011 -8% of electricity consumed per slab in 2012 compared to 2011 361 containers sent to 4 continents in 2012 More than 300 employees in high season More than 150 customers worldwide BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 7 100 % COCO-BASED We commit to provide 100% natural products made of 100% coco. The products differ in proportions of cocopeat and chips depending on our customers’ requirements. Our products are packaged in grow bags to protect the material but also to ease the production and disposal in greenhouses. There is no addition of chemicals (fertilizers, pesticides, etc.) in our products, they are 100% natural and help you grow your crops in a sustainable way. The raw material used in our products, the coco husk, is fully renewable and recyclable. Coco trees can produce throughout the year on a period of over 30 years, although the productivity tends to decrease over time. Coco trees grow naturally in Sri Lanka, but when needed limited amounts of conventional inputs are used to facilitate their growth. At the end of the season, growers can safely dispose of the substrate, either by spreading it in their own fields or by selling it to other growers willing to fertilize their soil. There will be no negative environmental impact due to the disposal of the substrate. 100 % NATURAL FULLY RENEWABLE FULLY RECYCLABLE NO CHEMICALS BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 8 Suppliers Transport and distribution subcontractors Biogrow Customers DEFIBERING AND TRANSPORT TO COCO ESTATE HUSK CRUSHING BIOGROW MILLS SIEVING USE OF OUR DISPOSAL OF COMPRESSING INTO PRODUCTS IN PRODUCTS AND SLABS GREENHOUSES PACKAGING DISTRIBUTION TO PLASTIC PACKAGING OUR FINAL OF SLABS CUSTOMERS SHIPMENT BY BOAT TRANSPORT TO PACKAGING OF TO OUR COLOMBO HARBOUR SLABS ON PALETS DISTRIBUTORS AND IN CONTAINERS BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 9 Biogrow’s CSR values……………………….. 11 Biogrow’s CSR strategy……………………… 12 Biogrow’s CSR commitments……………….. 14 Biogrow’s CSR action plan………………… 17 TEAMWORK We promote teamwork as the engine of our organisation. Each employee is an essential link in our business. Our company would not be where it is now if not for our employees’ hard work, collaboration and teamwork. EXCELLENCE Providing goods of quality for our customers is one of our core values at Biogrow. All employees from production worker to top management must conduct his work trying to reach excellence. SOLIDARITY Solidarity between employees, solidarity with our business partners, solidarity towards the local communities surrounding our factories and sites, solidarity in good and bad times is core to our way of thinking sustainable development and business management. RESPECT Every employee at Biogrow must respect others in their interactions, communications and daily work. The respect of human beings and their rights is essential to Biogrow’s way of conducting business. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 11 BIOGROW’S AREAS OF ACTION Different steps have to be followed to develop a robust and precise sustainable strategy. The way we aim at managing ENVIRONMENT sustainable development is by creating a comprehensive system leading us to an efficient management of three dimensions : economic, social and environmental. We must implement and deploy this system throughout the company, and make it LOCAL EMPLOYEES COMMUNITIES understandable by our employees. This colour code will be used throughout the report to indicate to which area of action we refer. SUPPLIERS & SUBCONTRACTORS CUSTOMERS Sustainable development « Sustainable development is the development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs » (European Commission) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) CSR is the responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society. To fully meet their social responsibility, enterprises « should have in place a process to integrate social, environmental, ethical human rights and consumer concerns into their business operations and core strategy in close collaboration with their stakeholders » (European Commission) BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 12 IDENTIFY OUR ENGAGE A DIALOG INTEGRATE THEIR STAKEHOLDERS EXPECTATIONS We needed to engage a The first step to take was to dialog with our stakeholders It was not enough to engage a identify our stakeholders in to know more about their dialog with our stakeholders. order to have a clear map of interests, their expectations The key issue is to integrate our relations to our direct and and their role in how we their expectations if possible indirect environment. conduct our business. in our development Exchanging with our stakeholders is also a good way to assess our impacts on them. EVALUATE OUR DEFINE OUR STRATEGY IMPLEMENT OUR IMPACTS ACTION PLAN Once we integrated our Knowing our impact on our stakeholders commitments Once we have our action plan stakeholders helped us and evaluated our real and defined, comes the time of integrating their expectations potential impacts on them, implementation. To manage in our development strategy, we built a complete our different projects and to trying to make the latter sustainable strategy that launch our sustainable more sustainable. We consisted in setting : strategy, we decided to hire conducted a full assessment clear commitments ; one employee working fullof our impacts but also of the realistic and ambitious time on this issue showing risks we are facing and the objectives ; our determination and opportunities arising from relevant indicators ; and, commitment to sustainable sustainable development. an improvement action development. We believe plan for the period 2013sustainable development and 2016 the related actions to be a leverage tool for our stakeholders development and our own. FOLLOW-UP AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS We will not stop after the implementation of the actions we planned. We are in a continuous process of improving our environmental, social and economic impacts. The definition and follow-up of indicators will help us track our progress regarding the objectives we have set and that we plan to reach by 2016. If our indicators show that we are behind our objectives, we will take all necessary actions to get back on track. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 13 BIOGROW’S CSR COMMITMENTS EMPLOYEES We, at Biogrow, believe that our employees are essential to OUR our business. Biogrow relies mainly on low-skilled workers to produce the organic substrates. The operation of machines and the management of dusty materials must be always handled COMMITMENTS considering the health and safety of our employees. The respect of basic Human Rights and the protection of workers’ rights are very important issues for Biogrow. Commitments : EMP-4 Biogrow commits to provide clear and motivating training as well as career development tools to its employees. EMP-5 Biogrow commits to protect its employees from health and safety hazards in the workplace. EMP-6 Biogrow commits to promote and respect labour rights within its operations, notably the freedom of association and collective bargaining. EMP-7 Biogrow commits to ban forced and child labour from its practices and operations ENVIRONMENT We, at Biogrow, believe that environmental protection EMP-8 Biogrow commits to ban all forms of discrimination is crucial for the sustainability of our business and to based on age, race, sex, gender, genes, religion, sexual meet the needs of the future generations. orientation, social status, disability, political opinion, and trade union activities. Biogrow’s business is based on the growing of coconuts and regular supply of coconut husks. Acting on environmental issues, at our production sites and at our suppliers’ plantations, contributes to securing the manufacturing of quality products. Biogrow has a role to play in contributing to the protection of the country’s natural resources, environment and biodiversity. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that Biogrow limits its impact on the environment, through notably the reduction of energy and water consumption, and the promotion of sustainable agricultural practices. Commitments : ENV-1 Biogrow commits to protect the environment, the local natural resources and biodiversity, and to continuously work at lowering its impacts related to energy and water consumption and paper management. ENV-2 Biogrow commits to respect all relevant national and international environmental legislations and regulations. ENV-3 Biogrow commits to forbid from its practices any actions that would jeopardize and deteriorate the local environment. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 14 SUPPLIERS & SUBCONTRACTORS We, at Biogrow, believe that our suppliers and subcontractors are part of the company’s success and sustainability. Biogrow relies on a large network of small, medium and large suppliers of raw materials and packaging products. We believe that it is in the communities and in our best interest to accompany our suppliers and subcontractors in their development. Supporting their businesses through stable and profitable relations, and providing technical and financial help contribute to the region and the company’s economic development. Commitments : S&S-9 Biogrow commits to monitor health and safety conditions at its subcontractors. S&S-10 Biogrow commits to ensure the respect of its Ethics Charter at its subcontractors, notably regarding forced and child labour, labour rights and discrimination in the workplace. S&S-11 Biogrow commits to provide technical support to suppliers and subcontractors whenever possible and necessary. S&S-12 Biogrow commits to keep its payment delays to suppliers and subcontractors within a limit of 7 days from the delivery. CUSTOMERS LOCAL COMMUNITIES We, at Biogrow, consider that providing a product of We, at Biogrow, believe that we have a role to play in quality must be our priority. developing the surrounding communities and improving their Biogrow manufactures organic substrates based on wellbeing through support to the company’s employees and coconut for professional hydroponic growers who their families and to local businesses. have very stringent requirements regarding the With about 300 employees, Biogrow is an important employer characteristics of the substrates. in the Coconut Triangle region (Western Sri Lanka) where are Biogrow commits to meet these requirements, which located its production sites. In addition, Biogrow indirectly span from moisture level, water retention capacities, employs hundreds of workers through suppliers and sand contents, mix of coconut chips and fibres, subcontractors in the region. electric conductivity, expansion level, size, weight, Through business relations and its employment capacities, etc. Commitments : Biogrow helps developing the local economy. CUST-13 Biogrow commits to produce and deliver Commitments : goods of quality and respecting customers’ requirements LC-15 Biogrow commits to forbid any actions that would make CUST-14 Biogrow commits to forbid any kind of the company an accomplice of human rights violations. anti-competitive agreements and any kind of corruption practices. LC-16 Biogrow commits to support the development of the local communities and to promote their economic and social viability. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 15 In 2013, Biogrow started to develop its CSR strategy. Its first step was to commit to internationally recognised principles grouped in a single commitment: the United Nations Global Compact 10 principles of sustainable development. Biogrow commits to respect these principles but also to promote them in its everyday management and actions. We believe at Biogrow that the respect of basic human and labour rights, the protection of the environment and the eradication of corruption are major issues. The company must do its best to help the United Nations achieve its goals and to promote sustainable behaviours. Please check our letter of commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and our Communication On Progress : http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ The United Nations Global Compact 10 principles Biogrow’s achievements regarding these principles are highlighted in this report each time one of these markers appears. Business should support and respect the Business should support the elimination P1 protection of internationally proclaimed P6 of discrimination in respect of human rights employment and occupation Business should make sure that they are Businesses should support a P2 not complicit in human rights issues P7 precautionary approach to environmental challenges Businesses should uphold the freedom of Business should undertake initiatives to P3 association and the effective recognition P8 promote greater environmental of the right to collective bargaining responsibility Business should support the elimination Business should encourage the P4 of all forms of forced and compulsory P9 development and diffusion of labour environmentally friendly technologies Business should support the effective Businesses should work against P5 abolition of child labour P10 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 16 OUR Replacement of old machines by more productive and energy efficient ones ACTION Installation of information panels on environment issues and practices Obtain an environmental certification of processes or products PLAN Increase knowledge on product’s carbon footprint Conduct training on Biogrow’s Ethics Charter Improve Biogrow’s human resources management Implement of a health & safety monitoring tool Increase workers’ safety through new equipment Installation of information safety panels Training of supervisors on health and safety issues (first aid, fire evacuation procedures) Training of subcontractors on safety and Biogrow’s Ethics Charter Continue and formalize financial and technical help provided to suppliers and subcontractors Implementation of quality indicators Continuous improvement of quality procedures Creation of a library at Kiriwanagara school Financial help provided to employees for specific occasions Donations Partnership with Agro Micro Finance to fund local suppliers of raw material BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 17 Environment …………………………… 20 Employees ………….…………………. 25 Suppliers & subcontractors ….………. 28 Customers ……………………………... 30 Local communities ……………………. 33 This area will show to which principles of the United Nations Global This area will show the issue dealt Compact these with in the section commitment refer P ? Objectives: BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 XX This area will recall the This area will recall the company’s objectives regarding company’s commitments to the its commitments issue BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 19 « Reduce our environmental footprint » Biogrowcommitstoprotectthe environment,thenatural Biogrow commits to resourcesandbiodiversity,andto respect national progressivelyandcontinuously and international Objective: reduceitsenvironmental environmental 5% reduction in electricity consumption per impactsnotablyduetoenergy, legislations waterandpaperconsumption slab by 2016 compared to 2012 Biogrow’s management of environmental issues Biogrow commits to Environment is at the core of our business. Using natural forbid from its raw materials, we provide solutions to our customers for practices any actions that would the growing of food crops in greenhouses. We always try jeopardize and to make our decisions integrating environmental deteriorate the considerations and thinking about the way we can local environment improve our impacts. Our production processes are not energy and water intensive, but these issues are important to us. We also work at lowering our office environmental impacts through the reduction of paper consumption. Energy. Our production process only uses electricity to power the sieving and hydraulic press machines, and the lighting system. In Sri Lanka, electricity is mostly generated by hydropower plants, which lowers our potential carbon emissions due to energy consumption. However, Our production cannot suffer any electricity blackouts, so that from time to time we have to use fuelgenerated emergency generating set to produce electricity. Nevertheless, we are continuously improving our machines to lower their energy consumption in order to lower our environmental impacts but also to decrease our energy-related costs. In addition, for future developments, we are studying the possibility to install at one of our production site some alternative renewable energy production systems such as solar panels or mini-wind power plant. « Preserving the environment is the best way to ensure the sustainability of our business » In 2013, we have developed a monitoring tool to follow our electricity consumption. Before thinking about ways to use more renewable energy to power our factories, we believe that it is in the environment and in our best interests to reduce our electricity consumption first. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 20 Electricity consumption in kWh, as of September 2013 and covering all Our electricity consumption has Biogrow’s sites decreased over time while we increased our production capacity and volumes and mechanising our production (conveyors, new machines). We continuously work at modernising our production capacities while reducing our electricity consumption. For 2010, the lack of aggregated data covering a similar scope as for 2011, 2012, and 2013 does not represent the actual electricity consumption of all Biogrow’s sites but only of our administration office in Negombo. We are on the right path to reduce our electricity consumption. Electricity consumption per slab in Wh, as of September 2013 and covering all Biogrow’s sites We have designed an objective for our electricity consumption per slab of cocopeat. We believe this target is a relevant and efficient managerial tool. Reaching a X% reduction (with 2012 as a baseline) of our electricity consumption per slab is ambitious and we believe that great efforts remain to be done before 2016 to reach this objective. In September 2013, we are still behind our objectives but sure that we will be back on tracks to reach our 2016 objective by the end of 2013. The installation and use of more energy efficient machines will help reach this target. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 21 Water. Our only sources of water consumption are located in two phases: during the washing of some of our raw materials for particular products at our suppliers’ sites. The raw materials are washed in big water tanks during the quality controls of our products. We need to test the expansion capacity of the slabs to make sure our clients’ requests are met. During quality controls, the water used comes from underground sources and from public water system. There is no risk of contamination of underground water resources during the release of water from quality controls as our products are free of chemicals and of any potential threats for water resources. Our water consumption is really low and is not significant compared to other impacts, such as energy. At the moment, we monitor our water consumption but this area does not constitute a focus for improvement Biodiversity. In 2012, we decided to plant coco for Biogrow. trees near our production sites in order to develop biodiversity around our factories. We have not deteriorated the natural environment around our factories to plant these trees. IN 2012 -3.6% of electricity consumption compared to 2011 BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 22 Paper consumption. Every year our offices purchase about 60,000 sheets of paper. We know that through paper consumption Biogrow can modify its impact on the environment, notably through basic changes in our daily behaviours, such as reducing the number of print documents, using more electronic communication and data recording. Efforts made on our paper sourcing (e.g. paper quality, paper from Forest Stewardship Council – FSC – certified forests) or paper management (e.g. paper recycling) can change our impacts. In 2013, we have launched a study on the opportunity to change our supply of paper towards a share of FSC certified paper. This would give us the assurance that the paper comes from sustainably managed forests and would constitute a means to contribute to the protection of biodiversity. We are also working on ways to reduce our paper consumption in our internal and external communications and data recording and increase the quantity of paper being recycled. Transport. We work at optimising the transport of our finished In 2013, in order to start creating an products. When possible we use the empty containers coming to our environmental-friendly corporate culture we factories from Colombo to bring pallets or raw material, thus limiting asked all our employees to integrate this text movements of empty containers and reducing our carbon emissions. in their email signature:  Please consider the environment before printing this email We think it is our responsibility to promote responsible behaviours regarding excessive printing of documents BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 23 Disposal of products and packaging. In 2013, we started investigating on how our customers are disposing of the cocopeat slabs and the plastic packaging. We would like to make sure that environmental impacts linked to the disposal of packaging are the lowest possible and that our customers have access to recycling systems or environmentally safe disposal systems. In addition, we would like to promote the positive environmental aspects of our products compared to other mineral substrates alternatives. Recycling. Our collaboration with our plastic grow bag supplier has resulted in the recycling of the plastic waste coming from the cutting of the bags. Each year, we send back to our plastic grow bag supplier about 2 tonnes of plastic for recycling, thus reducing the use of natural resources to produce plastics. In addition, we cooperate and exchange on sustainable development issues as well as on the implementation of sustainable development projects. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 24 « Improve our employees’ Biogrow commits to Biogrow health and safety conditions » provide clear and commits to motivating training protect its as well as career employees Objectives: development tools to grom health its employees and safety Ultimately target 0 accidents hazards in the Reach 0 lost-time injury frequency rate by 2016 workplace Biogrow’s management of employees’ related Biogrow commits to ban forced and child labour Biogrow issues from its practices and commits to operations ban all forms Workers are essential to our business. Our production Biogrow commits of sites are located in relatively poor areas of Sri Lanka and to promote and discrimination most of our employees come from low-budget families. respect labour in the rights within its workplace Therefore, we have a certain responsibility towards operations them, notably to try to improve their wellbeing through fair remuneration, health & safety protection at work, and the refusal of any forms of forced labour for example. Dealing with our employees is not only about getting the highest productivity out of them but it is also about providing them with a discrimination-free, safe and healthy working place, with good remuneration and incentives, as well as ensuring their long-term employment. Indeed, the production of coco-based organic substrates requires some specific skills and our company’s productivity can be impacted by a high employee turnover. We have a series of incentives to increase the company’s attractiveness among our employees. We try to provide our workers with sufficient training for their position, to promote career development and to make sure they have the appropriate protection equipment. « We try to install a mutually beneficial relationship with our employees and to ensure their wellbeing and development » BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 25 Our employees, as of 31/12/2012 Category of employees The number of employees working for our company strongly fluctuates during the year according to the level of our production. Our high activity season usually starts in May and ends in October, period during which we receive most of our customers’ orders. Therefore, our workforce increases during this period reaching a peak of about 300 employees, to then come down to approximately 120. However, we do favour permanent contracts over temporary ones in order to provide job security to our workers and to make sure to keep skilful profiles within our company. The majority of our employees are production workers while administration position only represent about 14% of our employees. Gender distribution We are proud to be one of the few companies to rely mainly on women and to promote their career development. Our workforce is mainly composed of women, especially in the production area. Nevertheless, we are continuously working at increasing the share of women in the administration. Employees’ transport to the company Employees’ transport Our workforce is very local. About 75% of our employees’ homes are located within 15 kilometres around our sites. It takes less than 30 minutes for half of our workforce to come to work. For the last few years, Biogrow has put in place a transport vehicle to daily drive about 25% of our employees to the production sites. Another 30% use local public transport to go to work. Nevertheless, an important share of our workforce continues to walk daily to work. Overall, the use of individual transport vehicles concerns only 15% of our employees. We are proud of the use of public and collective transport systems by our employees. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 26 ENVIRONMENT Health & safety at production sites Accidents In 2012, we have experienced a significant increase of Number of accidents the number of accidents at our production sites. These were due to a series of mishandling of new machines and lack of awareness of safety rules from our employees. These accidents were not life threatening and at no moment our employees lives were at stake. On the positive side, in 2013, only one minor accident was registered. Nevertheless, all but one accident resulted in minor injuries such as small contusion or cuts, and scratches. To avoid these accidents and to reduce the number of Number of lost days rate lost days, we are implementing a series of safety training for our supervisors (basic safety rules, first-aid training). No fatalities have ever been recorded at Biogrow. Lost-days rate The important increase in the number of lost days rate is explained mostly by one accident that caused many lost days. However, this accident did not jeopardize the life of our employee. Our targets for 2016 are ambitious regarding accidents and lost-days rate reduction and we will implement new practices, such as training and awareness-raising of employees and supervisors to reach them. Actions for employees Each year, Biogrow organises a fully paid trip for its permanent employees. In the past three years, employees went to Trincomalee, Katharagama and Jaffna. In 2013, our employees also participated to the Coconut Exporter/Producer Association competition, which gathered employees from all the cocopeat substrate industry. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 27 « Promote the development of Biogrow commits to our suppliers and subcontractors Biogrow ensure the respect of commits to its Ethics Charter at through fair relations » monitor health and safety its subcontractors, nobably regarding conditions of forced and child labour, labour rights employees at its Objectives: and discrimination subcontractors in the workplace Keep payment delays below 7 days Biogrow’s management of its supply chain Biogrow commits Biogrow Suppliers. Biogrow’s business is highly dependent on its commits to keep to provide local suppliers. Our business would not exist if we did technical support its payment not have hundreds of raw material suppliers providing us delays to to suppliers and suppliers and with the necessary cocopeat and fibre materials. We subcontractors subcontractors source all our materials in Sri Lanka. Our suppliers are whenever within a limit of located within a small perimeter around our production possible and 7 days from sites and mainly in the so-called “Coconut Triangle” area necessary delivery (between Negombo, Kurunegala and Puttalam). Suppliers are generally small coco estate owners subcontracting the defibering of the coco husks to small « We must improve our management local businesses. We know that these suppliers can be significantly of our supply chain and continuously impacted by low crop yields and small harvests due to help developing our subcontractors » bad weather conditions. We try to make sure to pay them a fair price for they raw material supply in order to contribute to their business development. When We believe that our business future will benefit possible, we try to work with them to improve their from the improvement of our suppliers’ businesses. growing techniques, processes and infrastructure. This More importantly, we make sure to pay on time can take the form of low/no interest loans, training, and to shorten the payment delay. By doing so, we technical help, etc. contribute to securing our suppliers’ cash flow and financing capacities. We have other suppliers providing us with all packaging elements for our products. We engage in discussions and exchange of knowledge to grow together and share best practices notably in terms of sustainable development. One of our suppliers is now beginning to design and implement a sustainable development strategy. Biogrow is proud to be considered as a partner in this process and to contribute to the promotion of sustainable development in Sri Lanka. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 28 Subcontractors. Biogrow relies on three subcontractors for the production of specific products or to complete our factories production. Biogrow indirectly employs about 40 employees distributed at three subcontractors’ facilities. Through unexpected visits of our subcontractors’ factories we make sure that our subcontractors respect the basic human rights included in the United Nations Global Compact (exclusion of forced and child labour, complicity of human rights abuses). It is very important for us that our business and the companies working for us respect human rights. We try to keep our subcontractors as busy as possible to ensure that their site operates throughout the year, that they are ready to operate when we need them to, and that the jobs at stake are secured. It is also a way to support local communities. As for our suppliers, we try to help our subcontractors as often as possible to modernise their equipment, to develop their business and to share the best practices within the sector. Ethics Charter. In 2013, Biogrow successfully implemented its Ethics Charter. This document presents the company’s key commitments to our stakeholders, notably employees and subcontractors. It is a code of conduct explaining appropriate behaviours regarding human and labour rights (e.g. forced labour, health and safety), business practices (e.g. corruption, anti-competitive agreements); providing tools to identify problematic situations and ways to solve them. Training of subcontractors was realised to make sure our partners understand our way of doing business and integrate good practices in their business. We will work together with our subcontractors to improve their practices and align them with our standards. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 29 « Always meet our customers’ requirements and engage in longterm relationships with them » Biogrow commits Biogrow commits to produce and to forbid any kind deliver goods of of antiObjectives: quality and competitive respecting agreements and Reach 95% of customers satisfied about Biogrow’s customers’ any kind of products by 2016 requirements corruption practices Biogrow’s management of customer related issues Quality. The quality of our products is essential to our business and we take it seriously. The growing of crops in greenhouses requires a precise monitoring and We have stringent quality control processes and control of the growing medium and the plant. our quality control department ensures that these are respected. We test 1% of our production to make sure that we meet our clients’ quality requirements. To ensure that products manufactured by our subcontractors meet our customers’ requests, we have one quality controller responsible for conducting quality checks and monitoring quality at subcontractors’ factories. We want to ensure that we have long-term relationships with our customers to always improve the quality of our products and services. It is through a close collaboration and continuous dialog that customers and Biogrow can reach excellence in their business. We have two kinds of customers: direct customers and final customers. Our direct customers are large distributors, who then sell on our behalf our products to greenhouse growers. « We strictly follow and monitor quality issues and welcome any feedback from our clients» Our clients have stringent requests, which include moisture, humidity, sand content, electro conductivity levels, expansion capacity, size, weight, share of chips and cocopeat, etc. It is our duty to provide products and services that meet those requests as it directly impacts the quality of the future crops. We indirectly bear a share of the responsibility of the quality of the 30 future crops. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 Our products are packaged in plastic bags and stored on full or semi-full pallets. These pallets are then shipped by boat in containers to our customers worldwide. Our internal Quality Department is conscious of the necessity to have homogeneous quality of products. Quality controls must be conducted according to the same stringent requirements at all of Biogrow production and subcontractors’ sites. A monthly newsletter containing the latest information about quality controls and the company’s business and requirements is sent monthly. In addition, the Quality Department communicates daily about quality improvements and issues to be dealt with via social network tools such as Twitter. The Quality Department uses a computer-based and sharing tool to keep photo records of all quality tests conducted on order samples. These data are available by all employees within the company. Paper-based documents containing the results of the quality tests are also kept by the Quality Department in case a quality issue is raised by one of our customers. Traceability. Our products are traced from the production site down to the customers to ensure that they are provided with the products they required. We make sure that any product going out of our factories can be traced all along its trip to the customer’s distribution facility. All products manufactured by Biogrow have a unique identification code, which in case of issues with the quality can be directly traced by Biogrow and dealt with. Labelling. Every pallet of products shipped in containers is labelled with all the required information about the customer, the quantity of products, and specifications. In addition, instructions for use are also detailed on the products packaging to make sure our customers handle and use the products in the appropriate way. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 31 In January 2013, some of our Russian customers came to visit Biogrow’s installations in Sri Lanka (Madurankuliya and Wariyapola production sites). We raised their awareness about our production processes and provided them with more information about our company. It is very important for us that our customers are aware of the manufacturing process behind their final products. They could also understand our quality checks to increase their confidence in our quality procedures. We would like to repeat this action and communicate more about our processes and the positive aspects of our products. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 32 « Supporting the development of the local communities contribute to Biogrow commits to forbid any Biogrow commits to support the actions that would development of the the company’s success and the make the company local communities an accomplice of and to promote employees’ wellbeing » human rights their economic and Objectives: violations social viability Support 15 community support-oriented projects by 2016 Biogrow’s support to the development of local communities 75% of our employees live within a 15 kilometres area around our factories. Our employees are part of a complex network of interactions that affect local businesses, social life, local authorities and the local environment. Biogrow can act directly on the development of the areas where our employees originate. By improving local development through economic or social actions, Biogrow wants to improve the wellbeing of its employees and their families and contribute to the general development of Sri Lanka. Since the beginning of its activities, Biogrow has continuously sought the development of local businesses, the improvement of living conditions of its employees and of surrounding poor populations. In 2013, Biogrow launched its first action for education in Sri Lanka. We created a small library in a primary school nearby the Wariyapola factory, where some of our employees’ children study. Through this action, Biogrow sought the improvement of children’s access to books in Sinhala, Tamil and English. Biogrow partnered with Asia Foundation Books for Asia programme and Sri Lanka’s National Library book donation programme to collect books either brand new or second-hand. The children, aged from five years old to ten years old have now access to more than 300 books. It constitutes a significant change « We have a responsibility to provide support to local social and economic development, hence improving the wellbeing of our employees » BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 33 for them and can also be a solid base for the local English teacher to improve her teaching of English. Biogrow conducted many other actions, among which: financing of a wall painting in Kiriwanagara School; providing funds annually to employees for them to buy books for their children; providing loans to employees for them to participate to the Sinhala & Hindu New Year; provided cement to the elders’ home located behind the Wariyapola factory Our objective within the next three years is to considerably develop our activities towards local communities. We believe that the development of the local economy will benefit our employees, the local populations and in fine our business. Our attractiveness, as an employer, is also a result of how we manage our impacts on local communities. « The Books for Asia (BFA) program of The Asia Foundation provides learning materials essential for educational development consisting of a wide collection of books in diverse fields to strengthen primary, secondary and tertiary education across the country. The program strongly supports local efforts to create open access to libraries in educational institutions with rich resources for educational development. The BFA programme partners with educational institutions, international organizations, non-profit organisations and government institutions, as well as with the private sector (through their corporate social Chatrini Weeratunge, Manager of Books for Asia programme responsibility projects) to implement educational development initiatives. As such, we are pleased to support the CSR initiative of Biogrow Lanka to build a library in the Kiriwanagara school in Wariyapola, and look forward to collaborating with the company on similar CSR initiatives in the future. » BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 34 Partnership with Agro Micro Finance. Our employees are our best resources and we try, at Biogrow, to create a strong binding link between Agro Micro Finance employees and between the company and the employees. Their present as well as their future situation Agro Micro Finance is a micro credit counts for us and we are willing to help them sustain organisation headquartered in their livelihoods even once they have left the company. Colombo and operating in Sri Lanka through its eight operational branches. Since its creation in Legislation in Sri Lanka forbids BOI (Board Of Investment) 2000, the organisation has significantly developed companies to continue employing under permanent and now counts more than a hundred staff and contract women above 50 years old and men above 55 more than 12,000 borrowers. It specialises in years old. Employees have the choice between early funding small entrepreneurs, who do not have retirements and temporary contracts within the access to normal banking and loan facilities. 94% company. of Agro Micro Finance clients are women. The We believe that for the workers own safety and health, organisation is continuously expanding and retirement could be the best solution. We are developing its activity. In not less than two years developing together with Agro Micro Finance, a local between 2011 and 2013, Agro Micro Finance institute of microfinance, a programme to help these added about 4,000 new customers, and employees to launch their own small business should contributed to support thousands of small they choose retirement over temporary contracts. businesses through income generating loans, Biogrow would fund loans for our former employees, asset building and education oriented loans and provide machines and small equipment as well as paddy cultivation. technical support. These small businesses would supply The organisation promotes solidarity in the our factories with raw material. Agro Micro Finance communities and accompanies with non-financial would manage the loan activity and the collection of training small entrepreneurs in the development repayment as part of its microfinance activity, and of their business. provide our former employees with non-financial training, such as book keeping, business management, or women empowerment. This partnership with Agro Micro Finance presents many advantages: our former employees would benefit from Agro Micro Finance long experience in micro credit activity; from Biogrow’s full technical support in launching their business; these loans could reinforce solidarity in communities through the management of people’s own development and activities; and Biogrow would sustain its strong link with its former employees and with the local communities surrounding the factories. It is very important for Biogrow to contribute to the development of local communities. Improving the social acceptance of Biogrow within the local communities is the key to a successful development of the company in Sri Lanka. In addition, implementing this kind of action could be beneficial in terms of attractiveness for workers and for suppliers of raw material around the factories. We want to positively impact the local communities surrounding us. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 35 Objective Indicator Action plan 2016 5% electricity consumption per slab Electricity consumption Replacement of old machines by more produced by 2016 (2012 as baseline) per slab productive and energy efficient ones Turn paper sourcing towards FSC paper Share of paper FSCImplement a paper collection sourced system in the offices and enter in contact with a recycler Recycle 50% of waste paper by 2016 Share of paper recycled Installation of environment Improve employees’ awareness on information panels environmental issues Reduce the number of accidents Number of accidents Improve protection equipment compared to 2012 H&S training of supervisors and Reduce the number of lost days due to Number of lost-days workers accidents to 5 per year by 2016 Installation of safety information panels Implementation of H&S Maintain gender balance above 50% Gender balance reporting tool Reach 30% of women in management Gender balance Awareness raising by 2016 Reduce the frequency of quality issues Number of quality issues Continuous improvement of quality procedures Respect delivery delays Launch reflexion on indicator Implement new monitoring and reporting tool for quality issues Support 15 community-oriented Number of projects Library school in Kiriwanagara projects by 2016 supported per year school Product donation Awareness-raising on health issues Partnership with AMF Keep payment delays below 7 days Number of days for Implement alert tool to ensure payments payment within the delay Training of suppliers and subcontractors on Biogrow Ethics Charter BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 36 Unit 2011 2012 2013 Production1 Number 3 154 949 3 288 747 2 242 763 Production sites Number 1 2 2 Electricity consumption KWh 392 288 378 127 219 193 Electricity consumption per KWh 0.121 0.112 0.122 slab Quantity of paper purchased Pages 60 000 Number of employees2 Number 100 300 187 Gender balance Percentage 50 59.6 66.3 Number of accidents Number 0 10 2 Lost-days rate3 Number 0 25.3 1 Injury rate4 Number 0 3.5 0.5 Fatalities Number 0 0 0 Local community projects Number 3 3 3 Payment delays Days 7 1 This figure does not include our subcontractors 2 Full-time equivalent employees 3 The impact of occupational accidents and diseases as reflected in time off work by the affected workers. It is expressed by comparing the total lost days to the total number of hours scheduled to be worked by the workforce in the reporting period. This is calculated as follows and results in a measure of the number of lost-time injuries per hour worked during the accounting period. (GRI Guidelines) 4 The frequency of injuries relative to the total time (GRI Guidelines) worked by the total workforce in the reporting period. BIOGROW LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2013 37 Contacts Registered office : Hindagollawatta, Kanattewa, Wariyapola – SRI LANKA Tel : 037 – 4698139 Administrative office : 311E/2 Sadasarana Place, Kimbulapitiya Road, Kadirana, Negombo – SRI LANKA Tel : 031 – 4933906 E-mail : biogrow.lanka@gmail.com Author : Antoine Bois, intern in charge of HSE programmes
