REPORT INTRODUCTION This annual Sustainability Report of China National Offshore Oil Corporation, which is the ninth since 2005, is an accurate reflection of our fulfilment of economic, environmental and social responsibilities in 2013. Below is some pertinent information about the report: Reporting Entity: China National Offshore Oil Corporation Alternative Reference: China National Offshore Oil Corporation is herein also referred to as CNOOC, the Company, the corporation, “we”, “our” or “us”. Reporting Period: 1 January to 31 December 2013. In order to ensure the continuity and comparability of the information disclosed, the applicable period for certain information may be extended forward or backward accordingly. Reporting Cycle: This report is an annual report. Reporting Principles: To meet the needs of stakeholders and the general public, by disclosing key information on the Company in a true, objective, timely and comprehensive manner. Data: All 2013 data disclosed herein are annual statistics. In case of discrepancies with the data in the annual report, the latter shall prevail. Unless otherwise specified, all amounts are expressed in Renminbi (RMB). Information Sources: The Company’s official documents, statistical reports and our subsidiaries’ fulfilment of responsibilities. All information has been reviewed by our management, supervision department and the various subsidiaries. Report Improvement: In order to improve the report in reflecting the Company’s fulfillment and practice with more objectivity, comprehensiveness and emphasis, the 2013 Report, with the theme of “Our Quality Energy For Your Blue Sea & Sky”, shows the Company’s sustainable development with four major issues of “energy supply, environmental protection, employees’ development and community services”, highlighting six social responsibilities special topics of “My CNOOC Dream”, “Listening to”, “Skilful Utilization of Strength”, “Dream Realizing in Blue Sea and Sky”, “Acquire Nexen: Earnestly Fulfill Each Commitment” and “CSR Management of CNOOC in Uganda”, extending the 2012 “Topic: CSR Engagement Overseas” into CSR Report Overseas. Through the field investigation for responsibility fulfillment of subsidiary units, the screening and reviewing of authenticity of the cases were conducted; during the preparation period, various opinions and suggestions were listened, response was actively given to the stakeholders for their deep concern. Basis of Preparation: This report was prepared in accordance with the Guidelines to the State-owned Enterprises Directly under the Central Government on Fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibilities, issued by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China (SASAC); Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010 edition), jointly produced by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API); the Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Guidelines in China (CASS-CSR2.0) by the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Centre of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility (2010 edition) by the International Standards Organization (ISO). Language: This report is published in both Chinese and English. In case of discrepancies, the Chinese version shall prevail. Accessibility: This report is available in print and electronic formats. The digital version can be downloaded from the Company’s website at www.cnooc.com.cn. To obtain a print version of the report, please email report@cnooc.com.cn. THE LOGO OF CNOOC The corporate logo of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) encompasses the basic design elements comprising the letters that make up the company’s initials CNOOC, enclosed by the blue curves and ripples that represent China’s seawaters. The design in red, formed by the capital letters CNOOC, depicts an offshore drilling rig silhouetted against the rising sun, symbolising prosperity in China’s offshore oil industry. ABOUT THE COVER The platform operator of Bohai Oilfield was observing the oil sample. CONTENTS 02 03 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 64 DATA OF CNOOC COMMUNITY SERVICES 04 PRESIDENT’S LETTER 06 66 Humanitarian Engagement Special Topic: My CNOOC Dream 73 Voluntary Service 75 Community Building 08 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 08 Our Ethos 76 10 Our Actions and Performance CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 13 Key Performance Indicators 78 CNOOC Over the Seas 14 Stakeholders 79 Special Topic: Acquire Nexen: Earnestly Fulfill 16 Special Topic: Listening to Each Commitment 82 Overseas Compliance Management 83 Technology Innovation and Cooperation 18 84 HSE Management Overseas ENERGY SUPPLY 88 Development of the Staff Overseas 20 Contributing Conventional Energies 90 Local Community Services 22 Developing Clean Energy 92 Special Topic: CSR Management of CNOOC in 25 Improving Service Network Uganda 28 Enhancing Energy Security 34 Special Topic: Skilful Utilization of Strength 94 LOOKING AHEAD TO 2014 40 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 42 Combating Climate Change 96 ANNEX 44 Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction 48 Ecological Diversity Protection 96 Third-party Assessment 50 Special Topic: Dream Realizing in Blue Sea and Sky 98 Glossary of Terms 101 Index of Reporting Indicators 103 Feedback Form 52 EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT 54 Career Development 63 Employee Participation 02 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Chairman of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) Wang Yilin Dear all, First of all, let me, on behalf of the Board Domestic oil and gas exploration hit ecological diversity. CNOOC also actively of Directors and all the employees of record high. Natural gas exploration participated in social and charitable CNOOC, express our heartfelt gratitude to made a breakthrough and oil and causes and made contribution to charity, all who have cared for and supported us gas production overseas increased voluntary services and community all these years. significantly. Engineering and technical cooperation, and invested RMB 86.88 breakthrough helped the successful million Yuan in the whole year. In the As one of the most important energy installation of deep-water project “Liwan process of implementing international corporations in China, CNOOC has long 3-1” central platform with 30,000 tons operation overseas, CNOOC paid respects been committed to contributing highfloating supporting blocks, the biggest in to local cultures, actively promoted local quality energy and building a good Asia, and winning of “the Second Prize for economic development, achieved safe environment for economic, social and National Science and Technology Progress and environmental-friendly operation, environmental sustainable development. Award” . The company’s international and became a responsible global The company blended the concept of operation capacity was further enhanced “corporate citizen”. sustainable development into company’s by advancing the CNOOC limited to be The Company’s pursuit for excellence strategies and daily operations from listed in the Toronto Stock Exchange. and sustainable development is endless. organizational structure, policy making In promoting ecological civilization In the year of 2014, CNOOC is going and standard operation procedure development, CNOOC continued to drive to proactively advance reform and perspectives. To strengthen endogenous energy source restructure and paid more innovation, continuously strengthen dynamics of sustainable development, attention on developing and utilizing cooperation with the outside world, the company devoted greater effort in clean energies like LNG (Liquefied Natural coordinate international and domestic reform and innovation, Efforts were made Gas) and natural gas. Import volume of business development, improve the to optimize and reorganize new-energy LNG achieved a record high again. The core competitiveness and sustainability. business, promote human resources reform, first floating LNG pilot project in China, Unremitting efforts are made by the and integrate science and technology the Tianjin floating LNG Terminal began CNOOC to become a highly responsible, research and development institutions. gas supply successfully. Attention was well respected, world-class international Communication and coordination with paid to environment protection and energy corporation. stakeholders were enhanced; progress in whole lifecycle environmental protection company sustainable development was m a n a g e m e n t w a s i m p l e m e n t e d. made public to the outside world in a timely Ecological recovery and environmental manner. Given to the above measures, improvement in the operation area were the company’s sustainable development enhanced. CNOOC took the CNOOC was promoted in an all-round way. Marine Environmental and Ecological In the year of 2013, the company’s Protection Public Welfare Foundation international competitiveness and as the platform to proactively carry out Chairman Wang Yilin sustainability were further enhanced. research and protection projects on 28 March 2014 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 03 1046.7 93 RMB 1,046.7 billion Yuan Ranking the 93rd out of of total year-end assets Fortune Global 500 companies 2 Operating income exceeding RMB 500 billion Yuan in each of the past two years 129 38% RMB 129 billion Yuan of 38% of overseas assets proﬁt and tax paid in summarized assets at the end of the year 32 4 Ranking the 32nd out of Oil and gas production PIW Top 50 Oil in China Sea exceeding Companies 50 Mtoe for the 4th straight year 108 3 108 thousand employees The world’s 3rd largest LNG buyers 86.88 RMB 86.88 million Yuan of investment in public welfare and charity 10 Ranking the 10th out of the Top 500 Enterprises of China 数字海油 DATA OF CNOOC 04 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY PRESIDENT’S LETTER President of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) Yang Hua Dear all, In the year of 2013, CNOOC made management of production-circulationwho were affected by recent earthquake; great efforts to contribute high-quality consumption. Given to the above, continuously support special public energy resources, strengthen safety emission of major pollutions maintains an welfare projects of the Hope Project, and environmental protection, and care overall decrease; target of 299,000 tons of Mother Water Cellar Project and Lifeline for our staff, actively give back to the standard coal energy saving in the whole Express; carry out voluntary service and social public, fully perform economic, year was realized; comprehensive energy community cooperation, and earnestly environmental and social responsibilities. consumption per RMB 10,000 turnover give back to the public. Significant increase in the company’s was 0.2916 tons of standard coal, which Taking the successful acquisition of the sustainability was achieved. fell 5.1% year-on-year. We proactively Canadian energy company Nexen in 2013 participate in the research projects of The domestic oil and gas exploration of as a great opportunity, CNOOC has given Larga Seal Preservation and Development the company marked the best historical an effective push to overseas business & Protection of the Yellow River Delta achievement. Oil and gas production in development. We proactively fulfill overseas Tidal Wetland, and jointly advance marine China sea has been up to 50 million tons social responsibility; strengthen overseas ecological resources protection with all oil equivalent in four consecutive years. compliance management; gradually sectors of society. Net overseas oil and gas production improve overseas HSE management system; has been doubled than that of in the Adjustment is made to per diem and actively connect with local communities. 2012. Import volume for LNG (Liquefied meal allowance standards for offshore Efforts are made to raise localization level Natural Gas) in 2013 was 13.01 million employees; salar y for produc tion and win respects and trust from all parties tons and the total import for LNG made employees and those with low income of international society and the local. a breakthrough of 50 million tons. LNG and low post has been improved. The Moving forward in 2014, CNOOC will filling industry gave acceleration to rapid occupational health management was continue to meet its responsibilities and development of business and became a strengthened to achieve a 100% coverage obligations. We will make efforts to build new growing point for business. rate of occupational health examination CNOOC into a low-carbon, responsible and surveillance archives. The company The Company has been committed itself and respected world-class international h a s c o m m i t t e d i t s e l f t o c a re fo r to safety and environmental protection energy corporation, and make new employees’ physical and mental health, to principle of “Safety First, Environmental contributions to sustainable development station mental-health counselor on each Protection; People Orientation, Equipment of economy, society and environment. offshore platform and make efforts to Availability”. We strengthen hidden achieve common development between dangers removal and management; the company and its employees. p ro a c t i v e l y p ro m o t e e m e r g e n c y management; ensure a good momentum CNOOC continuously devotes itself to of safety production. CNOOC gives great charity and helps targeted poverty struck impetus to production and utilization of regions of Hainan, Gansu and Tibet to clean energy and actively implements shake off poverty. We actively assist President Yang Hua a whole process of low carbon green people from Ya’an in Sichuan Province 28 March 2014 PRESIDENT’S LETTER · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 05 66.84 1 588.2 66.84 million tons of Installed gas power RMB 588.2 billion Yuan crude oil production, capacity ranking the 1st of operating income including 41% of in China overseas production 44% 29.61 19.6 billion m3 of natural 29.61 million tons of gas production, crude oil reﬁning including 44% of capacity overseas production 0.2916 202 50 0.2916 tons of standard Having signed 202 Total LNG imports coal of energy cooperative contracts exceeding 50 million consumption per RMB with 79 international oil tons 10,000 turnover companies 25% 39.68 Female employees make 39.68 million tones of up 25% of the total crude oil trading volume employees 3 Total proﬁt exceeding RMB 100 billion Yuan for the 3rd consecutive year MY CNOOC DREAM OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY As a pacesetter in marine resource development, CNOOC assumes the responsibility for building the nation into a strong maritime power. With the “second leap” of offshore oil industry as the breakthrough, we shall improve the development capability for marine resources, develop the marine economy and protect the marine ecoenvironment, realizing the maritime power dream incessantly pursued by the generations of CNOOC workers. Chairman Wang Yilin ke Yi Hu ) Zhou old Xiao a rs fan (9 ye years old) (12 hu nz g Xi an W It’s universal common As a young worker of I wish that one day as vision to allow for CNOOC Asphalt, I love the CNOOC workers, environmental-friendly my work deeply. I look I can stand on the development for the On the holidays, I forward that one day we As a technician, I high drilling platforms, marine economy. am still working and can discover more oil & feel well satisfied that appreciating the free Building a maritime performing my duty, it’s gas treasure at the sea I’m able to settle the flying of seagulls, power is not only to not that I am not missing bottom and produce problems identified in hearing the merry songs safeguard the national home, like many other more quality products, oilfield development of the sea. interests, but also for CNOOC workers, I’m enabling the people to and apply the new a better performance leaving my home behind lead a better life. technology verified by Winner of “My CNOOC of international to bring warm to more myself in the oilfields. Dream” Painting & responsibilities and families with my work. CNOOC Asphalt Regardless of the great Calligraphy Competition keep world peace. We You are happy, I’m Hao Xiangyu difficulty of the projects, Wang Xinzhu (12 years must develop ourselves happy! I’m still confident old) through enhancing of overcoming the the state power by Gas Pipeline Maintainer challenges. This is my marine economy, Gao Chunliang CNOOC dream. harmony between man and sea and win-win CNOOC Research cooperation. We must Institute take the way of peaceful Cao Yanfeng marine development, with a basic vision of harmonious sea. Academician of Chinese Academy of Engineering Zeng Hengyi Zhan g Han wen (7 years old) Li Sh uqi (8 years old) years old) Xie Sihan (7 08 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY OUR ETHOS As one of the specific implementers of national energy strategy the heart of sustainable development making its management and maritime strategy, CNOOC undertakes the responsibility an imperative. As a responsible energy company, we strive to for ensuring national energy security, exploring the ocean and provide energy for everyone in a safer, more environmentally protecting maritime rights and interests. friendly and more efficient manner through excellent operations. At CNOOC, we believe that corporate social responsibility is at Our Vision Corporate Philosophy Corporate Spirit Energy for All People-orientation, responsibilities, Be dedicated, effective and win-win benefits, credibility, innovative innovation Courage to Safe and efficient innovate operations Becoming an open, Becoming a reliable, inclusive and cooperative sound and sustainable cultural communicator energy supplier Low carbon Charitable giving Social green growth Becoming a respected and public-spirited Responsibility Becoming an energy efficient and facilitator of harmonious Ethos environmentally friendly communities producer and operator Openness and transparency Putting people first Becoming an honest and Becoming a creator of a trustworthy company by happy life by caring for our operating in accordance employees and exercising with the law mutual aid and fraternity SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 09 Our sustainability ethos permeates the corporate strategies brings about sustainable development with a balance struck and daily operations of the Company through the organizational among economic growth, environmental protection and structure, policies and procedures. Such seamless integration of social progress. social responsibility management and operational management Compliance Operations Shareholder Return Change and Innovation Value Growth Economic · Comply with laws to pay taxes and · Preserve regional ecology charges Growth · Upgrade resource efficiency · Focus on employees’ development · Enhance the quality of environment · Increase investment into public · Advance circular economy welfare and charities · Promoting communal harmony Sustainable Development Social Environmental Labour Rights Progress Protection Reduce Energy Consumption Diversified Culture Reduce Emission Community Harmony Ecological Balance Employees’ satisfaction · Improve working environment Bio-diversity · Tackle climate change · Reduce environmental pollution · Stick to resources sharing CSR Model Examining and Listening to the feedback implementing sustainable from our stakeholders development strategy Communicating with our Preparing and publishing Management stakeholders to determine sustainability reports Process for the themes of CSR CSR Tracking and evaluating performance of Planning milestones implementing actions and action plans Management Process for CSR 10 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY OUR ACTIONS AND PERFORMANCE We develop CSR strategy and its roadmap according to the requirements by SASAC for improving management. CSR management organizations of three levels coordinate operation, lead the implementation of strategy and facilitate responsibility integration. CNOOC Roadmap of CSR Responsibility Develop the Company’s CSR strategy and its roadmap. Set short-term, mid-term and long-term goals of CSR Strategy management that are specific, measurable and timeliness. Responsibility Establish a three-level management system consisting of leading group for the improvement of CNOOC’s CSR Governance management, corresponding office and relevant departments of subsidiaries. · Convene system-wide annual meeting for the improvement of CSR management; Responsibility · Conduct the trainings of CSR management such as GRI 4.0 and CASS-CSR 2.0 on the basis of different levels Integration and categories. · The Company’s sustainability report was prepared and published for the first time in 2005 and has been Responsibility prepared and published for the 9th consecutive year; Communication · Set a special column of CSR on the Company’s website; · Actively communicate with our stakeholders through questionnaire survey, round-table conference and parties. · Since the evaluation indicator system of scientific development was established in 2008, lateral and vertical comparison and analysis was conducted from 3 dimensions and with 25 indicators so as to evaluate the Company’s sustainable development; Responsibility · Obtain the data of employee satisfaction index through online, offline, systematic and stratified sampling Performance questionnaire surveys; · Establish, track, monitor and consistently improve the system of key performance indicators of sustainability report; · Carry out merit appraisal activities of CSR. · Conduct monographic study on CSR management; Responsibility · Cooperate with specialized research institutes of enterprise CSR; Survey · Participate in the development of two national mandatory standards including Product Energy Limitations for Petroleum Refining Units. Comprehensive Risk Management The Company continues to implement the system of comprehensive risk management. During the preparation of 2013 Report of Comprehensive Risk Management, identification and assessment of risks were finished and corresponding measures were developed, where 4 risks were assessed as important, including QHSE risk, investment risk, compliance risk and risk of operating globally, for which 18 risk management strategies and solutions were developed. For improving the system of comprehensive risk management, we have published the CNOOC’s Management Measures for Decision-making Process Related to Key Issues and the Headquarters Authority Manual, and developed the Management Measures for Recording and Reporting of Overseas Projects. We push ahead with the development and implementation of system-wide internal audit system, and create the system of trade and refining businesses. We have carried out 401 system-wide audit projects, checked a total of 1,295 business processes, 1,844 general control points and 3,955 key control points. We have organized self-inspection of major commodities businesses, consistently improve the performance assessment mechanism of internal control risk management and increase the importance of the implementation of internal control system in annual operating performance assessment. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 Establishment of the Anti-Corruption Integrity Policy The company continues to consolidate the system mechanism of Anti-Corruption Integrity Policy and revise the year-end assessment index system of Anti-Corruption Integrity Policy; optimize and improve the job responsibility documents of AntiCorruption Integrity Policy; sign the letters of Anti-Corruption Commitment with the responsible persons of subsidiaries; provide integrity education to new employees and new leaders by reporting typical cases in various forms; give the risk prompt about compliance and integrity timely to cadres and employees who are in the risk-prone areas; complete the prevention and caution education and persist in advancing construction of a culture of self-discipline. Glimpses of Actions In 2013 Action Plan, with the theme of “Our Quality Energy, is for Your Blue Sea & Sky”, in promoting the Company’s sustainable development with four major issues of “energy supply, environmental protection, employees’ development and community services”, we have held various activities such as “Beautiful China-CNOOC Green Action”, big forum of “Building China into a Maritime Power”, “CNOOC Dream” essay competition, “My CNOOC Dream” children painting competition activity, environment & safety video competition and LNG scientific publicity week, and we have also held “Towards Ocean” forum with universities and colleges such as Ocean University of China. Social responsibility experts of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences were attending the Press Conference of 2012 CNOOC Sustainability Report. Various media were participating in the Press Conference of Customers were browsing CNOOC Sustainability Report in a 2012 CNOOC Sustainability Report. CNOOC service station. 12 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CNOOC CSR management promoting meeting CNOOC CSR staff were receiving GRI training. CNOOC LNG scientific publicity activity participants were CNOOC industrial museum was greeting pupil visiting groups. touching LNG. The students of the Ocean University of China were visiting the CNOOC. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS National National Item 2011 2012 2013 Data in Data 2013 Source Crude Oil Production (10,000 tons) 4,661 5,186 6,684 20,813 CPCIF LNG Imports (10,000 tons) 1,081 1,079 1,301 Refined Oil Production (10,000 tons) 679 779 811 29,616 CPCIF Fuel Oil Production (10,000 tons) 757 750 730 Natural Gas-Fired Power Capacity (100 million kWh) 165 153 152 Ethylene Production (10,000 tons) 98 102 103 1,623 NDRC Energy Methanol Production (10,000 tons) 157 159 157 Supply Fetilizer Production (10,000 tons) 321 346 370 7,154 NBS Sodium Carbonate Production (10,000 tons) 249 230 210 2,429 NDRC Crude Oil Trading Volume (10,000 tons) 2,158 3,079 3,968 R&D Investments (100 million RMB) 17 26 28.2 Science and Technology Employees (persons) 7,546 7,436 7,848 Granted Patents (awards) 507 570 765 Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction 4.0 3.5 2.8 Investments (100 million RMB) Energy Consumption per RMB 10,000 Turnover (ton 0.323 0.307 0.292 of standard coal equivalent) Energy Savings (10,000 tons of standard coal Environmental 48.9 53.8 29.9 equivalent) Protection Sulfur Dioxide Gas Emission (tons) 13,059 12,968 16,060 Chemical Oxygen Demand (tons) 1,702 1,698 1,936 Nitric Oxide Emission (tons) N/A 18,337 19,147 Ammonia Nitrogen Emission (tons) N/A 443 491 Staff Strength (persons) 98,750 102,562 108,646 Rate of Conclusion of Employment Contracts 100% 100% 100% Rate of Social Insurance Coverage 100% 100% 100% Percentage of Employees participated in labor union 100% 100% 100% Employees’ Percentage of Female Employees 24.8% 25.0% 25.0% Development Frequency of Occupational Disease 1 0 2 Rate of Physical Examination for Occupational 96.2% 99.2% 99.9% Health Average Training Duration per Employee (hour) 68 82 95 Employee Turnover Rate 3% 3% 3% Community Charitable Donation (10,000 RMB) 23,583 8,078 8,688 Services Taxation of Profit (100 million RMB) 1,243 1,348 1,290 Number of Foreign Employees 1,466 3,387 8,982 CSR Report Localization Rate of Overseas Employees 66% 71% 82% Overseas Overseas Charitable Donation (10,000 RMB) N/A 481 565 14 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY STAKEHOLDERS Our stakeholders include the government, employees, term and sustainable development. We hope to strengthen our shareholders, customers, industry partners, suppliers, communication and collaboration with all stakeholders even contractors, financial institutions, media, communities, the further, to promote a balanced development of the economy, general public, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). environment and society. The concerns of our stakeholders Communication with stakeholders is of paramount importance are our greatest priority. We communicate our understanding to us. By engaging with them in an open and transparent of social responsibilities through appropriate means such as manner, we listen to their voices and take them into account paying visits and giving talks to them, and also put our goodwill when formulating and implementing our strategies, policies and into effective actions. plans. With their trust and support, we are able to achieve longHu Chunhua, Secretary of Guangdong Provincial Party Committee, 2013 CNOOC Foreign Cooperation Seminar was visiting Huizhou Refinery. CASE Seeing CNOOC through CNOOC Industrial Museum In 2013, CNOOC industrial museum became “CNOOC popular science base”, which holds various theme activities such as “Open House”, “Mother’s Day”, “Parent-child Day on June 1” and “Children of Sun Village Walk into CNOOC” for nearly one hundred times, receiving nearly 20 thousands guests at home and abroad such as Brunei Sultan, Prime Minister of Uganda and representatives of enterprises and public institutions and associations & organizations, gaining a lot of good reputations and appreciations. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 Stakeholder Focus of Attention Priority Actions 1. Maintain and add value to state-owned assets 2. Align with the national energy strategy, optimise the nation’s energy structure and ensure energy supply 1. Active implementation of national policies 3. Cooperate with the State in formulating relevant laws and 2. Safeguarding the security of the nation’s energy regulations Government supply 4. Pay close attention to developments in energy conservation 3. Ensuring steady supply of energy to the market and emission reduction, and actively cope with climate 4. Fulfilment of social responsibilities changes 5. Communicate effectively with the government of host countries 1. Improve the Company’s remuneration system 1. Protection of employees’ rights and interests 2. Streamline the career path of employees 2. Employees’ career development 3. Conduct employee skills training Employees 3. Employees’ health and safety 4. Provide benefits protection 4. Exemplification of employees’ merits 5. Safeguard overseas employees’ safety and legitimate interests 1. Corporate governance 2. Shareholders’ dividend 1. Disclose information in time Shareholders 3. Information disclosure 2. Pay periodic visits 4. Investor relations 3. Publish annual reports 5. Stock price performance 1. Conduct product quality supervision and examination activities 1. Provision of safe, environment-friendly and high2. Enhance the brand value and awareness quality products and services Customers 3. Solicit opinions and suggestions from customers regularly 2. Performance of contractual obligations 4. Disclose more information 3. Enhancement of consumer satisfaction 5. Formulate quality standards and system 1. Participate regularly in exchange activities held by the 1. Working together to comply with national laws, industry associations Industry Partners regulations and business ethics 2. Assist in implementing the relevant policies and measures 2. Fair competition and harmonious development of the State 1. Compliance with business ethics, laws and 1. Call for tenders regulations 2. Strictly regulate HSE management Suppliers and 2. Establishment of long-term partnership 3. Support the development of SMEs and promote local Contractors 3. Achievement of mutual benefits and win-win procurement relationship 4. Standardised operations 1. Operating status 1. Pay loans and interests in time Financial 2. Operational risks 2. Pay periodic visits Institutions 3. Corporate governance 3. Disclose information 1. Publish reports 1. Status of fulfilment of corporate social responsibilities 2. Disclose social responsibility-related information regularly Media 2. Corporate performance 3. Disclose information on major events that are of public 3. Milestone events, activities and measures concern in a timely fashion 1. Promotion of social and economic development in 1. Joint collaboration and construction Communities communities 2. Protect local ecological environment and General 2. Support of public welfare events 3. Promote local employment Public 3. Maintenance of the community environment 4. Guarantee safe production 4. Establishment of effective communication channels 5. Maintain public relations 1. Support of community organisations 1. Exchange ideas about issues of concern to external parties 2. Fulfilment of the Articles of Association of 2. Actively participate in and support environmental protection NGOs organisations initiatives 3. Enhancement of information disclosure 3. Organise and participate in relevant conferences 4. Support of environmental welfare causes 16 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY 倾听 LISTENING TO... LISTEN TO VOICES FROM EACH PARTY CAREFULLY ACTIVELY SEEK SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 CNOOC realized its commitment to advance Canadian economic growth made on the acquisition of the Nexen Company, and its rapid realization wins affirmation. British Columbia (BC Province) Premier Christy Clark CNOOC adopts the concept of cooperation and mutual benefits in development of LNG industry, which creates opportunities for private corporations like us to enter into LNG industry, and during the process of cooperation, I really feel the social reputation and awareness of CNOOC, which is a huge intangible asset. NPC member of Tongling City of Anhui Province, Chairman of Lingtong Company Xie Tongbao In the past 13 years, CNOOC faced the challenges together with us, proposing solutions for us, making Chu Kong Steel Pipe develop into an international enterprise listing in Hong Kong from a small private enterprise. Thanks for the cultivation and assistance provided by CNOOC to the suppliers, giving firm support to development of national industry. We hope that we can continue to grow and develop together with CNOOC. Chairman of Chu Kong Pipe Group Co., Ltd. Chen Chang As the main overseas business cooperative bank of CNOOC, Citibank witnesses the process how CNOOC develops into a comprehensive international oil company who operates its business in dozens of countries over the world. The professionalization, internationalization and high efficiency of CNOOC make a deep impression on us. It is a great honor for us to cooperate with CNOOC and make contribution to Chinese enterprises to go overseas. Deputy President of Citibank China Co., Ltd. Zhang Zhihao When I walked into Putian gas-fired power plant, I saw four HRSGs (heat recovery steam generator) lining up neatly without any discharge of smoke dust, which is different from former power plant areas where multiple chimneys stand. Journalist of Xinhuanet Li You As Canadian residents and neighbors of Nexen Long Lake Oil Sand project, we didn’t understand the matter about CNOOC’s acquisition of Nexen at the beginning. What makes us unexpected is that the acquisition of Nexen creates better employment opportunities for us and makes the environment better. I will support you and if there is any opportunity to joint in your company, I am always ready to serve. Resident of Alberta Province of Canada Mike In CNOOC Sustainability Report, the content is rich and the data is comprehensive, but the text is large in quantity with much summary, so the report should strengthen the readability from the angle of stakeholders, adding feedback of stakeholders in the report to make the third party understand what the concern point of company is through the report. GRI Chinese Cooperative Partner and Director of Syn Tao Wang Xin I have seen more attention being paid to CNOOC and heard more voices appreciating CNOOC, which makes me proud. I hope that the content of CNOOC industrial museum will be richer and the business of CNOOC will be more prosperous in the future, and I, will tell the glorious story of CNOOC with more passion. Employee Fu Xuege Gorgon Project is now the biggest project in the area of LNG, and the COOEC have completed the construction works of this project ahead of schedule with high-level quality. On behalf of the owners such as Shell and Exxon-Mobil, Chevron extends sincere gratitude to COOEC team and hopes that the COOEC make persistent efforts to achieve success in subsequent projects. Chevron Gorgon General Manager of Downstream Project Jeff Brubaker 18 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 ENERGY SUPPLY 20 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CONTRIBUTING CONVENTIONAL ENERGIES With the development of global economy and improvement of people’s living standard, the increasing demand for energy will continue, and the global energy consumption will be estimated to increase by about 40% in the coming 20 years. To tackle climate change, protect the eco-environment and guarantee a safe energy supply, the energy structure adjustment will be inevitable. To guarantee energy supply and realize the sustainability of environment, against the backdrop of energy transformation in China, CNOOC will attach greater importance to the development and utilization of clean energy such as LNG and unconventional natural gas while intensifying the oil & gas exploitation and development, endeavoring to satisfy the multiple, green and environmentfriendly energy demand. In 2013, sticking to the concept of “leaded by regional planning, guided by investment portfolio, and focusing on the exploitation and development of new medium and large oilfields”, through intensifying technical and managerial innovations and implementing the six exploitation strategies, we made historical breakthrough for the self-managed exploitation and discovered a number of medium and large oilfields of economic value. Integration of Exploration and Development Un co s Ex nve ea plo nti ers ion rat ona Ov lorat p ion l Ex Exploration Strategy s rve y De se er h Ex epw Re cov owt s plo at Di Gr d rat er an ion Natural Gas Exploration ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 Guided by the principle of developing both of the old and new oilfields, we strive for enhancing and stabilizing the output of the old oilfields by emphasizing fine management, scaling up efforts to deploy adjustment wells, adopt other conventional measures and implement workover jobs; taking the economic, environmental and social factors into thorough consideration, we accelerate the development of new oilfields and continuously drive the scale development of unconventional natural gas such as coalbed methane. In 2013, we reached an annual output of 66.84 million tons of crude oil and 19.6 billion cubic meters of natural gas, including an output of 39.38 million tons and 10.7 billion cubic meters respectively in coastal waters of China. CASE Revivification of Oil Oilfields under Re-development Bohai Oilfield, encompassing five exploratory areas with rich oil & gas resources, is an old oilfield with a development history of almost 50 years. Through constant innovation on exploration ideas and adhering to cluster and rolling development, the field maintains an exploration commercial success rate of 35%~40%. Enjoying a stable output for 4 consecutive years since a level of 30 million tons yield was reached in 2010, and an accumulative crude oil output of 220 million tons, the field has become the largest oilfield and an important energy base in China’s coastal waters. Dedicating to Bohai Oilfield Development Maintaining 10 Mtoe Record and CASE CASE with Passion Achieving 18-year Stable Production “From college graduation till now, I have been working in Bohai Oilfield, witnessing her development and growing together with her, for here is my second home”, said Zhao Chunming, CNOOC Technical Specialist as well as a State-owned Enterprise Model. Over the past 20 years, Zhao has constantly put forward multiple innovative development models, completed 32 oilfield reserve declarations with accumulative proved reserves of over 500 million tons, presented 16 new oilfield development plans, with a new capacity of 9 million tons, presented 21 oilfield comprehensive adjustment plans, which increased the recovery efficiency by 5% and the recoverable reserves by 89 million tons, making significant contribution to stabilize the output of Bohai Oilfield at the level of 30 million tons. For years the oilfields at eastern South China Sea have been enjoying a highest accumulative output of domestic offshore oil & gas. The annual output has exceeded 10 Mtoe for the past 18 years. The region is characterized by severe climate and experiences 12 or 13 typhoon attacks on average annually. Overcoming such natural conditions and adversity, the fields strengthen frontline management and fine management, and maintain a production attendance over 80% perennially, making outstanding contribution to guarantee the national energy supply. 22 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY DEVELOPING CLEAN ENERGY As the coal-dominated energy consumption structure in China CNOOC actively enters the unconventional natural gas field leads to a series of eco-environment problems, Substituting while vigorously developing the offshore natural gas and coal with natural gas is an unavoidable option for China energy continuously taking the lead in the China LNG market. In 2013, transformation. The proportion of natural gas in China’s primary our domestic natural gas output reached 11.1 billion cubic energy mix will increase to over 10% by 2020. The natural gas meters, including 10.67 billion cubic meters of offshore gas and industry will take on a fast development, and the utilization 0.43 billion cubic meters of coalbed methane; our total LNG of clean energy will become an important guarantee for import amounted to 13.01 million tons, and the accumulative building a beautiful China and promoting the sustainable social LNG import over the past 8 years is as high as 50 million tons; development. the project of coal gas has been approved, and the fundamental research on environmental protection and circular economy has been finished. Natural Gas-fired Power Plant Pipeline Transport Exploration, Development Liquefaction Urban Gas Marine Transport Regasification upon Receiving Gas Station International Trade LNG Tanker Satellite Station CNOOC Natural Gas Industry Chain 1301 (10,000 tons) LNG import volume 2013 1301 2012 1079 2011 1081 2010 934 2009 580 ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 Green IIR refr ige ran t Natural gas Green refrigerant Receiving Refrigerated Electricity LNG IGCC terminals storage LNG Green refrigerant Purified receiving terminals Coal gas Oxygen and Synthetic nitrogen gas Air Coal LNG components gasification Purification Natural gas N Nitrogen itr og Nitrogen O 2 Purified gas C en Frozen Synthetic Synthetic Recycled tyre rubber Liquid CO2 ammonia ammonia powder Nitrogen Regenerated rubber powder Liquid carbon dioxide Nitrogen Note: ① IIR: Isobutylene-isoprene Rubber ② IGCC: Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle Frame Diagram for Comprehensive Use and Circular Economy of LNG Cold Energy 152 (100 million kWh) Natural Gas-Fired Power Generating Capacity 2013 152 2012 153 2011 165 2010 146 2009 86 24 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE CNOOC Won the LNG “Oscar” On November 19, 2013, Luo Weizhong, President of CNOOC won the “Outstanding Contribution Award 2013” which was regarded as the “Oscar” of LNG circle, in the 14th World LNG Summit. The awards committee highly commended the outstanding achievement on LNG whole industry chain that CNOOC Gas &Power Group had made in 2013: “In the upstream and midstream, CNOOC Gas &Power Group and BG Group has signed a package of agreements for the purchase of certain interests in the QCLNG project and 20-year 5 million tons/year LNG resources, leading the developmental trend of the global LNG industry and making CNOOC become the world’s 3rd largest LNG buyer. In the downstream, CNOOC will operate 6 LNG receiving terminals and is going to commission China’s first floating LNG receiving terminal. CNOOC has China’s biggest gas-fired total installed capacity and is the pioneering and leading company in LNG filling business.” Tianjin Floating LNG Project Helps Relieve CASE Power Battery, Green Engine CASE Air Pollution in Jing-Jin-Ji Area Promoting and using new energy vehicles is one of the 10 measures for air pollution control in Beijing. As the “heart” for such vehicles, the power battery becomes a new green engine for launching the building of “a beautiful China”. CNOOC actively promotes the demonstrating operation with the power battery, and has acquired an order for 445 electric bus battery packs from Tianjin and Qingdao. In the Third International Distributed Energy and Energy Storage Technology and Equipment Expo & Summit (2013), “Lishen” brand series products (household energy storage system, industrial energy storage module and ultracapacitor etc.) received closed attention and wide recognition As one of the first key energy security projects for air pollution for its good performance and high quality. control in Beijing that has been approved by the National Energy Administration, CNOOC Tianjin floating LNG project officially started the gas supply on December 10, 2013, benefiting the air pollution control in Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei. It only took 3 and a half years (2010~2013) from the research commencement to gas supply realization, making the fastest gas supply among domestic LNG projects. This project can supply 2.2 million tons (3 billion cubic meters) of LNG annually, 0.4 billion cubic meters more than the annual gas demand of Tianjin City in 2012. We plan to build the largest clean energy supply center across the Bohai sea region, with an annual gas supply reaching 10~12 million tons, making greater contribution to satisfying the gas demand of urban residents, industry and commerce and natural gas distributed energy resource as well as presenting the blue sea and sky. ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 IMPROVING SERVICE NETWORK Expanding the energy supply network, establishing quality Zhejiang LNG Liquid Distribution for product brand and improving marketing and service levels, are CASE Perfecting Pipeline Network important measures for enterprises to enhance their market competitiveness and realize sustainable development, as well as important contents for enterprises to strictly perform the social responsibility. Expanding Energy Supply Network To increase the energy supply, besides operating the existing supply network in coastal areas, we expand the network nodes to Anhui, Hebei and Fujian etc., and intensify the development and construction of such facilities as service station, gas station, oil storage warehouse, LNG receiving terminals and natural gas pipeline network etc. In 2013 we newly built 445 service stations, 144 gas stations, 1.16 million cubic meters of oil storage It’s difficult to build a natural gas pipeline network in Zhejiang tanks and 3,416km gas pipeline; as the largest LNG supplier in where a hilly area is dominated. To rectify the inability of the China, CNOOC has built 5 LNG receiving terminals in the coastal pipeline network, Zhejiang LNG Receiving terminal uses liquid regions which have the highest demands, forming a receiving tankers to distribute LNG to satisfy the natural gas demand of capacity of 24.8 million tons/year. the industry, residents, vehicle fueling that are uncovered by the pipelines. At 17:54 pm, November 5, 2013, after 1.5 hours of loading, a liquid tanker loaded with 19.08 tons of LNG slowly left the Zhejiang LNG Receiving Terminal. This was the 10,000th LNG tanker since the first outgoing tank truck from this terminal on October 28, 2012, making totally 195, 000 tons of outgoing LNG. ▲ Oil filling ▲ Gas filling 25 % 24 % Proportion of newly-built Proportion of newly-built service stations gas stations Dongguan Lisha Oil Storage Tank 26 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY Establishing Quality Product Brands It’s our commitment to deliver exceptional product quality, ensure customer satisfaction and establish quality product brands. Our diesel is popular throughout the country, reaching the standard of Euro V, our high-quality petrol satisfies the Hu (Shanghai) V Standard, and our jet fuel of super-quality occupies a stable supply to the airports in Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Sanya, Changsha, Wuhan and Shantou and the like; especially these quality product brands as “CNOOC 36-1 asphalt”, Lishen Battery, Haijiang environmentfriendly rubber oil and Fudao, Tianye and Sakefu fertilisers, have won wide social reputation for the company. Ethylene oxide Glycol Acrylate Aromatic hydrocarbons Electricity Lubricating base oil Alkenes and their polymers Asphalt Fertilisers Fuel oil Methanol Reﬁned oil Polyformaldehyde Petroleum coke Liqueﬁed petroleum gas Natural Petroleum Gas Oil and Gas Products of CNOOC ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 CASE Presales of High-standard Petrol Improving the Marketing & Service Levels While expanding the supply network, we strive to improve the On September 18, 2013, the first 5,000 tons of #92 Hu V petrol marketing & service levels via terminal design standardization, produced by Huizhou Refinery was successfully delivered, and window service normalization and Winning Stars & Creating from October 15, its #92 and 95 petrol complying with Hu V Excellence activities. Standard started to sell in Shanghai, 45 days right before it was required to fully implement the Hu V Petrol Standard in the city. Before refueling, the worker advices the customer that readings on the fuel dispenser has been refreshed to zero. Haijiang Brand Enjoys Reputation at Winning Stars & Creating Excellence to CASE CASE Home & Abroad Improve Service Quality To optimize the management of service station and improve the service quality, all service stations under CNOOC management carry out the activity of “Winning Stars & Creating Excellence”. All stations further enrich the content of such activity combining their specific reality. In Tianjin, a “Five-good Service Station” (good work done, good site management, good management of HSE, good cost control and good working team development) competition & appraisal is held; in Huizhou, a competition system for promotion and demotion of managers is implemented; and in Tangshan, the customers are asked to offer evaluation on the worker’s service. Through this activity, all the staff “keep up with the stars”, take up new spirit, render services of improved quality, immensely lift the customer satisfaction. Haijiang rubber oil is high aromatic and high cycloalkane environment-friendly rubber oil researched and produced by CNOOC, complying with the environment requirements of EU and USA. Performance of the oil-extended styrene butadiene rubber processed from it has met advanced international standards, filling the gap at domestic market. With an annual output of Haijiang environment-friendly rubber oil of 100,000 tons, we have established stable cooperative relationship with dozens of renowned tire, synthetic rubber manufacturers. On December 10, 2013, the rubber oil was loaded to ship to Japan, seeing the first export of Haijiang brand. 28 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY ENHANCING ENERGY SECURITY Technological Innovation Innovation is a driving force for the enterprise sustainable development, and a powerful mechanism for securing the energy supply and rendering quality products and services. CNOOC offers technical support and security for its sustainable development through focusing on the oil & gas industry, training S&T elites, implementing the S&T driving strategy, increasing R&D input, intensifying S&T innovation and accelerating the commercialization of research findings. We realize the leap at critical fields and the building of statelevel R&D institutes have made historical breakthrough: the State Key Laboratory for Efficient Development of Offshore Oil and the State Engineering Laboratory for Offshore Oil Exploration have passed the national inspection, the State R&D Center for Deepwater Oil&Gas Engineering Technology was conferred with the board to establish, and the establishment of the State-level Engineering Technology Research Center for Lithium-ion Power Battery was approved by the country. Till 2013, the Company has formulated 201 national standards and 244 industrial standards. Technology Name Applicable Field Implementing Effect DWR-3 multiple hot liquid thermal Offshore extra-heavy oil well such as LD5Realize the application and development of recovery equipment, process and technology 2N extra-heavy oil Key technology of floating LNG Shorten the construction period by 2 years, Tianjin floatingLNG receiving unit (FSRU) receiving unit and lessen the land required by 20 hectare Design, manufacturing and installing “Liwan 3-1” deepwater natural gas Break the world record on float-over installation technology for the 30,000-ton large jacket engineering project (over 1,400m deep) method Testing technology and system for Realize a direct economic benefit about RMB Oilfields such as Lufeng 22-1 underwater Christmas tree unit 100 million Yuan, filling the domestic gap Complete manufacturing technology Multiple projects such as Qingdao floating Independent design and use of umbilical for underwater production umbilical cable power generation with tide energy cable, and realize its industrialization Settle the problems of long procurement time, Gravel filling sand control tool LD10-1A oil well high cost and short supply of imported sandcontrol tools The yield, CA value and PCA of environmentIndustrialization of environment-friendly friendly rubber oil is as high as 80~84%, Extract circulation technology rubber oil 13.8% and 2.5% respectively, forming the Haijiang brand and sales far outside China ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 CASE Expansion of Innovative Platforms and Scientific Talents In 2013, Xia Qinglong, the chief geologist of CNOOC Tianjin Feng Yongren, the chief mechanical engineer of COSL Oilfield Company, received the highest honor “Li Siguang Geology Technology Research Institute, became one of the first 12 “Leading Science Award” in the geological industry in China. Directing at Talents in Technological Innovations” throughout the country. the special geographical environment and complicated petroleum With great fondness of machine design for 27 years, he took geology conditions in Bohai Sea, he created the theory of oil & charge of tackling the critical mechanical technology problems in gas differential accumulation in Bohai active fault zone, carried Enhanced Logging Imaging System (ELIS), in which we have the out the integrated innovations for the offshore large-scale threeindependent intellectual property rights. He also completed the dimensional earthquake exploration technology, and put forward research and development of Enhanced Formation Dynamic Tester the idea of synchronous exploration of shallow layer, mid-depth (EFDT) and obtained more than a hundred of patent grants. He layer and buried hill. Under his guidance, 9 fields at a hundredindeed played an important role in making the offshore oil logging million-ton level were successfully discovered, 2.5 billion tons technology keep ahead in China. Knowing that he has been elected of tertiary geological reserves were newly increased, and more as the “Leading Talents in Technological Innovations”, Feng than 1 billion tons of proved reserves were already ascertained, Yongren expressed that his growth from a common technician accounting for 40% of the total proved reserves in Bohai Oilfield, to one of the first offshore oil technical experts and professionall which made a significant contribution to the stable yield of 30 level senior engineers exactly benefits from implementation of the million tons in Bohai Oilfield. Company’s “Technology-driven Strategy” and establishment of scientific innovation platforms. CASE Implementation of Technical Innovations to Win Recognition We carry out technological exchanges in a proactive manner and thus exhibit fruits of company development. The 44th Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) arranged, for the first time, two special performances for CNOOC in respect of “Liuhua FPS Life Extension”, “South China Sea Liwan Deepwater Project”, indicating that CNOOC’s technological innovations and their values of oil and gas development have been highly recognized by the industry. 30 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Demonstration of Utilizing Marine Energies to Accomplish Maritime Power “Demonstration Project of 500kW Independent Ocean Power Generation” is the first national research task undertaken by CNOOC that combines the research and demonstration project, aiming to realize the complementary development of tidal energy, wind power and solar energy. This Project, after its completion, will become one of the largest independent ocean power supply systems for island in China and will enable about 300 households in Zhaitang Island, Jiaonan, Qingdao to use green, environmental-friendly and stable electricity. Offshore tidal power generation unit Onshore tidal power generation unit Seashore wind turbine generator Large natural 884 gas liquefaction The company was awarded technology with the accepted patent LNG offshore Small natural gas filling liquefaction technology technology eiving termin 765 rec a LNG receiving G terminals l LN LNG onshore Floating-type filling Clean natural gas technology tion Deve en liquefaction ac gas and u lop e technology The company was awarded ef ral y L of n iqu tili u rg nt at with the authorised patent e m ation z LNG full Offshore containment tank receiving liquefaction technology 292 technology Large LNG onshore receiving terminals technology The company was awarded with the authorised patent of invention CNOOC Gas & Power Group Masters Eight Core Technologies in LNG Field ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 Engineering Technical Service Unceasing improvement of engineering technical service ability is an important guarantee for realizing the continuous and stable energy supply. The oilfield technical service, offshore oil engineering and integrated service teams of CNOOC respond actively to the high-input, high-tech and high-risk challenges in offshore oil & gas development. These teams will rely on the domestic and foreign markets and strive to provide a highefficient and first-rate whole course service of offshore oil exploration and development. Spare no efforts to record remarkable achievements CASE Complete Echelon Formation of COSL Deepwater Drilling Capability Nanhai No. 2 and No. 7 working in 300m water depth Nanhai No. 5 and No. 6 working in 500m water depth Nanhai No. 8 working in 800m water depth Nanhai No. 9 working in 1400m water depth In order to meet the demand of drilling equipment for deepwater exploration and development, COSL increased efforts in purchasing the drilling equipment worldwide. As Nanhai No. 8, Nanhai No. 7 and Nanhai No. 9 were purchased (leased), upgraded and finally put into operation one after another, a complete echelon formation of COSL deepwater drilling capability was made. 3000m Haiyang Shiyou 981 32 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Integration of Injection-production in the Same Well to Improve Oilfield Recovery Rate In order to improve the offshore oilfield recovery efficiency and overcome the problems such as insufficient water injection source and reinjection of associated gas, the Company has developed the process technology of integration of injection-production in the same well, 13 sorts of supporting downhole tools and many other associated technologies that have been successfully applied in 15 wells. The success rates both in operation and process thus reached 100% and the recovery of oil accumulated to 159,200 tons. From Lvda 10-1 A3 Well only, 68,700 tons of crude oil was yielded and 78,900 tons of exhaust emission was reduced. This technology which has been granted 3 national patents, greatly improves oil well availability and total benefit of oilfield development. CASE Independent R&D of EMRT Logger with More Clearly Reservoir Perspective The EMRT nuclear magnetic resonance logger that is researched special lithology, low porosity and permeability, low resistivity and and developed independently by COSL can provide effective saturation, as well as having natural gas and heavy oil. In 2013, information for formation evaluation at the exploration stage the successful application of this technology in Wenchang Oilfield and provide quantitative data about the recovery efficiency of and Iraq Missan Oilfield resulted in excellent-quality data, marking remaining oil in a oil layer and assessment of stimulation at the that the company has already possessed the most advanced logging development stage. The logger presents a noticeable effect when technology around the world. it is applied in such storage stratums as having complicated and ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 CASE Adjustment Project Wins National Prime-quality Project Gold Award On December 27, Adjustment Project of Suizhong 36-1 Oilfield competitors and won the Gold Award. This 24-month Project Phase I / Lvda 5-2 Oilfield Development received the 2012-2013 undertaken by COSL is a demonstration project for the “Highly National Prime-quality Project Gold Award. Efficient Development of Offshore Heavy Oil” in the national The National Prime-quality Project Gold Award is the highest scientific special key research task of “Large Oil & Gas Field and honorable prize in the field of construction quality. There were Coalbed Methane”. When it was put into production in 2010, an nearly 3,000 large excellent projects nationwide contending for 11 increased production of 1.33 million tons of crude oil was achieved gold awards in that year. By virtue of its exclusive technological that very year, amounting to an output value of 19.2 billion yuan by innovations, perfect project management and sound economic the end of June, 2013. CNOOC (China) Co., Ltd. served as the project and social benefits, Adjustment Project of Suizhong 36-1 Oilfield contract-awarding party, COOEC Co., Ltd. as the main contractor, Phase I / Lvda 5-2 Oilfeild Development came to the fore among and CNOOC Research Institute as the survey and design party. CASE Breakthrough in Extended Reach Deep Well Technology On December 16, CNOOC made a significant breakthrough in self-clean perforation technology of extended reach deep well that the penetration capability of perforating bullets was increased over 30% than that of same kind of bullets existing at home, indexes like bore diameter and seepage area of trajectory were obviously improved, and the overall performance caught up with the leading level at home and advanced level abroad. 34 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY SPECIAL TOPIC: Skilful Utilization of Strength Barge Refitting for Float-over Installation of Deepwater Platform “Liwan 3-1” Deepwater Project confronted a very difficulty for How to install in place this “Offshore Big Mac” completely in installation by its huge scale. It was formed by a jacket with one time? Among the challenges that were to be resolved a weight of 32,000 tons, 8 legs and 16 skirt piles, a central by CNOOC engineering technicians based on the “Float-over platform with a weight of 32,000 tons, and a welded pipeline Installation Method”, the most critical challenge was lack of a with a diameter of 30 inches and a length of 260 km. The total barge meeting the requirements. Because the gap between quantity of steel used for the Project reached approximately two legs of “Liwan 3-1” jacket was only 46.5m, a barge would 100 thousand tons. As this huge platform was required to stand not be able to enter into the jacket to complete the floatfirmly in the South China Sea under bad ocean conditions for at over installation if its width is larger than that, and also would least 50 years, it would be a great challenge to the offshore oil not be able to carry more than 30 thousand tons of platform engineering capability. components if its width is smaller. Considering this, they refitted the barge “Hai Yang Shi You 229” with 215m in length and The central platform was 110 meters in length and 77 meters 50m in width that reduced the front part to 42m wide while in width, larger than a football field. Its top was 95 meters in expanded the rear part to 65m wide. As a result, depending height, equivalent to a 30-floor building. Its weight is 32,000 on the enormous power generated by tide, the barge could tons, equivalent to a weight of 5 Eiffel Towers. If traditional smoothly insert into the jacket gap to carry out float-over work offshore lifting installation modes were adopted, it was not only and its carrying capability could be ensured, too. The successful a need to divide the platform into a number of components implementation of “Liwan 3-1” Project renewed the latest record for one-to-one lifting and jointing though by means of the on the float-over installation in the world, marking that our largest floating crane in the world, but also a must to observe offshore oil engineering technology has made a significant the climate changes and catch the favorable ocean conditions breakthrough. at all times. Given this, the project would suffer from a long construction period and high risks and cost. (1) Installing jacket (2) Platform sea trial (3) Dragging in the jacket gap when tide is in (4) Butt jointing between platform and jacket when tide is out (5) Triumphant return after installation Visit the video link for installation of Liwan 3-1: HTTP://WWW.CNOOC.COM.CN ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 Safe Operation Safety management is the root for sustainable development Checking and Rectifying Potential Safety Hazards of an offshore oil enterprise. We strive to improve the safe CNOOC pays great attention to the safety management and production guarantee system, actively create a safe culture adhere to eliminate, investigate and prevent potential risks in atmosphere coring at “Five Thoughts and Five Don’ts”, and advance. We track to supervise each risk point 24 hours a day focus on checking and rectifying hidden dangers, emergency through the management of equipment integrity and with the management, operation management of equipment and “eliminating and investigating system of major hazard sources facilities, as well as safe transportation, so as to build an and hidden danger”. In 2013, totally 40,554 items of hidden intrinsically safe enterprise. danger have been reported among which 40,243 have been Safety risks often hide in every detail of production and rectified, with the finishing rate of rectification reaching 99.2%. operation. We do our best to ascertain and control the details and regulate every work action, so that the safety awareness can be deeply rooted among the workers. Standardization through Standard Work CASE Action Library We actively put the “Five To-dos and No-nos” safety culture into practice, establish a standard work action library and train every worker, by which damages and accidents arising from irregular work can be effectively reduced and on-site safety management level can be effectively improved. The staff of Zhongjie Petrochemical was examining the meter. 1. When lifting and installing, use the safety ropes to adjust the angle of lifted objects and do not directly push the objects by hand. 误 确 正 错 √ Figure 1-1 Figure 1-2 2. When lifting and transporting, persons standing on the lifted objects are not allowed to prevent them from falls and injuries. 误 确 正 错 √ Figure 2-1 Figure 2-2 3. When lifting, such actions like slanting, pulling and dragging are not permitted. 99.2 % Finishing Rate of 误 确 Rectification 正 错 √ Figure 3-1 Figure 3-2 36 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY Emergency Management As safety emergency response is critical to the life and property rectification in a timely manner. We seriously draw the lesson from safety of the public and individuals, it’s a test to our emergency the “Penglai 19-3” oil spilling incident and draw up a complete set handling capability. We put forth effort to build up emergency of plan for oil spilling prevention and emergency response plan response network, co-establish emergency linkage mechanism for offshore operation contingencies, and set up a well-trained with government departments, industrial partners, neighboring emergency response team which will be 24 hours a day on fire-fighting resources, ensure the timely and accurate disclosure standby. of information and fast and effective disposal by devolution of In 2013, we carried forward the establishment of emergency emergency management, improve the direction and disposal command communication system for offshore mobile vessels at capability of emergency management with emergency the East China Sea, the east and the west of the South China Sea, so disposal manual and information means. Thus the emergency as to solve the problem of information asymmetry in emergency, management of CNOOC could become regular and systematic. reinforce the corresponding on-site technical instruction and We should learn a lesson from the industrial frequent incidents support and improve CNOOC’s comprehensive capability on and find out our own hidden danger accordingly and make emergency management, direction and coordination. CASE Carrying Out Air-sea-land Emergency Drill against Offshore Oil Spilling Administration dispatched coastguard official ship to track and monitor the oil spilling incident and carry out law enforcement investigation. In recent years, CNOOC constantly details prevention measures for oil spilling risk, enhances the emergency response capability against oil spilling, preliminary builds up domestic offshore oil spilling emergency prevention and control system. Oil spill emergency response service network of the seven emergency bases covers all the offshore operation areas and five environmental protection vessels tour On October 31, 2013, the emergency joint diffusing and drifting with stormy waves. to inspect or watch over in the sea areas, drill against oil spilling in the east waters We promptly adopted the emergency forming “2-6 hours response circle” which of the South China Sea was carried out in plan, including: gathering various types enables us to monitor offshore oil spilling Shenzhen. This drill, as CNOOC’s first of environmental protection vessels, in real time and carry out emergency successful offshore oil spilling emergency anchor-handling-towing supply vessels disposal in a timely manner. disposal through air-sea-land cooperation, and recovery vessels to the incident area; included offshore recovery, air oil-elimination placing large oil fences, oil skimmers, and shore clearance operations, etc. oil absorbent booms felt; arranging “Hai Yang Shi You 256” to tour and “recover” In the drill, an incident was simulated oil spill with built-in oil spill recovery that an offshore engineering vessel had machine side-mounted in its vessels; after “crashed” into a standpipe of platform A mechanical recovery, sending helicopter during operation which caused pipeline to spray “oil dispersant” from the air fracturing, about 8 tons of crude oil with oil dispersant sprinkling device. “spilling” into the sea and promptly South China Sea Branch of State Oceanic ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 CASE Thanks to Emergency Disposal on Vehicle Self-ignition, the Facilities in Service Station Keep Safe At 18:40, May 20, 2013, Wu Wei, a worker of Shanghai Guangde Service Station was making his final rounds before shift exchange, and he suddenly found the engine of a vehicle about 10m away from the service station was self-igniting, then he promptly reported it to Liu Yanfang, the shift foreman. After confirmation, they immediately adopted the emergency plan: sounded the emergency alarm, shut down the switch in the station, and evacuated the vehicles in the station and pull up a cordon. The well-trained workers controlled the fire very soon with fire extinguishers in order to avoid vehicle deflagration. At 18:55, when the 110 patrol wagon and fire fighting truck arrived, the open fire had been put out and vehicles around and facilities in the station were in safe. The police, firefighter and the owner of the vehicle spoke highly of the quick response of the station. 50 (thousand person-time) 100 % “Five Credentials” Safety training qualified rate 99 (cases) Recordable production injury accidents 2013 99 2012 117 Safety emergency drill 2011 125 2 (persons) Death toll of employees 2013 2 2012 0 2011 3 5 (persons) Death toll for direct contractors 2013 5 2012 2 2011 4 Safety warning message 38 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY Safe Transportation CNOOC pays great attention to minimizing the influence that the operation has on ecological environment and resident safety, thus our factories and operation fields are located far away from the downtown and crowd. In order to deliver our products to customers, the long distance transportation is necessary. As a responsible enterprise, CNOOC fully assumes the entity responsibility of safe operation, focuses on the management of risk source of transportation and life-circle management of pipeline facilities, enhances onsite maintenance and application of new management technology so as to transform the transportation safety management from preventive maintenance to predictive maintenance, and then strives to build essential safety. Whole-process monitoring on vehicle transportation Pipeline maintenance Applying Comprehensive Measures to Escort the CASE Long Gas Pipeline and Its Guardian CASE Transportation of Special and Limited Articles Guangdong natural gas line of CNOOC is just like a huge CNOOC has a heavy-cargo transportation team ranked among “Necklace”, connecting Guangzhou, Qingyuan, Foshan, the top three over the country, which is specialized in transporting Zhaoqing, Huizhou and Dongguan etc. and the more than 50 extra big, long, high, heavy, wide and irregular facilities. We patrolmen of Guangdong pipeline network working actively along formulate strict safety control scheme at the design phase, hold prethis “Pearl Necklace” are just the “Guardian”. They tramp over transportation safety meeting before departure, carry out thorough hill and dale, tide over pond and pool, drive snake and mosquito, road reconnaissance and troubleshooting and accurately arrange clear out barrier and risk and resist to the burning sun and raging risk tips during transportation. Through vigorous safety operation storm just to take care of the nearly 500km long gas pipeline day licensing and whole-course tracking by professionals, we effectively and night. ensure the safe transportation and delivery of heavy cargo. ENERGY SUPPLY · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 Management of Suppliers and Contractors CNOOC takes a deliberate attitude and strict standard to select the cooperative partners, paying attention on their product quality, service level, commercial morality and enterprise reputation, and even more on their concept and performance of social responsibilities. The management on suppliers and contractors mainly falls on the beforehand responsibility definition and power division, as well as the meticulous supervision on process. Through the binding force of contracts, directional training of businesses, process supervision and other ways, the management level of cooperative partners can be improved. In 2013, we released the Guideline for Civilized and Safe Behaviors of CNOOC Contractors. The Guideline intends to list the civilized and safe behaviors as necessary content for safety training of contractors, with standardized documents and manuals, contract annexes and training materials. We make use of “Contractors Safety Management System” to standardize and manage their behaviors at different stages such as selection, training, supervision and assessment, so as to protect the personnel safety and work quality during production. Company/Contractor Combined Action Contractor Company Operation Description and Risk Identification Plan Contract Strategy Cntractor Replies the Question Sheet and Select Contractor Short-list and Preliminary Review Provides HSE Data. Establish Bidding Evaluation Index Contractor Database Evaluation of Bid Contractor Prepares Bidding Documents and HSE Plan. Bid Clarification Meeting Selection Award of Bid Jointly Complete HSE and Implement Plan Before Preparation Examination and Verification before Mobilization Mobilization Start Face-to-face Contract Examination and Verification before Mobilization Mobilization Implementation Monitoring, Inspection, Examination Implementation, Supervision, Report and Verification Implementation Examine and Verify Demobilization HSE Plan Demobilization Demobilization Check and Accept, Recover Site Examine and Verify Demobilization HSE Plan Close Report Final Evaluation and Report Logic Flow Chart for Contractor Management 40 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 42 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY COMBATING CLIMATE CHANGE How to combat climate change is the subject that humans have to face jointly. In 2013, we continued to implement the CNOOC Action Plan for Combating Climate Change and have fully fulfilled our commitment to reshape the industry structure, develop low carbon energy sources, underline international collaboration, meet the requirements of laws and regulations, optimize the allocation of resources, implement energy conservation and emission reduction measures, regulate measurement and statistical standards, advocate carbon trading, and to step up efforts on awareness training to improve understanding. In doing so, we attached importance to tracking and studying relevant technologies and policies with the aim of actively exploring the sustainable development way for the future energy source. Developing Clean Energy Through research, we have found that 1/3 of carbon dioxide emissions of the energy system comes from generating. Therefore, it is a key step to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of the power generation industry. And the greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced to half by replacing coal with natural gas to generate power. In 2013, CNOOC’s natural gas power plants have generated 15.2 billion kWh of clean electricity, which has significantly lowered the carbon dioxide emissions in the process of power generation. CNOOC Gas & Power Group’s gas power plant in Putian, Fujian Research in Low Carbon Technologies CNOOC has concentrated on the fundamental research of the CO2 catching Separations ocean developments and applications all along. In 2013, we between CH4 and CO2 placed emphasis on a series of projects on the marine energy exploitation and utilization so as to realize the development target that enables tidal current energy, offshore wind power (CO2-ECMB) and solar energy or any other renewable energy sources to be complementary mutually, which is bound to push forward the Company’s sustainable development effectively. CCUS is a newly-rising technology with a large scale of reduction potential for carbon dioxides emissions. Since CCS for Deep (CO2-EOR) Saline Aquifer the energy mix of China is coal-dominated and the carbon emissions have been at high levels for a long time, CCUS is an essential technological way to reduce the greenhouse gas in the CCUS Diagram medium to longer term. Developing CCUS will be an important opportunity to improve our country’s competitiveness of low There lie abundantly renewable marine resources in China’s carbon technologies. coastal areas. The prospective research which focuses on developing our country’s renewable marine resources will CNOOC has finished the tracking and investigation on CCUS. On be of great importance to build China into a maritime power account of our country’s geological conditions, we proposed and to protect the ecological environment. Ocean Energy a low-cost and strong-adaptability technology in carbons development can not only provide an effective way to tackle capturing and isolating as well as geological storage and form the energy problems for the oceanic islands, but also greatly a research routine for the whole process of CCUS technology, reduce the environmental pressures. which lays foundation to apply CCUS technology in a large scale. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 Project Name Project Progress The Demonstration Project of 500kW Independent Ocean Power Generation On the Progress The First Floating-Carrier Type of Horizontal Axis Tidal Power Generation Set of 100kW in China Generation Successful The First Seating-Seabed Type of Horizontal Axis Tidal Power Generation Set of 50kW Level in China Generation Successful The First Demonstration Plant of Tidal Power in Megawatt-scale Level in China “The Demonstration Project Approval Project of Tidal Power in Zhoushan” Development of Carbon Trading Impacted by the global economic environment, the international carbon trading represented as CDM enters a downturn period, whereas China is constructing the carbon trading market in full swing. 2013 became the first year of the carbon trading era of China. As one of Chinese companies to actively participate in the international carbon trading, CNOOC has successfully developed 9 CDM projects, 4 of which have obtained certification with a total emission reduction equivalent to 3,880,000 tons of carbon dioxides. Such a developed CDM methodology for conducting air separation by utilizing LNG cold energy has become the first CDM methodology among the international cold energy to be successfully registered in the UN. CNOOC is consistently concerned about the carbon trading market construction of China and committed to the research and development of carbon assets such as CCER project development, CCER methodology and etc. Our business in China reaches as far as 7 carbon emission trading pilot provinces and cities for the first batch, and we must paid-up the carbon quotas issued by the nation every year. CASE Equity Participating in China Beijing Environment Exchange As one of the contributors, CNOOC is China Beijing Environment maximize the advantage of market stage and strive to become the Exchange’s second largest shareholder. On the day of November central market of carbon trading of China and the pricing center of 28, 2013, the first transaction of business on the trading of carbon international carbon trading. emission right in Beijing was warmly started in China Beijing Environment Exchange. It was successfully realized a smooth start in the first-day exchange with 40,800 tons of total trading volume and RMB 2,041,000 Yuan on the volume of transaction, in which successfully made 2 pieces of assignment through agreements with 40,000 tons of trading volume and RMB 50 Yuan/ton on the average price and reached 3 pieces of public trades on-line transaction with 800 tons of trading volume and RMB 51.25 Yuan/ ton on the average price. After 5-year explorations and innovations, China Beijing Environment Exchange forms 4 main lines on business as carbon trading, emissions trading, energy efficiency credits exchange and service in low carbon transformation. It will continue to 44 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY ENERGY CONSERVATION AND EMISSION REDUCTION Energy saving is the most straightforward way to reduce emissions at present stage, whereas emission reduction is the most effective way to protect the ecological environment. CNOOC has realized the low carbon management in the whole process of productions, circulations and consumptions and exert itself to become a “resource conserving and environment-friendly” corporation. In the process of making the choices of supplier and contractor, we have been attaching great importance to review their action performance in terms of the energy conservation and emission reduction, and actively guiding them to the green and low-carbon development road. In 2013, we implemented 131 projects on energy saving and emission reduction, with RMB 277 million Yuan investment in the whole year. The energy consumption per RMB 10,000 turnover is 0.2916 tons of standard coal, a drop of 5.1% compared to the previous year, and we managed to save energy equivalent to 299,000 tons of standard coal in which 30 affiliated units all reached the annual energy saving target. The management ways involve environment protections of construction projects, merger projects and producing process with the implementing rules about the evaluation of project construction, check and completion acceptance of Environmental Protection Facilities, qualification management for environment protection personnel at working site and the regulations on the statistics and management of greenhouse gas emissions etc. In addiction, we involved in 2 state mandatory criteria such as the Product Energy Limitations for Petroleum Refining Units, and compiled 5 standards of energy saving corporations such as the Inspection and Evaluation Methods of Energy Saving for Offshore Oil Ships, revised Encouragement & Punishment on Energy Saving Assessment and listed all of the 70 energy saving requirements into the assessment of the affiliated unites. With an emphasis on the environment protection management on full life cycle of the construction projects, CNOOC set specific managing systems and control measures for each links involving from project’s pre-phase, construction phase, to operation phase till to abandonment. Based on our information system platform for the environmental management, we implement an all-around management on “Three Wastes” emission terminals of the affiliated units at different levels, and take the filling, counting, supervising and alarming of the pollutant emission data into the information management. In this way, we realize a flattening and delicacy management for the environment protection. 2.094 (tons) 6.436 (million tons) New water consumption per Water resource saving RMB 10,000 turnover volume 1936 (tons) 16060 (tons) Chemical oxygen demand Sulfur dioxide emission 0.2916 (tons of standard coal) Comprehensive energy consumption per RMB 10,000 turnover 2013 0.2916 2012 0.3074 2011 0.3226 2010 0.3105 2009 0.3559 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 Demonstration Unit of GeoAdvanced Technology of Advanced Technology of thermal Development and 2012 Annual Leading Mineral Resources ConservaMineral Resources ConserUtilization for Ministry of Energy Efficiency Benchtion and Comprehensive Utivation and Comprehensive Land and Resources marking Enterprises lization for Ministry of Land Utilization for Ministry of and Resources Land and Resources Plug Removal Technology by Chemical and Mechanical Joint Bohai Oil Hydropower China Offshore RichisAutogenetic Heat in Heavy Technology of Water Plug in Service Co., Ltd. land Co., Ltd. Oil Plugging Layer Low-water Reservoir West Bohai Oil Fields South China Sea Oilfields CASE Delicacy Energy Conservation Management in Western South China Sea Oilfields In 2013, Western South China Sea Oilfields carried out the delicacy management, promulgated Energy-saving and higher Efficiency Management System and Energy Management System, formulated detailed work plan and work standards. Through carrying out efficiency benchmarking among the same industry domestically and overseas, the management system has been sustainably improved and intelligent management of energy utilization has been realized in oilfields such as Wenchang and Ledong etc. by making use of “energy management and control system”. Energy-saving targets are divided into three levels; energy-saving office, operation companies and teams or groups shall sign “Liability Statement of Energy-saving Target” in different levels respectively. Distinctive energy saving publicity, implementation and training activities have been carried out, creating a good energy-saving environment. 46 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Recycle of Associated Gas, Benefiting 8 Million Families Natural gas is a kind of clean energy, so recycle the associated natural gas to be released or burned can not only save the precious energy, but also reduce carbon emissions. Bohai Oilfield made full use of the conditions that the distribution of oilfields are relatively concentrated in Bohai Sea and the seawater is relatively shallow, etc., energetically carried out recovery and utilization of the associated natural gas, implemented projects including Bohai Southwest Network Gas Supply Project, Penglai and Caofeidian Natural Gas Transmission Project, the gas flaring has been dramatically reduced. In 2013, the utilization rate of the associated natural gas reached 80.45%, and the amount of recycled associated natural gas was 780 million cubic meters equivalent to annual consumption amount of 8 million families. Obvious Effect of Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction through Waste Heat Recovery CASE Project In November 2012, Turbine Waste Heat Recovery Project in Jinzhou 9-3 Oilfield in which we invested about RMB 20 million Yuan put into the operation. The newly invested recovery devices of turbine waste heat and the original heating furnace of heating medium oil are mutually backup or supplementary, which can also reduce or even replace natural gas consumption of the heating medium furnace. With approval by a third party, the project made natural gas consumption per unit product reduce by 15.07%. In 2013, we managed to save energy equivalent to 7,435 tons of standard coal, and reduce CO2 emission equivalent to 12,630 tons. There is little associated gas in Panyu Oilfield Field. In order to improve the energy utilization efficiency and save energy, in May 2013, we installed 2 sets of heat furnaces on the exhaust pipe of FPSO main motor, which successfully replaced crude oil by the waste heat in flue gas to heat the medium oil. Up to the end of 2013, we managed to save crude oil over 1,000 tons, and reduce CO2 emissions 3,366 tons. Recovery devices of turbine waste heat in Jinzhou 9-3 Oilfield Flue gas utilization devices of FPSO in Panyu Oilfield 1815 (tons) Offshore petroleum hydrocarbon emission in 2011-2013 2013 1815 2012 1785 2011 1701 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 Optimization of Water Network, Dramatic Multi-level Utilization of LNG Cold Energy CASE CASE Reduction of Water Consumption for Reclaimed Rubber Zhongjie Petrochemical has overall planned the optimal arrangement of water network. Once entering the network, water will be applied with repeated use, clean-up shunt, dispersion regeneration, and wastewater reuse. For two years, through the implementation of a series of water saving projects such as condensation water recycle by oil and iron removal, low temperature water recycle, gas separation plant heat medium water, reclaimed water recycle, and condensation water recovery and desalination, etc. the water consumption per ton of oil in Zhongjie Petrochemical reduced from 2.23 to 0.88, dropping by 60% and annually saving water equivalent Fujian LNG cold energy low-temperature rubber crushing project to 3.3 million tons. The trial production of Fujian LNG Cold Energy Low-temperature Rubber Crushing Project has been successful. Cryogenic fine rubber powder device is the national first equipment that makes indirect use of LNG cold energy to process waste and old tyre through multi-level use of liquefied nitrogen cold energy, combined with the process of mechanical crushing in the ambient temperature and cryogenic fine crushing with low-temperature liquefied nitrogen. Compared with the process of common rubber powder production around the country, it possesses the advantages of low energy consumption, high product performance, and high utilization, etc. It annually managed to save electricity equivalent to 3 million kWh, indirectly reduce CO2 emission equivalent to 18,000 tons, effectively decreasing the black pollution of rubber, increasing the reclamation and recycle rate of rubber, and meeting the targets of “energy conservation, emission reduction, and low carbon environmental protection”. CASE Integrated Wastewater Treatment Project CNOOC has many construction projects in Huizhou area; the total amount of pollutant emission is relatively large, and the environmental risk is high, attracting a lot of attention from the society. Therefore, we implemented Integrated Wastewater Treatment Project in Huizhou, promoting centralized recovery, centralized treatment, centralized up-to-standard emission, and overall use of wastewater together with different departments and units. We even applied the patent technology and equipment imported from TSKE in the trail unit of wastewater treatment devices in Huizhou Petrochemical 5th Factory. Wastewater and discharge of storage tank gas generated in acrylate device is disposed through method of high temperature burning, and the index of pollutant emission is completely in conformity with the requirements of national and local standards. 48 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY ECOLOGICAL DIVERSITY PROTECTION CNOOC has always attached importance to protecting the ecological diversity of our operating sites and their surroundings. Protecting the environment is our unwavering commitment during all phases of a project life cycle. To this end, we begin environmental impact assessment (EIA) early. We always make it a point to pre-assess environmental risks during the pre-feasibility and feasibility study stages so that we can identify in advance the environmentally sensitive targets in the vicinity of the project, as well as avoid environmental risks and make the necessary arrangements in good time. CASE Egrets Flying Free in Diefu Mountain Diefu Mountain is located in the west of Dapeng Peninsula would be destroyed at the beginning of Shenzhen LNG Terminal site Geopark, surrounded by green trees. Annually, three to four selection. However, at present, they have completely set their mind hundred beautiful egrets will fly here for seeking food, nesting, and at rest, witnessing the intensive care for environment by us. Tie breeding the next generation. Jin, one of the villagers, said, “Egrets are auspicious elves coming Shenzhen LNG Receiving Terminal is just situated in the embrace to nowhere except auspicious places. Shenzhen LNG engineering of Diefu Mountain, ringed on three sides by mountains, and facing construction doesn’t destroy the local ecology, and Diefu Mountain to the sea on the other side, which enjoys the reputation of “a good is the same as before, still serving as the heaven of egrets.” geomantic omen”. We hold the principle of “Modern industrial Wu Tuhua, an employee of CNOOC who has stayed in the site civilization must be in harmony with natural environment” since for 5 years, also said, “We are now in harmony with egrets, the planning of the project. and engineering construction develops perfectly with natural Local villagers were worried that the ecological environment here environment, realizing our ‘ecological civilization dream’.” Shenzhen LNG Receiving Terminal belongs to super large clean energy project. Invested about RMB 8 billion Yuan, and commenced on August 31, 2012, it will construct 4 super large storage tanks and 1 jetty for LNG carriers, and plans to be put into operation in 2015. It is of great importance for the nation to promote lowcarbon city pilot in Shenzhen. Construction and Protecting the Beauty of Successful Start of Shenzhen Ecology at the same time LNG Project Construction Hundreds of egrets will gather in three or four around the forest beside the construction site of the receiving terminal, resting, seeking food, having fun, or flying up and down, demonstrating a poetical picture. Plan 2008 2009 2012 2013 Operation Actively Decreasing Its Construction Area by 3 Careful Duplication of Ecological Environment, hectares, Only for the Purpose of Free Flying of Remaining Flourish of the Ancient Trees after Egrets Transplant In order to protect the ecological environment, In order to copy the ecological environment of the we actively decreased our 30-hectare planning site, we transplanted 27 ancient trees, applied nutrient area of receiving terminal by 3 hectares, so as solution to the trees for up to 3 months, and employed to keep one more habitat area for egrets. special staff for care, so as to ensure 100% survival. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 Through the platform of CNOOC Marine Environmental and Ecological Protection Public Welfare Foundation, we have actively committed ourselves to the ecological diversity research and protection project, promoting resource restoration and environment improvement in the area where the project is located, making our effort to create better ecological conditions for building a beautiful China. Ecological Protection Projects 1 Enhancement and Release Activities 2 Larga Seal Preservation and Research Project 3 Yellow River Delta Mudflat Wetland Resources Development and Protection Research Project Grateful Dongjiang River Environmental Protection 4 Project Dongjiang River Source Area, Regional Water Conservation Forest and Ecological Forest Project 5 Beautiful Fishing Village Construction Project Enhancement and release activities for biological resources Thanks to Enhancement and Release Activities, Tens of Thousands of Fishes and Shrimps CASE Returning to the Sea On June 26, 2013, CNOOC and Administration of Ocean and Fisheries of Guangdong Province, and Huizhou Municipal Government carried out enhancement and release activities for biological resources at Huizhou Jetty of CNOOC, together with Agriculture, Fisheries and Conservation Department of Hong Kong, Official Provisional Municipal Council of Macau. The theme of the activity is “Creating Beautiful Harbor, and Constructing Ecological Civilization”. Getting together with compatriots of Hong Kong and Macau, we released through skateboard seedlings of fishes, shrimps and sea turtles into the sea, which were equivalent to 1.6 million fish seedlings, 6 million shrimp seedlings, and 188 sea turtles adapted to sea environment of China South Sea. 50 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY 筑梦 碧海蓝天 DREAM REALIZING IN BLUE SEA AND SKY Abandonment of Environmental Pre-assessment of Impact Assessment (EIA) Environmental Risks Abandonment Prefeasibility Post Evaluation of Environmental Impacts Environmental Impact Production Assessment Feasibility Full Life Cycle Study IODP Environment Protection Calibration of Environmental Completion Acceptance Management Facilities, Inspection of Design Preparation of Environmental Facilities Environmental Regulations Disposal Effect Trail to Ensure Environmental Production Construction Protection Measures “Triple Simultaneous” Management of Environmental Monitoring, Environmental Protection Facilities Environmental Supervision ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 Quality Energy Ensures Basic Necessities of Life, Clean Air Benefits Everybody Distributed Energy Accommodation Power Batteries Travel Quality Oil Product Food LNG Refueling Clean Gas 52 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT 54 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY Employees are the most valuable resource and asset of the Company. With the concept of “People Orientation”, CNOOC seriously fulfills its responsibility to the employees, respects their legal rights and interests, improves work environment for them, concerns itself with their physical and psychological health and expands their career development space to achieve the common development of the Company and the employees, so that the employees from all over the world can write a harmonious chapter of CNOOC in different languages. CAREER DEVELOPMENT Guarantee of Rights and Interests CNOOC strictly abides by international and national laws and regulations, respects for human rights and proactively advocates our partners, suppliers and contractors to make common efforts to observe relevant regulations. We strictly implement the laws and regulations and policies on labor and employment of the country where the businesses are located and treat the employees equally. In the principle of fairness, impartiality and transparency and on the basis of qualities required for job, we recruit and use employees without any discriminatory provisions or behaviors to strive to establish a harmonious and stable labor relation. We recruited 4,225 graduates throughout the year and totally 9,000 graduates over the last 3 years. By the end of 2013, the total number of the employees was 108,646, in which female employees accounted for 25%, with 100% of signing rate of labor contracts, 100% of coverage rate of social insurances and 3% of staff turnover rate. 100 % Signing rate of labor contracts Coverage rate of social insurances Small Nursery Room Holding Strong CASE Human Kindness We have provided a private room 14.7% of 9 m2 in the office building for 3% lactating women to ensure their babies can drink fresh breast milk every day. “Many of my friends expressed their envy Proportion Staff turnover of female rate when they saw the pictures of managers the nursery room I uploaded to the WeChart group, which makes me feel CNOOC’s care Proportion of female Staff turnover rate in 2013 for female employees.” said Wu managers at department level or above in 2013 Zhengwan, an employee who gave birth to a child recently. EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 Living Guarantee We have instituted a mechanism to increase the employees’ remuneration, when the Company 12 builds upon its achievements in development, and directed the increases mainly to those work in the forefront of production, with low income or at the basic level. The Company also provides the employees with physical examination services, paid leaves, support for difficulties, aid for major diseases and other welfare so as to resolve their problems. (RMB million Yuan) In 2013, the standard subsidies for the front line employees working at different sea areas Investment in support for difficulties increased significantly, bringing benefits to 37,000 employees. We increased the incomes of 3,817 low income employees such as oil and gas suppliers. The Company invested RMB 12 million Yuan for the support and condolence for 4,000 employees in need. On the Spring Festival in 2013, CNOOC’s Chairman Wang Yilin The condolence money totaled over RMB 1 million Yuan was sent to went to the homes of the employees in need to express his regards. the employees’ families who suffered from Ya’an earthquake in Sichuan. Dedicated Phone Line Becomes the Bridge Special Bikes for the Convenience of CASE CASE Connecting the Sea with the Land Employees In order to help the new employees on the Platform Nanhai No.2 In 2013, CNOOC Gas & Power Group, Fujian LNG Co., Ltd. adapt themselves to the work environment as soon as possible, We purchased a number of bicycles and distributed them to the groups provide the new employees with a dedicated phone line in the radio and teams to reduce the labor intensity and improve the work room from 6:00 pm to 6:30 pm every day so that they can talk with efficiency. their families and friends on land. 56 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY Occupational Health CNOOC always gives priority to the life established the grading principles for occupational disease hazards, in which safety and physical and psychological common occupational disease hazard occupational health examination rate health of the employees. We strengthen factors and the hazard grading list, is 99.95%. 1 new case of occupational occupational health management and which develops into a grading principle disease was found in the year, belonging psychological health maintenance, actively for chemical factors and noise as well to the occupational noise-induced improve the operation environment, focus as a grading list for 47 kinds of major hearing loss by long-term exposure to on the identification, analysis and control chemical occupational hazard factors. the marine engine room. We have helped of occupational disease hazard factors By virtue of the existing Occupational the patient in job transfer to an onshore in workplaces, conduct and popularize Health Management System, we have post in accordance with the Law on occupational health promotion activities, so realized the grading of priority on control Prevention and Control of Occupational as to ensure the physical and psychological of hazard factors. Disease, and carried out the general health of the employees. investigation and relevant rectification on We constantly endeavor to improve the the noise from this marine engine room. Our management is strictly carried out management on occupational health in compliance with the requirements in workplaces and specially deal with regarding the occupational health for the out-of-standard cases discovered all construction projects, accompanying there. Throughout the year, regular tests with proper implementation of the of occupational disease hazard factors appraisal on occupational disease hazard have been completed at 99.48% of 963 factors as required. Throughout the year, workplaces, and noticeable dust outthere are 49 projects already undergone of-standard problems during delivery 99.95 the pre-appraisal on occupational disease of raw materials and products in one hazard and 23 projects undergone of CNOOC’s petrochemical plants have the appraisal on control effects of been specially solved, with the result % occupational disease hazard. meeting the national standards. Rate of occupational health By referring to the existing international Occupational health monitoring covers examination and domestic standards, we have all employees who are exposed to CASE Carry Out Featured Activities, Concern about the Health of Staff The Company actively carries out various featured activities with the intention to improve the health of employees. On basis of the analysis on physical examination results of the employees at high risk of chronic disease, the Company launched pilot projects of “Health, Walking with You” and “Knowing Your Health”. For the serious impact on health of risk factors such as overweight and obesity, the Company made organized health intervention under the guidance of experts, including following personal exercise prescriptions and nutritional diet prescriptions and to conduct monitoring and result assessment over energy consumption in sports, which has made significant improvement in health indicators and satisfied the employees. According to the overall health status of the staff, the Company carries out health promotion Work-break exercises for employees working at sea activities such as “CNOOC, Walking Healthy”. EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 Psychological Care Giving careful consideration to the work features at sea, we build a mental pressure model for the offshore employees, and provide stress management and psychological health service to ensure their psychological health. Every platform is equipped with a psychological counselor to provide psychological consulting for employees and mitigate their negative emotions, which produces a remarkable effect. In 2013, we continued the questionnaire survey towards the fresh graduates’ psychology and provided 3,479 personal psychological examination reports. We also conducted the sampling survey on the offshore employees’ psychology. After analyzing 7,407 effective questionnaires, we had a general understanding of their psychological activities during work, typhoon evasion and vacations. The young employees who were employed in recent 3 years have experienced the questionnaire survey. Based on the 5,239 feedback questionnaires, the Analysis Report on Sustainable Development and Influence Factors for CNOOC Young Employees in 1-3 Years has been completed, providing a reliable basis for improving their healthy growth. CASE Nanhai No. 5 Special Love to Special You We engaged a professional psychological counselor for Nanhai Drilling Platform V, who gave detailed explanation and made analysis for employees working at sea on the pressure change curve, methods for relieving pressure and some symptoms due to excessive pressure. In the interactive link, the counselor taught some games for psychological adjustment to guide the employees to reduce stress. The front line employees working at sea Psychological counseling for the front line employees CASE Families Visit the Staff on Platform For a long time of separation, the platform staff and their relatives are deeply concerned with and miss each other, for which Bohai Oilfield has carried out the activity of “opening day for families” for the third consecutive year, attracting nearly one hundred people from more than 40 families every year. The activities such as visiting the production platform at sea, holding a family party and giving a lecture on petroleum science help the families of the employees understand and support their business and contribute to the stability and harmony of families. The employees’ wives on the platform Opening Day for families 58 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Romantic Proposal Across the Ocean It is said that it’s not easy for the employees at sea to find their was deeply moved and carefully kept the special photos and Mr./Ms. Right, but in fact, they have their own romance. On the showed them to everyone. On that day, many employees at sea Tanabata Festival in 2013, an employee of Bohai Oilfield proposed also expressed their affection by various ways to their lovers who to his girlfriend far away from him by painting with light, who support their work. CASE Chinese and Foreign Staff Merrily Celebrate the Chinese Spring Festival On New Year’s Eve, the off-duty employees of the platform “Hai Yang Shi You 981” got together to celebrate auspicious Chinese New Year at sea. They warmly invited foreign staff to enjoy spring festival gala, make dumplings and put on performance. The foreign staff appeared to be familiar with every step of kneading dough, rolling wrapper and final stuffing. EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 Development Access Focusing on the common development of the Company and the employees, CNOOC integrates the enterprise development strategy with the employee career development plan. We pay attention to provide the employees with access to growth and development. According to the characteristics of different specialized groups, we have designed three career development accesses including management, technology and work, and established a training system of four in one with respect to selection, training, assessment, and promotion and qualification authentication to improve personal professional ability and work performance step by step in a planned manner. In 2013, we held 44,290 training courses, covering 982,948 persons, for a total of 9,955,093 hours, 95 hours per person. 10 overseas training programs provided 227 international talents. 114 personnel for exploration, downhole operation and drilling & completion have obtained vocational qualifications of supervisor or above level while over 700 project personnel obtained relevant vocational qualifications. 95 (hours) Management posts (26.5%) Training hours per person Technical posts (28.4%) 2013 95 Operation posts 2012 82 (45.1%) 2011 68 2010 52 2009 48 Post structure diagram CASE On-site Teaching The Company actively makes innovations in training methods and increases the proportion The visits to oilfield service companies, in of on-site teaching by following the general thought of “to make the fruits and cases of particular COSL Science & Technology management innovation practices as the curriculum, the sites as the classrooms and the Park, completely change my thinking of the practicers at all levels as the teachers”. Based on the systematic summary of management research & development ability of oilfield innovations of the Company since 2006, we selected a number of management innovations service companies being still in its infancy that are worth popularizing, distinctive, remarkable and targeted, independently developed and eliminate my misunderstanding. 17 courses for internal on-site teaching and organized the students to participate in on-site ——Wei Hong’an teaching in Tianjin, Yanjiao, Shenzhen, Huizhou, etc., providing them with opportunities to learn in other places so as to expand their horizons, develop their thoughts and improve their ability to solve problems. The on-site teaching combines teaching with field observation. It impresses me and realizes my years-long dream of learning in the upstream unit. ——Ding Hongyu The on-site teaching is definitely helpful to the students from different fields. We should develop it, tighten standards on teachers and teaching materials and keep on improving. ——Wang Jianfeng 60 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Seminar of “From Technology to Management” In order to help the managerial personnel who are transferred from The winner of National Labor technical posts adapt themselves to the role change as soon as Medal said that, possible and improve their management skills, the Campany held Over the past 32 years, I have the training course of “from technology to management”, with “role grown into a project leader change—ability improvement—experience sharing” as the main from a repair tongman and I thread, in which a total of 42 persons participated. have experienced numerous overhauls and rush repairs and overcome countless difficulties. I know all equipment very well, particularly various pumps to be repaired frequently, only from the appearances of which I can determine the types of faults. I am also good at examining and repairing the compressor unit. I am more than happy to share maintenance experience with my disciples. Most of them have taken important positions such as team leader and technical supervisor and each can work independently as a key technician. As the general project leader held heavy responsibility, I will make every endeavor to lead the team to complete the tasks with high quality, breaking the record of “minimum repair days” time and again. CASE The Most Beautiful Front Line Worker—CNOOC Frogmen In 2013, the most beautiful front line workers of CNOOC should Beautiful Front Line Worker” and their story has been published on be professional divers. Since seawater corrosion and oceaneering China Daily and China State-owned Assets Report. It is known that operation may damage the subsea pipelines, 51 professional CNOOC has laid 252 oil and gas pipelines over the past 31 years, CNOOC divers conduct inspection and maintenance of the subsea with a length totaled 5,018.76 km, equivalent to the straight-line pipelines on a regular basis in order to ensure they are in good distance from Beijing to Moscow, which constitutes the oil and gas condition. The divers are called as “CNOOC frogmen”. They have main artery of marine territory of China, and all these achievements drawn media attention in the report activity “Look for the Most should be owed to the “CNOOC frogmen”. Go on an expedition Dive into the sea Subsea operation EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 CASE Growth and Cultivation of Skilled Talents CNOOC has established a development system for skilled talents. With skill appraisal, commending, skill competition and expert engaging as the platform, Innovation capacity we promote the workers accounting for 45.1% of the staff to grow into Capacity for teaching skills Cross-team communication capacity skilled talents in an orderly manner and maximize their creativity for value. There Capacity for solving problems on site Capacity for dealing with are 5 national skilled talents who enjoy emergencies on site the special allowances from the State Learning capacity Cooperation capacity Council, 15 national technical experts, Operation skill 37 technical experts in the SASAC system, 57 CNOOC technical experts, Professional dedication 24 skilled experts of subsidiaries, 169 senior technicians, 786 technicians and 7,761 senior workers in the Company, and senior skilled operating talents has Capacity Factor Model for Skilled Talent increased to 39.2% of all the workers. Pictures: Showing exclusives and charms on skill competition stage 62 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Speeding up the Development of Clean Energy, Systematizing the Human Resources Development Training management Recruitment module method Subsystem of Subsystem of Trainer management method system trainer Management module management development Position competency Development module evaluation model HR system (CNOOC Gas & Power Group) Position knowledge Demand management Subsystem of Subsystem of Management course Decentralized course teaching management structure management management Professional course Classiﬁcation structure management Employee Evaluation Thanks to the scientific human resource development system After I joined the Company, I accepted the one-year system owned by its affiliated Gas & Power Group, the LNG industry training of CNOOC Gas & Power Group with three phases of CNOOC has maintained a leading position in China. of induction training, basic level rotation training and Our trainees will go to Fujian Putian LNG training base for position practice guided by mentors. The words and deeds theoretical study and on-site rotation training. Seeing that of internal trainers and on-site masters make me deeply groups of my students have grown into the backbone of the feel the attention and care from the Company, and the Company, even become industry experts, as an internal trainer, internship program (training agreement signed with mentors) I have a strong sense of accomplishment. made for each new employee played an important role in encouraging us to develop in a better and faster way. In the period of internship, I participated in various team activities ——Internal trainer Zhao Wei and outward trainings, which made me joint the family of CNOOC Gas & Power Group rapidly with a strong proud of being a person of CNOOC. ——New employee of CNOOC Gas & Power Group Zou Wuchen EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION 7.66 100 We have made our effort in constantly improving the employee democratic management system, effectively protecting the (points) employees’ rights to know, supervise, participate and express, Employee satisfaction (10 points in total) % strengthening the rights protection of labor union organization 2013 7.66 with a 100 percentage of employees participated in labor union. 2012 7.89 Percentage Through forms of community-level investigation, publicity of 2011 7.72 of employees 2010 7.62 participated in labor factory affairs, proposal of workers’ congress and other measures, union 2009 7.60 the democratic management channel has been gradually widened. In 2013, we got 3,760 advices and developed 1,132 rectification measures. Systematizing the Rationalization Proposal CASE The Company has created various conditions for implementing to Bring Economic Returns rich, colorful and healthy employee recreational activities, in order to strengthen the employee’s team spirit and sense of belonging to enterprise. Protecting Democratic Rights, Keeping CASE the Opinion Channel Open All subsidiaries of CNOOC have established a labor union organization and the system of workers’ congress to protect the employees’ right to participate in major enterprise decision-making and ensure the opinion channel open so that the employees’ opinions and advices can be rapidly sent to the Company. Dress the sling to bring economic returns CNOOC Energy Technology & Services Limited has systematized and normalized the rationalization proposal, keeping the opinion Rich and Colorful Recreational Activities CASE collecting channel open, in order that employees can submit with Impressive Team Building the proposal to each level. In 2013, more than 20 thousand rationalization proposals were received. For example, the proposal In 2013, the labor union of CNOOC played a role of 9 recreation form Qu Qihua, the dockman of CNOOC Logistics Company, is associations, and continued to do a good job in holding employee to reinforce the sling that is frequently used for hoist. In a half year activities. Moreover, the public area was equipped with sports after adopting this proposal, the Company saved nearly RMB 30 equipments for physical exercise of employees. The CNOOC Tianjin thousand Yuan. Company held autumn fun games for employees with more than 600 employees and their family members participated in 12 fun games. Expressing Opinions on Online Forum and CASE Microblog CNOOC information network specially provided “CNOOC Online Forum”, encouraging employees to express their opinions, and all effective opinions will be replied. The Company launches “Blue Youth” microblog to encourage youths to offer advice and make suggestions. more than 1,000 advises in microblog was collected. 64 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY COMMUNITY SERVICES · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 COMMUNITY SERVICES 66 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY the D on tudy Pov isas ce nd S er t a ty A Disassist d an ef ble an er Reli d Humanitarian Engagement d Pov Fixe ize fit ert dal ene yR B S int tion Pu pec po duc bli i e c Community Voluntary Co-construction Service 30 years of sustainable and healthy development of CNOOC is closely related to the support and help of each stakeholder. We believe the fundamental of enterprise social responsibility is to facilitate the economy and employment by enterprise development for giving back to the society with development achievement. In 2013, we continued to devote to humanitarian engagements, volunteer service and making joint efforts to build the community with a yearly total investment of RMB 86.88 million Yuan. HUMANITARIAN ENGAGEMENT Humanitarian engagement is the main method to fulfill our social responsibility. In 2013, the charity project should be totally included into the management of CNOOC Marine Environmental and Ecological Protection Public Welfare Foundation. The Foundation Executive Board will approve by voting the specific content of annual charity project on 2013 the basis of annual charity budget approved by CNOOC Charity project was board. The dual control system of CNOOC board and under the unified council of the Foundation ensures that the CNOOC charity management of foundation can be managed in a more scientific and specific way. 2012 CNOOC Marine 1995 Environmental and Ecological Protection Leader team Public Welfare of poverty Foundation was reduction was established established 2002 2007 Leader team of Charity poverty reduction Committee was and aiding Tibet established was established COMMUNITY SERVICES · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67 Fixed-point Poverty Reduction CASE Poverty Reduction to Benefit Tibetan We always adhere to the poverty reduction principle of “overcome difficulties, support foundation, and establish longeffect mechanism”, supporting fixed-point poverty reduction cities and counties of Hainan, Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Tibet to get rid of poverty. Our fixed-point poverty reduction Lingshui County of Hainan Province had gotten rid of poverty formally in 2012. Supporting Talents, Bringing Happiness to CASE Students Wuzhishan Middle School is the only combined junior and senior high school in Wuzhishan City of Hainan Province, in which the teaching buildings have been unable to meet the teaching CNOOC-founded health centre in Kajiaman requirements of nearly 2,500 teachers and students. From 2013 on, we will contribute RMB 6 million Yuan within 3 years to build a teaching building of 5-storey frame structure with a building area Health Centre of nearly 3,400 m2. In township health center of Hezuo City in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous of Gansu Province, the clinic cannot satisfy the The facilities of Nanmao Middle School of Baoting County of demand and the treatment environment remains worrying. For Hainan Province was old and shabby, which have a seriously meeting the medical treatment and health care requirement of impact on teaching quality and student safety. In 2013, we farmers and herdsmen and helping them to alleviate the difficulty contributed RMB 4 million Yuan to build a comprehensive of getting medical service, we made our effort to help the Hezuo teaching building of 4-storey frame structure with a building area City in establishing and improving a service system of medical of nearly 6,000 m2 on the original location within 2 years. The treatment and health care. scope scale can be enlarged after construction completion with the newly added reading room, music and art room, computer room Health centers of Kajiaman and Zuogaiduoma founded by CNOOC and equipment room enriching students’ cultural life. have been put into use since 2012 which received highly praise from Gansu provincial health department, having an effect of role model. In 2013, we contributed RMB 5 million Yuan in rebuilding of the health centers of Kajiadao and Zuogaimanma Township with a total building area of 1,792.5 m2. The rebuilding of these two health centers will facilitate the health and rapid development of primary health care undertaking of Hezuo City. Providing Herders with New Tent Houses Effect picture of the new comprehensive building of Nanmao Middle School Poverty reduction fund of CNOOC will cooperate with supporting fund and masses’ self-raised funds of Xiahe County, carrying out the partner assistance project to provide herders with new tent houses, purchasing 750 sets of Tibetan tents and ancillary facilities, helping 750 herdsmen families to live a happy and peaceful life. People-benefit Project for the Old and Children In 2013, CNOOC constructed the people-benefit project for the old and children in Zhayou and Jicang Township of Xiahe County. A geracomium of 500 m2 and a kindergarten of 1,200 m2 are planned Children of Hebei province CNOOC Hope Primary School use their new desks to put into use in 2014. 68 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Aiding Tibet with Enthusiasm of CNOOC Up to 2013, it has been 11 years since CNOOC implemented the 2013 Key projects of aiding Tibet: work of aiding Tibet. In the past 11 years, four groups of employees ◆ Construction project of fire fighting access and retaining wall of sent to aid Tibet had implemented the turnkey project with their home of herdsman in Nyima County strong will, tuning the Nyima County from a county with weak ◆ Construction project of well-off demonstration village and infrastructure and stagnant economic development into the current ancillary works of Gaqing village, Sinya town in Nyima County dazzling North Tibet Pearl. The level of infrastructure, education, ◆ Housing project for farmers and herdsmen in Nyima County health care and living standards has been significantly improved. ◆ Purchase project of safety supervision system in Nyima County On the 31st of July, CNOOC sent the fifth group of employees to ◆ The main works of construction project of the new village, Nyima aid Tibet, jointing hands with highland and writing a new chapter town in Nyima County in another 3 years. The fifth group of cadres sent to aid Tibet was distributing the donated clothing to local poor students. Using the agricultural machinery provided by CNOOC, Wu Guangqi, vice president of CNOOC, was leading a team to the herdsmen in Qiangtang were smiling. inspect the nursery school built by CNOOC in Gaqing village, Sinya Town, Nyima County. COMMUNITY SERVICES · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 Disaster Relief and Giving Financial Help On April 20, 2013, a 7.0 magnitude earthquake occurred in Lushan County of Ya’an, Sichuan. CNOOC and its subordinate units acted rapidly to donate RMB 10.5 million Yuan to earthquake stricken area, at the same time, to propose all employees to show their love, raising donations of more than RMB 5.9 million Yuan for earthquake relief work and to support people in disaster areas to rebuild their home. At the same time, we enhance our support to traditional project of disaster relief and giving financial help. CASE Helping People in Old Revolutionary Base Areas to Move into New Houses Xingguo County of Jiangxi Province is an old revolutionary disability. CNOOC contributed RMB 2 million Yuan to help base area and also the national level key poverty reduction 200 poor families in Xingguo County to carry out adobe house county. The local poor families are mainly families of martyr’s reconstruction in order that they can move into comfortable widow, households enjoying the five guarantees, rural low new houses from the rough adobe houses and live a happy and income households and families that have members with peaceful life. CASE Deep Feelings in Mother Parcel A part of employees’ donations of RMB 5.9 million Yuan was used to assist disaster stricken employee families, the remained donations of RMB 5.09 million Yuan have been donated directionally to China Women’s Development Foundation through CNOOC Public Welfare Foundation for the purpose of making Mother Parcel which will be distributed to mothers in 12 disaster stricken cities and counties including Ya’an, Chengdu, Meishan, Mianyang and Suining city. This action not only relieves the extremely urgency of mothers in disaster stricken areas, but also improves their health protection ability so that to help them to regain life confidence and get through difficult barriers. Mother Parcels filled up with love were sent to disaster stricken areas. Sichuan Charity Federation is awarding memorial medal decoration and medal of earthquake relief to CNOOC. 70 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Donating Computers to Yage School for Deaf Children Yage is a public welfare school which committed to providing rehabilitation training for deaf children for many years in Kaifeng City of Henan Province. On July 12, we sent a batch of computers to 70 deaf children here for giving them convenience of study and life. A British female reporter who did volunteer work here interviewed the children who received the donations with simple sign language, and the children can make simple voice by means of cochlear implants, expressing their inner happiness. CASE Loving Care for Anemic Infants In 2013, CNOOC continued to contribute a donation of RMB 1 million Yuan for providing Loving Care Nutrition Package to 10 thousand infants in several areas such as Chayouqian Banner, Sonid Right Banner, Bairin Right Banner of Inner Mongolia, and Jingyuan County of Ningxia and Changwu County of Shaanxi, for improving the anemic condition of infants. The physical quality of infants in these three areas has been significantly improved after taking the Loving Care Nutrition Package. Household survey Follow-up service COMMUNITY SERVICES · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 Caring for Student University Educational Assistance Fund Ten years ago, CNOOC removed its enterprise image advertising board and contributed the saved RMB 10 million Yuan to China Soong Ching Ling Foundation, establishing the CNOOC University Educational Assistance Fund for helping poor students. This project combined the financial assistance with the training of health psychology, perfect personality and comprehensive quality of university students. Up to 2015, we Letter of thanks of university students who received The project of the CNOOC University will invest an aggregate amount of RMB the support from CNOOC Educational Assistance Fund won 2013 Third China Corporate Social 38.15 million Yuan and provide financial Responsibility Outstanding Case assistance to 12,496 students. Award. Supporting Primary Education In 2013, CNOOC continued to provide assistance to poor students in Nanguan Primary School of Yanchuan County, Yan’an City, supporting 32 students each year with RMB 1,000 Yuan released to each student. The assistance of CNOOC not only provides guarantee for poor students of Nanguan Primary School so that they can keep their mind on studying. Releasing assist funds to poor students of Nanguan Primary School CASE Setting up Long-term Incentive Funds Incentive Funds of COSL-financed Project Hope Primary Schools were set up in October 2012, and will be evaluated once a year. The incentive funds will be donated voluntarily by all the employees of COSL, amounted for over RMB 550,000 Yuan. It will be served as the special incentive funds for the outstanding teachers who are contributing themselves at remote education line, and the outstanding students who constantly strive to become stronger, and are excellent in both quality and study. On the eve of Teachers’ Day in 2013, COSL continuously delivered the first batch of incentive funds of Project Hope Primary Schools to 418 outstanding teachers and students in 12 COSL-financed Project Hope primary schools in the provinces of Yunnan and Flag raising ceremony participated by primary students in CNOOCfinanced project hope primary schools Hainan, further motivating the awarded teachers and students. 72 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY Special Public Welfare Mother Water Cellar Project In 2013, CNOOC continued to support “Mother Water Cellar Project”, and released special funds to ten villages fixedly in the four counties of Yichuan, Yanchuan, Yanchang and Ganquan of Yan’an City. In doing so, we helped build 400 rainwater harvesting pits and four water harvesting facilities (including 1water saving irrigation and drainage facility), to serve 1,138 families and 4,347 people in the area. For over 10 years, CNOOC continued to contribute in this project, effectively releasing the labor force at the benefited area, improving the sanitary conditions, health conditions and income status for the local people, and actively stimulating the change of living environment and village image in rural areas. Yan’an “Mother Water Cellar Project” visited by CNOOC Public “Mother Water Cellar Project” warmly welcomed by benefited public Welfare Foundation Lifeline Express “Lifeline Express” is an ophthalmic medical vehicle donated by Hong Kong people to the motherland in 1997 when Hong Kong returned, aimed at supporting vision recovery surgeries for cataract patients in early-revolutionary, minority nationality, border and poor areas. CNOOC took part in this project since 2003, and accumulatively donated over RMB 13.32 million Yuan. In 2013, our donation was mainly used to support the vision recovery surgeries of 250 poor cataract patients in Shaoguan area of Guangdong Province. China Lifeline Express Foundation issued “Brightness Priceless” Award to CNOOC, so as to express their gratitude for our continuous support for this project. “Brightness Emissaries” on Lifeline Express Brightness delivering “Lifeline Express” COMMUNITY SERVICES · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73 VOLUNTARY SERVICE In 2013, through labor unions, administration, youth and women’s organizations, CNOOC actively engaged in various voluntary service activities, making use of different forms to provide charitable service for needy employees of the company and social vulnerable groups. CASE “1+1” Legal Aid, Upholding a Piece of Legal Blue Sky CNOOC continued to contribute into China Legal Aid Foundation, 2,000 pieces of social contradict and disputes have been solved. and supported “1+1” legal volunteer program of China Legal Over 2,000 legal lectures have been held. Legal consultations for Aid. In 2013, 207 volunteers (of which 121 lawyer volunteers) over 500 thousand person times have been received. Legal service were recruited and sent in the project, providing centralized help for over one million needy people has been provided free of charge. of special legal aids for hundreds of counties where legal aid is The program upholds a piece of fair legal blue sky in undeveloped needed. Nearly 20 thousand legal aid cases have been handled, areas. CASE Delivery Warmth with Sincerity, Charitable Giving for Ten Years There lives a group of children in Sun Children Village of Beijing, whose parents are serving a sentence, bringing them into an unattended and unsecured state. Children Village is a private organization, all cost of which is needed to be contributed by the society. For 10 years, CNOOC has annually organized employees to pay a visit and provide aids in Children Village, rendering living support for children there in different forms. In 2013, CNOOC donated “SACF” compound fertilizer to Sun Children Village, provided technical support and service, and solved their winter coal problem as well. CNOOC expert was helping fertilize the strawberry fields of the Sun Children Villiage 74 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Charitable Giving to Sichuan, Benevolence Gathering in Ya’an COSL Zhanjiang Branch organized youth volunteering blood milliliters. donation activities of “Charitable Giving to Sichuan, Benevolence At 8:00 pm, April 21, 2013, employees working at Ledong 22-1 Gathering in Ya’an”, which was actively joined by young Platform of CNOOC South China Sea West Oilfields gathered on employees, with about 6,800 milliliters of blood donated by deck, praying for Ya’an Earthquake Areas. Surrounding the red 33 employees. The charitable activity of youth volunteering Chinese Characters of “Aixin” (Mercy Love), they prayed with blood donation has been held for 5 years, with about 260 people their both hands closed at chest, shouted, “Hold on, Ya’an!” participating in, and blood donation reaching about 50,000 CASE Caring for Children with Autism On November 1, 2013, CNOOC Public Welfare Foundation held a public welfare activity of “Caring for Children with Autism” together with China Social Welfare Foundation. During this activity, paintings of children with autism were exhibited, and staff explained every author, every painting, and every moving story hidden behind in details. Employees who visited the exhibit were moved, and contributed their charity into the donation box one after another. They expressed that the activity was acting as a bridge to get us close to children with autism; for those both lonely and sensitive children, if we showed our kind smile and acceptable attitude, we could deliver our love to them, so as to make them feel less lonely. COMMUNITY SERVICES · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 COMMUNITY BUILDING As part of our proactive community engagement efforts to address the living needs of residents, we carried out a Scientific and Efficient Working series of heart-warming projects that would help create Framework harmonious ambiences and beautiful landscapes in the communities. We commit ourselves to serve the community, instill harmony and bring benefits to people. Civilized and Coordinated Peaceful Organizational To this end, we try to understand and respect the local Framework Mining Environmental Framework culture and take the initiative to assimilate into the Community communities. Management Management of mining communities is a systematic Framework process. By establishing a set of feasible operating frameworks integrating various resources, we strive to Fair and Just Comprehensive Relief foster a properly managed, safe, stable, healthy, happy, Public Service Assurance civilized, peaceful, vibrant and beautiful community, to Framework Framework improve harmony from a higher level. CASE Cultural Living after Retirement Mr. Chairman Wang was visiting retired employees. “Cultural Living after Retirement” is actively advocated in Bohai mining area, with cultural activities as carriers. Associations of croquet, chess, painting, photograph, etc. have been successively set up, so as to enrich the spirit life of retired people in mining area. In doing so, attraction and cohesive force of culture can be strengthened, creating harmonious and active cultural environment in the mining area. In 2013, Retirement Service Center of Bohai Mining Area was named as the demonstration base of cultural activities for retired people in Tianjin City. 76 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CSR REPORT OVERSEAS CSR REPORT OVERSEAS · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 78 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CNOOC OVER THE SEAS Overseas business of CNOOC was established in 1994, covering more than 20 countries and regions at present. CNOOC ranks No.32 among PIW Top 50 Oil Companies. The company’s overseas assets account for 38% of the summarized assets; areas for exploration operation are 110,000 square kilometers; there are up to 1,984 Mboe of proved reserves. The company is the world’s third and the country’s first LNG buyer, and provides dozens of international clients with oilfield technologies and engineering services. CNOOC vigorously promotes harmonious development of local economy and environment. In the year of 2013, CNOOC first ranked on the Fortune (Chinese version) and was awarded the title of “China’s Most Admired Company” for 2013, and became the only selected company in the petrochemical industry. 3968 ● CNOOC Ltd. creates a new era for European project of Shell Nyhamna international operation Project. Crude oil import and export trade CNOOC successfully acquired the volume (ten thousand tons) Canadian energy company Nexen ● New breakthroughs in overseas 3,771 k ilometers of 2D seismic market of COSL 2013 3968 2012 3079 acquisition and 353 square kilometers COSL signed an agreement with 2011 2158 of 3D seismic acquisition were the Brunei National Oil Company 2010 1877 completed in the whole year. The on establishment of a joint venture 2009 1010 company of oilfield services. It firstly company achieved 35 exploration wells and obtained 8 new exploration came into the drilling market of 32 findings. We produced 27.46 million Thailand Gulf and proactively engaged tons of crude oil and 8.9 billion cubic in the oilfield services market in the meters of natural gas. Gulf of Mexico. Ranked No.32 among PIW Top 50 ● New progress in overseas business ● New stride leap in LNG business Oil Companies of COOEC of CNOOC Gas & Power Group 3 164 Pre-assembled Pipe Racks of the Import volume for LNG in the whole world’s biggest LNG project (Gorgon year was 13,010,000 tons. CNOOC Project) have been successfully and BG Group have signed a package completed. The company also has of agreements for the purchase of been successfully carrying out the first certain interests in the QCLNG project The world’s third biggest LNG importer ocean engineering KCROP Project in in Australia for USD 1.93 billion and 5 the Middle East and received the first mtpa LNG for 20 years. 1 2 3 4 1. The successful acquisition of the Canadian energy company Nexen 2. Signed an agreement with the Brunei National Oil Company on establishment of a joint venture company in the field of oilfield services 3. Successful completion of 164 Preassemble Racks of the world’s biggest LNG project (Gorgon Project) 4. Signed LNG sales agreement and Queensland Curtis LNG assets transfer agreement with BG Group CSR REPORT OVERSEAS · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 79 SPECIAL TOPIC: Acquire Nexen: Earnestly Fulfill Each Commitment On February 26, 2013, CNOOC Limited successfully acquired the Canadian energy company Nexen, which has been the largest overseas acquisition for Chinese enterprises ever before. Upon the Acquisition, CNOOC Limited Made the Following Solemn Commitments: To confirm Calgary as the headquarters for CNOOC in North and Central America and manage the newly 1 increased assets of approximately USD 8 billion; 2 To retain whole employees, management level and brands of the Nexen Company; 3 CNOOC will input a large amount of money into the long-term development of oil & gas resources in Canada; 4 CNOOC Limited lists in the Toronto Stock Exchange; CNOOC Limited will retain and build upon Nexen’s highly regarded community and charitable programs, 5 especially those related to original residents and local communities; 6 CNOOC Limited will continue its supports to the oil sand research of University of Alberta and participate in COSIA; 7 CNOOC Limited will present the annual execution report about Its commitments to the Ministry of Industry, Canada. CNOOC Limited recognizes that Nexen’s core values have been critical to its success. These values continue to support and guide our actions as we move forward. ——Li Fanrong, CEO of CNOOC Limited CNOOC Limited realized its commitment to advance Canadian economic growth made on the acquisition of the Nexen Company, and its rapid realization wins affirmation. ——Christy Clark, Premier of British Columbia, Canada Acquisition contract signing ceremony of the Nexen Company 80 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY Sound Governance Creates Values—CNOOC Limited Lists on the Toronto Stock Exchange On September 18, 2013, CNOOC declared that Toronto Stock Limited works to create great value to our shareholders and Exchange has approved CNOOC’s American Depositary Receipts stakeholders.” (ADRs) to be listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange before the The company’s CEO Mr. Li Fanrong expressed that: “Canada listing on September 18, with transaction code of CNU. became an important investment destination for CNOOC CNOOC’s Chairman Mr. Wang Yilin expressed that: “Trading on Limited following our acquisition of Nexen. Listing on the the TSX isn’t just about broadening our shareholder base. It TSX represents our continuous commitment to maintaining also provides investors with more choices in terms of exchange transparency and good corporate governance in the countries venues and currencies. We strive to demonstrate how CNOOC where we operate.” Cooperation in Safety Assurance CNOOC Limited will integrate HSE management concepts 0.8 with those of in the Nexen Company to establish accident 0.7 management mechanism, jointly strengthening operation 0.6 safety, reducing damage incidents and preventing oil spill 0.5 accidents, and take the above actions as the top priority 0.4 of safety management in the whole year. CNOOC Limited 0.3 implemented HSE tracking management, conducted an HSE 0.2 audit at Nexen’s Long Lake oil sands facility near Fort McMurray, 0.1 Alberta, and proposed improvement program specific to 0 accidents management and operation safety management. We 2010 2011 2012 2013 carried out a joint safety emergency exercise. ■ LTIF ■ TRIF In 2013, two indexes of LTIF (Long Time Incident Frequency) and TRIF (Total Recordable Incident Frequency) of the Nexen Company have been obviously improved than those in the last year. CSR REPORT OVERSEAS · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 81 Stable Management on Nexen’s Employees Cordial exchange between Nexen’s Chairman Li Fanrong and the employees Human resources department of CNOOC Limited set out implementation plan for employee retention of the Nexen Company, laid out contract terms for top management and implemented an annual salary adjustment scheme for the top management team and employees of the Nexen Company. Thus, both management team and employees were consolidated. In order to strengthen management integration, the human resources department staff headed for Canada to have a ten-day work exchange with staff from human resources department Panel discussion between Nexen’s Chairman Li Fanrong and the top of the Nexen Company, which deepened their understanding management team to the Nexen’s institutional system and management. CNOOC Limited carried out a combined performance management and established framework of unified assessment. Joint Responses to Environmental Challenges CNOOC Limited and Nexen continue to address the climate change challenge through research and development projects targeting energy efficiency and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity. Work is being done both in-house and in collaboration with Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), a group of 13 oil sands companies working together to resolve environmental challenges. Nexen Petroleum UK is a partner in a new project led by Marine Scotland Science (MSS) that supports the Scottish Government’s vision of having marine and coastal environments that are clean, healthy, safe, productive and biologically diverse. Using high frequency radar technologies in 2013, MSS’s Brahan Project is making it possible, for the first time, to receive continuous information about the speed and direction of ocean currents up to 200 km offshore. The results are expected to advance scientific research while also aiding search and rescue operations, pollution control, the offshore oil and gas sector, the renewable energy sector as well as the fishing and shipping industries. 82 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY OVERSEAS COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT CNOOC cultivated overseas compliance management culture, Participation in Compiling the United established overseas compliance management framework, CASE Nations Anti-corruption Rules compiled overseas compliance management regulations, implemented compliance management policies and A new Anti-Corruption Risk strengthened overseas compliance management supervision. Assessment Guide was officially Thus, an overseas compliance management & control closed launched by the United Nations loop management system of culture, policies, supervision and Global Compact (UNGC) evaluation was established to ensure health resumption for in September 2013. Karen enterprise employees abroad, fulfill responsibilities to interested Schonfelder, Nexen’s Integrity parties and reduce overseas operation risks for enterprises in an and Compliance Manager, all-round way. was asked by the UNGC to The company complies with the local laws and regulations, chair the Anti-Corruption Risk takes the initiative to pay taxes according to law, continuously Assessment Task Force which drew together the information enhance employees’ moral education, pays equal attention needed to create the guide. to both righteousness and interests, and involves moral sense Cover of the anti-corruption and ethics thoroughly into the whole process of the enterprise “I’m excited about testing many assessment guidelines operation management. The company insists fair competition, of the learnings from this project resists commercial bribery and never tries to seek commercial into a framework we can adopt at Nexen,” says Schonfelder. “It’s interests by illegal means. rewarding to see something theoretical transitioned into practice.” Compliance culture Compliance framework Compliance codes of conduct Finance control, Post review, Assets, tax, Internal evaluation, Performance acquisition, Risk management, Compliance appraisal, Compliance insurance, Fraud investigation, supervision Compliance implementation business activities Internal audit assessment and human resources Compliance evaluation CSR REPORT OVERSEAS · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 83 TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION AND COOPERATION CNOOC continuously enhanced international cooperation and provided advanced technologies and quality services through technology innovation and technology integration innovation. Thus, the company met the energy resources requirements of the located countries and regions, and created significant economic and social efficiency for host country of the resources. Application of Stimulation Technologies CNOOC’s Core Technology of EOR CASE CASE Revived Iraq’s Oil Wells Moved Forward International Through adopting stimulation technologies, COSL made a dead well revived to a high-yielding well with a daily production of 3,625 barrels of crude oil, which was highly praised by the Owner of Missan Oilfield in Iraq. Then we adopted stimulation technologies applying to 12 dead wells, as a result, all of these wells achieved revival. The admiring stimulation technology strength made CNOOC to possess shares of stimulation operation in the Missan Oilfield firmly. Statoil entrusted CNOOC to carry out polymer flooding research in the Peregrino oilfield. Since 2011, we have completed the concept study of ground injection allocation process of polymer flooding and the design project of polymer flooding pilot polymer injecting in sequence, which won highly recognition from Statoil. ITT is going on at present and it is hopeful to win as main contractor of that project. Since then, CNOOC’s Core Technology of EOR has moved forward international. CASE Completion of Pre-assembled Pipe Racks of the World’s Biggest LNG Project in Qingdao Gorgon project was the world’s biggest LNG project. In this connection, CNOOC Engineering took charge of constructing as much as 164 modules with 40,000 tons total weight, which needed to be transported in 20 times of sailings. In the face of some new operation projects and challenges such as multiple batches, cross slide and high resource input, we have constantly innovated the management method, optimized the operation procedures to reduce the project duration greatly. The General Manager responsible for Chevron Gorgon Downstream Project set a high value on us and he said: “Gorgon project’s success cannot achieve without the positive cooperation of such a high-level company-COOEC. Therefore, Chevron and its partners greatly appreciated COOEC’s management team, construction team and their family’s strong support on work. We hope COOEC can make persistent efforts and continue to make a hit in the follow-up international projects.” 84 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY HSE MANAGEMENT OVERSEAS The Oversea HSE management of CNOOC is based on the principle of consciously abiding by local laws & regulations and adhering to execute the international standards & norms; persists in the policy of safety and prevention first; people oriented, life cherished, credit uppermost, quality guaranteed, nature esteemed, environment-loving. Combining with the local laws & regulations and the industrial norms, we establish an oversea HSE management system step by step; based on setting the localized and professional HSE management institution as well as professional handling crew, we positively develop the oversea HSE management. Setting up the HSE Oversea Offices in the Intertwine an Emergency “Data Network” on Headquarters Land and Sea In July, 2013, CNOOC set up independent office to perform the function of oversea HSE management, and its mainly The CNOOC’s global emergency resource management responsibilities are as follows: system was operated for a trial on line in December, 2013, since then an emergency “Data Network” was completely completed. It means that CNOOC’s Convey and execute the requirements proposed global emergency rescues coordination and direction 1 on the enterprise’s safety production abroad by relevant governmental departments; and emergency handling capability will be improved dramatically. Assist the International Company of CNOOC ltd. to The system includes information of institutions, implement the constructions of HSE management 2 professionals, teams, equipments & materials and system; contingency plans; whereas the introduction of GIS enables the management personnel at different Cohere with the company’s relevant departments levels make a precise positioning to know each 3 to do well in HSE examining and reviewing work for unit’s emergency conditions quickly. This system not the oversea projects; only satisfies the requirements on the emergency Deeply involve in and master the HSE developments resource classification and coding norms by the in the international oil and gas industry; popularize State Administration of Work Safety (SAWS), but the favorable practices and participate in relevant 4 also incorporates information of large devices and activities; materials with CNOOC’s characteristics which realizes the management functions of general investigation Help the QHSE Departments and the international for emergency resource, online filling, real-time inquiry program units of the secondary companies to carry and motion tracking performed by headquarters and 5 out the relevant support work on safety, environment affiliated institutions. protection, security assurance and emergency. CASE Harmonious Coexistence between Humans and Sea The Platform Nan Hai No.6 has constantly trained the staff on the Australian protection acts of marine species. Provided that any rare marine animals (sea turtle, whales and dolphins) were found, relevant reports would be made instantly. In light of this, it makes a timely evaluation on damages that might happen to the marine animals when operating drilling, on the basis of which it may decide whether to stop the drilling work to give way for marine animals. At the same time, the platform has implemented strict pollution discharge requirements. Oily and polluted water will be carried back to land for treatment in case that greasy dirt are discharged into the sea unexpectedly. The platform accepts regular inspections from NOPSEMA, the oceanic supervisory organizations on behalf of the Australian government. For 7 years, it hasn’t received any prosecutions due to environment protection problems, The Whales have been Playing Happily benefited from which a good and safety environmental surrounding is created and frequently around the Platform. attracts a lot of whales to be here. CSR REPORT OVERSEAS · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 85 COSL Establishes the Oversea HSE Training Management System. Training Project for Qualification Certificate Compulsive Training Project All personnel of the platform must obtain certificates through training before engaging in the offshore operations. Post Skills Training Project Take electrician post for example, a qualified electrician is required to be equipped with skills of taking up all electrical work The Necessary The Oversea at sea and needs to finish the trainings of explosion-proof electric Training Project work, aloft work, hand injury accident prevention and the usages HSE Training Corresponding to of hazardous article etc. However as for the trainings of any nonSystem Relevant Posts electrician post such as posts concerning operations in confined space and the lifeboat driving, it is an alternative choice to involve in depending on personal case. Department Internal Training Project Occupational The training methods are flexible and diverse, and most training Training Project is prepared by the senior personnel for the new workers during the working process. CASE Ageil—An Outstanding Headman with Excellence Performance on Safety and Management Ageil is a good team leader in the drilling well crew from Iraq’s Missan oilfield drilling group. The Chinese staff and personnel were very impressed by Ageil’s hard-working image when he first joined in the drilling crew. Thus they appointed him as a team headman to manage the foreign staff. However the company slowly found that Ageil might do well in his own work but could not stimulate other worker’s initiatives and lacked safety awareness. On account of the problems emerged in Ageil’s work, the company arranged him to participate in trainings on safety knowledge and the improvement of management capability and helped him further realize how to guarantee the safety of himself and others in the high-risk industry. Based on the conditions of the well, he assigned work to the foreign staff and offered correspondent safety instructions. For over one-year training and practice, Ageil has become a qualified leader of the drilling well crew, getting rid of the foolhardy image at the beginning. He has played an important role of supervision and guidance on site. 86 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CASE Planting Mangrove Forest to Protect the Coastal Environment The mangrove forest in the beach is not only a coastal plantation In 2013, the company expanded the mangrove plantation area from to realize wind prevention and sand fixation, waves resistance and Kelapa Island to Panggang island with 75,000 saplings planted embankment protection, but also a good place for birds and marine in two islands respectively. And, statistically, the total planting life to inhabit and multiply. And these acts help in maintaining the number reached 540,000. balance of ecosystem. CNOOC Southeast Asian Company will continue to carry out In 2008, CNOOC Southeast Asian Company incorporated the activities of planting mangroves in the future with a sincere hope mangrove plantation into the company’s CSR permanent project, to build an urban greenbelt for the operational community in cooperated with IFPRA and NGOs, and successfully planted Indonesia. 150,000 mangroves in the Kelapa Island. CASE High-quality Constructions of the LNG Project in Australia The Australian Curtis LNG Project is the first large-scale LCBM project under construction around the world. As a joint management party of the project, CNOOC Gas & Power Group combined with the original system from the operation party to establish a suitable quality management system for this project, which covered four levels including the quality manuals, management procedure documents, on-site work document, records and tables, and involved in aspects of designing, purchasing, construction, installation and trial. As for quality risk, it adopted the closed loop management mode of “plan-implement-review-continuous improvement” and the quantitative evaluation methods with risk matrix heat map is adopted to identify the key devices, the key points for quality control, and insure the effective control of quality risk by reviewing the QC record’s compliance. The quality management system with closed interconnections and stable structures makes each quality index of the engineering construction project reaches the international excellence level. CSR REPORT OVERSEAS · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87 Bosun Xie Zhongwei directs the foreign staff Hanura to check hoisting Pemex grants the Safe Production Award to the CNOOC’s slings. operation team. Customer Evaluation The outstanding performance of COSL in Andaman Bay Geophysical Prospecting Project breaks the long-term monopoly of western enterprises in the oilfield service market in Gulf of Thailand and brings honor to Asians. I hope COSL can make painstakingly efforts to organize the pre-drilling work of Hai Yang Shi You 719, so as to ensure a smooth launch and operation of the upcoming well drilling project as scheduled. ——the Executive Vice President of PTTEP Company Mr. Pairoj HSE staff training Letters of Commendation from customers Birds settle down in well site. 88 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY DEVELOPMENT OF THE STAFF OVERSEAS We observe the state and local laws and regulations where we locate, proactively implement 82 the staff localization system, and respect the religious beliefs and customs of local staff; we pay attention to the health and safety of oversea staff and attach importance on their business training and occupational development; we create an inclusive, equal, trusting and cooperative % working atmosphere to form the one team comprising staff from different countries and ethnic Localization Rate of groups with different skin colors and bring them to pursue the same goal. The company now Oversea Staff has 10,626 oversea workers, among which 251 persons are international employees while 8,731 are oversea local employees. CASE Occupational Development Channels for Oversea Staff CNOOC Middle East Company makes the occupational development Qatar Position Sequence Chart plans for every local staff and designs four occupational promotion channels. New employees will be arranged to take upper level posts according to plan and the period for their promotion will Supervisory Functional Support Business Support Technical Sequence Sequence Sequence Sequence also be arranged in a reasonable manner so that they can have President, Financial Administrative Exploration sufficient time to study the skills required by the next post. Vice President, Management, Management, Supervision, Several occupational development approaches including the Directors, Security Procurement Testing Departmental Management, Management Supervision, work shifting system will be adopted to provide opportunities for Managers Business Drilled Well training and promotion, which can effectively improve the staff’s Management Supervision, Supporting comprehensive ability. Service Posts CASE Novian’s Promotion Road There was a legend figure in COOEC’s Indonesian Company. Its name is Novian who was only an office boy from the beginning and finally became teller through hard work. When he first came to the company, he could only do some trifles like document filling for the reason of dropping out from the college. But he still worked hard and was happy to render help to others. Thus he gained the approvals from the company. Under the encouragement and support from the company, Novian finally achieved the bachelor degree, emerged as the best candidate among most of the competitors and became the company’s teller in the end. It was the 7-year occupational process in CNOOC that accomplished his life’s “transformation”, which made him very delighted. CSR REPORT OVERSEAS · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 89 The Chinese teachers accepted the Iraq staff as his disciples with In Indonesia, the master workers from China taught the new staff pleasure. the operational skills. CASE Holding Holiday Celebration Together, Mutually Promoting Fusion To strengthen the cultural exchanges of the staff from China and Iraq, the Company will collectively make a celebration when it comes to both countries’ traditional festivals. Every staff of the company will get together to make dumplings and watch the Spring Festival Gala in the new year, while during the festival of Lesser Bairam, Idal-Adjha, they make a sheep barbecue, singing and dancing to share the Muslim culture. Such a warm festival atmosphere can across the language barrier and enhanced a deeper understanding towards both cultures. CASE Culture Promoting Staff Integration CNOOC actively explores integration between its own culture and the local culture, advocates that Chinese and foreign staff treat each other in the sight of tolerance and appreciation and learn each other’s splendid culture and traditions, encourages the staff with different religious faith and cultural background to help mutually so as to become a good assistant and good companion of work and life. As is shown in the figure, the foreign staff is teaching Chinese workers to tie a headscarf. Words from Staff I’m proud to be a member of COSL and I’m deeply impressed with the concern and love from the company, and it offers me a lot of chance to learn the knowledge on oil and gas. It is like a big family here that everyone of the company cares and respects mutually, which I haven’t seen ever before in my work in other places. ——A staff from Burma Khin Nyein Thu 90 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY LOCAL COMMUNITY SERVICES CNOOC strived to bring more employment opportunities and economic benefits for business located countries and regions, and has had a far-reaching and positive influence on the life of the local people. We have consistently regarded ourselves as an important member of the local community, actively blend into the place and try to bring fortunes and welfares to more local people and transfer positive energies for the development of the local community. The Indonesian Company cooperated with the medical college-UNILA with an aim to provide free health examination and medical diagnose for more than 600 people in the MUARA village and MARINGGAI district and offer medical service for the locally poor people. Community Building in Indonesia The company actively made a commitment to repair On the Sabira Island nearby the operational the ANTURA wharfs, the jetty of which have been district, the company installed a regularly ruined due to disrepair for a long time but still has generator and 6 solar generator devices to busy business with various applications. After twooffer electricity power for the 6 public areas of stage maintenance and repair, a new wharf has come the island with an aim of easing the problem into service, and the local people usually called it as on electric power utilization. “CNOOC Wharf” kindly. The Warm Messages from the General Consul Xu Erwen from Chinese Embassy in Houston, US “Under such a new context, China and the United States have a greatly cooperative potential in the energy area, and I hope CNOOC can consistently seize the opportunity to make a greater contribution for reaching a win-win situation.” General Consul Xu Erwen’s visit to the headquarters of the CNOOC American Company (the third from right). CSR REPORT OVERSEAS · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 91 CASE The Nexen Company Moves Forward Jointly with Its Located Community The Nexen Company has the tradition of actively subsidizing community. And CNOOC Limited continues such fine tradition after acquisition of the Nexen Company. • Provided CAD 1 million in support to help the Vancouver Art Gallery (VAG) mount a landmark exhibition, Forbidden City: Inside the Courts of China’s Emperors. • Committed CAD 1.5 million to the Calgary Public Library to support a technology-rich “learning commons” in the city’s new Central Library. The donation also supports a new Automated Materials Handling System for the existing Central Library, which sustained significant damage during the devastating southern Alberta floods of June 2013. • Donated over CAD 370,000 to the Alberta flood relief effort, which includes CDN $39,000 in donations to match employee and contractor donations. Employees also volunteered 1,900 hours to clean up affected homes and assist community organizations. • Announced continued donation CAD 500,000 of MacDonald Island Park, a multi-use recreational facility in Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. • Contributed CAD 100,000, with joint venture partner INPEX Gas British Columbia Ltd., to the Fort Nelson Community Literacy Society to enhance literacy levels of individuals and families living near Fort Nelson, British Columbia, Canada. • Donated £90,000 in the UK to the Royal National Lifeboat Institution to re-establish a lifeboat station in Stonehaven, Scotland. • Provided USD 25,000 to the Spring Branch Independent School District, through Nexen’s division in the Gulf of Mexico, to enhance programming and resources in the areas of science, technology, engineering and math. CASE Proactive Charity Activities of CNOOC Gas & Power Group in Australia Exoma donation blows out grass fires FIREFIGHTERS the district have some in Kinnon & Co.The Station Store 126 Eagle Street, Longreach Phone/Fax: 4658 2006 02/09/11 008573 CNOOC Gas & Power Group in Australia donated 150,000 Australian Dollars to state new tools to help them government for rebuilding disaster area. And such act gained praise from the Queensland grass fires thanks to a Needing a hat ready for the summer? donation from the rapidly We have plenty of hats to choose from. expanding coal seam gas mining industry. Fur felt, Beaver felt, Leather, Straw and Suede to suit both kids and adults. Exoma Energy presented Longreach We look forward to helping you choose. Government. fire chief Allan Dickson 2010 Nissan Outback Queensland Tourism Awards Winner: Heritage and Cultural Tourism with four backpack blower units, each capable of blasting out over 300km/h winds that can literally push a fire back on itself so it runs out of fuel. The blowers have Together with BG Group, we provide 70,000 Australian Dollars to sponsor activities of been around for a few years and were very effective if used correctly, Longreach Fire officer Robert Stook said. “It’s only meant for Brisbane cultural festival; cooperating with EXOMA Company, we donated 4 sets of firespecific types of fires – like grass fires where the grass is not too Harry’s Restaurant high and the fire front Open from 5.30pm is not moving very fast. It’s excellent for Li Youwu, Rob Carr, Randall Ravenscroft, Rob Crook, Allan Dickson, John Palmer, Wang Wen and Brian Barker at the Monday to Saturday. fighting equipment to Longreach town where the project is located. extinguishing spot fires Longreach fire station on Tuesday afternoon with one of the new blowers donated by Exoma. but it would not be used, The ideal venue for say, in house fires.” community working China National Offshore and relied on the rural “The Rural Fire Longreach mayor with a range of local Oil Corporation, were fire service and town fire Service and the town that special night out. and veteran firefighter organisations like the also visiting the central brigade in case of fire. brigade have specialist John Palmer said he was RFDS, CWA and the fire west to inspect drilling “Our fire response is skills we rely on. Bookings Recommended 29/06/11 012870 pleased that Exoma was service. operations. to evacuate,” he said. “We plan to be here for keen to work with the Exoma CEO Rob “Helping out local “Some of our a long time.” 4658 2322 30 community. Crook and chairman organisations and workforce are members “They are a brand new Brian Barker were groups is important to of rural fire brigades Longreach Motor Inn, 84 Galah St, Longreach industry coming into our accompanied by Li us,” Mr. Crook said. elsewhere but for us to area,” Mr Palmer said. Youwu and Wang Wen, It also made good put together a makeshift th “It gives them a representatives of joint sense, as the company rural fire service would Happy good presence in our venture partners, the was working in the area be too dangerous. Longreach petition supports undivided council boundaries ONLY 20 people attended a meetfor a divided electorate at the last candidates. Birthday Sandie and Sandie and Staff Staff ing last Friday to discuss whether council elections in the hope that The present system didn’t proLongreach Regional Council resithey would be able to vote for lovide respresentatives for each dents should have divided or uncal candidates, but the result was of the different wards, as “most divided boundaries for next year’s that Longreach was split up to councillors were voted in on 200 council elections. provide an equal number of elecvotes or less, and there are 3,000 The meeting was called by the tors in each division. votes in the district,” Mr Minchin Thursday OPENING: Queensland Change Commission According to David Minchin of said. CASE Donation for Education by Iraq Company which will make recommendathe Longreach Regional Residents Mr Minchin presented the 3rd Sept.1981 tions to the Local Government association, those who attended Queensland Change Commission Minister Paul Lucas, for a decision by the end of September. the meeting were overwhelmingly in support of an undivided electorwith a petition, organised by the ratepayers association, containRUBEGG The former Longreach, Ilfracombe and Isisford councils voted ate, where voters could chose all councillors from a single list of ing 500 signatures in favour of an undivided electorate. 4 HAIR Council calls for sports COMMERCIAL HOTEL CENTRE DUCK STREET, LONGREACH PHONE 918 precinct masterplan TREVOR SULLIVAN The schoolhouse of Al-Barakat primary school located at the contract zone of CNOOC Iraq Stock & Realty LONGREACH Regional into the draft plan. work on a master plan for Councillors got their first This included a fullythe precinct. look at plans to redevelop lit turf and synthetic The redevelopment the showgrounds as a fields with a cricket would take a number of human sports complex pitch to include use by years and would depend AUCTION when consultants, Rugby League, Union, on the availability of grant Oilfield is quite shabby lacking basic conditions of study and sanitation. The company rebuilt Ross Planning gave soccer, touch football funding, council was told. a presentation to the and cricket, a large multi The consultants were “The Barcaldine Club” council meeting last use clubhouse and bar, asked to prepare plans for week. The plans were being courts PHOTO covered and lit netball and creating a staged development so that council would have 10.00 AM Saturday 17th September 2011. developed in conjunction a more appealing “grant ready” proposals, the Al-Barakat primary school. We rebuilt the schoolyard walls and classrooms and newly Where: 73 Elm Street, Barcaldine with the proposal atmosphere throughout and so the development from the Australian the entire grounds. could progress even Stockman’s Hall of Fame Present issues at the while animal sports were “Chattels Auction to Follow” for all animal based showground included the still being run at the Opportunity to buy a Barcaldine Landmark! events and sports to be position of the entrance showgrounds. moved to a new outback gate, the poor quality One area identified was Centrally located on 2023m2 corner allotment with a 600m2 building close to the Business constructed water-supply facilities, concrete floor of yard, basketball court, simple football entertainment centre. grass cover on the playing the stables area at the far Centre. The Building has function & bar area, kitchen, games, meeting, & amenities rooms, It was an opportunity fields, sight lines from end of the showgrounds fireplace, evaporative & split system air-conditioning, and ramp access. for the showgrounds to the bar and the position which the consultants This property offers numerous possibilities. receive a much needed of the grandstand which proposed to replace with a multi-use field with Inspection Dates: 2nd, 9th, 16th Sept 5.00-6.00PM, or by appointment facelift, turning it into a was too far from the sporting complex able playing field for a good synthetic turf. For details go to www.domain.com.au (ID: 2009152249), or field, toilet and septic tank; we also completed the power-supply project, purchased desks and to satisfy the needs of view of the action. If grant money was all sporting clubs in the The consultants received before horse region, council was told. showed council a rough sports were moved to Trevor Sullivan Tina Sullivan Ross Planning had met sketch of the layout of ASHOF, council would 0427 708 607 0427 516 039 local sporting groups and facilities and council have to consider erecting 07 4651 6039 07 4651 6039 had included their ideas voted that they begin to temporary yards. chairs for students, finished the work of schoolyard greening. And the teachers and students The Longreach Leader, Friday September 2, 2011 — Page 3 Table Format have started the new semester in new schoolyard joyfully. Logo Header Photo Description Name Name 92 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY SPECIAL TOPIC: CSR Management of CNOOC in Uganda Sponsor community soccer game Participate in local community activities Hold ceremony for donation to disaster area Sticking to the ethos of Win-win Benefits, CNOOC earnestly fulfills corporate social responsibilities, actively communicates and cooperates with the interested parties, brings benefits to local communities by energy cooperation, and devotes itself to being a responsible international “corporate citizen”. In September 2013, the development scheme of Uganda Kingfisher Oilfield (FDP/PRR) with the CNOOC as operator was formally approved Setting up the CSR Department Emphasizing Environmental by the Uganda Government. And Protection · Formulate the CSR social responsibilities management policies thus the Kingfisher has been the · Carry out work of environmental · Take the lead in charitable donation impact assessment first oilfield in Uganda to get valid and community co-building activities · Compile report on oilfield environmental and social influence · Respect the rights and concerns production license while the of stakeholders; Emphasize active communication with stakeholders CNOOC has been the first operator corporation to get approval of oil and gas field exploitation, production and operation in Uganda. Ugandan Company of CNOOC Driving Localization Process CSR Setting up Buhuka Oil & Gas Supervision Consultative Management attaches great importance to social · The staff localization rate reaches Committee 73%; 39 local staff trainings were responsibilities management and carried out in the whole year Invite the representatives of cultural leaders, vulnerable groups, community thus specially sets up the social · Trained local suppliers; entered into organizations etc. from surrounding contract with 174 suppliers among communities to supervise the acts responsibilities management 262 suppliers included in the list of of the Company and contractors, suppliers to provide opinions and advice. on organization. To realize the goal of · Encourage suppliers to hire local communication of the Company and staff and use local products communities and thus to ensure the win-win benefits in the business Giving Back to the Society stakeholders’ right to know. l o c a t e d c o u n t r y, i t a c t i v e l y · Establish internship program for local youth communicates with stakeholders, · Carry out vocational education for out-of-school youth pays attention to protect the · Award education grants and environment around the operation sponsor football games · Donate USD 9,000 to citizens area, takes great enthusiasm in suffered hailstorm · Carry out AIDS prevention and humanitarian engagements, and control promotion activities drives the economic and cultural · Organize preaching activity on road safety development of community. CSR REPORT OVERSEAS · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 93 Preaching activity on AIDS prevention and control Award “the Outstanding Staff Award” to local staff Promote the localization of employees Study of Ugandan Staff in Providing Opportunities and Conditions for Out-of-school China Youth to Become Talents When interacting with local stakeholders, the Ugandan Company of CNOOC knows about the fact that the overall unemployment rate of this area is high, and there are lots of out-of-school youths which are mostly have no professional skill and it is hard for them to get job offers. The Company expects that, by humanitarian engagements program, the local youth may master the skills and get benefits from the developing petroleum and chemical industries. In 2013, the Uganda Company invested 131 million Ugandan shilling (equal to about The CNOOC Ugandan Company spared no RMB 300,000 Yuan) to entrust local training institutions to have vocational skills training efforts to have training on the aspects such programs which are specially set for local out-of-school youths. The training program of as professional knowledge of petroleum the first phase last for one year. 70 youths are selected from 189 applicants and provided industry, HSE management, skills and so with training on basic skills on. of carpenter, electrician and stoneworker. In 2013, 39 trainings were carried out and 715 person-times were trained in total. This training program was Besides, the Company assigned about warmly welcomed by local 20 local staff to China to have training communities and many on technology, management and SAP media of Uganda reported program, to study advanced professional this news. technology and management methods so as to have an overall understanding of CNOOC. Words from Staff Being elected as Outstanding Staff of 2013 Year by local staff not only means the recognition to my personal performance but also indicates that the Company’s way of fulfilling social responsibilities is increasingly accepted and approved by local staff. ——CSR Manager of CNOOC Ugandan Company Chai Wei 94 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY LOOKING AHEAD TO 2014 In 2014, global economy will continue the state of sluggish recovery; the US dollar’s exchange rate to other currency is going stronger; the related risk of geopolitics still exists but the tension eases indeed. The World Energy Map is going through great changes: as for petroleum and natural gas, the situation that “the production center moving westward while the major consumption market shifting eastward” has become an indisputable fact; the supply in international oil market is in relatively relaxed state and thus international oil price may be faced with downward pressure. Economy of China shall make progress while maintaining stability and keep the continuity and stability of macroeconomic policy. The reform of petroleum and natural gas management system and state-owned enterprises will be comprehensively deepened and various reform measures will be successively published. Substituting coal with natural gas is an unavoidable option for construction of a beautiful China and Chinese energy transformation, and China is being in the golden age of development of natural gas. The domestic crude oil yield is stable and on the rise and the situation that the product oil is in excess of demand continues; the yield of natural gas increases constantly with the rapid development of unconventional natural gas; the situation of overcapacity in chemical product market is difficult to change and the downturn state continues. Although the strategy of “Building China into a Maritime Power” provides new opportunity for the great development of offshore oil industry, the company will face the following severe challenges: the rise of price of production factor is rigid; the restraint of resources and environment strengthens; it is difficult for corporation to realize cost decreasing and benefit increasing etc. With the reform and innovation in leadership, the safety and environmental protection as precondition, the cost decreasing and benefit increasing as focus, CNOOC will deepen the development of system and mechanism and strengthen company’s vitality and competence to ensure the sustainable development of the company. The Company will focus on optimizing allocation of global resources, enhancing the effort of exploration and development, making great efforts to enhance reserve and productivity. Accelerate the exploration of current blocks and evaluation of oil and gas reservoir; increase the workload of progressive exploration on core blocks; extend exploration of new blocks and field industriously; implement fine management of development and production; consolidate the stable production of old oilfields; soundly fulfill off-line maintenance; speed up the development of oil and gas fields; and thus ensure the oil and gas fields to go into operation as scheduled. LOOKING AHEAD TO 2014 · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 95 Safety and environmental protection is the basis of corporation development, is the most important project. The Company will reinforce the foundation for safety and environmental protection to firmly avoid major serious accidents. The Company will carry out special governance on oil and gas pipeline to entirely troubleshoot the potential safety hazards, and complete contingency plan; intensify the risk control and process management on the operation of contractors, and further improve the mechanism of examination and appraisal for contractor; reinforce the troubleshooting and governance of hidden hazards, and specially manage the rectification on key links, critical parts, important equipments and major hazard sources; enhance the integrity management of infrastructure and equipments and the building of emergency response capacity, and implement the prevention and contingency plans against severe weather such as typhoons; specifically control the energy consumption and emissions to fully complete the rigid indicators for energy conservation and emission reduction. The Company shall continue to strengthen the construction of comprehensive guarantee capacity of production and management, carry out the construction of internal control system, earnestly deal with the compliance management of production and management, and to further reinforce the internal auditing supervision; promote fine management of production and operation by information technique to further increase management efficiency; intensify the caring to employees and provide the front-line staff with more psychological guidance and assistances to create sound conditions for the growth and success of young employees and thus guarantee the harmony and stability of the team. We will adhere to social responsibilities of “Safety and Efficiency, Low Carbon and Green, People Orientation, Openness and Transparency, Dedication of Love, and Innovations”. We regard the policy of developing the nation into a maritime power as the opportunity, structural optimization as instrumentality, reform and innovation as driving force, vigorously focus on quality and efficiency of development, technology advancement, low carbon and green mode, and people orientation, to continuously enhance the company’s international competitiveness and sustainability. We strive to make China offshore oil industry’s Second Leap Development achieve a more remarkable and wonderful “CNOOC Dream” in the process of achieving “Providing Quality Energy, Building Blue Sea & Sky”. 96 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY THIRD-PARTY ASSESSMENT Rating report on China National Offshore Oil Corporation Sustainability Report 2013 Upon the request of China National Offshore Oil Corporation, CSR Research Center of Economics Division of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (hereinafter “Center”) invited experts from Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating to form a rating team. The rating team rated China National Offshore Oil Corporation Sustainability Report 2013 (hereinafter “report”) as follows: 1. Rating Criteria Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 3.0) and Rating Standard on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (2014). 2. Rating process: (1) Interview the social responsibility department of China National Offshore Oil Corporation. (2) View the data involves China National Offshore Oil Corporation headquarters, official website and subordinate unites on site. (3) Evaluate the process of social responsibility report management of China National Offshore Oil Corporation. (4) Evaluate the information disclosed by China National Offshore Oil Corporation Sustainability Report 2013. 3. Rating results: Process Management (★★★★) The writing process of the Report is standard; the corporation sets a specialized department to promote the writing work, recognizes the key performance issues on CSR, consults stakeholders’ advices, trains the writing team and makes a plan for the report release. The report has excellent process management. Materiality (★★★★★) The Report discloses key performance issues of Oil & Gas Exploration Industry such as “energy supplying”, “occupational health management”, “production safety management and emergency response”, “product transportation security”, “the development of new type energy”, “ecological protection and restoration of production operation area” etc. The report has super excellent materiality. Completeness (★★★★) The Report discloses key information on “Sustainable Development Management”, “Resource Supplying”, “Environment Protecting”, “Employee Responsibility”, “Contribute to Society”, “Overseas Social Responsibility” etc. With 76% of core indicators disclosed on Oil & Gas Exploration Industry, the report has excellent completeness. Balance (★★★★) This report discloses negative information on “records of occupational diseases”, “producing accidents”, “casualties of directed contractor”, “employees of casualties”, “accident frequency” etc. The report has excellent balance. Comparability (★★★★★) This Report discloses data on 41 key performance indicators of three consecutive years. The report has super excellent comparability. Readability (★★★★☆) This report has a clear structure and logic, suitable length and fluency language. It adopts ways of expression such as datasheets and flow charts etc. with statement of cases, special topics and well explaining of technical terms, all of which make this report leading readable. Creativity (★★★★) This report has lots of stakeholders’ responses to corporate social responsibility, sets special subject on foreign report of corporation responsibility, which diversely discloses the corporate’s social responsible practice. It has excellent creativity. ANNEX · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 97 Overall rating (★★★★☆) Through evaluation and deliberations, the rating team agreed to rate China National Offshore Oil Corporation Sustainability Report 2013 as leading by giving four-star and a half rating to it. 4. Suggested improvements (1) Further improve the report writing process and the participation of stakeholders. (2) Disclose more core social responsible indicators on the industry to improve the completeness of the report. Rating team Team leader: Zhong Hongwu, Director of CSR Research Center, Economics Division, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Team member: Yin Gefei, Vice President of China WTO Tribune Wei Xiuli, Associate Professor of Economic management institute from North China University of Technology Peng Huagang Zhong Hongwu Chairman of the Chinese Expert Committee On Team leader of the rating CSR Report Rating team Vice president of executive council of the Center Director of the Center 98 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY GLOSSARY OF TERMS Drilling Platform Offshore drilling platforms are marine structures used mainly for drilling exploratory wells. Such platforms, generally divided into mobile and fixed platforms, are essential for offshore oil and gas exploration and development operations and house drilling, power, communications, navigation and other equipment, as well as lifesaving and accommodation facilities. Extraction Ratio Extraction ratio refers to the percentage of geological oil reserves accounted for by the amount of oil that can be extracted from oil reservoirs. This is a key criterion in evaluating the level of development of an oil field. Thickened Oil Thickened oil is highly viscous crude oil that contains a relatively high level of asphaltenes and resins. This usually refers to those with ground densities greater than 0.943 and underground viscosities greater than 50 centipoises. Heavy oil is another name for such oil due to its high density. Oil Reservoir This is the smallest unit for the storage of oil. Oil reservoir layer or oil layer in short refers to the porous strata for the storage of oil. Not every part of an oil layer will contain oil. Oil reservoir refers to those independent oil-containing areas within an oil layer. Exploratory Well Exploratory wells refer to wells drilled within an oil or gas field for acquiring the necessary geological data to determine the existence, delineate the boundaries, and perform industrial evaluations of oil or gas reservoirs. Those drilled during the exploration phase can be further divided into prospecting, preliminary exploration and detailed exploration wells. Development Well Development wells are well fields in development and construction. Adjustment Well Adjustment wells refer to scattered or clustered wells drilled, in addition to existing well clusters, for improving the development of oil fields. Well Logging Well logging usually refers to geophysical well loggings, in which different forms of well loggers made based on electrical, magnetic, acoustic, thermal, nuclear and other physical principles, enter wells through the use of well logging cables, to allow the ground electrical measuring instruments to record continuously along the well bore the various parameters that change with changes in depth. Underground rock formations, including oil, gas, water, and coal layers and metal deposits, can then be identified through curves representing these parameters. Fracking Fracking, also known as hydraulic fracturing, refers to a technique used to create fractures in the oil layer using hydraulic pressure. The process involves the use of a fracking device, to inject a large volume of viscous fluid under high pressure into the oil layer and then fill the resulting fractures with proppants such as quartz sand to increase the permeability of the oil layer and in turn, increase the amount of water injected or oil produced. ANNEX · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 99 Oil Spill Response Oil spill response is the formulation of plans and adoption of measures to control and prevent oil spills and reduce pollution damage, based on the environment and resources in the potential spill sources and waters within the designated sea areas. This sees common use in offshore oil exploration and development activities. LNG Liquefied natural gas or LNG in short refers to the liquid that forms when natural gas extracted from gas fields cools to a low temperature under high pressure after undergoing the fluid and acid removal, drying and distillation processes. LNG is predominantly methane and is colourless, odourless, non-toxic and non-corrosive. CDM The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is a mechanism that allows both developed and developing countries that ratified the Kyoto Protocol at the Third Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to fulfil part of their emission-reduction commitments overseas through emissions trading at project level. Recordable Production Safety Events According to the OSHA standards of the United States, recordable production safety events include medical treatment, work restrictions, lost time and deaths. Occupational Disease This refers to diseases that develop as a result of exposure to occupational hazards at work. QHSE The abbreviation QHSE stands for Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental. Established based on the principles of compatibility of similarities and complementarity of differences, and on the basis of the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards, GB/T 28000 family of standards and SY/T 6276 Petroleum and Natural Gas Industries Health, Safety and Environmental Management System, the QHSE management framework usually refers to the framework that directs and controls the quality, health, safety and environmental aspects of an organisation. COD Chemical oxygen demand or COD in short refers to the amount of oxidant consumed when treating water samples using a certain amount of strong oxidants under certain conditions. The usual use of COD is to determine the extent of contamination of water bodies by reducing substances. DCC Deep catalytic cracking or DCC in short refers to a new technique that extracts and produces gaseous olefins from heavy oil as the raw material, through a form-selective catalytic reaction. The Hainan Fine Chemical Project uses the deep catalytic cracking process in one of its core facilities and is, therefore, widely known as the DCC Project. Coalbed Methane Coalbed methane, which is a coal-associated mineral resource and considered an unconventional form of natural gas, refers to a kind of hydrocarbon gas (predominantly methane) found trapped within coal beds, mainly adsorbed to the surface of coal matrix particles, and partly dispersed in the porosity of coal or dissolved in the coalbed water. Shale Gas Shale gas specifically refers to an unconventional form of natural gas found trapped within shale formations. 100 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY Tight Gas Tight gas is an unconventional form of natural gas found in sandstone formations with permeability less than 0.1 millidarcy. Deepwater Semi-Submersible Drilling Platform Deepwater semi-submersible drilling platform refers to a semi-submersible drilling platform that can operate in deep waters. Semisubmersible drilling platform, also known as column-stabilised drilling platform, is a kind of mobile drilling platform with small waterplane area and a large part of the floating structure submerged under water. LNG Cold Energy LNG must be gasified into room-temperature gases through a heat exchanger in the corresponding LNG receiving terminal before use as a fuel or chemical raw material. LNG cold energy refers to the large amount of energy in the range of approximately 830 to 860 kJ/kg (including the latent heat of vaporization of liquefied natural gas and the sensible heat resulting from the re-heating of gaseous natural gas from the storage temperature to the ambient temperature) released from the gasification process. CCUS CCUS (Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage), namely the carbon capture, utilization and storage. CCUS technique Is the new developmental trend of CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage), to-wit, purifying the carbon dioxide discharged during prodcution and then putting into the new production process for recycling utilization instead of simple storage. CNOOC China National Offshore Oil Corporation Limited (HKEx: 00883, NYSE: CEO, Toronto: CNU, www.cnoocltd.com). COSL China Oilfield Services Limited (SSE: 601808, HKEx: 02883, www.cosl.com.cn). CNOOC Engineering CNOOC Offshore Oil Engineering Co., Ltd. (SSE: 600583, www.cnoocengineering.com). China BlueChemical China BlueChemical Ltd. (HKEx: 03983, www.chinabluechem.com.cn). CNOOC Gas and Power Group CNOOC Gas and Power Group Limited (www.cnoocgas.com). CNOOC EnerTech CNOOC Energy Technology & Services Limited. Shandong Haihua Shandong Haihua Group Co., Ltd. (www.haihua.com.cn). Lishen Battery Tianjin Lishen Battery Joint-Stock Co., Ltd. (www.lishen.com.cn). ANNEX · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 101 INDEX OF REPORTING INDICATORS CONTENTS CASS-CSR GRI IPIECA/API COVER P1.1/P1.2/P1.3/P1.4/P1.5/P1.6/P1.7/ INSIDE FRONT COVER P1.8 E1/E2/E3/E5/SE1/SE2/ CHAIRMAN’S LETTER P2.1/P2.2 EC2 SE5 DATA OF CNOOC P4.4/P5.3/M1.2/M1.3/S1.6 EC1/EC9/EN1 E1/E2/E3/E5/E7/HS4/ PRESIDENT’S LETTER P2.1/P2.2 EC2 SE1/SE4/SE5/SE17 Special Topic: My CNOOC Dream P4.4/P5.3 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT P3.1/P4.5/G1.1/G1.3/G2.1/G2.2/ Our Ethos SE11/SE12/SE14 G2.3/G4.2/G5.2/G5.3 G1.2/G2.2/G2.3/G2.4/G3.1/G3.2/ Our Actions and Performance G3.3/G4.2/G5.2/G5.3/G6.1/G6.2/ SO2/SO3/SO4/SO5 E1/E2/E3/E5/E7 S1.1/S1.2/S1.3/S1.4/S1.5 P5.1/P5.2/G4.1/M1.2/M1.4/M2.7/ EC1/EC9/EN3/EN4/ Key Performance Indicators SE4/E1/E2/E3/E7/HS2 M2.8/M2.9/S2.2/S2.3/S2.4 EN20/EN30/LA1 P3.1/G5.1/G5.2/G5.4/ Stakeholders G5.1/G5.4/G5.5/M1.1 SO5 S2.8/E2.2 Special Topic: Listening to ENERGY SUPPLY Contributing Conventional Energies P4.2 EC9 SE1 Developing Clean Energy E3.16 EC9/PR6 E1/E2/E3/E7 Improving Service Network M2.1/M2.2/M2.3/M2.4/M2.5 EC9/PR3/PR6 E1/E2/E3/E7 G3.3/M2.6//M2.9/M2.10/M3.1/M3.2/ M3.3/M3.5/M3.6/M3.7/M3.10/S3.1/ E1/E2/E3/HS3/HS4/ OGS3.2/OGS3.3/OGS3.5/S3.6/ Enhancing Energy Security EC6/PR1 HS5/SE5/SE7/E8/SE9/ OGS3.7/S3.8/S3.9/OGS3.11/S3.12/ SE10/SE14/SE17 S3.13/E1.2/OGE1.17/OGE3.14/ OGE3.15 Special Topic: Skilful Utilization of Strength ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Combating Climate Change E1.1/E1.7/E1.9/OGE2.6/E3.16 EC6/EN6/EN18 S3.1 E1.2/E1.3/OGE1.11/OGE1.12/E1.13/ EC6/EN5/EN6/EN7/ OGE1.14/E2.1/E2.2/E2.3/E2.4/ Energy Conservation and Emission EN8/EN10/EN16/ E1/E2/E3/E5/E6/E7/E8/ OGE2.5/E2.7/OGE2.9/OGE2.10/ Reduction EN17/EN19/EN20/ E9 E2.11/E2.13/E3.1/OGE3.2/OGE3.9/ EN21/EN30 OGE3.10/OGE3.11/OGE3.12 EN11/EN12/EN13/ Ecological Diversity Protection E1.6/E1.8/E1.15/OGE1.16 E10/SE14 EN14/EN26 Special Topic: Dream Realizing in E1.8/OGE3.19 EN26 Blue Sea and Sky 102 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY CONTENTS CASS-CSR GRI IPIECA/API EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT EC5/EC6/EC7/LA1/ S1.8/S1.9/S2.1/S2.2/S2.3/S2.13/ LA2/LA4/LA5/LA6/ HS1/HS2/HS3/SE5/SE6/ S2.14/S2.16/S2.17/S2.18/S2.19/ Career Development LA7/LA8/LA10/LA11/ SE8/SE10/SE14/SE15/ S2.20/S2.21/S2.22/S2.23/S2.26/ LA12/LA13/LA14/ SE16SE17/SE18 S2.27/S2.28/S2.30 HR1/HR3/HR7/PR1 Employee Participation S2.4/S2.5/S2.12/S2.24/S2.25/S2.29 EC6 HS1/SE14/SE18 COMMUNITY SERVICES Humanitarian Engagement EC3/EC8 SE1/SE4 Voluntary Service SE1/SE4 Community Building SO1 SE1/SE2/SE3/SE4/SE5 CSR REPORT OVERSEAS CNOOC Over the Seas Special Topic: Acquire Nexen: Earnestly Fulfill Each Commitment Overseas Compliance Management Technology Innovation and Cooperation HSE Management Overseas SE1/SE2/SE3/SE4/SE5 Development of the Staff Overseas EC7 Local Community Services EC8 Special Topic: CSR Management of CNOOC in Uganda E1/E2/E3/E5/E7/SE1/SE7/ LOOKING AHEAD TO 2014 A1 SE17 ANNEX Third-Party Assessment A2 Glossary of Terms P4.3 Index of Reporting Indicators A3 Feedback Form A4 SE1 ANNEX · 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 103 FEEDBACK FORM In order to improve the social responsibility engagement of CNOOC on an on-going basis, we would like to hear your thoughts, which will form an important basis for us to do better. We hope that you could spare some time to give us your valuable feedback on the report and our work. Your Information: Name: Company: Tel: E-mail: Your Feedback: 1. What is your overall opinion of the report? □ Very good □ Quite good □ Average □ Quite poor □ Very poor 2. What do you think of the information disclosed in the report? □ Very abundant □ Quite abundant □ Fair □ Quite little □ Very little 3. What do you think of the quality of the information disclosed in the report? □ Very high □ Quite high □ Average □ Quite low □ Very low 4. What do you think of the report structure? □ Very reasonable □ Quite reasonable □ Fair □ Quite poor □ Very poor 5. What do you think of the design of the report layout? □ Very reasonable □ Quite reasonable □ Fair □ Quite poor □ Very poor 104 OUR QUALITY ENERGY FOR YOUR BLUE SEA & SKY 6. If you have any opinion or suggestion on the social responsibility engagement of CNOOC or the production and dissemination of our sustainability report, please feel free to let us know: Contact Us: CNOOC Policy Research Office Postal Address: CNOOC Building, No. 25 Chaoyangmenbei Dajie, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100010, P.R. China Tel: 86 (10) 84523487 Fax: 86 (10) 64602830 E-mail: report@cnooc.com.cn The electronic version of the 2013 Sustainability Report is enclosed with this printed version.
