2013 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Giving SENSE to what we do ALFA is > The world’s largest independent producer of aluminum powertrain components for the automotive industry. > One of the world’s largest producers of polyester (PTA, PET and fibers). > LEADER IN MEXICO IN PETROCHEMICALS SUCH AS polypropylene, expandable polystyrene and caprolactam. > Leading producer of processed meats in North America, and of cheese in Mexico. > Leader in information TECHNOLOGIES and COMMUNICATION services for the business segment in Mexico. ALFA’s shares are quoted on the Mexican Stock Exchange and on LATIBEX, THE MARKET FOR Latin American shares IN THE MADRID STOCK EXCHANGE. 2013 Highlights: Revenues: U.S. $15.9 billion EBITDA: U.S. $1.9 billion Capex: U.S. $1,550 MILLION Presence: 18 countries Plants: 91 Employees: 61,000 > the number and seriousness of workplace ACCIDENTS CONTINUES TO DECLINE. > ALFA Foundation STARTS up its Extracurricular Talent Center. > The use of clean energy sources continues to grow. > Progress in recycling and waste reduction programs. Letter from the Despite the challenges we faced in 2013, our company reported positive results, both financially, and in terms of corporate social responsibility actions. Revenues and EBITDA continue to grow, fueled primarily by solid performances from our auto parts and refrigerated food businesses. We invested U.S. $1,550 million in capex and company acquisitions, bolstering our competitiveness and market leadership in the businesses where we Chairman of participate. the Board and the Projects of the year included the progress in the constuction of a power cogeneration plant in Veracruz, Mexico, which will give us our own source of clean and efficient energy starting in 2014, to serve the Cosoleacaque plants. In the auto parts business, the new plant in Chongqing, China started up, increasing our presence in that country. In Mexico, Alestra built its fifth Data Center, the most modern and environmentally friendly of its kind in Latin America. Sigma carried out three acquisitions in 2013: a cheese company in Costa Rica, a processed meats company for the Mexican foodservice market and, finally, a 45% stake in the Spanish President company Campofrio Food Group, the leading European maker of processed meats. In the field of corporate social responsibility, ALFA Foundation started up the first Extracurricular Talent Center in Monterrey, Mexico. This Center follows an innovative educational model that seeks to stimulate the development of outstanding junior high students in underprivileged areas of the city, encouraging them to continue their studies through college and thus promoting social mobility. This project, now a reality, is a result of a redefinition of the goals and strategies of ALFA Foundation made in 2012, for the purpose of maximizing its impact on the community. In the area of industrial safety, we continue to make progress in reducing the number and seriousness of workplace accidents. This reflects strategies undertaken by our companies in their ongoing pursuit of an accident-free workplace. Faced with the challenge of a water shortage in some of the regions where we operate, we created the ALFA Water Commission. During the year, we launched various projects to improve our performance in this area. Another area of progress was in our Waste Reduction programs, with more of our companies joining in. In general, the economic environment looks more favorable for Mexico and the world in 2014. Experts believe the U.S. economy will continue to improve, and that Europe will begin its recovery. In Mexico, the gradual enactment of recently approved reforms, particularly the energy reform, could boost investment and create more and better jobs. Nevertheless, we continue to face specific challenges in the various industries in which we participate, so we must avoid complacency. We invite you to peruse this document, which details our companies’ main actions and results in the area of corporate social responsibility over the course of the year. Here you will find further proof of our commitment to operate responsibly in pursuit of the common good, which is the only way to continue building a better company and more promising future for this and future generations. San Pedro, Garza Garcia, N.L., Mexico, January 31, 2014. Armando Garza Sada Álvaro Fernández Garza Chairman of the Board of Directors President 1 Global footprint and businesses Group Product / services Markets REVENUES IN 2013 Employees Plants (U.S.$ MILLION) Polyester (PTA, PET and Food & beverages, fibers). Plastics and chemicals consumer products, 7,028 4,528 16 (polypropylene, EPS, textiles, construction and polyurethanes and caprolactam). automotive. Aluminum heads and blocks for gas and diesel engines; Automotive 4,391 20,724 34 transmission parts. Processed meats (ham, hot dogs), cheese, yogurt and Food 3,820 29,562 41 prepared meals. Data centers, cloud applications, information security, managed Presence in networks and consultancy Business customers 395 1,860 200 cities in Mexico. services, vertical applications for specific industries. Hydrocarbons. Energy, oil and gas 133 25 2 FOOTPRINT > Argentina > Mexico > U.S.A. > Argentina > Czech Republic > Poland > Austria > Germany > Slovakia > Brazil > Hungary > Spain > Canada > India > U.S.A. > China > Mexico > Costa Rica > Mexico > Dominican Republic > Peru > El Salvador > U.S.A. > Mexico > Mexico > U.S.A. 3 A VISION WITH A ALFA is well aware of the challenges of being a responsible company in both social and business terms. It has therefore developed a business strategy sustained by four pillars: > Internal well-being: to provide conditions of health, safety and development opportunities for employees. > Community: to be a responsible citizen towards the community. > Environment: to control and reduce emissions in the air, soil and water. > Economic: to obtain adequate business returns based on the investment and risk taken. Mission To become a source of pride for our workers and shareholders, and to exceed stakeholder expectations through leadership, innovation and long-term exceptional performance. Vision Commitments with our stakeholders: >Stockholders: To achieve outstanding long-term value creation through profitable growth, continuous portfolio optimization and selective investment in new opportunities. >Employees: To be a great place to work. To attract and develop the best talent, motivating them to achieve their full potential. >Clients: To exceed expectations with superior experiences and innovative offerings. >Suppliers: To build long lasting mutually beneficial relationships. >Community: To encourage safe and sustainable operations. To contribute to the development of our communities. 4 SENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY Stakeholders clients Employees ALFA has defined five major stakeholder groups, based on their relationship to the company and degree in which they are affected by its operations. These Shareholders are: eMPLOYEES, SHAREHOLDERS, CLIENTS, SUPPLIERS AND THE COMMUNITY. Suppliers For ALFA, all of them deserve respect and attention. To this end, the ALFA companies have made a commitment to treat Community each of them in a responsible, ethical and transparent manner, and to establish permanent communication channels to remain aware of their concerns. ALFA Ethics and values The ALFA Code of Ethics defines the guidelines for the behavior expects from its companies and employees. Visit http://www.alfa.com.mx/NC/philosophy.htm Values Integrity: Our actions are governed by our commitment to ethical conduct and social responsibility. Respect and Empathy: We consider diversity as a strength. We seek to incorporate individuals with different backgrounds and experiences. We aspire to provide a work environment that promotes trust and cooperation. Results Oriented: We are committed to value creation and to the continuous improvement of our businesses. All our employees embody a personal commitment to improving the performance of the company. Innovation and Entrepreneurial Approach: Encourage and reward innovation and development of new business opportunities. CLIENT-FOCUSED: Dedicated to exceeding our clients’ needs. Participation in the UN Global Compact Since its foundation in 1974, ALFA has assumed the commitment of being a responsible company in all of its spheres of action (economic, social and environmental). In pursuit of this principle, every year since 2006, ALFA has signed the UN Global Compact, an initiative that promotes social economic development, as well as universal human values. ALFA remains committed to carrying out its activities within the framework of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. 5 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 The integral welfare of its employees is central to ALFA’s growth. There is a commitment 27 average man-hours of training by employee. to maintaining a safe, inclusive and participative workplace environment. The companies also work to create favorable conditions for the development of each employee, and to encourage TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT > U.S. $15.1 million invested in training and development programs. a healthy balance between > 250 scholarships granted to ALFA employees. professional, personal and family life. U.S. $4.4 million invested in recreational and family development programs. Sustained downward trend in the number and seriousness of workplace accidents 2011 2012 2013 >Accident rate 281.31 229.69 173.40 WORK-FAMILY BALANCE >Frequency rate 11.28 10.24 7.79 > 205,442 people attending recreational and family development programs. >injury rate 1,728 1,838 1,383 > 2,085 academic support grants (scholarships, school supplies) to employees’ children. >lost days rate 30,265 26,024 20,871 >work-related 0 0 1 fatalities 26 WORK CENTERS HOLD THE “FAMILY RESPONSIBLE COMPANY” DISTINCTIVE. > 3 2 % and reducti 31% the o quenc n in accident y and y fre ES, respectivel . RAT EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES > 30% of ALFA’s workforce is made up of women. > 197 disabled people worked in ALFA’s companies in 2013. 6 of our people With a sense in . ograms 6 invested pr 16 . health U.S. $ MILLION Polioles Altamira: Seven years without disabling accidents. Completing 2,555 consecutive days without a disabling accident is a challenge in any industry, even more so in petrochemicals. But the Polioles plant at Altamira, Tamaulipas, has successfully maintained this level of safety in its facilities, where it employs a staff of 123 workers. The achievement is based on existing safety programs, which promote discipline, cooperation and interdependence among the people working at the plant. Their permanent goal is to safeguard the physical integrity of employees and contractors. Other companies who have made notable achievements in this area are DAK Americas Argentina and Tereftalatos Mexicanos, which in 2013 completed five and four consecutive years, respectively, without disabling accidents. 77 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 ALFA works continuously 168 to establish and maintain permanent dialogue, cooperation and solidarity SCHOOLS SUPPORTED, BENEFITING 17,010 students. with each community where its companies operate EDUCATION achieving natural benefits. > 97 agreements between ALFA companies and Additionally, it promotes universities benefitted 1,716 students. > 547 students did internships at ALFA’s companies. programs and initiatives in the areas of education, nutrition and social assistance. 146 Charitable INSTITUTIONS supported. SOCIAL ASSISTANCE > 1,106 employees volunteered to help their communities, investing more than 5,500 hours. > $6.9 million pesos donated to help disabled children through Mexico’s Telethon. 100% OF ALFA COMPANIES have PROGRAMS TO , 2 5 0 4 FACILITATE community engagement. 10 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT > 65% of ALFA’s companies purchases were made to local suppliers. > ALFA companies participated in more than 20 external initiatives focusing on community well-being. 8 of our community Food Bank Sigma donated 1,020 tons of food, primarily processed meats, 300 tons more than in 2012, to various entities operated by the Mexican Food Bank Association. This organization, dedicated to battling hunger and improving nutrition for Mexico’s most vulnerable families, takes this food to various charitable institutions, including orphanages and shelters. Thus, contributions from Sigma provided access to healthy and nutritious food for 23,166 families. LE PEOP EFITED. BEN With a sense 99 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 Aware of the importance of operating in an increasingly clean and environmentally 4.92 x 10 GJ 6 ENERGY SAVED DUE TO INITIATIVES CARRIED friendly manner, ALFA’s companies work incessantly OUT BY ALFA COMPANIES BETWEEN 2007 to reduce their emissions AND 2013. into the air, soil and water, in all their production and CLEAN ENERGY distribution processes. > U.S. $109 million invested in a cogeneration plant in Veracruz, Mexico, which will start up in 2014 and will reduce CO2 emissions by 120,000 They put special emphasis tons per year. on CO2 emissions, water management, recycling and waste elimination. 7% REDUCTION OF CO2 Direct EMISSIONS COMPARED TO 2012. EMISSIONS (million tons of CO ) 2 2011 2012 2013 > direct emissions 1.980 2.356 2.205 2.0 million m3 reduction in water consumption. G AND c l ELIMINATION e um i n p r cl o c WANema d l b e um ed by C ustries d d al rs recy haw In e goals e. y STEk Mexico. esse ar Path R ). . e cyclin g cy ine dS st am of re conta LFA an Zero Wa o the s RECYCLIN n s to PET nA d od WATER 6 0 ,000 ons of betwee achieve orking t > 3 ,000 t nture lants are w > 40 wastewater treatment plants processed 18.6 > 49 joint ve ericas p plants million m3 of liquid. (a K Am ALFA DA er > 23 programs in place to optimize water > 4 ven oth consumption. Se 10 of our environment Aluminum recycling Every day, 600 tons of aluminum scrap is fed into the furnaces at Nemak Mexico’s plants, where it is converted into parts of efficient automobile engines. Recycling or using recycled aluminum instead of bauxite, the original raw material for aluminum, brings significant environmental benefits, because it avoids the consumption of a great deal of electric energy (with the resulting reduction in CO2 emissions) and water to produce it. In 2013, more than 60% of the aluminum used in the furnaces of Nemak Mexico’s 13 plants was recycled. This is equivalent to the energy consumption of 1.23 million households in a year, and the equivalent of the CO2 emitted by 48,800 automobiles in the same period, as well as saving water equivalent to the monthly consumption of 31,000 families. U . S . 2 $ 3 . 4 I O V E S N IN ENTAL IN TED PROGRA MS. L MIL VIRONM EN With a sense 1111 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 Extracurricular Talent Center 3,040 class-hours in the OPENING COURSES. In line with its focus on supporting education, in 2013 ALFA Foundation brought to life a project it Program OBJECTIVES had been working on since > To encourage social mobility by identifying and supporting students with 2012. The first results have superior talent. been very encouranging, so > To support talented students from the junior high level up through college. we plan to continue it going forward. Actions taken > Identified challenges for keeping students enrolled at various educational levels and the impact of drop-out rates. > Applied academic selection tests to 1,800 students from 10 junior high schools. > Designed a study plan aimed to solving problems, fostering innovation, research and discovery, interaction, and raising awareness. > Started up the first Extracurricular Talent Center in the Ferrocarrilera neighborhood of Monterrey. > 200 students participated at the 8th and 9th grade levels, along with 13 specialized teachers. 327,000 the o u t of tion, orn da r w as b FA Foun ty. te AL ni l e nt Cen egies of commu e Ta at he b r r i c ular and str act on t el could xico. u s d e PEOPLE VISITED THE PLANETARIUM IN 2013. E x trac of goal e its imp er’s mo y and M The nition aximiz e Cent onterre fi h rede der to m term, t as of M e > 97,000 schoolchildren and 25,000 children from charitable in or the long other ar institutions visited the Planetarium. e r Ov cated i n i > 34 events, including 16 workshops, four conferences, repl five exhibitions and two recycling projects. 12 of education With a sense 2 0 0 participated c o urses . in Extracurricular Talent Center The center provides extracurricular academic support free of charge to outstanding junior high students from neighborhoods in the north of Monterrey, the home of many low income families. The students were selected based on their intelectual aptitudes and invited to participate in students opening the the center, whose pedagogical model promotes investigation and innovation and encourages students to develop scientific attitudes in a participative, collaborative working environment based on responsibility and commitment. In addition to mathematics, students take classes in sciences, spanish, english and complementary activities like chess, theater and music. The model accompanies students during their junior high, high school and college education, promoting social mobility and enabling them to advance themselves and promoting their personal and professional development. 1313 gri index GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED 1.1 Statement from Chairman of the See Letter from the Chairman of the Board and the President, page 1. Fully Board and the President. Importance of Sustainability For ALFA, operating under a sustainable development outline is fundamental to its viability and long-term business growth. In addition to creating economic value, ALFA promotes the development and well being of its employees and communities, as well as operating in harmony with nature. Strategic Priorities and Key Issues ALFA meets international standards that consider social responsibility, such as the United Nations Global Compact and the Global Reporting Initiative. This has allowed it to align its business objectives and performance indicators with internationally accepted and proved standards, as well as to set long term social responsibility goals and commitments. Employees • To offer a healthy, safe and inclusive workplace. • To offer opportunities for personal and professional growth. Community • To operate in safe facilities. • To support development of the community, particularly encouranging education. • To provide nutritious and healthy food products. Environment • To reduce carbon and water footprints of its manufacturing operations. • Waste reduction. Broader Trends Mexico • The possibility of stricter environmental legislation in the future (such as taxes on fossil fuels). • A possible significant reduction in water availability. World • Climate change processes (colder winters, draughts, floods, hurricanes, etc.). • Compliance with international standars on environmental, health and nutrition issues, and so forth. Main Events, Accomplishments and CHALLENGES Events • The economic situation in Europe continued to cause diminished growth, though it started to recede. • Slow recovery trend in the United States economy. • Lesser economic growth in Mexico. • Approving of structural reforms in Mexico on subjects such as education, telecommunications, finance, energy, and others. ALFA’s Markets • Price volatility in petrochemicals caused by polyester overcapacity in Asia – Alpek. • Slight reduction in food demand in Mexico – Sigma. • The automotive industry in the United States continued its recovering Nemak. Accomplishments (ALFA) • Favorable financial results in spite of a challenging economic environment, with the exception of Alpek. • Nemak, Sigma, Alestra and Newpek set unprecedented records on revenues and EBITDA. • Alpek continued building an energy cogeneration plant in Mexico. • Nemak started operating a plant in China. • Sigma strengthened its position in the institutional and dairy markets and initiated an acquisition process of a company in Europe. • Alestra built a Data Center in Queretaro, the most advanced and sustainable in Latin America. • Newpek expanded its activities to other regions in the United States. 14 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED Social Responsibility • ALFA Fundación started its Educational Project. • Reduced number and severity of workplace accidents. • More companies joined the Waste Reduction Program. • Continued advances in responsible water management. • More companies published sustainability reports under GRI guidelines. Challenges • The decease of an employee in a workplace accident. • Alpek’s financial results below estimates. Strategy ALFA aims to capitalize on its strengths to capture growth opportunities in existing and related businesses, through organic growth or acquisitions, with the goal to create value to its stakeholders. Objectives Short term • To continue to strengthen its businesses leadership through greater efficiency. • To maintain a healthy financial condition. • To continue developing value added products and services. • To continue reducing the frequency and severity of workplace and industrial accidents. • To continue improving energy efficiency in its operations. • To continue optimizing water consumption in its operations. Mid term (3-5 years) • To continue participating in markets where a leadership position can be reached and maintained. • To increase cost-competitiveness based on human talent and cutting-edge technology. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and See Letter from the Chairman of the Board and the President, page 1. Fully opportunities. Most significant impacts Stakeholder Industrial and workplace accidents. Employees, community Polluting emissions (air, ground and water). Community, environment Water consumption. Community, environment Main challenges Stakeholder To eliminate industrial and workplace accidents. Employees, community Emissions reduction. Community, environment Water management improvement. Community, environment Main opportunities Stakeholder Reinforcement of safety equipment and programs. Employees, community Explore cleaner and/or renewable energy sources. Community, environment Reducing non-renewable raw material consumption; boosting recycling and Community, environment reuse materials in processes. Continue support to education programs. Employees, community ALFA’s initiatives to achieve a sustainable operation are established by identifying and evaluation of challenges and opportunities, which turn into priorities within the organization. In order to do this, ALFA implements several programs to reach the expected results, with assigned performance indicators to measure progress periodically. Programs depend on area type and/or interest group to which it is directed. An example of such measuring is this report, which allows ALFA to know the progress in every topic. Likewise, ALFA’s Sustainability Committee has the goal of verifying that the actions taken are aligned to meet the fulfillment of the priorities described next. Company’s priorities Investments on occupational security and health programs • Security equipment investing. • Preventive health programs. • Training and development programs. 15 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED Energy efficiency project and emission reduction. • Investing in projects for the use of cleaner energies. • Water consumption optimization. • To start the building of a second energy cogeneration plant. Recycling and reusing waste programs. • Aluminum and PET recycling. • Supporting waste reduction programs. • Promoting an environmental care culture. Education and environmental support. • ALFA Fundación Development of its Educational Proyect. Risks and opportunities in the next 3-5 years and their impact on ALFA’s companies • Less availability and/or cost increase on raw materials and goods. • Difficulty to obtain financing and/or increased interest rates. • Stricter environmental regulations. Opportunities • Growth through mergers and acquisitions in relevant markets. • Add value to products and services. • Enter new business ventures where ALFA’s expertise and capabilities can be capitalized. Strategies to address such risks in a 3-5 year span • Growth in current or related businesses. • Hedge contracts, negotiation to transfer cost increases to the market, global sourcing. • Energy efficiency projects, raw material and feedstock recycling. • Innovation/added value products and services development. Internal governance mechanisms to address such risks • Constant review of business strategy and, when appropriate, adapt it to the new circumstances. • Risk Management Committee. • Policies issuing and reviewing. • Greater impulse in the energy, innovation, sustainability and human resources areas. • To improve dialog with stakeholders. 2.1 Name of the organization. ALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. Fully 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or Fully Business groups and products services. Group Main products and services Brands Alpek Polyester chain (PTA, PET and fibers), Polypropylene, Laser, Melinar, Delcron, Dacron, Polyestyrene foam, Caprolactam, Urethans and Glycols. Styropor, Hydrotec, Profax, Valtec. Nemak Aluminum heads and blocks for gas and Nemak. diesel engines; transmission parts. Sigma Processed meats (ham, sausages, mortadella, bacon); FUD, San Rafael, Chimex, Iberomex, dairy products (cheeses and yogurt); prepared meals. Tangamanga, San Antonio, Zar, Chen, Braedt, La Villita, Chalet, Yoplait, Guten, Sosúa, Checo, Norteñita, Bar-S, Zar. In 2013, Sigma incorporates the brands from Corporación Empresas Monteverde, S.A., and Comercial Norteamericana, S.A. de C.V. Alestra Communications and IT services. Alestra. Newpek Exploration and exploitation of natural gas and hydrocarbon deposits. ALFA’s companies hire transportation services for distribution of their products, with the exception of Sigma, which has its own transportation fleet, and Alestra, which provides telecommunication services and doesn’t require distribution. 16 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED 2.3 Operational structure Percentage of ALFA’s ownership in its businesses: Alpek 83%; Nemak 92.5%; Sigma 100%; Alestra 100%; Fully of the organization, including main Newpek 100%. In addition, it has four corporate support areas: Development, Legal and Institutional Relations, divisions, operating Finance and Human Capital. companies, subsidiaries, and joint Joint Ventures: ventures. Polioles (ALFA 51%, BASF 49%) Nemak (ALFA 92.5% Ford 7.5%) Indelpro (ALFA 51% Basell 49%) Temex (ALFA 91.5% y BP 8.5%) Terza (ALFA 51%, Shaw Industries 49%) 2.4 Organization’s headquarters. Ave. Gómez Morín 1111 sur, Col. Carrizalejo, San Pedro Garza García, N.L. Mexico. C.P. 66254. Fully 2.5 Number of countries where the Mexico, Argentina, United States, Germany, Austria, Brazil, Canada, China, Slovakia, Spain, Hungary, India, Fully organization operates, and names of Poland, Czech Republic, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Peru, Dominican Republic (18 countries total). countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.. ALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. is a stock limited company with variable capital, whose regulations comply with Mexico’s Fully lawson Mercantile Corporations and the Stock Market. 2.7 Markets served ALFA’s products serve mainly the food and beverage, automotive, packaging, textile, construction, furniture, Fully (including geographic telecommunications and energy sectors. Their main markets are located in Mexico, United States, Germany breakdown, sectors and Brazil. served, and types of customers/ Market presence beneficiaries). Geographical Industry sectors Costumers types zone North, Central Food and beverages, automotive, • Food and beverage bottles, containers and and South packaging, textile, construction, packaging manufacturers; construcAmerica, telecommunications, tion companies and contractors; nylon Europe and Asia. energy. manufacturers. • Automotive manufacturers. • Retail, supermarkets and convenience stores. • Information and telecommunications market for the corporate sector. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Employees 61,085 Total operations 91 Revenue U.S. $15,870 millions Total capitalization in terms of debt and equity U.S. $ 12,644 millions Total products and services rendered 35 (main) Total assets U.S. $12,648 millions 2.9 Significant changes during the • Alpek closed its operations in one of its polyester plants in Cape Fear, North Carolina, USA, and participated Fully reporting period regarding size, in two important negotiations: one with Grupo M&G, to build a new complex in Corpus Christi, Texas, in structure, or ownership. which they will secure a supply of 400,000 tonnes per year of PTA and PET, and signed a coinvestment agreement with United Petrochemical Company, a subsidiary of Sistema JSFC, for the building of a PTA/ PET plant with IntegRex® technology in Russia. In addition, it moved forward in the building of its energy cogeneration plant in Veracruz, Mexico. • Nemak expanded its presence in Asia by starting up operations in a plant in Chongqing, China. • Sigma acquired Corporación Empresas Monteverde, S.A., in Costa Rica; Comercial Norteamericana, S.A. de C.V. and Servi-distribuciones, S.A. de C.V., in Mexico; and bought 47% of Campofrío Food Group, S.A.’s capital in Spain. • Alestra opened the Sperto Center in Mexico City and built a Data Center in Querétaro, which is 100% selfsustainable. • Newpek increased its operations in Kansas, Oklahoma and Colorado in the United States. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting See pages 44 and 45. Fully period. 3.1 Reporting period for Fully information provided. ALFA’s social responsibility activities from January 1st to December 31st, 2013. 3.2 Date of most recent Published on February 29th, 2013. Reports activities from January 1st to December 31st, 2012. Fully previous report (if any). 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual. Fully 17 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED 3.4 Contact point for questions. Enrique Flores R. ALFA Vicepresident of Corporate Communications eflores@alfa.com.mx – Ph. (52) 81 Fully 8748-1207. 3.5 Process for defining report content. See About This Report, page 45. Fully 3.6 Boundary of the report (countries, See About This Report, page 45. Fully divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, JV, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the See About This Report, page 45. Fully scope of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, See About This Report, page 45. Fully subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and See About This Report, page 45. Fully the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the See About This Report, page 45. Fully effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 3.11 Significant changes See About This Report, page 45. Fully from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table of the Standard See pages 14-42. Fully Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current This Report has been externally verified by Universidad Anáhuac. Attached to this document is the Letter of Fully practice with regard to seeking Verification. Moreover, attached as well is the Letter of Verification by GRI (GRI Check), which validates the external assurance for the report. present document with an A+ level. 4.1 Governance structure The Board of Directors comprises 11 proprietary members who do not have alternates. Each member was Fully of the organization, chosen based on their academic background, professionalism, business records and consistency with ALFA’s including committees values. 100% of Board members are male, of Mexican nationality, and on an age range from 45 to 70 years under the highest old. Average age is 55. No other diversity indicators are shown. governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or In order to correctly perform its duties, three committees assist the Board of Directors: a) Audit, b) Corporate organizational oversight. Practices, and c) Planning and Finance. Each committee is headed by an independent board member and meets from four to six times a year to discuss relevant matters. All board members participate in at least one of these committees. The Audit and the Corporate Practices committees are formed by independent members only. The three committees follow up on topics related to the company’s social and environmental performance. The Audit Committee examines and makes recommendations to the Board on matters such as the external auditor selection and their fees, coordination with the company’s internal audit department and the analysis of accounting policies, among others. ALFA has internal control systems with general guidelines. These are submitted to the Audit Committee for its opinion. Moreover, the external auditor validates the effectiveness of the internal control system and issues the corresponding reports. The Corporate Practices Committee makes recommendations to the Board in such matters as employment terms and severance payments for senior executives and compensation policies, among others. The Planning and Finance Committee evaluates all matters related to its particular area and issues recommendations to the Board on matters such as feasibility of investment, the company’s strategic positioning, alignment of investment and financing policies, and review of investment projects. The Human Capital and Audit department, as well as the Audit and Corporate Practices committees of the Board of Directors are responsible for monitoring the members of the Board’s ethical performance. Salary compensation for directors is set by comparing standards of companies similar in size and the industrial field in which they operate. 4.2 Indicate whether the The Chairman of the Board does not hold an executive position in the company. He is responsible of convenFully Chair of the highest governance body ing, preparing the agenda and presiding all meetings. Furthermore, he is responsible for the Board’s correct is also an executive officer. operation and organizing annual assessments. 18 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED 4.3 Number and gender of members of The Board of Directors consists of 11 members, 9 of which are independent. There are no alternate members. Fully the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Fully Communication channels between the Board of Directors and shareholders employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest • The Communications Department provides information and ongoing attention to shareholders through governance body. diverse forums, in addition to conveying their concerns to the Board of Directors. • Shareholders meetings. • The Transparency Mailbox, which offers free access to shareholders and other audiences. Shareholders’ most relevant concerns (occupational, economic, environmental and social) • To have a competitive business portfolio in attractive industries and sustained growth potential in the long term. • To achieve an attractive investment return.The adherence of ALFA to the corporate governance guidelines. • That an appropriate and constant communication exists between shareholders and other stakeholders. • Fully compliance of ALFA ‘s obligations to pertinent authorities. Processes to learn about labor relations’ status • Daily interaction between boss and subordinates. • Daily interaction with Unions. • Organizational climate studies. Corporate committees or other employee representative bodies in a position to convey concerns and/or suggestions In addition to Unions, associations of employees exist to channel concerns and suggestions through their companies’ Human Resources departments and the Transparency Mailbox. Employees’ most relevant concerns (occupational, economic, environmental and social) • To be offered with professional growth opportunities. • To be rewarded with a competitive wage in relation to their duties. • To work in an inclusive and participative organizational climate company. • To work under evermore increasing health and safety conditions. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for The Board members and senior executives’ compensation is set by comparing standards of companies similar Fully members of the highest governance in size and the industrial sector in which they operate. In the particular case of executives and managers, a body, senior managers, and execuportion of their monetary compensation is variable and linked to their performance in their respective area, as tives in relation to the organization’s well as their achievements of previously set goals and the company’s results. These guidelines are established performance in economic, social and with the objective of generating economic value through a sustainable development, promoting the development environmental terms. of communities, and operating in harmony with nature. Employees are expected to meet these responsibilities, objectives and results under said perspective. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest ALFA holds a Conflict of Interests policy for the Board members and the rest of its employees. This policy Fully governance body to ensure conflicts states that responsibilities and duties of the members of the ALFA Board of Directors are governed under the of interest are avoided. Mexican Stock Market Law (LMV, acronym in Spanish), under the applicable dispositions in Mexico to stock issuers, and taking into account the Mexican Stock Exchange Code of Professional Ethics, the Code of Better Corporate Practices and the internal regulations of the Mexican Stock Exchange, as well as ALFA’s Code of Ethics. In accordance with the aforementioned LMV, members of the Board have a duty of due diligence and thus should always act in good faith to society’s best interest. They should also maintain confidentiality in regard to the company’s information or public affairs, as well as to keep from participating or be present during deliberation and voting on issues that might pose a conflict of interest. By ordinance, those members of the ALFA Board of Directors who might have a conflict of interests in deciding over any matter are compelled to inform the Chairman and the rest of the Board, as well as to keep from participating in the discussions and from exercising their vote on board meetings. Regarding employees, ALFA’s policies state that they must avoid any situation in which their interests might differ from those of the company. All employees who might have interests or relations with current or potential clients and suppliers must immediately inform their superior. 4.7 Process for determining the composiMembers of the Board of Directors are elected based on their professionalism, business record, leadership, Fully tion, qualifications and expertise of experience and compliance with ALFA’s code of values. No distinctions are made based on diversity characterthe members of the highest goveristics, such as gender, race, nationality, or personal beliefs. nance body and its committees. 19 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED 4.8 Internally developed See pages 4 and 5. Fully statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and How are these concepts infiltrated into every level of the company? principles relevant to economic, enThere are several methods by which ALFA infiltrates the Mission, Vision, Values and ALFA’s Code of Ethics vironmental, and social performance throughout the entire staff, such as induction programs, communication campaigns, Intranet and Internet and the status of their implementasites, and planning and results meetings, among others. ALFA’s Code of Ethics meets international standards, tion. like the ones stablished by the Global Compact of the United Nations and it’s implemented equally an all operations at a global scale. How has the implementation of this philosophy impacted on the economic, environment and social performance? • Economically, ALFA’s long term strategy is consistent to its Mission and Vision: to achieve a solid leadership position in the markets it participates internationally, as well as to constantly innovate on its companies processes to increase competitivity through a more efficient use of resources. • As far as environmental care, a greater effort in the matter stands out, which has resulted in concrete actions during 2013 such as the creation of the ALFA Water Commission. Its goal is facing the challenge of water scarcity in the near future by conducting research on alternatives for the preservation of this resource. • Socially, ALFA’s engagement with the community has remarkably strengthened through results like the started up of the Extracurricular Talent Center of ALFA Fundación, created to contribute to the development of talented youth in junior high school age living in marginalized areas of Monterrey, Mexico, so they are able to continue their studies up until they obtain a college degree, thus fostering social mobility. • In work-related issues, ALFA continued the allingning of its actions, programs and benefits towards the wellbeing and health of its employees, the improvement in safety inside its plants, and continuous training for skill development. An important proof of the progress in the reaching of this goal is the reduction of over 30% in accidents frequency and severity indexes compared to 2012. 4.9 Procedures of the The Board of Directors follows procedures consistent with those set by the corporate governance standards estabFully highest governance lished in Mexico’s Stock Exchange Law (LMV) and the Code for Better Corporate Practices. Moreover, the Board body for overseeing relies on the Audit, Corporate Practices and Planning and Finance committees to review the strategy, management the organization’s and results of the company, including environmental and social issues. Revisions are bimonthly and occur five identification and management times per year, with the exception of summer months. It is important to highlight that the guidelines established of economic, in ALFA’s Code of Ethics and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact are considered in every environmental, and social perfordecision-making process and action taked by the members of the Board. mance, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, How are the risks and opportunities assessed? codes of conduct, and principles. Assessment is based on complying with ALFA’s business strategy criteria and investment policies: affairs related to current operations, competitive position reinforcement, attractive markets (profitability and growth), synergies generation, and insuring the supply chain competitiveness. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest There are several board members’ evaluation methods that messure different aspects: from attendance at Fully governance body’s own performance, Board and their particular committee meetings, to their involvement in strategic decision-making processes particularly with and the effectiveness of the decisions taken. respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 20 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Through various dialogue and engagement processes with stakeholders (see Table 4.17), as well as the impleFully precautionary approach or principle memtation of impact assesments, ALFA identifies areas that represent risks for and from its operations. The is addressed by the organization. analysis of the obtained results allows the company to create and/or adjust its management strategy towards generating new actions that mitigate such risks however much is possible. IDENTIFIED RISKS Work-related • Workplace accidents. Due to the nature of their operations, some of ALFA’s companies handle raw materials, products and carry out processes that could pose the risk of an accident. • Strikes. Despite Human Resources programs and a zero-strikes or serious conflict record, this should always be regarded as a potential risk. Environmental • Emissions, spills or discharges that could potentially pollute air, land and water due to the nature of feedstock, products and processes, including their handling and transportation. • Lack of natural resources. The increasing scarcity of natural resources like water or fossil fuels for energy generation is a real, present risk for the continuous operation of ALFA’s businesses. • Product life-cycle. Some of ALFA’s products like PET, polypropylene or polystyrene foam could pose a risk to the ecosystem if handled incorrectly. Community-related • Possibility of a neighborhood rejecting the operations of a plant because of the risk of emissions, explotions, traffic congestion, reduced quality of life, etc. • Product life-cycle: for Sigma, the sale of a food product in inadequate conditions for human consumption, being the causes directly attributable to the organization or not, could pose a risk for the health of the consumer. Economical • Economic volatility in international markets. • Cyclic nature of certain businesses. • Lesser availability of raw materials and feedstock like water or energy, which increases their costs. • Changes in the regulations of countries in which ALFA operates. MEASURES TAKEN BY THE COMPANY TO PREVENT SUCH RISKS Work-related • Noticeable boost and constant improvement on investments and programs on safety matters. • Work relations programs, including training, integral development of workers and their families, companyfamily bonding, competitive wages and benefits, as well as promoting an inclusive and participative, healthy work environment. Environmental • Investing in the best technology available to reduce or eliminate emissions through the use of cleaner energies (natural gas based energy cogeneration plant). • Investments to promote final product recycling (promoting PET recycling). • Complying with regulations set by authorities, suppliers and industry sectors. • Promoting an environmental culture, in and outside the company, incluiding the creation of commissions to propose and implement specific action points to strengthen environmental strategy. • Creating alliances with other companies to coordinate actions in favor of the environment. Community-related • Promoting the company’s proactive involvement in programs that benefit the community. • Supporting communities through volunteering work in case of natural disasters and other contingency situations. • Boosting ALFA Fundación education support. • Participating in community interest initiatives and events (i.e. school improvement, Food Banks, institutions that support handicapped people, and so forth). • Identifying operational risks for the communities and implementing effective actions to mitigate them. Economical • Constant revision and update of the company’s business strategy. • Searching for substitute feedstock and raw materials, recycling alternatives, and/or self-sufficiency. • Boost and investment on innovation and technological development. 21 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED 4.12 Externally developed economic, BUSINESS PROGRAM OR SPONSORING ASSOCIAFully TYPE 2013 RESULTS environmental, and social charters, GROUP INITIATIVE INSTITUTION TION DATE principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or ALFA EnvironTo develop a Fondo de 2013 It will benefit four million endorses. mental water culture, Agua Metropeople, thanks to the improving water politano de maintainance given to the filtering and to Monterrey watersheds that provide reduce flooding. the city with water. ALFA Community Citizenship. Red Sumarse 2011 814 people benefited in three communities in Nuevo Leon, Mexico ALFA Community Work opMovimiento 2005 83 handicapped individuportunities for Congruencia als were hired. handicapped individuals. ALFA Economic Luis G. Sada COPARMEX 2013 SMEs recognized for their Award. Jóven corporate social responsibility practices. NEMAK EnvironAlianza Verde SEMARNAT March 2012 The creation of ecoefimental Automotriz. ciency and sustainability initiatives in the automotive industry. NEMAK EnvironPLAC SEMARNAT Beginning Reduction of 1,215 GJ mental (Environmental of 2013 per year, 48,000 ton CO2 Leadership for equivalent and 6 tons of Competitivewaste. ness). NEMAK Community Sports and Fundación January Inauguration of 3,000 m2 Culture Center Educativa San 2012 of infrastructure to support San José. José the community of García, Nuevo León, in cultural and sports formation. NEMAK Economic PLAC SEMARNAT 2013 Savings of U.S. $ 2’045,000 (Environmental by making processes more Leadership for efficient. Competitiveness). DAK EnvironCape Fear River University of 2001 Monitors river quality to AMERICAS mental Program. North Carolina determine the industry’s Wilmington impact. Center for Marine Science DAK Community Annual bicycle Hancock 2013 Donation of christmas AMERICAS fund by J.J. / County Foster gifts and bicycles for 50 Angel Tree. Program children. DAK Community Reherseals. AISTAC, October Approving emergency AMERICAS PROFEPA 2013 response program and training the nearby community. SIGMA Community Movimiento Network of 2005 Instituting the organization Congruencia. businesses as a Civil Association. across Mexico. Reelection of ALFA as the Chairman of the Executive Council. SIGMA Economic Supply chain. NAFINSA 2001. Supporting 50 SMEs. 22 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED 4.13 Memberships in associations (such DOES IT Fully as industry associations) and/or PARTICIPATE COUNTRY ASSOCIATION BUSINESS national/international advocacy orgaIN GOVERNING nizations, and how the organization BODIES? participates in them (as governance Mexico Alianza Verde Automotriz Nemak Yes bodies, projects or committees, providers of substantive funds, for Asociación de Ejecutivos de Relaciones Industriales de Nemak No strategic reasons). Monclova (AERIMAC) Asociación de Industriales del Sur de Tamaulipas, A.C. (AISTAC) Petrotemex Yes Indelpro Asociación Mexicana de Bancos de Alimentos (AMBA) Sigma No Asociación Mexicana de Internet, A.C. (AMIPCI) Alestra Yes Asociación Nacional de Establecimientos TIF, A.C. (ANETIF) Sigma Yes Asociación Nacional de Importaciones y Exportaciones de la Petrotemex No República Mexicana, A.C. Asociación Nacional de la Industria Química (ANIQ) Petrotemex Yes Indelpro Polioles Univex Akra Polyester Asociación Nacional de Transporte Privado (ANTP) Sigma Yes Asociación Técnica de Compensaciones (ATECO) Nemak Yes Cámara Árabe Mexicana de la Industria y Comercio Petrotemex No Cámara de la Industria de Transformación de Nuevo León ALFA Yes (CAINTRA) Cámara Nacional de Industriales de la Leche (CANILEC) Sigma Yes Cámara Nacional de la Industria de la Transformación Indelpro No (CANACINTRA) Nemak Cámara Nacional de la Industria Electrónica de TelecomunicaAlestra Yes ciones y Tecnologías de la Información (CANIETI) Centro para la Integración y Desarrollo de la Industria Nemak Yes Automotriz de Coahuila (CIDIAC) Cluster Automotriz (CLAUT) Nemak Yes Confederación de Cámaras Industriales (CONCAMIN) ALFA Yes Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana (COPARMEX) ALFA Yes Consejo Empresarial Mexicano de Comercio Exterior, Inversión ALFA Yes y Tecnología (COMECE) Consejo Mexicano de la Industria de Productos de Consumo Sigma Yes (CONMEXICO) Consejo para el Fomento de la Calidad de la Leche y sus Sigma Yes Derivados (COFOCALEC) Cruz Roja Mexicana Nemak No Ejecutivos de Relaciones Industriales, A.C. (ERIAC) Alestra No Industriales Regiomontanos del Poniente, A.C. (IRPAC) ALFA Yes Instituto de Contadores Públicos de Nuevo León, A.C. Alestra No Patronato de Bomberos y Protección Civil Nemak No Cluster Agroalimentario de A.C. de N.L. Sigma Yes U.S.A. Global Food Safety Initiative Sigma Yes American Fiber Manufacturers Association (AFMA) Dak Americas Yes American Foundry Society Nemak Yes Association of the Nonwoven Fabrics Industry (INDA) Dak Americas Yes Barren County Chamber of Commerce Nemak No Carolinas Air Pollution Control Association (CAPCA) Dak Americas Yes Manufacturers and Chemical Industry Council of North Dak Americas No Carolina 23 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED Mississippi Manufacturers Association Dak Americas No National Associate for PET Containers Resources Dak Americas Yes National Council of Textile Organizations (NCTO) Dak Americas Yes National Right-to-Work Legal Foundation Employers' AsDak Americas No sociation North Carolina Manufacturers Alliance (NCMA) Dak Americas Yes Sheboygan Chamber of Commerce Nemak No South Carolina Manufacturers Alliance (SCMA) Dak Americas Yes Sylacauga Chamber of Commerce Nemak Yes Tennessee Chamber of Commerce Nemak No The PET Resin Association Dak Americas Yes Germany Association for operational Foundry Research (Austrian Nemak Yes Foundry Research Institute (ÖGI) Austrian Economic Chamber (specific field: foundry industry) Nemak Yes Bdguss (Bundesverband der Deutschen Gießereiindustrie) Nemak No Development association for FH Wels Nemak No IHK Dillingen (Cámara Nacional de Comercio) Nemak No IV (Federation of Austrian Industries Nemak No VÖG (Verein Österreichischer Gießereifachleute) Nemak No Hungary Association of the Hungarian Automotive Industry Nemak No Association of Hungarian Foundries Nemak No China Association of China Casting Nemak No Argentina Asociación Argentina de Componentes Nemak No Cámara de Comercio Exterior Nemak No Cámara de Industriales Metalúrgicos Nemak No Cámara de la Industria del PET (CIPETAR) Dak Americas Yes Comité Industrial de Conservación Ambiental Campana-Zarate Dak Americas Yes (CICAZ) Unión Industrial de Zarate (UIZ) Dak Americas Yes Poland Silesian Union of Private Employers Nemak No Slovakia Automotive Industry Association Nemak No Slovak Association for Maintenance Nemak No Slovak Society for Quality Nemak No Slovak Centrum of Productivity Nemak No Brazil Asociación Brasileña de la Fundición (ABIFA) Nemak Yes Consejo Nacional de Autoregulamiento Publicitario (CONAR) Sigma Yes Instituto Sindipeças de Educación Corporativa Nemak No Canada Canadian Foundry Society Nemak No Asociación para la Investigación Operacional de Fundidoras Nemak Yes (ÖGI) Spain Cluster de Automoción del país Vasco Nemak No Federación Vizcaína de empresas del metal Nemak Yes During 2013, some of ALFA’s companies, such as Nemak Monterrey or Dak Americas in the United States contributed with a higher wage than the usual, with the associations and/or chambers in which they participate. Every company participates in these with the objective of forming strategic alliances with other entities with shared interests. ALFA’s companies are part of the governing bodies in nearly 50% of the chambers and associations, and participate in individual projects related to their specific operations. 24 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged Shareholders, clients, employees, community and suppliers. Fully by the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection See page 5. Fully of stakeholders with whom to Selection criteria are based on the direct or indirect impacts the company may have on specific groups. Once engage. identified, the level of impact is rated and involvement strategies are created according to the characteristics of each group. ALFA executes said strategies with its five stakeholder groups. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engageThe vast majority of ALFA’s companies maintain an open and constant dialogue with their stakeholders. The Fully ment, including frequency of engagecriteria are that all stakeholders are important and deserve respect and atention in a timely manner. The ment by type and by stakeholder relationship with them is always carried in a professional, ethical and transparent way. Frequency of contact group. depends on the audience and its particular situation. The company, however, keeps an open door policy for all its stakeholders. For example, in 2013 AKRA Polyester started having periodic talks with its contractors about security topics regarding their plants. It is indispendable that all contractors assist these talks so they can work in the company. Alestra inaugurated a Sperto Center in Mexico City, which offers clients an interactive approach to current technological tendencies, with the guidance of highly trained personnel. This experimental forum allows visitors visualize how the daily processes of their businesses could be empowered by Alestra’s technology. See Table 4.17. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have Fully AUDIENCE RELEVANT MEDIA FREQUENCY CONCERNS RESPONSE been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization Shareholders Results meetings. Quarterly, Attractive investInvesting in businesses has responded to those key topics annual ment return. with potential growth and and concerns, including through its E-mail. Continuous Competitive busiprofitability. reporting. Direct phone lines. Continuous ness portfolio Competitiveness boost. Board meetings. Bimonthly in attractive Compliance with Press releases. Continuous industries with the Mexican Stock Plant visits. Periodic growth potential. Exchange Law (LMV) Adherence to and the Code for corporate goverBetter Corporate nance practices. Practices. Communication and Investment Relations Departments. Clients and Plant visits. Continuous More efficient Development of consumers E-mail. Continuous and innovative value added products and Satisfaction products at a fair services. surveys. Periodic price. Raw material optimization. 01 800 lines. Continuous Doubts regarding Investment in research for Fairs and special service, and product improvement. events. Periodic information Effective response and Focus groups. Periodic and handling of guidance. Social media (Faceproducts. Investigating and solving book, Twitter). Continuous Security and root problems that may be Webpage. Continuous Safety processthe cause of complaints. Sperto Center associated (Alestra). Workdays preventive tasks. Tech expos. 1-2 times per Quality of year services and products. Employees Organizational Safe workplace Safety programs. and their climate conditions. Benefit programs and families surveys. Periodic Competitive wage reviews. Transparency wages and Education and training mailbox. Continuous benefits. programs. Meetings. Continuous Growth opporFamily development Ethics Committee. Continuous tunities/ career programs. Training. Continuous plans. Implementation of Human Resources. Continuous Life balance. benefits such as flex-time, Communication Idea contribucourses and talks for famforums. Annual tions to process ily members, scholarships Intranet. Continuous innovation. for employees’ children. Bulletins. Continuous Monitoring best Approving innovation Letters to the practices. ideas, heeding suggested President. Continuous Bussiness improvements. results. Publicly available finanProject developcial reports. ment. Project valuation and budget adjustments. 25 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED Communities Discussion panels and Bianual Less polluting Emission reduction perception surveys. emisions. programs. Neighborly visits and Industrial safety. Investing in safer dialogue. Periodic Sustainable/ equipment and E-mail. biodegradable technologies. Website. Continuous products. Forming alliSports and recreation ances with other events in plants. Continuous companies to create School talks. Periodic strategies in favor of Emergency drills. Periodic the community. GIREL Group (Industrial Crisis Response Group at Lerma, formed by 7 companies). Continuous Notices. Continuous Suppliers Suppliers portal. Continuous Development Suppliers’ DevelopMeetings. Continuous support. ment Program. Acquisitions department Periodic Suppliers certificasurveys. tion. Audits. Periodic Training through E-mail. Continuous courses and talks. EC ECONOMIC EC1 Direct economic value generated and Fully 2012 2013 distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, Revenues U.S. $15,152 millions U.S. $15,870 millions donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and Operating costs Not available U.S. $13,012 millions payments to capital providers and Payments to employees Not available U.S. $1,618 millions governments. Payments to suppliers of capital (payment of loans IA213 page 42) Not available U.S. $2,548 millions Paid taxes (payment to governments) U.S. $ 119 millions U.S. $346 millions Community investments Not available U.S. $130,000 Direct economic value generated U.S. $15,196 millions U.S. $15,898 millions Economic value retained U.S. $408 millions U.S. $76 millions Total assets U.S. $11,827 millions U.S. $12,648 millions Capital investments U.S. $874 millions U.S. $1,550 millions Paid dividends U.S. $162 millions U.S. $274 millions Direct Jobs 59,847 61,085 EC2 Financial implications See Statement from the Chairman of the Board and the President, page 1. Fully and other risks and opportunities for the Complement: Climate change is subject to the company’s attention given the possible consequences it organization’s activities due to may have on the availability of feedstock and certain resources used by the it, like energy and water, or the climate change. impacts that natural events such as storms may have on product transportation. This represents increasing production costs, delays in product delivery, logistic problems, lack of control over inventory, amongst other issues. It also creates opportunities for processes improvement, such as the search for new technologies or investments, like an energy cogeneration plant that will provide economic and environmental benefits. In this regard, ALFA has implemented strategies that aim to reduce its carbon and water footprint through a more efficient and sustainable operation, contributing to minimize all kinds of impacts these might have. In every case, regulation-related risks are identified, as well as the amounts of investments carried out to comply with corresponding regulations or, depending on the case, the budget estimates of investment projects necessary to comply with them. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s Retirement plans, education support and medical assistance are available to all permanent employees. The Fully defined benefit plan obligations. retirement system consists of a fixed contribution plan provided by the company, ranging from 4% to 17% of the worker’s salary and varies according to each country’s labor laws. Resources and obligations to cover this benefit are 100% covered by the company. EC4 Significant financial assistance In 2013, the company did not receive significant financial aid from governments, except for tax incentives Fully received from government. destined to technology development projects. 26 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry 2.3 to 1. ALFA’s standard entry level salary, compared to Mexico’s minimum wage in 2013 was 3.1 to 1. ALFA’s employFully level wage by gender compared to ees in the United States who perceive the lowest salary receive 1.85 times over the minimum wage in the citlocal minimum wage at significant ies where the company operates. ALFA reports this information as these two countries represent 75% of ALFA’s locations of operation. workforce (45,000 employees). There is no difference in minimum salaries based on the employees’ gender. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of Depending on the type of raw material and equipment required to operate, as well as factors such as quality, Fully spending on locally-based suppliers price and service, ALFA’s companies seek to acquire their supplies with local suppliers in the countries and at significant locations of operation. communities in which they operate. The definition of ‘local’ varies by company and by type of raw material. Local suppliers may be those inside the immediate community, such as its small and medium businesses, or larger companies present in the community, ranging up to suppliers inside the country of operations Some companies operate supplier development programs targeted at small and medium businesses. Expense ratio of locally-based suppliers fluctuated between 10% and 95% in 2013, depending on the company, with a global average of 65%, 5% more when compared to 2012. Percentage on significant locations of operation. % locally-based suppliers Mexico 59% U.S.A. 84% Europe 54% Asia and Southamerica are not considered significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and ALFA hires local staff for the companies it establishes and maintains the workforce of those it acquires. Local Fully proportion of senior management personnel are hired in non-executive positions to develop their skills and provide training so they can move hired from the local community at on to executive positions once they have the necessary abilities. This allows for greater engagement with significant locations of operation. local communities and contributes to their development. By the end of 2013, 96% of ALFA’s excecutive and managerial positions were held by local staff members. Percentage on signifcant locations of operation. % local personal Mexico 99% U.S.A. 95% Europe 95% Asia and Southamerica are not considered significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infraALFA undertakes activities for its community, whether by volunteering, disaster support, and/or cash and in Fully structure investments and services kind donations. To determine the type of support to give out, and to which degree, ALFA implements needs provided primarily for public benefit assesments in the community to support, and keeps an open dialogue with it to receive specific inquiries. through commercial, in-kind, or pro In 2013, in the specific case of infrastructure for public benefit, over 20 plants worldwide supported bono engagement. educational institutions with donations like furniture, construction materials for sport facilities, and recovery of green areas, amongst others, benefitting over 17,000 students. Nemak Alabama’s donated resources for the recreational part Sylacagua, and Sigma donated over $6 million pesos to the Teletón in Mexico, an institution that provides rehabilitation services to handicapped children. 86% of the families to which these children belong are from the country’s most vulnerable population, and every year more than 30,000 childs are attended. But the most important investement in this area was the ALFA Fundación Extracurricular Talent Center, which started operating in 2013, offering an educational model that tries to stimulate the development of talented students from impoverished areas of the city of Monterrey, Nuevo León. 200 students were benefited only in the first academic period. Cash investments by companies in this topic summed up to $130,000 USD. 27 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED EC9 Understanding and describing sigALFA’s activities have indirect economic impacts. Some of the actions that have been identified as generating Fully nificant indirect economic impacts, these impacts by producing an indirect economic spillover effect are: including the extent of impacts. • Hiring and buying services and raw materials that direct suppliers make in order to cover their requirements. • Investment in technologies to elaborate quality, low-cost products for clients, which will therefore yield more earnings for them. • Investment agreements that generate jobs and the building of an energy cogeneration plant in Veracruz; the building of a Nemak plant in Chongqing, China; and the building of the Data Center in Querétaro by Alestra, to mention some examples. • The commercialization of Sigma products in Mexico by over 440,000 storeowners and small merchants who obtain earnings from this activity. Likewise, one of the motivations behind reformulating ALFA Fundación role in the community was developing a model that enables it to maximize its impact. By creating a platform through which economic resources are not destined only to cover immediate needs, but for long-term purpouses, the positive social and economic impact, both directly and indirectly, are greatly increased. On the negative side, the closing of Alpek’s plant in Cape Fear caused a reduction in the workforce. EN ENVIRONMENTAL EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Petroleum products (paraxylene, The vast variety in raw materials used to manufacture products by ALFA’s companies is due to the diversity Fully ethylene, propylene, glycols) as of the companies themselves. In Alpek’s case, there are three integrated plants (Columbia, Pearl River and well as aluminum scrap, meat and Temex-Cosoleacaque) that produce PTA (terephthtalic acid), which is a raw material for PET, also produced in dairy products. these plants. PTA is also sold as a raw material to other companies that manufacture their own PET. In turn, the PTAL-Altamira plant in Tamaulipas provides Akra Polyester with PTA for the production of polyester fiber. COMPANY MATERIAL TONNES LITERS RENOVABLE SÍ/NO ALPEK Terephthalic Acid 1’585,927 *No Ethylene glycol 562,455 *No Mono ethylene glycol 25,632 *No Propene 411,737 *No Ethylene 4,668 *No Propene Oxide 25,742 *No Ethylene Oxide 38,630 *No Styrene 131,701 *No Pentane 8,737 *No Polyester/PP Olefins 1,500 *No BCF Polyester Nylon 4,000 *No Sulphate 78,716 *No Ammonia 112,210 *No Paraxylene 1’037,024 *No Acetic acid 67,687 *No NEMAK Aluminum 669,021 *No Silica sand 156,643 *No Resins 87,675 *No Scrap 17,306 In some cases Soldering flux 953 *No Alloy 34,429 No Die lubricant 647,154 *No SIGMA Poultry 227,962 Yes Pork 72,709 Yes Beef 4,074 Yes Liquid cow milk 332’340,000 Yes 5’367,138 332’987,154 *All of these raw materials are derivates of petroleum, which is a fossil fuel. 28 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED EN2 Percentage of materials used that are NEMAK Mexico used 483,000 tons of This aspect applies to Alpek and Nemak. Fully recycled input materials. recycled aluminum and 470,250 tons COMPANY MATERIAL PERCENTAGE VS TOTAL TONNES of recycled sand in its processes. NEMAK Poland used 14,467 tons of Nemak Aluminum 79% 528,525.5 recycled aluminum, steel and sand. NEMAK Tennesse recycled 250 tons Scrap metal 63% 10,903 of scrap metal. DAK America’s Silica sand 71% 111,216.5 Cape Fear and Columbia sites used 1,360 tons of recycled PTA in their Alpek Liquid styrene 80% 20.63 processes. In total, ALFA’s companies PTA 100% (Columbia Plant, DAK 6,917 recycled 1,099,379 tonnes of various Americas) kinds of materials in 2012. Nemak stood out by using 483,000 tonnes of recycled aluminum. In addition, Clear Path Recycling (ALFA & Shaw Industries joint venture), recycled 54,432 tons of PET containers reuse in their processes. EN3 Direct energy consumption by 32.9 x 106 GJ In 2013, ALFA consumed approximately 34.15 x106 GJ of direct energy from non-renewable sources, of which Fully primary energy source. 90% was natural gas. 90% was natural gas, the cleanest fuel of its kind. ENERGY TYPE DIRECT CONSUMPTION (GJ) Coal 2.4 x 106 GJ(~8%) Natural gas 30.7 x 106 GJ(~90%) Fuel oil 0.38 x 106 GJ(~1%) Diesel 0.04 x 106 GJ (~0%) LPG 0.20 x 106 GJ(~0%) Others 0.43 x 106 GJ(~1%) Total 34.15 x 106 GJ *Data pertains to 2013 consumption of energy, by type, for ALFA’s operating plants. Not included are figures from Bar-S, Newpek, new acquisitions of JL French, steam originating from Enertek, steam acquired by DAK Columbia, or steam acquired by Polioles Altamira. Neither included is fuel consumption by Sigma’s transportation fleet, as that information is included in a posterous answer. EN4 Indirect energy consumption 5.61 x 106 GJ In the following table, indirect energy consumption during 2013 is summarized. Fully by primary source. INDIRECT ENERGY TYPE GJ Steam 5.3 x106 Electricity 12.1 x 106 Total 17.4 x 106 The following information includes fuel consumption by Sigma’s transportation fleet in Mexico and the United States (fuel consumption in transport by other companies is not included): Diesel ~0.88 x 106 GJ Gasoline ~0.18 x 106 GJ LPG ~0.10 x 106 GJ Total ~1.16 x 106 GJ EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and 4.7 x 106 GJ (07-12 period). Total energy savings due to the initiatives carried out with this objective in the 2007-2013 period were 4.92 x Fully efficiency improvements. 106 GJ. In 2013, savings were of 220,000 GJ. Said initiatives include equipment renovation, investment in more efficient technologies, fuel use optimization, process improvement, and permanent actions held by personnel as part of the environmental culture ALFA’s companies are committed to implement. In 2013, 90% of energy used by ALFA came from natural gas. 29 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED EN6 Initiatives to provide In 2012, U.S $20 million were Fully SEE EN5. energy-efficient or renewable energy invested in 314 energy efficiency based products and services, and programs, such as new technologies, The objective of offering energy efficient products and services applies mainly to Nemak and Sigma. The reductions fuel switching and better practices, former produces aluminum parts for gasoline and diesel engines. In 2013, Nemak worked on initiatives to in energy requirements among others. Such projects aim to technologically improve the product in collaboration with its clients (engine manufacturers) in order to create as a result of these initiatives. reduce depletion of primary sources more efficient and lighter products that mean less fuel consumption for the final user. These initiatives are like natural gas, fueloil, coal, etc., as still on a development phase, so quantifiable results are not yet available. Nemak also participates in Alianza well as electricity and the indirect Verde Automotriz, which is an external initiative where energy saving practices are shared with clients. impact it carries. Projects’ total energy savings amount to 4.7 x 106 In 2013 Sigma approved a program to renovate refrigeration appliances used by retail stores and make them GJ a year, which is equivalent to more energy efficient. In this way, it contributes to the reduction of energy consumption by its distributors. It retiring 424,000 cars from circulation is important to mention that, periodically, a considerable number of ALFA’s companies carry out involvement in the same period. activities for the development of their suppliers, incluiding environmental care talks, with topics such as During the 2007-2012 period, U.S. efficient use of renewable and non-renewable energy sources. $78 million have been invested. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect All companies carried out Fully FOR EXTERNAL INITIATIVES SEE ASPECT EN6. energy consumption and reductions programs to reduce indirect energy achieved. consumption. As an example, 100 Internally, activities such as using energy-saving lighting, implementing videoconference systems, and videoconference and six telepreenergy-saving campaigns inside and outside the companies are carried out for the whole workforce and their sence rooms have been installed, families. Another example of reduction in energy consumption in an indirect manner are the activities of reducing the energy consumption companies like Petrotemex, which uses external contractors for material transportation and works continually derived from transportation to to make sure its loading and unloading processes and general logistics are as efficient as possible, with the attend live meetings. aim of optimizing costs, time, and energy consumption in transportation. By the end of 2013, energy savings as a result of these initiatives were not quantified. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE 2012 M3 2013 M3 Public utilities 3’217,900 8’613,436 Wells 7’814,901 5’298,555 Rivers or lakes 98’835,520 95’399,264 From third parties 5’056,701 9’613,579 Total 121’074,678 119’047,309 EN9 Water sources significantly affected In 2013, no significant damage to water sources derived from the company’s consumption was registered. Fully by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Approximately 50% of water 40% of ALFA’s plants carried out water treatment and reuse processes in 2013. Fully recycled and reused. consumed in ALFA’s companies is VOLUME M3 PERCENTAGE VS TOTAL CONSUMPTION reused in their processes. Treated water 18’563,842 16% Water reused in processes 1’390,769 2% CORRIGENDUM: In 2012, due to a calculation error, the percentage of water reused in ALFA’s processes was wrongly reported. The correct information is as follows: in 2012, 15% of water consumption by ALFA was treated in its treatment plants, and a fraction of this was reused in its processes. EN11 Location and size of land owned, Nemak plant in Monterrey, Mexico, Nemak’s plant in Monterrey, Mexico, is located within a protected area known as Yucca Forest (yucca plant is Fully leased, managed in, or adjacent to, is located within a protected area considered a protected species), and for that it carries out preservation programs in its almost 7,500 m² of protected areas and areas of high known as Yuca Forest, as well as gardens. In this space there are 20 species and over 72,000 individuals, of which 578 are yucca plants. The biodiversity value outside protected Wilmington and Charleston in the Temex plants in Cosoleacaque, Mexico, as well as those in Charleston, SC, in the United States, are located areas. U.S. All three facilities carry out alongside biodiversity value areas. In the first case it is a rainforest, whereas the other two are woodlands reforestation and care programs. In among rivers. In both plants, vegetation protection programs are carried out. 2012, DAK Americas obtained habitat certification by CF Wildlife Habitat In addition, DAK Americas plant in Columbia, NC, United States, is located near the Congaree National Park (24 for the third year in a row. The Temex km away), which is a conservation area of 10,549 hectares of swamp forests, freshwater lakes, and serveral plants in Cosoleacaque, Mexico, as tree species that form the last great sample of broadleaf trees. It is home to over 56 fish species and receives well as those in Wilmington, NC and over 2,000 migrant birds per year, the largest registered amount in the United States. The Zárate plant, in ArCharleston, SC are located alongside gentina, is 25 km away from the protected area Delta del Paraná, in which several kinds of forests, natural as diversity value areas. The first case well as anthropic, and several large swamp areas covered by scrubland. It has a total surface of approximately is a rainforest whereas the other two 90,000 hectares. In September of 2000 it was declared a Biosphere Reserve with a coordination approved in are woodlands among rivers. the 16th Annual Assembly of UNESCO’s International Coordination Council in Paris, France. Every ALFA facility carries out care and protection activities in the green areas that are located inside or nearby their sites. In some cases, concrete conservation actions are implemented even when the zone is not a protected biodiversity area. 30 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED EN12 Description of significant impacts If not properly disposed of in waste Some of the raw materials used in ALFA’s processes could have a negative impact on biodiversity in case of Fully of activities, products, and services deposits, containers and other PET, spillings, so strict internal controls are applied. Moreover, permanent campaigns are held to raise awareness on biodiversity in protected areas polystyrene and polypropylene on product recycling and final disposal as well as environmental care. In 2013, there were no significant and areas of high biodiversity value manufactured products could pose impacts that directly affected a high biodiversity area by ALFA’s companies. outside protected areas. a threat to nature reserves. In order to prevent such situations, ALFA, in association with Shaw Industries, has invested in a PET container recycling plant. Moreover, permanent campaigns are held to raise awareness on product recycling and final disposal as well as environmental care. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. ALFA operations in Monterrey, CoEvery ALFA facility that is located in this kind of area has conservation and care programs for their green areas, Fully soleacaque and Altamira in Mexico, ranging from reforestation activities and the building of plant nurseries, to internal residue control and handling as well as those in Wilmington and actions, among others. Nemak’s plant in Monterrey, Mexico, operates a continuous mantainance and preservation Charleston in the U.S., located next program of its over 7,500 m2 of green areas, where the yucca is protected, an endemic and protected species. DAK to or in important biodiversity areas Americas received in 2012 for the third time the Wildlife Habitat at Work certification, given by the organization contributed actively in their protecof the same name, which recognizes companies that go further than what standard regulations require and impletion and preservation, together with ment coordinated efforts between the company, the community, and its employees in favor of biodiversity at the local authorities and institutions. workplace. Actions to be highlighted are the placing of bird shelters, reforestation and species transplant, and so forth. The Yucas primarily located in the NEMAK Monterrey plant are considered a protected species, and thus NEMAK keeps a preservation and maintenance program in their gardens, an area close to 5,000 m2. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future Fully SEE ASPECTS EN2, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN10, EN11, EN13 AND EN14. plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. The company operates permanent projects in: • Emission reduction (the use of cleaner energies, dust covers, gas capture systems, etc.). • Materials recycling (mainly aluminum and PET ). • Waste disposal programs. • Water treatment plants. Biodiversity risks ALFA’s products and operations may entail have been identified from the evaluation of required raw materials, to the product’s lifecycle and manufacturing process. This is done through environmental impact assesments and the establishment of impact reduction goals that each company itself carries out according to the characteristics of its operations. Also, ALFA complies with the 100% of environmental legislations and regulations in every country in which it operates, a factor taken into account in the definition of biodiversity impact management strategies. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and Operations of ALFA’s companies do not pose a threat to endangered species. Fully national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Fully CO2 TONNES 2012 2013 gas emissions by weight. Direct 2’356,623 2’205,266 Indirect 1’691,347 2’021,431 Total 4’047,970 4’226,697 These figures correspond to ALFA’s total emissions for the period, excluding Bar-S, Newpek and J.L. French. Direct emissions cover the fuel usage in Sigma’s plants and transportation fleet. Indirect emissions cover electricity usage, as well as Enertek, DAK Columbia and Polioles Altamira steam usage. The methodology used for measurement is based on “The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard” of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. • GHG emissions from stationary combustion 4.0 • GHG emissions from purchased electricity 4.0 • GHG emissions from transport or mobile sources 4.0 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse Other indirect greenhouse gas emmisions are not relevant to ALFA’s operations. Fully gas emissions by weight. 31 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas ALFA implements permanent strategies for the reduction of greenhouse gases. In 2013, ALFA’s companies Fully emissions and reductions achieved. carried out activities such as change, renovation and optimization of equipment like furnaces and refrigeration systems. In Nemak’s case, the search and use of new technologies; in Sigma, the redesign of products to make lighter packages; in Alpek, energy efficiency programs that result in a lesser pollutant emission. The most important project developed between 2012 and 2013 is the energy cogeneration plant at Cosoleacaque, Veracruz, wich will start up operations at the begining of 2014 and will prevent the emission of 120,000 tonnes of CO2 per year, the equivalent to retiring 25,263 cars from circulation in the same timeframe. It is important to take into account that the generation and/or reduction of emissions also depend on changes in production levels related to market demand. In 2013, the direct emission of 151,357 tonnes of CO2 to the atmosphere was avoided. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Information was not available. No other ozone-depleting substances were detected. Fully substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Information was not available. The following information comes from the PET plant in Cosoleacaque, Veracruz, which generates NOx emisFully emissions by type and weight. sions due to the use of a chimney. The conversion factor to CO2 tonnes is as follows: VOC’s=.66 tonnes (with Emission Factor according to AP 42). Sigma generates this kind of emissions due to the use of boiler chimneys. However, it doesn’t have an evaluation of its weight in CO2 tonnes. This kind of emissions are not identified in any other of ALFA’s operations. SUBSTANCE WEIGHT NOx (direct measuring) 12.63 tonnes Methane (with Emission Factor according to AP-42) 0.28 tonnes EN21 Total water discharge by quality and 102’596,170 m3. ALFA generates three kinds of wastewater: water from productive processes, water used for cooling, and water Fully destination. used by personnel. All of the water from productive processes discharged by ALFA companies is treated as recquired by environmental laws and regulations before being channeled to its destination, which depends on the type of residue to treat. This takes place in the facilities inside ALFA (which may have one or more water treatment plants), or through external suppliers that provide the service based on each kind of residue. This water is not reused by any external organization. DISCHARGE VOLUME (M3) 2012 2013 Public sewage 1’879,522 2’009,480 Rivers or lakes 99’751,243 101’273,521 Sea NA 4’461,300 Other 965,405 1’931,290 Total 102’596,170 109’675,591 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Fully 2013 Residue Weight or volume (tonnes/ m3) Treatment or confinement method disposal method. (compost, reuse, recycling, incineration, landfill, etc.) Process-related (trash, solid 16,593 tonnes. Internal/external recycling, residues such as tubes, acculandfill, confinement, compost, mulators, packaging materials, coprocessing. meat). Oil (used, thermal, polluted). 402.13 tonnes and 1,872 m3. Oxidation process, confinement, recycling (for energy generation). Sand residues. 97,407.32 tonnes. Landfill, recycling, reuse. Steel and aluminum scrap. 10,075.36 tonnes. Internal/external recycling and reuse. *Paper, cardboard, wood (pal192,734.3 tonnes. Internal/external recycling and lets), packaging materials. reuse, landfill. Muds. 45,532 tonnes. Landfill. Treatment methods are determined based on the type of residue and established regulations for its correct disposal. ALFA maintains a punctual registry of the residues it generates and their final destination. *An important difference can be seen in the paper, cardboard, wood, etc. residues from 2013 in relation to 2012 because in the previous year Sigma’s information was not available. It is important to mention that more than 60 types of residues are generated by ALFA’s companies. In the previous table only the most significative are shown. EN23 Total number and volume of signifiNo significant residue spills were registered in or by ALFA’s companies during 2013. Fully cant spills. 32 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED EN24 Weight of transported, imported, Information was not available. Residues with these characteristics are paint, solvents, oils and/or oily emulsions, grease, impregnated solids, Fully exported, or treated waste deemed and fuel oil, and pertain only to one group of business. These residues are not significant. ALFA does not hazardous under the terms of the transport residues internationally. Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported TONNES M3 waste shipped internationally. 1,446.75 ton – 0.5% vs total *10,462 Since the amount is presented in m3 and the total weight of most significant residues is presented in tonnes, it is not possible to calculate the percentage vs total in tonnes. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and Information was not available. There were no significative impacts caused by water discharges and/or runoffs in 2013. Fully biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Fully See pages 10-11, and aspects EN2, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN10, EN11, EN13, EN14, EN18, EN21, EN22, EN23. impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Complement: In 2013, Nemak Poland detected a risk of noise pollution. In response, it started a project for the elimination of strong noises in its operations. EN27 Percentage of products sold and Most of ALFA’s companies don’t use packaging for its products, as they supply in bulk, using hopper cars or Fully their packaging materials that are tankers. Some recycle and reuse the packaging of their raw materials, such as pallets and sacks. Sigma is reclaimed by category. the only company that uses packaging materials for its products and as of the end of december 2013 it does not count with a reclaim program for the packaging of the product that reaches the end of its life cycle. In the case of Alpek, even when its products do not require packaging, some of them are used as components for the manufacturing of packaging materials (PET). For this reason, Alpek supports initiatives for the reclaiming and recycling of PET in its Clear Path Recycling plant, a joint venture between ALFA and Shaw Industries. In 2013 approximately 49,000 tonnes of this material were recycled. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines No fines or sanctions were received for non-compliance with environmental regulations. Fully and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impacts Information was not available. A large majority of ALFA’s companies hire suppliers for the transportation of their products. Before choosing Fully of transporting products and other one, they make sure it complies at a 100% with the environmental, labor, and security requirements and goods and materials used for the regulations necessary for a responsible operation. organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Sigma, which has a transportation fleet of its own, emitted 72,751 tonnes CO2 in 2013. To minimize this impact, actions such as training on appropriate vehicle driving, searching and using alternative fuels, and owning repair shops for unit maintainance, are being carried out. This impact is not considered significant as it represents 1.7% of ALFA’s total emissions. By the end of 2013, environmental impacts of the transportation of ALFA’s workforce to their workplace are not quantified because they are not considered material for the operations. EN30 Total environmental protection exInformation by category was not Fully Investment in 2013 (U.S.$) penditures and investments by type. available. Total expenditure was U.S. $26. 4 millions. Waste disposal $5’202,773 Emission treatment $11’149,044 Remediation costs $23,288 Prevention costs $837,566 Environmental management costs $5’997,190 Total $23’452,862 33 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED LA LABOR PRACTICES LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 1. Total workforce 61,085 Fully employment contract, and region, 2. Number of employees by employment type and gender broken down by gender. NUMBER PERCENTAGE WOMEN MEN UNIONIZED 26,383 44% 3,143 31,937 EMPLOYEES 33,149 56% 11,195 8,489 3. Number of employees by gender GENDER NUMBER PERCENTAGE VS TOTAL WOMEN 13,049 22% MEN 46,483 78% 4. Number of employees by region and gender MEN WOMEN MEXICO 37,134 11,967 EUROPE 4,049 1,012 ASIA 851 213 *Aproximmate data. 5. Number of employees by employment contract* EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT NUMBER PERCENTAGE VS TOTAL PERMANENT 56,517 94% TEMPORARY 1,512 3% BY FEES 1,503 3% *By the end of 2013 there is no data on the workforce by employment contract by gender. It will be reported on 2014. By the end of 2013 the breakdown of the workforce information does not include the age category, for it is not considered material for ALFA’s operations. It will be reported on 2014. The numbers of women and men do not include data on minor operations. LA2 Total number and rate of new 3,798 unionized employees ceased 3,711 unionized employees and 6,066 non-unionized employees ceased to work at ALFA in 2013 (1.17% Fully employee hires and employee to work in ALFA’s companies in 2012 monthly average rotation for unionized employees, and 1.58% monthly average rotation for non-unionized turnover by age group, gender, and (1.30% monthly average rotation), employees). region. whereas 5,589 non-unionized employees ceased their activities in By the end of 2013, workforce data categorized by age groups, gender and region is only available for Sigma ALFA also (1.50% monthly average Mexico, ALFA’s most significant operation, where over 80% of the company’s female employees work. For other rotation). operations this information is not considered material. AGE GROUP HIRES DOWNSIZE 18-34 3,865 2,854 35-50 1,435 1,694 51AND UP 85 165 GENDER WOMEN 2,034 1,850 MEN 3,351 2,863 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employPermanent employees are given a Christmas and vacation bonus, food vouchers, savings fund, years of service Fully ees that are not provided to temporary recognitions and a retirement system which consists in a fixed contribution plan provided by the company, or parttime employees, by significant ranging from 4% to 17% of the employee’s salary. Temporary employees and part-time workers do not benefit locations of operation. from the retirement plan. In Sigma’s case, benefits vary according to region and position, and not necessarily in relation to working time. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by 47% 55% Fully collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Minimum notice is general, two weeks in advance. This information is included in collective bargaining Fully significant operational changes, agreements. including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 34 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED LA6 Percentage of total workforce repre100% of employees are represented in committees. These are formally stablished and have clear goals, stratFully sented in formal joint managementegies and plans of action, as well as monitoring and review of results. The amount of employees who engage worker health and safety committees in the committees varies by work center, with the areas of Human Resources, Unions, and Health and Safety that help monitor and advise on ocalways represented. Generally speaking, around 2% to 4% of the workforce participates in these committees. cupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational A) ALFA’s total rates: Fully diseases, lost days and absenteeism, REGION BY SICKNESS BY ACCIDENTS FREQUENCY INDEX LOST DAYS RATE and number of work related fatalities by region and gender. Global 0.68 0.05 7.79 173.40 America 1.58 0.08 Work-related fatalities 1 (man, ALFA’s direct employee) Only information from America is presented as it is the most significant of ALFA’s operations and holds over 80% of all personnel. B) Absenteeism rates in Sigma Mexico broken down by gender and region. This information is presented since it is the most significant of ALFA’s operations and where 80% of the company’s female employees work. Information from other operations is not reported as it is not considered material. BY SICKNESS BY ACCIDENTS FREQUENCY RATE MEN 0 8.43 46.80 WOMEN 0.009 13.69 50.23 AMERICA 0.005 10.67 48.39 LA8 Education, training, counseling, In 2013, U.S. $16.6 million were invested in 175 programs and actions in favor of employees’ health in 90% Fully prevention, and risk-control of operations. Going further than the health benefits defined by laws and regulations, these programs are diprograms in place to assist workforce rected also to the employees’ families. Health topics are considered in all events, physical activity campaigns members, their families, or comincluded. In most workcenters health services are available and campaigns for preventive healthcare and munity members regarding serious weight control, among others, are promoted. ALFA’s central offices inaugurated the web portal Bienestar ALFA, diseases. which provides assistance and information to contribute to the wellbeing of employees and their families. This portal is also open for any other audiences. Furthermore, over 20% of plants carry out some kind of health program in benefit of their communities. There are operations that could pose a health threat to the employees’ health, a risk reported in around 25% of ALFA’s plants in 2013. These facilities apply the most strict safety and training controls for the position. Some of the programs implemented are: COMMUNITY, EMPLOYEES AND THEIR EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY FAMILIES THE COMMUNITY THEIR FAMILIES Periodic medical Vacunar es prevenir (to Know your Coworking with SAFE check-ups vaccinate is to prevent) numbers the Red Cross program Vaccination programs PAE (telephone attenSafety, Security First aid training Healthy tion and assistance) and Environmental School Management Week program National Campaign to Biweekly informaBarren County Talks about In colaborafight overweight and tion bulletin about Heart Walk health risks tion with obesity preventive measures for associated with Alabama chronic and degeneraobesity Food Solutive diseases tions Drug-free workplace CAVIDA Be OK with Yourself Integral Health Diabetes detection and Program control Program for Health Assistance in the Workplace LA9 Health and safety topics covered in Programs to reduce workplace accidents and occupational diseases are constantly developed with the support Fully formal agreements with trade unions. from the Safety, Health and Hygiene committees, in which a high percentage of employees participate. These committees are given all of the necessary equipment to carry out their activities in the safest possible way, and they are in constant training. More so, the plants have health units, specific programs for educating employees in health topics, and vaccination, nutrition and physical activity campaigns, contributing to their wellbeing. Internal employee guidelines cover these issues. 35 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED LA10 Average hours of training per year per In 2012, an average of 27 hours of A) Fully employee by gender and by employee training per employee was equally AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER PERSON BROKEN DOWN BY AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER category. given to men and women in 2,909 EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AND GENDER EMPLOYEE courses. This investment amounted to U.S. $7.3 million. Unionized Employee Men Women Men Women 27 hours 24 18 32 30 B) TOTAL HOURS OF TRAINING BROKEN DOWN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AND GENDER Unionized Employee Men Women Men Women 541,094 22,546 237,614 31,868 C) TOTAL HOURS OF TRAINING BROKEN DOWN BY GENDER Men Women 778,708 54,414 IMPORTANT: Data used in tables B and C do not contemplate information from Sigma Mexico nor the information from plants that represent less than 5% of ALFA’s workforce, as by the end of 2013 they do not have the information broken down according to the requested criteria. Total hours of training for Sigma Mexico were 339,207 man-hours. By adding this additional information to the data in table C, the total hours of training is over 1’172,329 manhours for ALFA in 2013. LA11 Programs for skills management and In addition to benefits like savings funds and/or retirement plans, approximately 40% of ALFA’s plants impleFully lifelong learning that support the ment some kind of program or specific action for the development of its workers that foster employability and continued employability of employassist workers in managing career endings. Some examples are: ees and assist them in managing • Employee Assistance Program (EAP). career endings. • Talks with external advisors about topics such as savings account, retirement plans, credit, IMSS, Infonavit. • Support for will writing and savings account. • Assisting in money management, in later employment possibilities and other necessary orientation. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving 76% of ALFA’s companies’ workforce 83% of ALFA’s companies’ workforce received performance evaluations during 2013. Fully regular performance and career received performance evaluations TOTAL PERCENTAGE PERCENTAGE OF MEN PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN development reviews, by gender. during 2012. 71% (42,268 employees) 82% (34,660) 69% (29,164) LA13 Composition of governance bodies and With operations in 18 countries, ALFA’s workforce encompasses a great diversity of nationalities, races, Fully breakdown of employees per employreligions and cultures, a characteristic that enhances its work environment. As a result, the most significant ee category according to gender, age diversity indicators are gender and handicapped people. In 2013, 22% of ALFA’s workforce consisted of group, minority group membership, women, with a total of 13,049 female employees. Also, 197 handicapped individuals worked at ALFA in 2013. and other indicators of diversity. There are no female members in ALFA’s Board of Directors. For data on age group and gender of the workforce, see aspect LA1. By the end of 2013 there is no data on the handicapped people by gender nor age group. It will be reported on 2014. For data on diversity inside the Board, see aspect 4.1. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneraThere is no base salary distinction for male and female personnel in the same job position. Compensation is Fully tion of women to men by employee determined based on knowledge, capability and expertise. category, by significant locations of operation. LA15 Return to work and retention rates Information was not available. In ALFA, parental leave is granted to any men and women who request it according to what is established Fully after parental leave, by gender. in current laws, this in addition to offering flexible working hours to women in the first months of life of the child. There is no retention rates for taking the parental leave permit. Following are the results from Sigma Mexico and ALFA Corporate operations, as more than 80% of ALFA’s female employees are concentrated in these two, and parental leave permit was only required by women. Number of candidates for parental leave permit 1,083 Number of employees that took parental leave permit 65 Employees that went back to work after parental 54 leave Number of employees that worked for at least 12 By the end of 2013, this information is not available months after the end of parental leave since it is not considered material. 36 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED HR HUMAN RIGHTS HR1 Percentage and total number of Information was not available. 100% of the 5 contracts and/or investment agreements celebrated in 2013. Fully significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, Information was not available. 100% of suppliers and contractors are investigated to make sure they commit no human rights violations Fully contractors, and other business and completely comply with laws and regulations on labor aspects. As an example, one of the precautionary partners that have undergone human measures performed, is to not seek for a business relationship with countries in which social conflicts that rights screening, and actions taken. derive in human rights violations may exist. In 2013, there were no agreements rejected on the basis of human rights screening. HR3 Total hours of employee training on Information was not available. In 2013, no training on the topic of human rights was executed. However, every individual that joins ALFA’s Fully policies and procedures concerning companies goes through an induction process in which human rights topics are covered, and it’s informed of aspects of human rights that are ALFA’s adherence to the Global Compact of the United Nations. relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimiIn 2013 there were no reports for incidents of discrimination in ALFA’s companies. Fully nation and corrective actions taken. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers In ALFA, there is full freedom of association for employees, and they benefit from collective labor agreements or Fully identified in which the right to exercise contracts. There is no risk of this right being violated. 55% of all personell works under a collective labor agreefreedom of association and collective ment. This situation is monitored by the Human Resources Committee of every company. bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers ALFA fully complies with labor legislations in all countries in which it operates, as well as with the Global Fully identified as having significant risk Compact of the United Nations, so there’s no potential risk of child labor or actual child labor in the company’s for incidents of child labor, and work centers. measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers In 2013, no complaints were registered for practices contrary to the foresaid nor were complaints registered Fully identified as having significant risk for forced labor. This is ensured through labor contracts. ALFA provides benefits such as flexible schedule, for incidents of forced or compulsory parental leaves beyond those covered by legislation, nursery rooms in their premises, and home office labor, and measures to contribute to opportunities, which are proof of ALFA’s disposition to support its employees to adapt to different working the elimination of all forms of forced conditions. On a different note, ALFA’s policy to maintain the workforce of those companies they acquire is an or compulsory labor. effort to be highlighted. HR8 Percentage of security personnel 100% of ALFA’s employees in security areas have been trained on issues covered by the Global Compact of the Fully trained in the organization’s policies United Nations on Human Rights topics. or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations None of ALFA’s business units or facilities are located in areas populated by indigenous people. Even so, it is imFully involving rights of indigenous people portant to highlight that thanks to human rights abiding practices, in 2013 there were no violations of indigenous and actions taken. people’s rights with whom there might be community or work relations. HR10 Percentage and total number of Information was not available. 100% of operations were subject to assessments of their impact in the community and human rights reviews. Fully operations that have been subject to (See aspect 2.2). human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. HR11 Number of grievances related to human No complaints on human rights violations were registered in any of ALFA’s operations during 2013. Fully rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 37 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED SO SOCIETY SO1 Percentage of operations with 100% of ALFA companies’ operations conduct activities and programs focused on community engagement, Fully implemented local community from working in collaboration with governmental and non-governmental entities (Red Cross, Civil Protection, engagement, impact assessments, health institutions) to internally developed programs. In 2013, ALFA Fundación Extracurricular Talent Center and development programs. started operations (see pages 12 and 13). Another example is the opening of the Sperto Center by Alestra in Mexico City, the second one in the country. This Center offers an open forum for the entrepreneurial community to get to know new technology information through hands-on experience and with the assistance of experts. In turn, Sigma executes volunteering activities that involve the communities they support, such as the construction of plant nurseries and compost facilities with the active participation of students and teachers. Other examples are: • Community Advisory Panels • School-Company Plan CAINTRA • Neighborging company program • Environmental talks in schools • Annual Community Engagement Program • Job fairs • Volunteering • Agreements with universities • Gansos Community and Healthy School programs SO2 Percentage and total number of busi100% of ALFA’s operations. Alpek with 16 plants in 3 countries, Nemak with 34 plants in 14 countries, Sigma Fully ness units analyzed for risks related with 41 plants in 9 countries, Alestra in Mexico and Newpek in the United States. to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees 100% of personnel, that is, 61,085 employees. The corruption subject and how to avoid it is of great imporFully trained in organization’s tance for all. anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to Depending on the severity of the situation, actions taken can result in different sanctions that vary from a Fully incidents of corruption. reprimand to the termination of contract of the employee. In 2013, there were 326 inicidents related with the non-compliance of policies and values of ALFA. The 100% of said incidents were attended and investigated. As a result, 74 individuals were separated from the company. None of theses cases implied activities of employees involved with government authorities. In the same period, there were no cases of contract cancellations or no renovations with comercial partners for non compliance with ALFA’s policies or values. Neither were cases of corruption related sanctions for ALFA. SO5 Public policy positions and participaThrough its participation in associations and chambers, ALFA helps to develop public policies on issues Fully tion in public policy development and related to areas of its expertise within a legal framework and with the highest ethical standards. lobbying. Subjects on which ALFA focuses are divided in two main aspects: those related to the type of industry of each company and those related to the total impact of the whole group. These include environmental, social and economic impact, and specific topics ranging from the fight against obesity, support to education, PET and plastic recycling to innovation in information technologies. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind ALFA does not give this type of contributions. Fully contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for In 2013 there were no sanctions based on these grounds. Fully anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines In 2013 there were no sanctions based on these grounds. Fully and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. SO9 Operations with significant potential 60% of ALFA companies’ operations present a potential negative impact risk on their communities due to Fully or actual negative impacts on local the processes they conduct. In order to reduce this risk, the strictest controls and necessary measures are communities. observed. See SO10 chart. 38 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED SO 10 Prevention and mitigation measures Fully PLANT RISK TYPE MITIGATION ACTIONS GRADE implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative Akra Leakage of chlorine gas, • Water sprays, control valves, and fire detection Potential impacts on local communities. Polyester thermal oil or methanol, systems. and methanol explosion. • Storing methanol in accordance with security measures. • Trained emergency brigades. • Participation in the Local Committee for Mutual Help (CLAMCAP) with neighborging companies. • Implementation of the Internal Plan for Emergency Response. • Periodic inspection programs for safety mechanisms in chlorine, dowtherm and methanol instalations. • Execution of practical exercises for the attention of chlorine leaks. Indelpro Emission of hydrocarbons or Preventive facility maintenance, instrumented safety Potential combustion gases. system and vent control program. DAK Chemical emissions to • Constant on-off-failure control which ensures a Potential Americas the atmosphere. Leakage, prompt detection and shutdown in case of any spills, or failures in the incident. Similarly, there is in place a system to system may result in the send emissions to a control mechanism, even emission of toxic gases or during normal operation. contaminated materials. • Continuous audits, visual and technical monitoring, implementation of new processes. Polioles Risk of emission of danger• Process control system. Potential ous materials. • Pressure relief devices on containers. Fires or explosions as a • Contingency response plans. result of using flammable • Engaging in mutual help groups. materials. • Emergency brigade staff training. • Fire-fighting water supply. • Fire detection and alarm system. Univex Ammonia or cyclohexane Automatic electronic monitoring system for cycloPotential leakage. hexane leaks, emergency brigade with the necessary equipment for contingency control. The company is a member of the mutual help group SAMI. Nemak Atmospheric emissions, 1. The Health, Safety and Environmental Management Potential Mexico fires caused by natural gas, System cover procedures to prevent and respond to explosions. risks in addition to helping mitigate damages. System features include monitoring, operational controls, simulations and audits. 2. A strategic alliance with the Mutual Help Committee on the western regions. 3. Crisis Management Committee. 4. A specialized supplier with Pemex to supervise these connections and to comply with CRE’s (Energy Regulatory Commission) regulations. 5. An emergency and crisis control committee ensure the continuity of operations. Nemak Atmospheric emissions, Installation of new equipment, infrastructure optiPotential Global spills. mization, joint work with government and regulatory agencies to mitigate risks, community training on safety, equipment maintainance. Nemak Polluting nearby river basin. Inspecting the area twice per week, improving Potential Alabama wastewater treatment. 39 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED Sigma Microbiotic, parasite-relatA Risk Mangement Sysyem, structured in 4 CommitPotential ed, chemical or physical tees (Safety, Health and Environment, Assets Proteccontamination. tion, and Product and Labor), with the objective of Consumers, clients or preventing and minimizing the impact of any incident suppliers with problems on people, the environment, Sigma’s reputation, and specific to products. Sigma’s assets. Diseases or damages to Additionally, there are: consumers. A customer attention line (01-800) to report risks. Pollution: environment, An Alert Center to report accidents. unpleasant smells, wasteInternal protection and emergency plans in communiwater and atmospheric ties where the support to nearby communitties during emissions. an emergency is considered. Fires. Leaks or emissions of dangerous materials. Likewise, in 2013 Nemak Poland detected a risk of noise contamination, so in response it started the design phase of silencing equipment for noise sources in its operations. PR PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health In every stage of developing products and services, an important criteria is always present: to offer products Fully and safety impacts of products and and services that do not have impacts on the clients’ health and safety. ALFA’s companies constantly work to services are assessed for improvemitigate these impacts through efforts like the search and implementation of new technologies and the use ment, and percentage of significant of more sustainable raw materials. Sigma is directly i nvolved in the development of some of its suppliers to products and services categories assure quality and inocousness of the raw materials with which it produces the food products it sells. This subject to such procedures. support includes training and offering the technology necessary to optimize their processes. Similarily, in 2013, improvements in packaging materials to reduce their environmental impacts were implemented. Alpek participates with a plant dedicated to packaging recycling, which in 2013 processed 49,000 tonnes, avoiding an environmental impact. AKRA DAK POLIOLES PETROTEMEX INDELPRO SIGMA TERZA POLYESTER AMERICAS Product developNA Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes ment Manufacturing Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Marketing and NA Yes No Yes No Yes Yes promotion Storage, distribuYes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes tion and supply Purchase and NA Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes service Disposal, reuse or Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No No recycling Percentage of 100% 100% 100% 100% 30% 100% 100% products to which this evaluation is applied PR2 Total number of incidents of nonNo fines or sanctions due to accidents of this nature were registered during 2013. Fully compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcome. PR3 Type of product and service informaThe following chart shows those ALFA’s companies that label their products. Fully tion required by procedures, and DAK Americas Polioles Sigma Terza percentage of significant products and services subject to such informaOrigin of the components of the product or Yes No Yes Yes tion requirements. service. Content (if there are substances that may have Yes No Yes No environmental or social impact). Safe product usage. Yes Yes Yes No Disposal of the product and its environmental Yes Yes Yes No and social impact. Other. Yes Yes From a total of the 35 most significant products and services, over 50% is subject to these evaluation procedures. 40 GRI CONTENTS 2012 2013 REPORTED PR4 Total number of incidents of nonNo fines or sanctions on the non-compliance with these regulations were registered in 2013. Fully compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisIn 2012, the average satisfaction All ALFA’s companies have a system to measure client satisfaction, the most common being 1-800 numbers, Fully faction, including results of surveys result measured through the e-mail, social media, live meetings, client visits and periodical satisfaction surveys. This enables companies measuring customer satisfaction. companies was 84%. to know their clients’ worries and to give timely attention to their requirements. Some operations execute the measuring of these results at the beginning of the year following the one evaluated. *Average satisfaction evaluation result in 2013, measured through surveys that produce statistical results was 90%. *These results come from operations that applied surveys at the end of 2013, approximately 33% of total operations. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, This indicator applies only to Sigma and Alestra. Fully standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, ALESTRA SIGMA including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Voluntary marketing codes The Alestra Code of Ethics has a PABI Code. or standards applied by the specific chapter on advertising Completion of every requirement company. and sales. The company commits of every law and regulation. to respecting its clients and be Participation in the system Checa truthful in its advertising and y elige (Check and choose), which pitching. suggests placing product information in the front part of the label so it can be more easily indentified. Frequency in which compliance Constantly. Constantly. is reviewed. PR7 Total number of incidents of No fines or sanctions for non-compliance with these regulations were registered in 2013. Fully non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated No complaints caused by personal data leakage were registered during 2013. Fully complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines No fines or sanctions for non-compliance with the regulations were registered in 2012. Fully for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 41 Disclosures on Management Approach DMA DESCRIPCIÓN LEVEL OF REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE EC Disclosure in Management Approach EC Fully Aspects Economic performance Fully p. 26-27 and 42 Market presence Fully Inside front cover, p. 2, 8, 27-28 and 42 Indirect economic impacts Fully p. 27 and 42 EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Fully Aspects Materials Fully p. 28-29 and 42 Energy Fully p. 10, 29-30 and 42 Water Fully p. 10, 30 and 42 Biodiversity Fully p. 30-31 and 42 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully p. 10, 31-33 and 42 Products and services Fully p. 10-11, 28-33 and 42 Compliance Fully p. 33 and 42 Transport Fully p. 33 and 42 Overall Fully p. 33 and 42 LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Fully Aspects Employment Fully p. 34, 36 and 42 Labor/management relations Fully p. 34 and 42 Occupational health and safety Fully p. 6-7, 35, and 42 Training and education Fully p. 6, 36 and 42 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully p. 6, 36 and 42 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully p. 36 and 42 HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Fully Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully p. 37 and 42 Non-discrimination Fully p. 37 and 42 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully p. 37 and 42 Child labor Fully p. 37 and 42 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully p. 37 and 42 Security practices Fully p. 37 and 42 Indigenous rights Fully p. 37 and 42 Assessment Fully p. 16, 37 and 42 Remediation Fully p. 38-39 and 42 SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Fully Aspects Local communities Fully p. 8, 13-14, 38-40 and 42 Corruption Fully p. 38 and 42 Public policy Fully p. 38 and 42 Anti-competitive behavior Fully p. 38 and 42 Compliance Fully p. 38 and 42 PR Disclosure in Management Approach PR Fully Aspects Customer health and safety Fully p. 40 and 42 Product and service labelling Fully p. 40-42 Marketing communications Fully p. 41-42 Customer privacy Fully p. 41-42 Compliance Fully p. 41-42 42 Certifications, awards and recognitions received in 2013 COMPANY AWARD, CERTIFICATION, RECOGNITION GRANTED BY COUNTRY Alestra Environmental Quality Certification PROFEPA Mexico Alfa Corporate Recognition for safe destruction and contribution on the environmental wellbeing Ecotrust Mexico Akra Polyester Oeko-Tex Standard 100 Hohenstein Textile Testing Institute Germany DAK Americas ISO 9001 Corporate Registration International Organization for Standardization U.S.A. (ISO) Cradle To Cradle® Silver Certification McDonough Braungart Design Chemistry (MBDC) U.S.A. Cooper River – Certificate of Appreciation for contributing to their occupational website O*NET U.S. Department of Labor U.S.A. Cape Fear (CF) Staple 1 Year NC DOL Silver Award NC Department of Labor U.S.A. CF Resins 7 Year NC DOL Gold Award NC Department of Labor U.S.A. CF Monomers 43 Year NC DOL Gold Award NC Department of Labor U.S.A. CF Power 43 Year NC DOL Gold Award NC Department of Labor U.S.A. CF Support 43 Year NC DOL Gold Award NC Department of Labor U.S.A. CF Support 2 Million Hours w/o OSHA Recordable NC Department of Labor U.S.A. DAK Cosoleacaque Certificate of Clean Industry Federal Office of Environmental Protection Mexico Safety Awards Cooper River and Columbia Sites SC Department of Labor U.S.A. CF Wildlife Habitat Certification Wildlife Habitat Council U.S.A. Indelpro Integral Responsibility Certificate ANIQ Mexico Voluntary Environmental Compliance SEDUMA Mexico ISO 14001:2004 Recertification ABS Quality Evaluations Mexico Nemak Argentina ISO TS 16949 Det Norske Veritas Norway and Brazil Nemak Canada ISO 9001-2008 Recertification External audit firm Canada Nemak Slovakia DIN EN ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management Det Norske Veritas Slovakia Nemak Györ Hungarian Business SUPERBRANDS Brand Council Hungary Nemak Kentucky 2013 NADCA Safety Excellence Award North American Die Casting Association U.S.A. ISO 14001 Intertek U.S.A. ISO TS 16949 Intertek U.S.A. Nemak Linz Pegasus economy prize OÖ Nachrichten Austria INEO-award for excellent integration of apprenticeship Austrian Economic Chambers Austria Nemak Mexico ISO 14001 ABS Quality Evaluations Mexico Clean Industry PROFEPA Mexico ISO TS16949 ABS Quality Evaluations Mexico Environmental Leadership for Competitivity PROFEPA Mexico CTPAT (Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism) Custom Border Protection USA U.S.A. CASCEM COMECE Mexico EcoFest SEMAC Canancitra Mexico Nemak Poland Award under the auspices of the Polish PresiEmployer friendly to the employees Poland dent and Trade Union Solidarity Employer –Organizer of the Safe Job Environment Contest National Labour Inspectorate Poland Nemak ISO 14001 ISO U.S.A. Tennessee ISO TS 16949 ISO-TS U.S.A. 43 Certifications, awards and recognitions received in 2013 COMPANY AWARD, CERTIFICATION, RECOGNITION GRANTED BY COUNTRY BS OHSAS 18001:2007 A+G Schutz Det Norske Veritas Germany DIN EN ISO 14001:2004 Umweltschutz Det Norske Veritas Germany Nemak Wernigerode Bildungswerk der Wirtschaft SachsenAnhalt Betriebliches Gesundheitsmanagement Germany e.V. DIN EN ISO 50001:2011 Energy management Det Norske Veritas Germany Nemak ISO 14001 Intertek U.S.A. Wisconsin TS 16949 Intertek U.S.A. ISO 14000 AENOR Mexico SARI ANIQ Mexico Clean Industry PROFEPA Mexico Petrotemex Safe Industry STPS Mexico Integral Responsibility ANIQ Mexico OSHA National Safety Council U.S.A. Family Responsible Company STPS Mexico Environmental Leadership for Competitivity PROFEPA Mexico Clean Industry SEMARNAT Mexico Polioles Safe Industry STPS Mexico Annual Prize on Integral Responsibility ANIQ Mexico NECC Certificate SAT Mexico C-T-PAD Certificate North American Customs Mexico Environmental Leadership for Competitivity STPS Mexico Sigma Family Responsible Company (Recertification at Mexico corporate and Occidente, Nayar, San Antonio, Eugenia, Lagos de PROFEPA Mexico Moreno, Chihuahua, Sabinas, Celaya, Penjamo, Atitalaquia, Galicia sites) Family Responsible Company STPS Mexico Terza Safe Industry STPS Mexico Univex Recertification on Self Management Level 3 STPS Mexico 44 ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10 and 3.11 The present Report contains ALFA’s social responsibility activities The second section encloses information on the company’s conducted throughout the year 2013. It is the tenth consecutive sustainability actions, grouped within the GRI Index and report published by the company, where it informs about the comparability to 2012 (when applicable). The structure follows actions, challenges an results in the matter, and covers its five the indicators proposed by the GRI. Some indicators are located business groups: Alpek, Nemak, Sigma, Alestra and Newpek. It in the first part, as specified in the index. This allows us to better also includes its operations in 18 countries. identify the data comparability to the previous year’s Report. The Report frequency is annual, the preceding being released in Measurement methods were based on those defined by the GRI. February 2013, and containing 2012 information. For the eighth To convert Mexican pesos to U.S. dollars in terms of income year running, we express our support to the 10 principles of the and expense items, we used the average exchange rate for UN Global Pact. In 2013, we report a total of 126 fully covered the month in which the peso transactions were carried out. On indicators, 16% more than in 2012 with 106. This should be taken the balance sheet, the exchange rate used was that of $13.08 into account when comparing previous Reports. Mexican pesos per dollar, on december 31st, 2013. This is consistent with the methodology used in our financial reports. Three criteria were used for content selection: first, consistency with the 2012 report; second, in accordance to the most Finally, the Table of Awards, Certifications and Recognitions relevant events of 2013 and third, based on the indicator’s received in 2013, the About this Report, the 10 principles of the materiality of those industries ALFA serves and in reference United Nations Global Compact, the GRI check application A+ to concerns expressed by its stakeholders through its multiple level letter and the third party check letter sections are included communication channels, as well as the analysis of the feedback in this second part of the Report. received on previous reports. This Sustainability Report is the third to be checked with the The documents used for the making of this report were those GRI level and a third party check. For the preparation of this published by the Global Reporting Initiative and Guidance on document we have worked with the consulting firm Ética y Defining Report Content and The Technical Protocol: Applying the Estrategia Consultores S.C. and the Universidad Anáhuac del Report Content Principles. Norte’s Centro IdeaRSE, who has validated the application of GRI methodology and our A+ level qualification. In the EN10 indicator you will find a CORRIGENDUM were there is a reexpresion of the 2012 information due to a calculation error on the reported data (See page 30 of the present Report). We applied the same GRI methodology as in 2012, in its 3.1 version. However, this year’s information is presented for a Level A+. This meant modifications and increased number of indicators to report were in place. Moreover, this report sought to cover them in greater depth. This document is divided in two sections. The first section contains the message of the Chairman of the Board and the President, company profile, our sustainability strategy and a summary of each of our core lines: Our Employees, Our Communities and Our Environment, as well as the achievements of ALFA Fundación, closing with the most important achievements of ALFA’s plants throughout the world. 45 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle I (PM I) To support and respect human rights protection. Principle II (PM II) To not be an accomplice of rights abuse. Labor Conditions Principle III (PM III) To support the principles of freedom of association and the right to collective negotiation. Principle IV (PM IV) To eliminate forced and obligatory labor. Principle V (PM V) To abolish any way of child labor. Principle VI (PM VI) To eliminate discrimination on employment and job positions matters. Environment Principle VII (PM VII) To support the preventive focus towards environmental challenges. Principle VIII (PM VIII) To promote a greater environmental responsibility. Principle IX (PM IX) To encourage development and spreading of environmental respectful technologies. Fight against Corruption Principle X (PM X) To act against every form of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 46 GRI CHECK LETTER 47 THIRD PARTY CHECK LETTER 48 49 OUTSTANDING PROGRAMS AND THEIR RESULTS ALFA’s social responsibility has no boundaries. The following lists some programs and achievements undertaken in 2013. OUR ASSOCIATES Company ACHIEVEMENTS Nemak Czech Republic 380 days free of incapacitating accidents. Terza One year without incapacitating accidents. NEMAK Spain 23% reduction in accident index. Nemak Monterrey 52% reduction in the incapacitating accidents rate and 50% reduction in the frequency and loss rates. Sigma 13% reduction in the number of accidents and 30% drop in the number of lost days rate. AKRA Polyester 2,652 people, including employees and their families, benefited from Family Development programs. Nemak Poland 1,800 people attended Family Day. Nemak Mexico 1,250 academic support given to employees’ children. DAK Americas 1,300 employees participated in the company’s health program. Sigma 17,100 employees participated in courses at Sigma University. Nemak Mexico 140,000 participants in social development events. OUR COMMUNITY DAK Americas 44 schools supported, benefiting 6,000 students. Terza 1,200 students benefited from support to 14 schools. Alestra 70 students did internships at the company. Petrotemex Altamira 750 people trained in the “Safe School” program. Nemak Wisconsin 600 students benefited from support to four schools. Sigma 90 charitable institutions supported. Nemak Brazil/Argentina 5,000 people benefited from community support programs. Nemak Alabama Supported the Alabama Childhood Food Solutions program in its community. Nemak Hungary Donated a robot for educational purposes to a local high school. Nemak Kentucky Supported the Barren County Heart Walk program, to raise awareness about heart health in the community. DAK Americas 111 people participated in volunteer programs. Nemak Canada Supported the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation and the United Way. Nemak Wernigerode 23 disabled people work at the plant. OUR ENVIRONMENT Alestra Saved 20% on energy consumption through improvements to Data Centers. DAK Americas 57,650 GJ saved through streamlining PTA/PET line 2. Nemak Hungary Saved 3,952 GJ by taking advantage of the heat from the sand recovery furnace and air compressors. Nemak Tennessee Annual savings of more than 8,000 GJ through optimization of lighting and gas extraction control systems. Sigma Reduced water consumption by 21% since 2007. Nemak Spain 12.7% reduction in water consumption. Nemak Mexico Wastewater recovery increased from 24% to 30%. Nemak Canada Reduced water consumption by 7,000 m3. Petrotemex 10% reduction in energy consumption (Altamira) by improving plant processes. Nemak Alabama Reduced wastewater generation by 13,448 m3 compared to 2012. DAK Americas Argentina 69,540 m3 of water saved during the year, by optimizing the cooling water purge process. Nemak Slovakia Reduced sand purchases by 20% by recycling this input. Nemak Poland Waste recovery program successfully recuperated 90% of waste. Polioles 50% reduction in nonhazardous waste. DAK Americas Reduced 65% in waste volume sent to landfills through recycling, composting, or energy conversion. Indelpro Donated 100 trees to the community at the close of the Safety, Hygiene and Ecology week. Petrotemex 1,832 students from 20 participating schools took part in the Vive Verde program sponsored by the company. Univex 10 years with zero liquid effluents discharges in 2013. 50 www.ALFA.COM.MX
