Rail Hope for Tomorrow Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 About Rail Hope for This Report Tomorrow Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 Contents Characteristics of the Report 04 CEO Message Korea Rail Network Authority (KR) published the first sustainability report in 06 2013 Sustainability Highlights 2008 and has published annual reports since 2010 to disclose and share the 08 KR at a Glance activities and accomplishments of KR’s sustainability management. This is KR’s sixth sustainability report and contains all activities and accomplishments in Ⅰ. K ‌ R 12 KR Overview the general areas of the economy, the environment, and society. Sustainability 14 KR Philosophy and Vision 16 Corporate Governance Standards Used in Writing the Report 18 Risk Management This report was written in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) 20 Stakeholder Engagement and Communication G3.1 Guidelines and ISO 26000, which is an international standard in the 24 Sustainability Key Issues field of corporate social responsibility. The report was written to fulfill all the requirements for receiving the “A+” level in the application index of criteria in Ⅱ. ‌Focused 28 FOCUS 01 Strengthening ‌ Korea Railway’s the GRI 3.1 Guidelines. Report Competitiveness 34 FOCUS 02 Safe Railway Construction Period and Scope Covered by the Report 38 FOCUS 03 Ethical Management This report covers quantitative results and accomplishments produced from 42 FOCUS 04 Win-Win Growth with Partners January 2013 to December 2013. As for noteworthy accomplishments for timeseries analysis, the data for three years from 2011 is included, and significant Ⅲ. E ‌ conomic 48 Financial Soundness Performance 50 Economic Value Creation qualitative accomplishments from the first half of 2014 are also covered. The activities for sustainability management of KR’s main headquarters and five 52 Economic Performance Summary local headquarters are addressed according to their priority, and the data Ⅳ. S ‌ ocial 56 Customer Satisfaction gathered from 227 construction sites is surveyed in the environment category. Performance 60 Employees The currency unit used in this report is Korean won. 62 Communities 65 Social Performance Summary Verification of the Report The credibility and accuracy of the data and contents of the report were Ⅴ. E ‌ nvironmental 68 Eco-friendly Railway Construction ensured through a third party’s verification. The third party authenticating Performance 70 Response to Climate Change and Environmental agency confirmed that the legitimacy of the report meets the “A+” level in the Protection application standards in the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. 72 Environmental Performance Summary Website http://www.kr.or.kr Ⅵ. Appendix 76 Assessment on Application Level of ISO 26000 Address 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City 78 Third Party Assurance Report E-mail csr@kr.or.kr 80 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index Phone +82-42-607-3156 85 Recognitions and Affiliation Fax +82-42-607-3169 86 Framework of Sustainability Department ‌Management Strategy Department, Management Performance Management Implementation Office, Planning and Financial HQ 87 Readers’ Survey 04 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability CEO Message Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 05 CEO message Respected Stakeholders: I am so glad that KR is able to steadily communicate with stakeholders through our sixth sustainability report since we became a member of the UN Global Compact in 2007. Our mission and goal is to contribute to national economic development and provide better public transportation through the construction of railways. We are strongly committed to completing our given call such as enabling the nation to move into a high-speed rail era since KR’s establishment in 2004. Railways are receiving much attention as an eco-friendly transportation means that copes with global climate change in the 21st century. This is not only a big challenge but a good opportunity to KR. In addition, we deeply recognize that KR’s growth into a sustainable company in the future is contingent on our focus on what is needed for the people and what this era requires. We will build a win-win organizational culture through honest and open communication. We will ceaselessly innovate ourselves through personnel management based on capabilities and performances, self-controlled and responsibility based management and the development of creative human resources. The creation of a good corporate culture will enhance the ability of KR as a railwayspecialized organization. Our pursuit of the best quality of railways will drive the development of the railway industry. KR will become a public organization trusted by the people through the implementation of the coexistence and social responsibility. We value our partners for mutual growth, build equal relationships with them and trust each other. At the same time, we put into practice practical ethical management activities throughout the railway construction industry. These activities substantiate our active pursuit of “Clean KR.” Moreover, we embrace our corporation social responsibility activities as part of our major business strategies for sustainability management and are implementing programs for communities. We understand that trust and love from our stakeholders such as government, customers, business partners, local communities, and employees helped accomplish our achievements over the past 10 years. Your strong support and encouragement are the driving force behind KR’s sustainable growth. I hope that this report, We are strongly committed to completing our given call such as reflecting the dreams and hopes of KR’s employees, will serve as a strong channel for communication and cooperation to create a bright future with stakeholders. enabling the nation to move into a high-speed rail era since KR’s establishment in 2004. Thank you! Kang Yeong Il, CEO of Korea Rail Network Authority August 2014 06 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 2013 Sustainability Highlights 07 2013 Sustainability Highlights 2020 New Vision and Strategic Goals KTX Station Opening Ceremony at Incheon International Airport Empathy Concert for Better Communication KR set the new vision, “Realization of a Faster, Safer and More Convenient KR held the opening ceremony for the KTX Station at Incheon InternationThe Empathy Concert was held to share knowledge and know-how, proRail Network.” New Vision means bringing happiness to the people through al Airport after completing the line between the Incheon International mote discussions and implement an organizational culture where employrailways by fulfilling duties and growing further. It also reflects the contemAirport Railway and the Gyeongui Line and making improvements to the ees can better communicate with one another. The two-way talkshow-type porary requirements of debt reduction. Incheon International Airport Railway System and the station. The start of concert contributes to building an open organizational culture through the KTX service enhances passengers’ convenience as the service allows communication and harmony. passengers to move directly to the airport without transfers at Seoul or Yongsan Station. Vietnam USA Nepal Income from Assets 1,071 China Bangladesh 973 India Philippines Cameroon 729 Paraguay Cambodia Malaysia Indonesia International Railway Orders to KR (Unit: 100 million won) Totaling 84.2 billion won for 32 projects in 12 countries (2004-2013) 2011 2012 2013 Employee Integrity Contract for Ethical Management Entry into Global Market through Diversified Efforts Income from Assets Tops 100 Billion for First Time Grand Prize at 13th Environmental Protection Awards KR employees signed an employee integrity contract for ethical manageKR is making diversified efforts to make inroads into overseas railway marKR posted KRW 107.1 billion for the first time in its history by turning a use KR was awarded the Grand Prize (the Prize of the Minister of Environment) ment and the establishment of an integrity culture. The contract bans kets by promoting international exchanges and building a global network permit-oriented profit structure into a development-oriented one (a yearat the 13th Environmental Protection Awards held by the ministry in Noprofiteering and champions fairness in work. No employees should find KR based on its railway technology. These efforts enabled KR to conduct busion-year increase of 10.1%). In the future, we will try to ensure financial stavember 2013. Its ecological restoration project turned a closed railway retirees and other people jobs at KR and partners. These facts exemplify ness in 12 countries in 2013, rising from nine countries in 2012, and won bility by maximizing profits through asset diversification and the activation bridge over Jojong Stream on the Seoul-Chuncheon Line into an ecological KR’s efforts to become an organization trusted by the people through fair book orders valued at KRW 10.9 billion. of asset development. observation trail. The company built an ecological retaining wall with waste and transparent work. gravels to protect wild animals. High points were given since the use of waste gravels cut down on costs, reduce waste and improved local landscapes. We will not stop exploring every avenue to develop and implement eco-friendly projects in the future. Presidential Prize at 39th National Quality Management Convention KR 123 Campaign to Enhance Job Efficiency through Intensive Work Hours Three KR teams picked up the Presidential Prizes at the 39th National QualKR designated a time slot (09:30 to 11:30) for intensive work to eliminate ity Management Convention through their presentations on reducing cost inefficient work practices caused by irregular meetings and interrupting for railway tunnel shotcrete through the optimization of steel fiber input, calls. We are creating a (work smart) organizational culture to enhance securing space for users through the recalculation of facilities at stations work efficiency for better performances. (Six Sigma Division) and establishing mutual growth systems for reducing unfair practices at railway construction sites (Partnership Division). 08 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR at a Glance 09 KR at a Glance Railway Construction We strive to achieve a faster, safer and more convenient for railway network Overseas Business 3,666 km Total length of railways in 2013 KR is increasing its sales competitiveness through international standards, professional training and international networks. The company is going global, based on its core competencies. 84.2 billion won Overseas Railway Orders (2004-2013) 32 projects in 12 countries Asset Management KR strives to manage state-owned assets properly and efficiently. Its asset income diversification and development projects generate profits and enhance asset value. 107 billion won Income from Assets Safety Management (Agency established the first asset revenue that exceeded 100 billion) KR strives to achieve ZERO accidents through railway safety checks that prioritize accident prevention. The company contributes to promoting public welfare by protecting railways and ensuring safety. 3,958 total points On-site inspection conducted in 2013 Social Contribution Using railways’ capacity, KR is building a happy community through customized social contribution activities. 15,297 hours Service time 10 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 11 KR Sustainability 12 KR Overview 14 KR Philosophy and Vision 16 Corporate Governance 18 Risk Management 20 Stakeholder Engagement and Communication 24 Sustainability Key Issues Sector Performance Indicators Unit 2011 2012 2013 Economy New Railway Distance Km 13 32.9 16 Electric Railway Ratio % 65.22 69.1 68.9 Budget Savings 100 million won 5,299 6,532 12,246 Overseas Assets And Income 100 million won 855 994 1,039 Environment Environmental Management Index Point 113.1 158.1 212.0 Greenhouse Gas Reduction Rate % 5.8 16.6 24.4 Number Of Environmental Law Violations Case 0 0 4 Construction Waste Recycling Rate % 95.6 97.2 99.10 Socitey National Customer Satisfaction Point 95.4 93.98 94.10 National Integrity Point 8.81 8.22 8.36 Employee Satisfaction Point 73.7 76.4 78.50 Construction Accidents % 0.142 0.082 0.102 Talented People Recruitment Rate % 31.51 33.38 36.67 12 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 13 KR Overview KR builds fast, safe, convenient railway networks. KR was established to effectively build rail networks and to systematically manage and operate rail network facilities on Introduction of Major Business behalf of the country, providing public transportation and contributing to the stable growth of the national economy. KR opened the era of 300km/h high-speed railways in 2004, emerging as a global enterprise by  Major Business Locations  Introduction of the Corporation launching into the overseas rail network construction market. Furthermore, public services projects are being more strongly promoted for improving public transportation and building cultural spaces, such KR not only efficiently fulfills its required role of constructing and managing rail networks and facilities,  General Status  (As of June 30, 2014) as the development of complex transfer centers and station-influenced areas, creation of traditional but also strives to provide the public with the, safe, and convenient rail network service so that travelers markets and public parks, and construction of bike paths at abandoned rail yards. Name of Organization Korea Rail Network Authority ➋ can reach any place in the country within 90 minutes through the “construction of convenience-oriented Date of Establishment January 1, 2004 ➎ railroad network”, “improvement of the railway facilities for the sake of public safety”, “maximization of • ‌Framework Act on the Construction of next generation transportation networks such as revenues from KR’s own assets and overseas business”, and “establishment of a sustainable management Business Development of Railway high-speed railways, conventional railways metro rails, and tilting Legal Basis of Contents system.” Drawing upon its accumulated experience and technology as the fifth country in the world Industry (No. 9772) and magnetic levitation railways Establishment • ‌Korea Rail Network Authority to build high-speed railways, KR will maximize its efforts to launch into the overseas market, thereby Construction of Business Building rail networks to make any place in the country accessi➊ Act (No.9391) Objectives ble within 90 minutes of travel boosting Korea’s national prestige and revitalizing the national economy. Railways Chairman & CEO Kang Yeong Il Formation Quasi-Governmental Agency Safety review and maintenance of railway facilities, improvement Business Organizational Structure Current Status of Budget 9,824,535 Million Won Contents and modernization of railway facilities including multi-level crossing, continuous welded rail tracks and soundproof walls ➌ Government’s 4,683.4 Billion Won Safety Management of Business Modernization of railway facilities for the convenience and safety ➍ KR consists of its headquarters (four divisions and one office), one research institute and five regional Investment (in 2023) Rail Network Facilities Objectives of users offices. The headquarters and secondary institution are located in Daejeon. Regional offices are located Number of Employees 1,363 Employees in Seoul, Busan, Suncheon, Daejeon, and Wonju for the efficient supervision of rail network construction 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Development of station-influenced area and complex stations, Location projects and management of rail facilities dispersed around the country. The overseas branch in China Daejeon Metropolitan City Business creation of eco parks and bike paths on abandoned railyards, Contents management and rental process of government-owned proper➊ National Headquarters/Chungcheong Headquarters aids in the successful performance of contracts obtained in China. KR operates under three principles, * ‌No changes were made in the scale, structure, or ownership ty, construction of Happy Housing on idle land structure during the reporting period. 242, Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City namely building a small yet strong organization, an innovative organization for the creation of future Business Efficient management of government-owned property and Railway Asset value, and a competitive organization specializing in technology. A flexible quota system is in place Management Objectives balance between public interest and profitability ➋ Seoul Metropolitan Headquarters to respond to the changes of workload in different areas and fields, which is characteristic of the  Railway Industry Structure  378, Cheongpa-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul Metropolitan City Identifying opportunities for overseas projects, winning contracts construction industry, and to enhance the management of KR’s structure. of foreign railway projects including construction planning ➌ Yeongnam Headquarters  Organization Structure  Ministry of Business project management, construction planning supervision, 46, 9th St. Chungjangdae-ro, Jung-gu, Land, Infrastructure Contents participating in Official Development Assistance (ODA) projects, Busan Metropolitan City Chairman & CEO Audit and Transport establishment of public and private collaborative networks, Establishes railway cultivation of international human resources. ➍ Honam Headquarters Public Relations Audit & Inspection Secretary’s Office Safety Office policy Business Improvement in competitiveness in global railway market, 16, Yeokjeon-gil, Sooncheon-city, Jeollanam-do Office Office Overseas Railway Network Projects Objectives creation of profits. Vice Chairman ➎ Gangwon Headquarters Korea Rail Network Authority KORAIL Business Development of future rail networks and practical technology, 2650, Bukwon-ro, Wonju-city, Gangwon-do Management Planning and Construction Engineering Facilities and Contents Localization of domestic railway products Support Office Innovation Division Division Division Business Division Railway construction, Railway transport facilities and sales Development of Rail Business Development of future rail network technology and advanced Seoul MetropoliYeongnam Honam Chungcheong Gwangwon KR Research management Network Technology Objectives railway technology tan Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Institute Beginning of 300km/h high-speed railway era Reached 350km/h Preparing to reach 400km/h 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 • Establishment ‌ of Korea • ‌Winning the first contract for • ‌Electrification of the Entire • ‌Selected as a top supervising • ‌Opening of Cheonan-the Onyang • ‌Opening of Seongsan-Munsan • ‌Creation of 36.5 Billion Won of profits from overseas • ‌Opening of Iksan-Yeosu • ‌Opening of Yongsan-Chuncheon High• ‌Opening of a railwayfor the area • ‌Won prize for excellent Rail Network Authority supervision of Chian’s railway Gyeongbu Line organization of Chinese Railways Springs-Sinchang Double-track Double-track electrified Railways business (Technology consulting for Lanxin/Yunnan, Double-Track electrified speed Railways in Gyeongchun Line submerged due to the construction consulting work for Chinese • Opening ‌ of Gyeongbu projects • ‌Opening of Rail Traffic Control • ‌Running test Connecting Lines electrified Railways and Janghang Line on Gyeongui Line Guizhou and other projects) Railways in Jeolla Line • ‌Opening of Iksan-Yeosu High-speed of Yeongju Dam railways (Stopover line project) High-speed Railway • ‌Opening of CheongrangriCenter between South and North Koreas • ‌Opening of Paldang-Guksu Double• ‌Opening of Guksu-Yongmum • Opening ‌ of Phase 2 of Gyeongbu High-speed Railway ‌ • Opening of Jecheon-Dodam Railways in Jeolla Line • ‌Opening of Jecheon-Ssangyong • ‌Supervision of Beijing(Phase 1) Deokso Double-track • ‌Opening of Uijeongbu• ‌Penetration of Han River Track electrified Railways in Jungang Line Double-track electrified Railways • Opening ‌ of Sinsangbong-Chuncheon Double-track Double-track electrified • ‌Opening of Yongmum-Seowonju DoubleDouble-track electrified Railways Shenyang Highway in China electrified Railways in Dongducheon Doubletrack underwater tunnel through • Generating ‌ 10 billion won in profits on Jungang Line electrified Railways in Gyeongchun Line Railways in Jungang Line track electrified Railways on Jungang Line • ‌Opening of Ori-Suwon DoubleJungang Line electrified Railways in Wangsimri-Seonleung from overseas business • Opening ‌ of Samrangjin-Masan Double-track electrified track electrified Railways Gyeongwon Line Railways in Gyeongjeon Line 14 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 15 KR Philosophy and Vision KR realizes happiness of the people over the new vision, KR 2020. KR fully understands the value of rail networks as an eco-friendly, energy-efficient, safe, and efficient means of transportation, and KR’s Core Values thus established the 2020 Global Management Strategies based on public demand for faster, safer, and more convenient rail networks.  3 Core Values  This reflected the changes in the global railway market gravitating toward high-speed railways, and the governmental policies directed toward low-cost and highly efficient economic construction of rail networks. Core Values 1 Core Values 2 Core Values 3 ▶Sustainable Management ▶Mutual Trust ▶Professional Mind Pursuing sustainable growth Respecting and caring for each Constantly striving to be the VISION 2020 and development, fulfilling other and seeking common best in the railway sector social responsibility prosperity based on mutual trust KR 2020 Sustainability Management Strategy  Slogan  KR redefined its mission, reflecting people’s needs. The company set its goal of “Faster! Safer! and More KR’s 3 Core Values are: Sustainable Management, Professional Mind, and Mutual Trust. Harnessing these  Internalizing core values  Convenient! Realize Rail Network” by adding its enterprising and clear goals to its future image in three core values, KR is pushing forward with core value-oriented management strategies to realize its 2020. The company seeks to steadily grow by suggesting differentiated strategies such as securing the Recruitment Evaluating acceptance of core values vision and reach its strategic goals. In particular, KR seeks to steadily generate results by internalizing original publicity of the railway industry including building railway networks and improving safety, core values and naturally applying them to its organizational culture and systems. In addition, KR Education Nurturing change manager removing bubbles from construction processes and enhancing operational efficiency through an incorporated our core values into tasks for the management, managers and staff and reflected them increase in revenue. Promotion Completion of core values education in personnel management and education. Therefore, KR secured the power to implement them. KR’s organization culture workshop for all employees developed 12 core value implementation programs. Practical tasks Implementing tasks by positions Accordingly, KR is conducting core-value internalizing activities such as talking with the CEO, an Organizational Internalization program empathy concert, and discussing important issues with the CEO over meals. Culture Promotion System of Sustainability Management  KR’s Vision System  Committee KR’s sustainability is managed by the Management Strategy Office, Management Performance Agency, and Planning and Innovation Department, and various activities are being promoted to carry out Social Responsibility Total Project Cost Committee Committee the economic, social, and environmental responsibilities by each business department. In addition, KR’s Mission Create Happiness for the Public by Connection the World with Rail Budget and Incentive Financial Risk committees of different fields such as the Social Services Committee and the Green Railway Consulting Review Committee Management Committee Committee are assisting sustainability efforts. Strategy and Management Railway Policy 2020 Vision Evaluation Committee Committee Faster! Safer! and More Convenient! Realize Rail Network  Sustainability Management Framework  Green Railway Advisory Railway Construction Plan Committee Review Committee Total Length: Facilities improvement Rate: Chairman 4,980km 80% Vice Chairman Design Advisory Contract Review Strategic Objectives Business Revenue Interest Coverage Ratio Secretariat Committee Committee (2020) 1.4 trillion won 1.05 Accident Rate: 0.05% Planning and Finance Division (Department of Business Performance) Improvement of the railway Maximization of revenues from Construction of convenienceEstablishment of a sustainable Strategy facilities for the sake of KR's own assets and Railway Asset Overseas Technological Ethics and Customer and oriented railroad network management system Facility Safety Environment public safety overseas business construction Management Railways development Win-Win Growth Social Responsibility • ‌Construction Div. • ‌Facility and • ‌Facility and • ‌Facility and • ‌KR Research • ‌Planning and • ‌Management • ‌Safety Office • ‌Timely construction of new • ‌Expansion of railway safety • ‌Asset development • ‌Financial structure • ‌Engineering Div. Business Div. Business Div. Business Div. Institute Finance Division Support Office railway facilities diversification normalization • ‌Regional Offices ‌ • Safety Office • Regional ‌ Offices • Raising ‌ speed of existing • Improvement ‌ living • ‌Utilization and • ‌Wide diffusion of Clean KR • Regional ‌ Offices railways environment commercialization of • Building ‌ infrastructure for • Existing ‌ railway electrification • Facility ‌ modernization state-owned property future projects Strategic Tasks Blueprint of KR 2020 Global Management Strategies • Systemization ‌ of construction ‌ • Recovery of construction cost ‌ • Strategic expansion of overseas ‌ • Strengthening railways’ core safety, quality, environmental and optimization maintenance business competencies KR is making efforts to carry out its most basic mission of the “Realization of Fast, Safe, and Convenient Rail Network” given from the public. When the 2020 management management • Enhancement ‌ of organizational ‌ • Fulfilling communication, Global Management Strategies are accomplished, major cities across the country will be incorporated into one metropolitan region within the 90-minute travel • Efficient ‌ construction and workforce productivity coexistence, social time zone. The metropolitan economic blocs will be connected by green rail networks, and the transportation and distribution systems based on rail network investment responsibilities will be in place. As the foundation for carbon and green growth is prepared, 7.74 million tons of greenhouse gases generated by traffic will be reduced and 2.59 million TOE tons of energy will be saved on an annual basis. 16 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 17 Corporate Governance KR implements responsibility-based management through its transparent and rational corporate governance structure. KR enhances corporate value based on transparent governance structure by practicing responsibility management. Roles and Operation of the Board of Directors Makeup of the Board of Directors Vitalizing the Board of Directors  Major Achievements of BOD  KR holds a monthly board of directors meeting on a regular basis, and a temporary board of directors 45.5 meeting is held when an item demands immediate deliberation. The notice for meetings is made Ratio of Revised Makeup of the Board of Directors  Members of the Board of Directors  Agenda for 11.8 The majority of the board of directors is represented by the non-executive directors to ensure mutual seven days prior to themeeting under the revised provision, and the efficient operation of the board Deliberation 9.4 Executive Title of directors is guaranteed throughregular meetings of the board of non-executive directors and subchecking and independence under the Law on Management of Public Bodies for the responsibility and Directors (Unit: %) transparency of management. The board of directors consisted of five executive directors and seven Chairman committee meetings. “Seven days in advance ofthe board meeting,” a board meeting of non-executive 2011 2012 2013 Kang Yeong-il non-executive directors as of August, 2014. KR efficiently put sustainability management into practice (Chairperson of the Committee) directors consisting of the chief non-executive director(chairperson), executive director (executive Attendance Kim Young-woo Vice Chairman 96.2 96.7 such as promoting the activities of sub-committees to strengthen its review function. director of Planning Department), and non-executive directors is heldfor the preliminary deliberation Rate of Non92.9 Kim Gye-woong Head of Construction Div. on the items in the agenda. executive Directors Kim Sang-tae Head of Engineering Div. Utilizing the Expertise of the Non-executive Directors (Unit: %) Baek In-sir Head of Facility and Business Div.  Operation of BOD  KR established a subcommittee for each field of expertise for an in-depth deliberation on items in the 2011 2012 2013 Non-Executive agenda in November 2012 and founded a management participation system in each non-executive Directors Career Highlights Classification 2011 2012 2013 Share of 54.5 director’s field of expertise by utilizing a board of non-executive directors, subcommittee, and a Director of National Rental Housing Number of BOD meetings 11 15 13 Non-executive 46.7 management commission. The management commission is headed by a non-executive director. The Park Gwang-seo Construction Planning at Ministry of Directors’ 44.6 Voting agenda 32 34 33 Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs Statements non-executive directors belong to the management commission, playing an active role in policymaking Ratio of Preliminary Deliberation 100% 100% 100% Heo Professor of public administration at (Unit: %) processes such as the deliberation of the items on agenda, making management proposals and Attendance Rate 95.7% 97.9% 97.3% man-hyeong Chung-Ang University 2011 2012 2013 research proposals. KR established subcommittees on planning and management, construction, Lee Taeg-gwan Auditor at Korea Environment Authority Attendance Rate of Non-executive Directors 92.9% 96.2% 96.7% facilities, and other fields to actively utilize the expertise of the non-executive directors. Senior research fellow at Budget and Share of Non-executive Directors’ Statements 44.6% 46.7% 54.5% Ju Yeong-jin Settlement of National Assembly Appointment Process Oh Yeong-chan Secretary general of the Korea Institute  Operation of Subcommittee   5 Information Items Given to BOD  of Peace KR appoints its executives under the Law on Management of Public Bodies and built the Executives Lee Seong-min Chairman of Jungnang-gu Council Subcommittee Composition Operating results and performance Personnel Status by job rank, service time, Recommendation Committee (ERC) for the transparent appointment of executives. ERC consists of Professor of academia industrial Management age and others Planning and five members three non-executive directors, one private member, and one governmental member Kim Deok Man cooperation at Korea Transport Three non-executive directors, • ‌2013 long-term financial management plan (draft) Management Financial indicators such as assets, Lead Executive Director. • ‌2013 business plan and budget (draft), bond issuance plan (draft) Finance selected through deliberation by the board of directors. University Subcommittee liabilities ERC determines the evaluation criteria of executive candidates and conducts document screening and • ‌Progress in railway construction projects * All Members are male members Construction Two non-executive directors, • ‌Honam high-speed train production and quality management Budget Allotted and spent budget, etc. in-depth interviews of the applicants through an open application process. ERC recommends the final Subcommittee Lead Executive Director • ‌Construction Division’s performance and plan and private project applicants to the person in charge of appointing executives, and the person in charge of appointing management Processes, total project cost,  ‌Persons with Powers to  Construction executives selects the best applicants for the executive posts. The chairperson of the board is appointed design and interface, etc. Appoint Executives at KR Facility Two non-executive directors, • ‌General Rail maintenance subcontract (draft) by the President after a recommendation is made by ERC and the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Subcommittee Lead Executive Director • ‌Direction of general and high-speed rail track fee contracts in 2014 Fee to use state-owned properties Assets Transport. The auditor is appointed by the President after a recommendation is made by ERC and the Officer Person with Appointive Powers and land trades, etc. Minister of Strategy and Finance and voted by the Management of Public Bodies Committee. Chairman President Strengthening Non-Executive Directors’ Participation in Management Auditor President As a public institution, KR is enhancing the professionalism of the Board of Directors to achieve  Non-executive Directors’ Visit to Sites  Executive Director Chairman  Management Committee  responsibility-based management. KR utilizes the expertise of non-executive directors actively when Non-Executive Minister of Land, Infrastructure making decisions on major issues. KR strengthened non-executive directors’ checks of the management Director and Transport Committee Highlights by managing and reflecting management suggestions and advice of the non-executive directors who Executive Recommendation Committee • ERC ‌ transparent configuration and operating are various management experts. (ERC) Financial Risk Management Committee • Financial ‌ risk assessment for financing health • Self-audit ‌ activities • Stronger fairness and professionalism Evaluation and Rewards Audit Advisory Committee • Mid‌ to long-term audit strategy, review adequacy of audit results Differential pay is awarded to the executive directors depending on the job performance. The evaluation of Strategic Management Evaluation • Evaluation ‌ internal performance of all departments the director is broken down into job performance (60%) and the CEO’s assessment (40%). The annual salaries Checking quality management for Continuous Welded Rail Committee • KR2020 ‌ Strategy and transfer goals, strategic tasks, and KPI consulting of the auditors and executive directors including the CEO in the year 2013 are disclosed through the public Budget and Incentive Review Committee • Budget ‌ saving, amount of income increase and incentive and budget review business announcements. 18 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 19 Risk Management KR actively copes with various risk factors through a companywide risk management system. KR actively tackles risk factors through its company-wide risk management system. Its efficient crisis management system and Responses by Risk Grades and 3-STEP-5R procedures prevent risk and its regular maintenance activities empower KR to actively cope with crises. Main departments by risk types analyze risks and rate serious risks ‘A’ and general risks ‘B’ or ‘C’. This classification leads to differentiated response strategies. In addition, KR runs the 3-STEP-5R System based on three steps (the pre-crisis stage, the crisis stage Response System for Crisis Management and the recovery stage) and 5R which stands for Reduction, Readiness, Response, Recovery and Result KR identifies risks by type of risk and periodically checks the status of the management of the identified Evaluation. The system is put in place to actively cope with potential risk’s transformation into present risks by running a special risk management inspection group in addition to a general organization risk or the sudden that normally carries out risk management. If a crisis is expected to occur, KR will assess the risk level by analyze relevant information in risk assessment meeting and sound the alarm and thus actively respond to the crisis. In addition, KR continually monitors the implementation of improvement measures by  Grading and response strategies  running a diagnosis and assessment team when necessary after the end of a crisis. Classification Grade Degree Strategy Head of the department in charge Core A Serious Immediate and intense response Head of Emergency Response Headquarters  Crisis Management Response System  B High Emergency response plan Heads of divisions, offices or teams General C Medium Focus on enhanced operational control Director Normal times Crisis D Low Focus on acceptance and observation Team Leader Analysis Alert Emergency Response General organization  3-STEP-5R System  Organization Risk assessment meeting Check Feedback 3 Step Special crisis Diagnostic Crisis recovery phase management team evaluation team 2 Step Phase where crisis occurs  Emergency Response Organization  1 Step Information Company-wide Emergency Emergency Response Situation Regional Response gathering and 4R(Recovery) : Recovery phase Head of Situation Response Headquarters Headquarters management team Headquarters preparation Management management team •‌Head: ‌ Chairman (Vice Chairman) phase •‌‌Appropriate follow-up measures in Support Office • ‌Head of Headquarters: Emergency 3R(Response) : Responding phase accordance with progress in crisis •‌Secretary: ‌ Head of Financial and Heads of offices or teams •‌‌Regional heads Head of management team Emergency •‌‌Follow-up measures for related Planning Div. at headquarters Facilities and management team organizations and internal report meeting Business Div. • ‌Secretaries: Heads of PR team Alertlevel decision Main Organizations 1R(Reduction) : Mitigation steps departments in charge Administrative • ‌Ministry of Land, • ‌National Head of •‌‌Minimize damage through 5R(Result Evaluation) : Evaluation phase Administrative support team Infrastructure Emergency Construction Div. support team technical, legal and educational Applying manual •‌‌Crisis resolution and analysis and and Transport Management measures External External self-assessment • ‌Ministry of PlanAgency Related organizations •‌‌Strengthening organization and Head of cooperation team cooperation team Quickly identify external •‌‌Revising and supplementing manual ning and Finance • ‌National training, including assessment Engineering Div. environment such as public opinion and system • ‌Ministry of Police Agency • ‌Municipalities preparation such as crisis states and Defense and others • ‌Partners management indices Responding to media 2R(Readiness) : Preparation steps Operation of System for Companywide Crisis Management •‌‌Education, communication Operating major reporting channels KR systemizes and manages from the establishment of management plans about issues management, channels, preparation for crisis risk management, crisis management, vulnerable site management and conflict prevention situations management to risk analysis and response plan formulation. This process enables all employees of KR Clarifying KR’s position to learn how to deal with a crisis by checking and sharing the entire process from the beginning to the end of a crisis. IT system for crisis management 20 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 21 Stakeholder Engagement and Communication KR listens to the voices of various stakeholders. KR is implementing sustainability management by way of various efforts to share visions and strategies with stakeholders. Establishing Sharing and Communication Strategies (Success Strategies) KR concentrated on bringing tangible results through the establishment of Success Strategy for contacts for effective communication, bottom-to-top communication, collaboration and shared growth, Definition of Stakeholders KR categorized the stakeholders into groups of value influencing customers (the government, media, conflict management, emotion-based publicity, sympathy and support. NGO), value cooperation customers (business partners, local government agencies, KORAIL), value  SUCCES(S) Strategy  producing customer (employees), and value purchasing customers (citizens). Direct contacts between CEO and construction workers Skinship and employees  Categorization of Stakeholders in terms of value cycle of different rail network project processes  Activation of bottom-up communication among Upward members Government, Media, NGO, etc. Partners, local governments, KORAIL Value Cooperation and win-win growth with government Business Planning Impact Design, Construction and Test Operation Cooperation and partners Value CoopEffective prevention and management of conflicts with eration Conflict Mgt municipalities and local residents Adjustment Railway Collaboration SUCCES(S) Business Serving Value Process Trust Emotion Emotional PR activities based on storytelling Purchase Value Securing public sympathy and support for national General Public Production Employees Sympathy Support policies and business Business, Operation Project management such as contract and delivery Enhancing Communication though Specialized Strategies and Channels Selecting Core Issues that Stakeholders Want KR analyzes various issues about stakeholders and grasps the importance of each issue. KR is making Analysis of Stakeholder Issues Values influence Value collaboration Value production Worth buying Stakeholders endeavors to understand the needs of stakeholders by selecting issues which interest KR a great deal as (government / media) (partners / local / Korail) (employees) (General public) • Item: 47 questions in 3 elements core issues among important concerns. • Period: May 20 to June 4 Realizing win-win growth by • Subjects: ‌267 people, including employees, eliminating partners’ troubles and suppliers, municipalities, government, Spreading public sympathy Sharing, strengthen cooperation with them Realization of mutual growth Spreading trust and brand value  ‌Measurement of Importance and Responses by Types of Stakeholders and KORAIL and customers onassistance and support communication culture through bottom-up by fulfilling social responsibility Deriving Key Issues from Gap Analyses • Method: ‌Evaluating priorities of and responses to for national policies and KR’s Prevent and resolve conflicts Strategy communication and business publicity questions and GAP analysis business early by renewing conflict Stakeholders Key Targets Core Issues Gap (response-importance) management system • ‌Timely railway construction through efficient budget 83.4 7.6 91 Value Government • ‌Secure. Liability management and financial 83.9 5.6 89.5 Impact / Media soundness 80.8 10.5 91.3 • ‌Increasing transparency and integrity 84.5 6.0 90.5 Cooperation, • ‌Ensuring construction quality and safety Skinship Cooperation, Skinship, Emotion, Key word • ‌Shared growth, strengthening roles of KR for fair Sympathy(Support) Upward Sympathy(Support) Conflict Partners / trade 85.7 5.5 91.2 Value-based Management Municipality / • ‌Expanding investment in railway construction and 83.4 7.6 91 cooperation KORAIL facility improvement 83.4 7.6 90.2 • ‌Winning stakeholders’ trust and support • ‌Job satisfaction and motivation and capability 81.4 7.9 89.3 Value of development • ‌Policy debate, public hearings ‌ • Shared Growth Council. ‌ • Education (on-/off-line) • ‌SNS, channels for media Employees 83.4 7.6 91 production • ‌Win-win labor-management relations • Media ‌ contributions, interviews, ‌ • SME Support Center • Labor-management ‌ negotiation • ‌Social contribution system 81.9 5.8 87.7 • ‌Enhancing corporate image and brand Communication Press conference • Shared ‌ growth messenger and council • ‌Customer suggestions / channel • Management’s ‌ communication • ‌Youngemployees’ meeting complaints management system • ‌Expansion of safe and convenient railway network 83.4 7.6 91 with workers • ‌Talking with CEO over lunch Value General • ‌Addressing customer complaints • Empathy ‌ concert 84.6 2.9 87.5 Purchase public (land compensation, noise reduction, etc.) 85.2 1.8 87.0 • More ‌ social contribution andsocial responsibilities 22 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 23 Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Efforts to Share Visions and Strategies and Achievements  Communication among KR, Contractor and Subcontractor  ① Payment for ⑦ Frequent construction work monitoring KR Contractor Value influence Value Collaboration (partners / Value of production Value Purchase Real-time monitoring system checks Stakeholders ⑤ Submitting ⑥ Input of (government / media) local governments / KORAIL) (employees) (general public) ② Payment Supervision whether not only subcontractors but payment details Payment history end users received payment Confirm • ‌Securing new business through • ‌System improvement activities to • ‌Composition of nuclei for • ‌Expanding empathy and enhancing Within 15 Days receipt support measures such as national spread fair trade culture creative innovation culture Core brand value by enhancing policy debates ‌Introduction of reward system staff training emotional PR such as publicizing ‌ Support such as National Assembly for illegal subcontracting reports ‌Innovative personnel 37 people KR’s business and management ④ Submit copies of payment to end user Railway Forum (five times) Execution (July. 9) (MBB2, BB14, GB21 patients) performances Subcontractor ③ Payment End User* Enlarged ‌ investments need ‌Improved payment system for the sustained an additional positive ‌Media exposure cases totaling 469 Government / Parliament support prevention of delayed payment Innovation deployable (139% increase compared to 337 Lobbying activities (71 times) (Nov. 22) • ‌Self-learning knowledge Dure (CoP) cases of last year) ⇒ ‌(Treasury) 2012: 4.161 trillion to • Checking ‌ status of unfair of the base, proposed activities • ‌Earning more trust from people * End User: Final user (ex: Material, equipment suppliers and construction workers, etc.) 2013: 4.6834 trillion (13% increase) subcontracting to prevent unfair Improve business efficiency through participatory events • ‌.Efforts to revise laws for better subcontracting (F times) ‌Knowledge (11,502 cases), proposed ‌Ground-breaking / opening railway business ‌Resolving 12 billion won in overdue (5,049 cases), Financial performance ceremony with participation of Support ‌ and opinions for policy payments to subcontractors (76.2 billion won) communities Railway Policy Coordination Council Partnership discussion seminar (11 opinions expressed, • Listening ‌ to VOC of small partners • ‌KR's Young Staffs Regular Meeting ‌‌Railway Literary Contest nine reflected) and addressing management (once a month) (June to August, prizes given to Efforts ⇒ ‌Revision of pre-feasibility study problems ‌KR's staffs under deputy general 20 people in three areas) guidelines and transportation ‌Debates on win-win growth with manager discussed shared vision, • Utilization ‌ of storytelling type facility investment and evaluation partners (June. 26/Dec.17) strategy, and management suggesSNS content (blogs and so forth) • Resolving ‌ conflicts through tions by upward communication. • Opening ‌ KR’s amenities and communication for win-win growth • Constant ‌ communication through accommodation to people ‌Addressing complaints about Online/Offline channels ‌12,592 users (Survey results extend underground pass in Iksan ‌[Online] CEO’s Letter about showed all of the respondents (by 33,560 people) Innovation, Mutual Growth News were satisfied) • ‌Held with Korea Railway Corporation • ‌Attended by 300 people from partners ‌Non-conflict move of Sinchon (once a month), Vision / strategy • Six ‌ major sharing activities led by • ‌Safe construction of and operational cooperation • ‌Received recommendations and complaints. Village (17 households) sharing through knowledge manmanagement based on business for Honam and Gyeongbu High Speed Railways Shared win-win growth best practices and sought agement system capabilities scheduled to open in 2015 development measures ‌[Offline] Open Forum (once a 2,638 ‌ people participated for month), core value education 15,297 hours (semiannually), Talking with CEO Learning “Dure” (CoP) activity Annual trends in media relations over meals (113 times), CEO’s on-site communication, empathy concert 469 articles 337 articles Three years 104 articles • ‌Additional selection of five pre• ‌Inccreased partner satisfaction • ‌Winning prize at Korea Knowledge • ‌Rise in empathy with people 4.6 times feasibility study business projects (93.2 → 94.8) Awards (Safety Administration) (55.5 → 65.8) • ‌Selection of highly efficient • Selected ‌ as excellent company in • Rise ‌ in productivity (6σ) • Rise ‌ in customer satisfaction 2011 2012 2013 investment projects (Ministry of win-win growth (Ministry of Trade, • Rise ‌ in employee satisfaction (94.0 → 94.1) Achievements Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs) Industry and Energy) (76.4 → 78.5) • ‌Winning prize at Community • ‌Name of CoP: Community of Practice • ‌Increase of 4.6-fold over the past three years • ‌Significant expansion of • ‌Timely promotion of • Dispute-free ‌ collecting bargaining Contribution Awards (Forbes) • ‌Subjects: all employees thanks to spread of positive public opinions such as new projects (Four in 2012, Honam and Seoul Metropolitan • ‌Number of organizations: 197 enhanced features rising to 13 in 2013) High-Speed Railways 24 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 25 Sustainability Key Issues Sustainability management is at the heart of the business activities of KR Materiality Test Process Step 3 Major Core Issues KR followed the ISO 26000 guidelines for the drawing up of major sustainability issues that require attention from management to analyze the internal and The materiality test was implemented through the relevance evalexternal environments and select the most essential sustainability issues for KR and its stakeholders. Focused Report Step 3 uation and importance evaluation of the initial 102 sustainability Materiality issues. As a result, 25 trend and impact issues receiving 4.5 points FOCUS 01 ‌Strengthening Korea Rail3 , Test or more out of 5.0 were determined as the final core issues to be reway’s Competitiveness 5 ported. The test spelled the five top issues. KR intensively reported FOCUS 02 Safe Railway Construction 1 Step 1 Social Responsibility Recognition the five thorough four focused reports. FOCUS 03 Ethical Management 2 FOCUS 04 ‌Win-Win Growth with 4 Partners Media Analysis Relevant Corporations Analysis Step 1 Social Responsibility Recognition From January 2013 through December 2013 there KR identified its important issues by analyzing the • Deriving key issues were 8,189 articles analyzed to select relevant issues sustainability reports of domestic and international Trend Impact for studying the internal and external awareness of KR’s corporations displaying excellent performance levels of 1 major sustainability issues. sustainability management in terms of ISO 26000 and 4 the GRI index. 2 5 3 Importance to outside stakeholders Trend & Impact Analysis Review of ISO 26000 Performance Level 6 8 10 9 7 • ‌Media Analysis Surveys on major sustainability issues were conducted ISO 26000 review tools developed by the Ministry of 11 12 16 15 • ‌Relevant Corporations for employees in the areas of Trends*/Impact**/Internal Trade, Industry and Energy were used to determine KR’s 18 17 14 13 19 Analysis 20 Capacity for drawing a list of issues on which KR may social responsibility performance level and to conclude 23 22 • ‌Trend & Impact Analysis 25 Review of ISO 26000 have an impact, issues which have an impact on KR, or major issues, focusing on identified weaknesses. 24 21 Performance Level internal capability issues. * Trends: KR is affected by external economic, social and environmental trends ** Impact: KR damaging the external economic, social and environmental impacts Importance to inside stakeholders at KR 1 Increase in safety of services and products (railway safety) 14 Customer health and safety Step 2 Participation of Stakeholders Focused Report 2 Increase in demand for transparency of KR 15 Energy consumption reduction (ethical management) 16 Environmental damage (air, water, soil pollution) 3 Increase in needs for new business 17 Fair competition and fair trade Specialists Interview Surveys Step 2 4 Increase in importance of shared growth 18 Greenhouse gases, waste water and waste discharge Participation of Contributing to national development by expanding Stakeholders KR selected a core group of stakeholders with respect Surveys of the major groups of stakeholders including 5 19 Participation by stakeholders and reflecting their opinions the rail network (indirect economic impact) to the legal, financial, and operational responsibilities the employees, customers, business partners, govern20 Compliance with environmental laws 6 Increase in various customer needs and levels of influence on the management, and then ment, local communities and others were conducted Increase in demand for employee welfare and rights 7 Expanding importance of talented people 21 administered in-depth interviews of six specialists repto gather various opinions on KR’s sustainability man(work-life balance) resenting each group to decide the specific issues of agement. The results were reflected in the materiality 8 Increased competition (roads, aviation, subways, etc.) 22 Customer information protection sustainability management. test. The period of the surveys was from May 26, 2014 9 Anti-corruption Addressing business conflicts 23 through June 15. A total of 466 people were surveyed. 10 Legal compliance (compensation for land, noise reduction, etc.) • Specialists Interview • Surveys 11 Easy access to corporate information (Internet, SNS) 24 The decision-making process and structure 12 Increase in demand for customer information security 25 Climate change (global warming) 13 More interest in governance (management’s responsibility) 26 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 27 Focused Report 28 FOCUS 01 Strengthening Korea Railway’s Competitiveness 34 FOCUS 02 Safe Railway Construction 38 FOCUS 03 Ethical Management 42 FOCUS 04 Win-Win Growth with Partners 28 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 29 01 Focused Report Strengthening Korea Railway’s Competitiveness KR is growing into a global railway company by overcoming its limitations due to a slowdown in the growth of the domestic railway construction market and creating a new growth engine through advancing into the global market. Secure Technology through Development of Practical Techniques  Next-generation high-speed train HEMU  We will take the lead in increasing the competitiveness of the railway industry through the commercialization, and Core Technology for 400Km/h Speed Train High Speed l The next-generation high-speed train HEMU localization of railway technology. KR will also focus on the implementation of a system that realizes the steady achieved the top speed of 421.4Km/h in a vehicle acceleration test in March 2013. KR built up to a development of Korean railways. 56km-long test bed for testing the stability of the HEMU. KR established standards on the design of a 400Km/h high-speed train including the assessment of the safety of roadbeds, tracks and catenaries in The advantages of railways such as environmental friendliness, railways, safety, 2014. scheduled operations and mass transit will make railways more important as one of the nation’s key transportation networks. In this respect KR plays a pivotal role in the Standards on Prevention of Accidents at Deep Underground Stations High Safety l In 2013, KR set development of Korea’s railways. High costs for railway construction make investment decisions standards on the prevention of accidents in deep underground stations that will be built about 40 to 50 difficult and it is not easy to change constructed railway lines. Thus, investment should be made Classification KTX HEMU-430X meters underground such as those of the GTX. KR set standards on the installation of the fire equipment in consideration of a long-term perspective as well as economic aspects. The development of Top Speed 300km/h 430km/h and evacuation facilities and drew up a smoke management facility and system construction plan internationally compatible technology holds the key to the strengthening of Korean railways. KR needs to Power arrangement centralized decentralized through the fire and evacuation simulation analysis and expert advice. Korean Radio Based Train Control expand its overseas projects to all railway sectors such as design and construction beyond supervision. Formation length 388.1m(20 cars) 197.6m(6 cars) Kim Dong-jun, officer at Railway System (KRTCS) Development for Enhancement of Signal System. I hope that Korean railways with KR at the center will play a key role in the connection between the South and Vehicle width 2,970m 3,100m Construction at Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs North Korean railways, the Eurasia Initiative and the world railway market. Body Material Steel Body Aluminum Development of KRTCS for Upgrade of Signal System High Localization l KR developed KRTCS, a Axle load 17 tons 14 tons complete radio-based train control system for the purpose of weaning itself off foreign signal system Traction output 13,560kw 9,840kw technology and upgrading the power of local signal systems. The localization saves KRW 46.3 billion in import costs per year and shortens service intervals, expanding railway transport volume. Furthermore, Strengthening of Railway Technology Development KR expanded railway traffic by reducing headway and improved our economic efficiency by laying the foundation for entering foreign markets. Technological Development for Key Tasks KR worked out a technology development strategy to secure global-level railway technical expertise and is conducting a total of 48 R&D tasks including 10 strategic tasks.  Korean radio based train control system (KRTCS)  KR is putting on a final spurt to secure the technological level of developed countries such as the development of a 400km/h high-speed train and Main Traffic infrastructure, the advancement of railway design standards, and the localization of railway supplies. Controller’s Scheduling controller management Interface Site control Site control Printer Plotter computer computer computer computer device computer #1 computer #2 3 High • Development of next-generation high-speed train (HEMU-430X) n High Speed • ‌Development of technology for 400km/h high-speed LAN tr ai Field c LAN tic system on tr rail infrastructure Au t g moni oma ices tor dev ol High Safety in Radio-based • ‌Research on standards on prevention of signaling High Safety deep underground stations ck system om • Development of upper track crossing system for railway bridges b On l d ) de oa vice High High sign a ev rd Tra o ice r Technological Car display s ine LAN Speed Localization • Development of rail fastening device localization technology (mach High Development Connection cable Localization • Development of Korean radio-based train control system for Key Tasks  ‌Korea’s Railway Technological Level Compared to Those of Developed Countries • Research on increasing competitiveness in railway construction The ground Input and Electronic Input and Line Low Cost Radar Accelerometers Proximity Wayside control output Interlocking output 83.4 Low Cost Low CO2 • Research on fiber input optimization Switcher 78.8 sensor sensor antenna equipment modules device devices 75 #1 and 2 • ‌Research on greenhouse gas reduction at railway Low CO2 construction sites 2 Low • Development of railway noise and vibration prediction methods (Unit: %) Onboard radio Wayside Ground radio Semaphore Platform Screen Doors (PSD) 2011 2012 2013 30 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 31 01 Focused Report Strengthening Korea Railway’s Competitiveness Reducing Construction Cost through Improvement to Design Standards Low Cost l KR’s steady  Highlights of Railway Design Standard Revisions   Outlook for World Railway Orders  improvement in railway design standards is a big contributor to the safety of railway construction and Areas Major revisions a construction cost saver. The 62 research projects such as bridges, roadbeds and tracks over the past Western Europe CIS 2.0% 2.0% Geotechnical • ‌Classification as a wide survey and World rail supply market three years from 2010 led to a revision of standards on railway construction. Investigation inspection • ‌The dual standard train load Integration 2.6% Eastern Europe Development of Environmental Technologies Low CO2 l KR builds a program to estimate greenhouse Bridges with KRL-2012 2.7% • Setting ‌ standards on circular hollow piers gas emissions to reduce the CO2 from building railways. GHG emission management manual for railway •‌Decreasing ‌ safety allowance for construction sites is applied to all construction sites. Accordingly, this method is expected to save Station overrunning at platform (train): System railway construction sites 820,000 tons of CO2e by 2020. such as ground segment (10m to 5m) • Changing ‌ average tunnel floor Rest of Americas illumination: 10 [lx] over → 5 [lx] over Entry into Global Market System • Revising ‌ standards on uplift in accordance 7.0% with international standards Overseas Business Strategy The world railway market is estimated at about 240 trillion won and is forecast to grow 2.6% annually. In particular, the market in the Asia-Pacific region is expected to grow steadily. KR is going ahead with overseas business with its focus on consulting and supervision based on the core competencies. KR is planning to expand into large investment projects (PM and EPC) in the future. NAFTA Africa & Middle East Asia & Pacific 2.8% 8.1% 1.9%  Midto Long-Term Overseas Business Strategy  Average annual growth rate (2012-2017) The main railway market forecast by region The Czech Minister of Transportation meets with Vision Increasing profits, debt reduction and sustainable growth through overseas orders the CEO of KR Mission Profit generation through orders Target Posting 700 billion won in overseas business profit in 2020 • Continued growth in the Asia-Pacific region • 2.6% growth expected each year ‌Latin America, the Middle East and Africa are • Market size: about 240 trillion (e) expected to lead the growth of the world market Receiving More Orders  Overseas Sales  Core Values KR is making diversified efforts to advance into overseas railway markets by promoting international Seeking more Sustainable Empowerment 150 exchanges and building a global network in order to enter more countries based on its railway orders growth 122 technology. In addition, its focus on key markets in the Middle East and Central Asia is fueling its 109 cooperation and promoting its publicity activities. In addition, the company is participating in Expanding new orders and Enhancing sustainable Strategic Efforts for bidding processes for railway business in Oman, Bangladesh and Uzbekistan to expand its integration strengthening marketing future sales Objectives subsequent orders technology-oriented international business such as large investment projects (PM, EPC). In 2013, KR won capabilities competitiveness (Unit: 100 orders valued at a total of 10.9 billion won by advancing into the United States, Bangladesh, and the million won) • ‌Submitting strategic • ‌Orders System • Developing ‌ new markets Philippines in 2013. In particular, the company secured a foothold in the U.S. market estimated at seven 2011 2012 2013 proposals Improvement • Strengthening ‌ sales • Promoting ‌ public-private • ‌Utilizing KR’s core trillion won by winning an order to provide technological consulting on California’s High-Speed Railway Focus Area activities in focused market cooperation capabilities • Expanding ‌ advancements Project. KR received orders for three consecutive years from the South Asian market by setting it as a • Reinforcement ‌ international • ‌Development of HR for into strategic market cooperation network overseas business target market and conducting strategic sales activities. Our overseas railway projects were expanded to 12 countries in 2013 from nine countries in 2012. Revenues from overseas Rate of international railway Measurements Volume of overseas orders projects business expansion 32 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 33 01 Focused Report Strengthening Korea Railway’s Competitiveness 2011 • ‌Feasibility Test Service of the City Train in Katmandu 2005 • Construction ‌ Supervision of Sootu Line Overseas Business Performances Working Design Service of Electric Railway 2006 • Construction ‌ Supervision of Muhan~Gwangju • ‌Working Design Service of Electric Railway High-speed Railway 2012 • ‌Stage 2 in the Working Design Service of Electric 2008 • Consultation ‌ for Harbin~Dalian High-speed Railway Railway Package I, II 2010 • ‌Technical Consultation for Nanshin Line • ‌Technical Consultation for Seoan~Bogye 2013 • ‌Design and supervision of modernization High-speed Railway of signals in eastern area • ‌Technical Consultation for Cheonjin~Jinwhangdo High-speed Railway • ‌Technical Consultation for Bangeum~Shinhaeseong U.S. China High-speed Railway 2013 • ‌Technical consulting on California’s high speed railway Nepal • ‌Technical Consultation for Harbin~Qiqihar Bangladesh High-speed Railway India Vietnam • Construction ‌ Supervision of Jangsa~Gonmyung Cambodia High-speed Railway ‌(Selected as the Best Construction Consulting Philippines Agency for Two Consecutive Years) Cameroon 2012 • ‌Supervision of Jeongju-Seoju High-speed Railway Malaysia Indonesia 2014 • ‌Commendation for Supervision of 2009 • ‌Railway master plan consulting 2011 • Feasibility ‌ study on railway Stopover line in China construction project • ‌Supervision of Beijing-Shenyang High-speed Railway 2012 • Construction ‌ Supervision of Jeongju~Seojugan High-speed Railway Paraguay 2013 • ‌Consulting on LRT-2 eastern extension Overseas Railway Orders 2011 • Consulting ‌ on feasibility of 2011 • Consulting ‌ on railway master plan a railway construction project 12 countries 32 projects 2012 • ‌Consultation for high-speed 2012 • ‌Consulting on master plan to make an improvement to circular railway in Jabotabek 84.2 billion won railway working design (2004 to 2013) 2012 • ‌MRT (Line 1) Communication Project PM Consulting Increasing Sales Competitiveness International Network Construction Applying International Standards KR increases brand value and competitiveness by expanding international exchanges and cooperation. Recently high technological levels were required for overseas new orders. Thus, KR increases its KR is widening its human networks such as signing MOUs with overseas clients and participating in competitiveness by reflecting design levels which can satisfy international standards and design and international seminars and railway logistics trade shows. In addition, KR develops business jointly with through an improvement in its cost estimating system when submitting its overseas project proposals. domestic private companies and lay the foundation for advancing into developing countries through KR also acquired integrated international and domestic ISO/OHSAS certification related to safety, quality official development assistance (ODA) projects. and the environmental and use the certificates in submitting proposals and letters of intent. Korea-U.K. Railway Seminar Indian high-speed railway seminar Training Professionals KR continues to strengthen our sales competitiveness by nurturing professionals by step and ability. KR offers a variety of customized training programs such as overseas experts’ education, language training and PMP training by forming a human resources pool for overseas projects. 34 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 35 02 Focused Report Safe Railway Construction KR is building a railway network that people can use safely by applying optimized methods from the design stage to the opening of a railway. KR’s Quality Management System makes the systematic management of the quality and Toughening Standards on Earthquake Resistant Design  Tunnel Improvement  safety sectors, contributing to the safety construction of quality railways. Earthquake-resistant design is reflected in KR’s construction of railway facilities in accordance with safety standards. KR designs and builds railway facilities such as tunnels, bridges and buildings that meet the earthquake resistant design criteria (magnitude: 6 to 6.5 degrees on the Richter scale). Earthquake resistant design was applied to 173 out of 253 facilities such as bridges, tunnels and buildings on highBefore KR is doing everything it can to ensure safety at railway construction sites by placing speed railways as of December 2013. 80 bridges for high speed railway were constructed before 2000 the Safety Quality Office under the Chairman of the BOD. The office formulates KR’s overall when earthquake resistant design was not strengthened. Therefore, KR is planning to complete the safety plan and implements safety checks at hundreds of construction sites across the nation. reinforcement of the anti-earthquake nature including these 80 bridges by stages until 2018. Moreover, KR’s fast and accurate investigation into accidents find their cause and improvement measures, KR is planning to complete work to enhance the earthquake resistance performances of 388 locations preventing the recurrence of similar incidents effectively. In particular, we devise preventive on bridges and in tunnels of general railways which should be armed with anti-earthquake design measures by analyzing accidents of the past decade and the characteristics of accidents by accidents After ahead of others by 2016. As for 1,262 facilities, KR will carry out total inspections and find facilities that by types, seasons, time and working periods. We also review the effectiveness of prevention measures and need reinforcing and finish reinforcing them step by step by 2018. develop improvement methods by continuously monitoring accident reduction with the implementation of Park Ji-ho, the measures at sites. KR will try its best to minimize railway construction accidents by training safety experts in manager at Safety Quality  Standards on Earthquake Resistant Railway Design  Office at KR civil engineering, electricity, architecture and tracks in the long term. By facility Standards  Installation of Screen Doors  Railway bridges Ⅰgrade (about magnitude 6) Railway tunnels Ⅰgrade (about magnitude 6) Railway Architecture Ⅰgrade (about 6.5 on the Richter scale) Safe Railway Construction through Quality Management Before Strengthening Quality Management  ‌Winning an Award at the National Quality Phased Prevention and Maintenance during Construction For the construction of safe, high-quality public railways, KR obtained quality, safety, environmental Management Convention For high-quality railway construction, KR conducts a field-oriented quality inspection and safety checkinternational certificates, and is pushing forward with safe high-quality railway construction in up from construction to opening according to the safety standards. KR prevents quality defects in accordance with international standards. KR is committed to continuous quality improvement by advance by specifying sites that need intensive management. At the same time, KR is committed to analyzing defects in design, construction and operational phases and making improvements through ensuring quality through a comprehensive test-run before the opening of a railway in addition to reguAfter internal and external ISO/OHSAS reviews. KR found 84 matters for improvements in 2013 and corrected lar comprehensive safety audits and inspections of railway facilities. KR fully prepares to secure quality 83 cases except one case that costs too much money compared to its effects. Moreover, the company by expanding inspection sites to 3,958 spots in 2013 from 1,602 spots in 2012 and analysing matters manages overall levels of its system such as the management’s will about quality, resources, products for improvement and case sharing. Besides, KR performs rigorous performance tests on materials used and measurement by evaluating the level of quality management system (QMS) operation. As a in railway construction. KR operates the internationally recognized testing laboratory (KOLAS) and a result, in 2013, the company scored 852 points (Level 6+), a top level among public organizations Improvement in Design Standards: Improvement to nationally recognized quality testing organization and steadily sign agreements for industry-academy  Base Reinforcement  steel fiber input into tunnel shotcrete in the assessment of their quality management systems of by the Korea Standard Association. KR cooperation and secure professional test equipment. received outsiders’ recognition of the quality of our railways including the Presidential Award from the National Quality Management Contest through an improvement to tunnel construction-related design  Facility Failure Rate*   Safety Inspection System  standards. Management target Before 0.025 Breaking ground Completion Opening by phase Construction Safety  International Standards Quality, Safety And Environment  Management Safety checks 0.004 0.002 Traffic Safety Act (Unit: %) Regional headquarters’ safety 2011 2012 2013 management Comprehensive safety review Safety management regulations After * ‌The government’s indicators to measure the quality of Facilities to be opened the design and construction of railway facilities Comprehensive test run Railway Safety Act (Formula: the number of failures due to facilities / the total length of completed railways) Facilities after completion Special Facility Safety Facility safety inspection Quality: ISO9001 Certification Environment: ISO14001 Certification Safety: OHSAS18001 Certification Management Act 36 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 37 02 Focused Report Safe Railway Construction Expansion of Safety Facilities  Improvement of Railway Crossing Facility  Safety Management at Railway Construction Sites KR is steadily strengthening safety features of railway facilities that are used as well as new railways Before Improvement under construction. For the safety of passengers, steady investment is made in improving railway Prevention of Safety Accidents at Construction Sites  Checks of Vulnerable Sites  facilities annually. Thus, in 2013, its facility improvement investment reached 333.2 billion won, a yearKR established safety control measures through the annual analysis of accident cases and risk Classification 2012 2013 on-year increase of 69%. KR is making improvements to outworn facilities, disaster prevention facilities, assessment work to make railway construction sites accident-free. KR eliminates causes of accidents by Risk stage 231 274 and firefighting facilities in a timely manner in order to ensure the safety of train operation. In addition, finding them prior to work and manages vulnerable locations classified into three grades by risk levels. In Vulnerable Alert stage 112 101 we made steady improvements to facilities such as building an underpass after removing a crossing, particular, we devised prevention measures by taking into account past cases where accidents happened places Attention stage 70 72 expanding soundproof walls and improve buildings loaded with asbestos. Through these efforts, KR is to new workers and vulnerable places. KR made it compulsory for workers to start to work after checking Total 413 447 After Improvement able to contribute to improve people’s lives and health. safety matters by procedures. In addition, KR built a construction accident database and conduct work Check rate (%) 100 100 safety and suitability tests regularly with the aim of creating a safe workplace for construction workers.  Enhancing Safety Facilities in 2013  KR is also operating a CCTV-based safety management system such as CCTV-based real-time monitoring. Classification Details of projects We respond rapidly to emergency situations such as the operation of safety control rooms and issuing  Accident Rate  Safety for ‌ • Complementary measures for tunnel emergency facilities safety alerts to site managers and site supervisors and KR employees after newsflashes about inclement 0.142 fire fighting (2 places finished, 14 places in progress) weather. KR is thoroughly prepared against disasters by preparing 26 disaster scenarios based on 0.102 Facilities • Complementary ‌ measures for moving facilities such as elevators (4 stations) 0.082 simulated drills at construction sites. KR registered an accident rate of 0.102% in 2013. • Improved ‌ various facilities for prevention of storms, floods and natural disasters Disaster Safety ‌Expansion of one bridge (15 places in progress), 11 bases reinforced, prevention enhance13 sewer facilities, eight places to prevent landslides, 15 retaining walls  Devising Safety Measures  (Unit: %) ment Seismic resistance ‌ • Seismic augmentation for earthquake resistant design standards for all facilities capacity reinforce2011 2012 2013 66 bridges, 18 tunnels • Mandatory safety education for new worker ment Platform safety 03 • Management of vulnerable places by risk grades • Safety checks for thawing and raining seasons • Screen ‌ door installation for the prevention of accidents (8 stations) Preventive facilities Crossing facilities • Offering ‌ transportation convenience such as expanding passage boxes, • ‌Analysis of previous accident 01 measures Improving changing crossings into underpasses or bridges (4 places) • ‌Analysis of accidents over past five years Analysis the living • Accidents by new workers 70% Soundproofing • Soundproofing ‌ barrier installation along railways (16 places) environment • Five common accidents such as crashes 73% for people Elevator Asbestos removal • Elevator ‌ ‌ • Improving installation for the disabled (4 places) asbestos-containing roofs (10 places) 02 • Accidents in thawing and raining seasons 54% Implications Improving old Anti-Disaster Drill • ‌Improving 103 out of 1,010 places rail operation • Improving ‌ 1,249 of 12,403 electric facilities facilities Safety Education Anti-Disaster Drills KR conducts self-safety education for all field workers even including personnel of partners. Safety KR constantly improves its disaster preparedness to secure the safety of rail network users. We built a education is mandatory for all workers at worksites. Our self-safety education including safety near cooperation system with related organizations (KORAIL and fire departments) according to the disaster railways and the use of helmets and safety nets raises laborers’ awareness of safety and eradicates risk management plan. Regular training exercises are conducted to cope with emergencies from disasters elements at worksites, thus preventing accidents. such as heavy rain, snow and earthquakes. Moreover, we educate workers and holds working-level council meetings on safety with KORAIL to ensure the safety at construction sites. Furthermore, an anti-landslide Working-level Council on Safety at Railway Construction  Safety Education in 2013  monitoring system enables KR to immediately take measures against landslips. Sites DIY Safety Education Classification Subjects No. of participants  Organizational Chart of Anti-Disaster HQ  Integrated quality, environment, Corporation Officer, Examiner of ISO/OHSAS certification 216 safety management education Partner staff 47 Headquarters Head of Regional Regional site On-site recovery Recovery manager Safety Experience Training (mandatory) Staff of partners 36,077 Anti-Disaster HQ Headquarters manager Vice Head of Regular safety education KR officer, Managers of partners 3,312 Anti-Disaster HQ Situation Control and Research Situation Situation Recovery team Assistance Unit Support team monitoring team recovery process monitoring team monitoring team Equipment Manpower Cooperation Assistance team mobilization mobilization 38 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 39 03 Focused Report Ethical Management KR strives to grow into a public corporation, earning the citizens’ support and trust through strong ethical management. We are going ahead with various education programs and activities for the internalization of ethical management on Ethical Standards the basis of our ethics charter, the principles of our ethical management behaviors. 【 Excerpt from Ethical Charter 】 [03] Ethics for Business Partners Ethics Charter KR should establish the Ethical Charter which serves as stanKR should grant equal business opportunities to all qualified dards for all employees’ value judgment and behaviors. Emcompanies based on the principle of free competition Ethical Code of Conduct ployees should honor the charter. KR has large economic and social impacts and accordingly shoulders heavy ethical [04] Ethics for Employees responsibility as an agency responsible for the construction of railways, the backbone of 【 Excerpt from Ethical Charter 】 KR should grant equal opportunities to employees depending Korea’s transportation. Amid many outsiders’ negative views on KR’s business, I met those in [01] Basic Ethics for Employees on their skills and qualifications... (Ellipsis) ... Employees should Employee Code of Public report Employee should have job ethics and strong will to eradicate not be discriminated against due to their gender, education, charge of KR’s regional offices and attended meetings as a representative of the ombudsmen. Conduct processing guidelines any wrongdoings and corruptions and endeavor to establish ages, religions, origin and physical disability Railway construction face resistance from land owners unlike other construction projects. But I could the image of an upright and clean public official. see KR employees strived to save budgets by guaranteeing transparency in design, construction and Ombudsman Criminal charges [05] Ethics for State and Society operating instructions against corruptions [02] Ethics for Customers KR should be free from politics... (Ellipsis) bidding. I judge that systems like verification systems such as a whistleblower system and public reporting If an employee obtains customer information, he or she should and employees have high integrity. But as for integrity issues, accidents can happen at any time if we are not not leak or use it for other purposes without prior approval of [06] Anti-Corruption and Ethical Management Committee Detailed personnel Jeong Jun-hyeon, attentive enough. I hope that KR will build a transparent and clean image through steady management and 10 KR integrity customers... (ellipsis) KR should establish an anti-corruption and ethical management management professor of law at Dankook Univ. obligations committee to review and determine matters about the impleimprovement. regulations mentation of anti-corruption measures and integrity work. Promotional System of Ethical Management Ethical Management Activities Strategic System of Ethical Management KR devised general ethical management measures under the vision of the “Realization of Shinbaram CEO’s and Executives’ Taking the Oath for Ethical Management KR, Transparent, Clean, and Trusted by the Public.” Its ethical management involves systems, education, Each year the CEO and executives participate in the ethical oath-taking event of the BEST Forum for evaluation and compensation that enhance its executing power. In addition, the company manages the purpose of positioning itself as a public institution that people trust. In 2013, the vice president performance, monitors ethics and integrity through its ethical management system. The system allows expressed KR’s commitment for ethical management through his handwritten vow at the BEST the company to counsel, receive reports, diagnose, look into real-time integrity and identify improving Forum. KR reaffirmed the principle that ethics is its business competitiveness. KR conducted a rally for measures for integrity VOC. The results are reflected in performance management. management’s commitment for integrity and employees’ resolutions to pledge the implementation Ethical Management System of ethical management. This allows the management and all employees to share practices there by internalizing ethical management and complying with the Employee Code of Conduct. Rally for Promoting Integrity Implementation Organization for Ethical Management KR recently established the Anti-Corruption and  Ethical Management Organization  Anti-Corruption Activities through Improvement in Systems Ethical Management Committee and KR's vice KR abolished articles and clauses in contracts that give favors to its former employees to root out old CEO chairman assumes a chairman of this committee. practices to give subcontracting work to them. Previously, when assessing designers and supervisors in The committee deliberates and resolves major Ethics and Anti-Corruption the field of electricity and telecommunications, KR regarded a former KR employee’s one year of service Integrity Ombudsmen Audit and Advice Committee Committee as his or her successful project (one project per year). The abolishment of the rule helped create a level items on ethical management with advice from (Chairman) Vice Chairman the Integrity ombudsmen and the Audit and (External experts) (Chairman) non-executive directors playing ground for small companies and latecomers without any former KR employees. We strived to (Committee) Executive (Committee) external experts Advice Committee. The Ethics and Originality management staffs eliminate controversies over preferential treatment for specific partners by devising measures to restrict KR retirees from entering job-related companies at least for one year after their retirement. In addition, Signing Ceremony for Job Integrity Agreement Department is in charge of ethical management. Ethics and Originality Department Integrity Supervision Department At the beginning of every year, an ethical manwe began to accept reports anonymously to thoroughly handle law violations in railway safety, Ethics Action Groups agement plan is formulated and implemented construction and facility sector in 2013. Therefore, the number of reports increased to 11 cases in 2013 companywide. In addition, ethical action groups from one in 2012. CEO Head Audit and Advice Committee Audit direction review (advice) enhance the implementation of ethical manageAnti-Corruption and Ethical Review/Resolving Ethics and Originality Dept. Ethical Management Office ment. The Integrity Supervision Team is expandManagement Committee Organization Ethical action groups Implementing organization ing corruption prevention and a self-controlled Advice (system (integrity keeper) Integrity Ombudsmen corruption culture. improvement) Integrity Supervision Dept. Permanent corruption watchdog 40 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 41 03 Focused Report Ethical Management Ethical Program  ‌Achievements of Integrity Ombudsman Internal Audit System KR is running various ethical programs such as self-diagnoses and integrity campaign spreading across System in 2013 the company to raise ethical awareness. KR has been operating the Integrity Ombudsman Group System Improvement (15 cases) KR is strengthening internal checks by creating a professional and independent audit infrastructure consisting of external experts since 2007 in order to improve absurd systems from the perspective and carrying out strategic audit activities. In particular, KR is committed to thoroughly preventing the • ‌Review of on-site design changes of the people. In addition to operating the “Clean Report Center,” we constantly receive reports on irresponsible management of public institutions, which has become a major national issue. . • ‌Operation of Design Advice Committee wrongdoings, illegal requests and corruptions. We are strongly committed to the prevention of • ‌Measures to eradicate preferential treatment to former KR employees corruption through integrity crisis management meetings, integrity policy meetings and workshops of Building Independent and Professional Audit Infrastructure integrity agreements. KR ensures the independence of audit work by building bases in the whole area, such as audit, HR, On-site activities (three times) evaluation and budgets. The Audit Office also operates the Audit Advice Committee consisting of Integrity Education for All Employees • On-site surveillance and monitoring external experts such as lawyers and accountants in order to enhance the professionalism of audit Audit Advisory Committee Newly hired and promoted employees and executives above the level of directors received an work. External experts objectively diagnose the levels of six audit sectors such as audit strategy, audit additional eight hours of integrity education. Besides, employees are given education on sexual organization and audit staff. The Audit Office is continuing with improvement projects to eliminate any harassment, domestic violence, prostitution and sexual violence for over four hours a year. In addition,  Corruption Report Center  weaknesses uncovered. In particular from October 2013 to January 2014, KR revised our strategic goals, CEOs’ Monthly Integrity Letter helps spread KR’s integrity culture. Empathy about companywide ethical tasks, and performance indices by redefining midto long-term audit strategy. Solicitation management is created by way of special education by executives and mentoring for departments with Registration of report Approval and report history mileage poor integrity. Report lecture  Midto Long-Term Supervision System  Vision Integrity-Based Audit for KR’s Management Efficiency Results of Integrity Survey Golf report KR is managing its ethical management and integrity level through a wide array of activities in order to Audit Earning trust through rational audit based on professional auditors spread its companywide ethical culture. KR’s score rose by 0.14 from the previous year in a survey by the Public report Philosophy Business Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission. KR obtained an Excellence grade in the evaluation of antiGeneral staff Corruption person Core Values Professionalism Value creation Leading Change report corruption competitiveness. In the future, we will steadily push forward with ethical management such Strategic Strengthening auditing Advancing audit Risk management as giving a boost to anti-corruption and public reporting activities and expanding special supervision Conduct Guidance on code Objectives capabilities system upgrade activities through the expansion of the One-Strike-Out system into partners. Registration of consultation of conduct and consultation Gift/gift return guide counseling • ‌Strengthening auditors’ • ‌Establishing risk-based • ‌Reinforcing business history report registration specialties audit system support consulting  Results of Integrity Survey by Civil Rights Commission  • ‌Advancing audit performance • ‌Establishing standard • ‌Reinforcing internal Strategic Tasks management system audit process control system Classification 2011 2012 2013 • ‌Boosting knowledge • ‌Reinforcing system to • ‌Promoting integrity and Global Integrity Rating (rating) 8.81(Ⅲ) 8.22(Ⅳ) 8.36(Ⅲ)  Mandatory Employee Integrity Training  Results of integrity management activities prevent recurrences ethics activities survey by Civil Rights External Integrity 8.98 8.31 8.47 Commission Employee Code of Conduct Internal integrity 8.55 8.72 8.28 Anti-corruption and competitiveness evaluation by Article 47 (Integrity Education) Employees should Measures to Strengthen Internal Checks Good (Ⅱ) Average (Ⅲ) Good (Ⅱ) Civil Rights Commission (rating) complete training hours specified in the following. The Audit Office conducts specific audits on high-risk groups selected through annual risk assessment. Standing auditors’ integrity education at regional In 2013, we conducted audits on four high-risk groups including areas such as careless management New recruits: Eight hours headquarters Newly promoted employees: Eight hours and service contractors. We also check general risk by monitoring self-diagnostic checklists, continuous Anti-Corruption Measures Managers or higher: Eight hours per year monitoring systems, routine audit, and corporate credit card monitoring with the goal of preventing KR takes measures against corruption in compliance with personnel management regulations and Employees: Four hours per year irresponsible management. Moreover, the office carried out corruption impact assessment when devising audit regulations. The “One-Strike Out” rule is strictly enforced. Therefore, an expulsion is required for and revising regulations along with standing auditors’ integrity education at regional headquarters, accepting more than one million won. On the other hand, with a joint liability system in place, the improvement in the corruption report system, a hotline with standing auditors, and cross-inspection with boss of a violator should be held accountable. Like this, we strictly hold those who commit corruption external organizations. These activities earned KR a higher integrity level compared to the previous year responsible. and helped KR obtain an excellent grade in the management of public workers among organizations under the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. The office prevents error cases from recurring through local meetings to assess findings, the BOD’s discussion of audit results, and the publication of Auditors’ workshop audit casebooks. 42 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 43 04 Focused Report Win-Win Growth with Partners KR is creating a shared-growth culture through the establishment of the railway construction industry, customized support for SMEs and win-win growth. To this end, the company devises strategies to support its partners and reinforces Creating Win-Win Growth Culture collaboration for customized support for small companies, the establishment of fair trade and a shared-growth culture. KR is conducting two-way communication with partners by operating various on-and offline channels such as the Anti-Unfair Subcontracting Center, the SME Support Center, Win-Win Debate and the WinWin Growth Cyber Center. KR is constantly correcting irrational practices and institutions by collecting partners’ difficulties through the correct channels. For example, KR listens to the voices of people on We have been supervising railway construction since 2002 when the Office of Korean worksites, share knowledge in worksite operation and accept damage caused by unfair practices. National Railways still existed. The founding of KR paralleled a lot of improvements in the win-win cooperation with partners. In particular we strived for mutual growth with SMEs Shared-Growth Debate Selecting Partners and subcontractors. I think it is important to pursue shared growth with partners since partners KR is selecting partners thorough transparent procedures in accordance with supplier assessment perform actual work. This will help enhance the level of Korea’s railways and railway technology. criteria. In particular when evaluating, we highly value the fulfillment of social responsibility such We need to reduce the frequency of changing the design of the project construction by strengthening as violations of environmental laws and regulations, accident rates, unfair trade practices, breach of design stages for the long-term development of the railway industry. Fast land compensation is needed integrity contracts, energy efficiency, green technology and green business certification. In addition we Hyun Young-ok, to speed up business progress. Thus, we hope that KR will endeavor to create an environment in which check basic facts of partners such as performance, construction records, and management status. If a head of the Supervising Team at everyone including partners, supervisors and subcontractors can prosper. Dongbu Engineering project is joint work, the company promotes the participation of local partners by giving them more points. KR gives more opportunities to SMEs by limiting the participation of big companies in certain sectors including geological surveys and explorations. Shared Growth Activities Implementation System for Shared Growth Contract System Improvement for Protection of the Economically Weak Strategy and Organization for Shared Growth KR imposes fines on companies caught unfair subcontract and deduction of construction periods against  ‌Eradicating Preferential Treatment for KR maintains a fair relationship with suppliers through efforts for win-win growth such as fair trade Former KR Employees them during bidding processes, and fundamentally uproot unfair practices and unfair practices by agreements and improvements to the contract system based on a win-win growth strategy. In addition, ordering companies at railway construction sites. In addition, KR gives additional points to companies Before After we operate the Shared Growth Team in order to perform systematic shared growth work. The team that received high points from the Shared Growth Committee and good evaluations from the Fair Trade Regarded a former KR employee’s one year of is dedicated to mutual growth and draws up and implements shared-growth plans and promotes a Commission when they take part in KR’s bidding processes. However, KR excludes the application of service at KR as his or her successful project Abolished shared-growth culture. (one project per year) when he or she takes additional points to big companies in order to protect SMEs if SMEs have participated in the bidding. part in KR’s bidding processes. Agreement Signing Ceremony for Fair Trade  Shared-Growth Strategies   Newly Setting a Rating Standards to Give Additional Points to Companies in terms of Shared Growth   Improving Standards on Bid Evaluation  Slogan “Eradicating Unfair Practices and Promoting Shared Growth” Items that assess credibility of preliminary screening criteria for bidding qualifications (additional points) Classification Before After Establishment of Fair Trade for Strengthening Collaboration to Similar area (80%) Same area (100%) Customized Support for SMEs • Those who scored high points in shared growth evaluation by the Shared Growth Commission (2 (excellent), 1 (good)) Healthy Construction Industry Establish Shared-Growth Culture • ‌Urban, light and • ‌Conventional, • Those who scored high points in evaluation of fair trade by the Fair Trade Commission (1 (best), 1 (excellent) Trackbed magnetic levitation high-speed, urban, railways light and magnetic • ‌Strengthening supervision of • ‌Joint public-private investment and • Expanding Shared-Growth Council <Note> This is applicable only when only big companies take part in PQ. levitation railways payments to partners technology development • ‌Operating Shared-Growth • ‌Signing fair trade agreements • ‌Expanding joint subcontracting Messenger System Same area (80%) Same area (100%) • ‌Reinforcing inspection of system for main contractors • Support for capacity development • ‌Transmission lines • ‌154-plus KV Electricity subcontract management practices • Support for joint overseas business • ‌Operating Unfair Subcontracting KR abolished articles in contracts that regard a former KR employee’s one year of service at KR as his and substations for Transmission lines • ‌Correcting unfair contract system • Support for quality competitiveness Resolving Center railways and substations or her successful project (one project per year) when he or she takes part in KR’s bidding processes. A • ‌Promoting use of standard contracts • Protection of SMEs’ core technology (Support Center for SMEs) and • ‌Rewards for reports of • Purchase of SMEs’ products Shared-Growth homepage system was changed to recognize experiences of participating in the urban and light railways business illegal subcontracts • Expand joint compensation system Anti-Illegal Subcontracting Center as the same experience as participating in KR’s projects. In addition, KR operates a fair and transparent • ‌Expanding support for contract system such as composing all members of the bidding proposal evaluation committee as research facilities external experts in selecting design and supervision partners. This eliminates barriers against SMEs’ participating in railway projects and expands the bidding eligibility of new players. In this way, KR is Providing feedback Conducted quarterly inspection meetings, giving prizes to excellent departments, actively taking part in disseminating a government-led fair trade culture. on activities increasing power by reflecting department evaluation and compensation 44 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 45 04 Focused Report Win-Win Growth with Partners Timely Payment of Money to Workers at Construction Sites Technological Assistance to Business Partners  Percentage of Purchases of SMEs’ Products  For the prevention of overdue wages for construction workers, we are constantly monitoring payment KR set aside the R&D Cooperation Fund to push forward with joint government-private investment in 26.77 of construction fees flowing through a computer system to verify that fees are paid for suppliers of the development of technology. In 2013, the company pursued joint development of three technologies 24.71 materials and equipment, and on-site workers in a timely manner through subcontractors. KR checks such as insulation dividers, single-phase load break switch and thermit material. We supported SMEs’ payments in the final stage since most of the construction fees are unpaid in the final stage between development of ten R&D items to help their technological development and let them use KR’s research the final subcontractor and companies of materials and equipment, and workers in real time. facilities and materials. (Unit: %) 2012 2013 Expansion into Global Markets  Check Payment Systems  KR is implementing joint marketing by forming a consortium with private partners for the systematic  No. of SMEs’ Participating in KR’s Projects  ① Fee ‌ payment ② Payment ‌ to subcontractors ③ ‌Payment within expansion of overseas markets and the strengthening of the global competitiveness of SMEs. The (1st SMS sent) within 15 days (2nd SMS sent) 15 days 236 company shares overseas bid information, utilizing the railway industry information center and takes part in international events such as international conferences. In 2013, we received four orders by 213 making a foray into three countries including the United States and Nepal with SMEs. Contractor Subcontractor End User* KR also takes pains to strengthen the international competitiveness of SMEs such as dispatching KR KR ④ ‌Equipment fee delegations with employees of SMEs. and wages / (Unit: cases) payment history ⑤ Submit ‌ payment results / proof of 2012 2013  Shared Growth with SMEs by Numbers  statements submission ⑧ ‌Monitoring payments Per items 2011 2012 2013  Project Participation Rate of Local Companies  Total purchases(A) 1,111.8 billion won 1,151.6 billion won 1,366 billion won Purchase of 98.83 ⑥ Confirming ‌ Total budget (B) 4,009.3 billion won 4,661.4 billion won 5,103.2 billion won Supervision SMEs’ Products payment Percentage of total purchases(A/B) 28% 24.71% 26.77% 96.47  Educational Program for Partners  No. of cases and participating ⑦ I‌ nput of payment Curriculum No. of People Support for 2, 6 6, 7 10, 13 companies history * End User: suppliers of material and equipment, and and on-site workers R&D PM Course 26 Joint R&D budget 649 million won 2.07 billion won 2.157 billion won CS mentoring support process 200 No. of projects 4 2 4 Quality Management System 25 Support Customized Support for SMEs Performance No. of cooperating private companies 4 3 4 (Unit: %) Capital Fluidity Assistance Environmental Management System 21 Project volume 7.2 billion won 340 million won 12.8 billion won 2012 2013 KR also operates a direct payment system for contractors for which KR paid the subcontract price in Occupational Health and Safety Investing in SME Mutual Funds 96 million won 104 million won 34 Management System case the primacy contractor could not make a payment due to poor financial standing. In 2003, the PMS certification costs 8 million won 3.6 million won 13 million won 2nd Green Railway Graduate School 6 company directly paid 223.2 billion won of subcontracting fees to 339 companies. A special assistance Support for Capacity Building 412 people 2,200 people 3,624 people Safety Training 3,312 team for making payments in preparation of delayed payments during holidays also supports billing Total 3,624 and financial work. Achievements of Shared Growth  Partner Satisfaction  Partner satisfaction rose to 94.85 in 2013, from 93.25 in 2012, on the strength of KR’s efforts for shared Capability Development Program for Business Partners 94.85 growth and a fair society. These efforts earned KR an excellent grade in the evaluation of public KR established the green rail network graduate school in 2012, offering masters and doctorate programs 93.25 organizations in shared growth by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. Therefore, KR obtained the to business partners. In addition, educational programs on the quality, environment, safety and health highest grade for three consecutive years. management system and PM work are provided to nurture experts among business partners. As many as 3,624 employees of partners completed the programs in 2013. Furthermore, KR paid a certification cost of 13 million won for four partners to establish the Product Management System (PMS) at them to (Unit: points) increase their quality competitiveness. 2012 2013 Green Railway Graduate School 46 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 47 Economic Performance 48 Financial Soundness 50 Economic value creation 52 Economic Performance Summary Interview Shin Dong-sik, manager of financial strategy at KR Planning and Finance HQ “The main mission of the KR is to build railways and manage facility assets on behalf of the goverment. KR finances 50% to 60% of the costs for high-speed railway projects by issuing bonds in accordance with financial plans. It was originally planned that KR would pay its share of the expenses by collecting track access charges from KORAIL which is the rail operation company. Track access charges of the high-speed railway even fall short of paying the interest cost of the construction bonds. A lack of money to pay the interest leads to an increase in debts. The government designated 18 organizations including KR as those which need to pay more attention their debts in accordance with financial normalization policy of public organization. Thus, the government is strengthening their debt management such as reviews of the implementation of debt reduction plans and segment accounting system. KR launched the Management Reform Team headed by the chairman to quickly respond to the government’s plan to strengthen debt management. Companywide efforts are being made to improve KR’s financial structure such as the generation of revenues, reduction in investment costs and the enhancement of management efficiency. KR manages progress in its debt reduction plan through the Office of Financial Strategy established in June 2014 to handle strategic and financial management, accounting and taxes. Until 2017, KR will concentrate on making diversified efforts such as restructuring, cost saving, selling off assets and generating profits in order to achieve debt reduction targets (1.2 trillion won) and improve its financial structure.” 48 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 49 Financial Soundness KR draws up a comprehensive debt management plan for financial soundness in conjunction with management strategies. Efforts to Suppress Debt Increase  Budget Savings TF Team  The company implements a sustainable management system through efforts such as expanding rental income using railway assets Self-help Construction project 【Director】 and efficient budget management to reduce costs. Cutting expenses Increased income Efforts cost savings Chairman • ‌High-speed railway • Issued low-interest bonds • Property rental income Causes of Debt Increases that Undermine Financial Soundness  ‌Track Access Charges Compared to  construction • ‌Repaid high interest • ‌Profits from Interest Costs in 2013 Implementation 【Executive Manager】 KR is a special non-capital corporation founded to provide transportation convenience to people and a • ‌Improved construction rate loans overseas business efforts Planning and Finance (Unit: 100 million won) methods • ‌Adjusted time for • Income ‌ from project commissioned quasi-government agency that carries out the government’s work. Depending on largeDivision (Planning and • Facility size optimization issuing bonds management scaled funding, the company is carrying out SOC projects. The company paid some of the costs for Track Access Interest Budget Section) Classification A/B(%) Charges (A) Costs(B) high-speed railway construction in accordance with financial burden ratios (65% of the cost for the first Results of Savings of 164.5 billion won Savings of 148.1 billion won Expanded income such 2004 △218 2,003 △10.9 stage of the Gyeongbu high-speed railway project, 50% of the costs for the Honam high-speed railway Implementation in High-speed railway by decreasing interest rates as asset-related income Construction Method Innovation, Originality 2005 △259 2,764 △9.4 in 2013 construction of debts (175.2 billion won) Improvement Team and Incentive Team project and 60% of the costs for the metropolitan high-speed railway project) by issuing bonds. This 2006 25 3,084 0.8 Head of Executive Director of results in liabilities and over 85% of KR’s total revenue comes from the use of railways. But the revenue Construction Division Planning and 2007 1,022 3,555 28.7 is 26% of the interest cost. Thus, KR lacks financial resources to pay its debts. Building and Operating Systems for Financial Soundness (Director of Finance Division 2008 933 3,305 28.2 KR is stepping up its efforts such as setting budget-efficiency goals by sectors through a budget TF construction planning) (Director of (Director of management) 2009 858 4,111 20.9 team and the team’s managing performances. In addition, a permanent audit system to reduce costs high-speed railways) (Director of Shortand Long-Term Strategies for Debt Management and Reduction 2010 949 4,627 20.5 Executive Director of planning and budget) KR executes short-term and long-term strategies by taking into consideration the causes and nature of monitors the adequacy of budget use. 2011 1,640 4,415 37.1 Facilities and Business the debts and the status of business progress. We are committed to securing our viability through debt Division 2012 2,175 4,416 49.3 (Director of reduction. • ‌Formulated 2013 budget reduction target and implementation plan: facility planning) 2013 2,407 4,615 52.2 Devising budgetLaunched and ran TF team (Director: Chairman) Total 9,532 36,895 25.8 saving measures • Established and implemented annual management fee savings plan (draft) System Cost reduction * Railway use fees account for 26% of interest costs Improvement • ‌Reviewed and analyzed results of savings such as improved construction methods and use Short-term strategy Long-term strategy Executive Director of Head of Management Budget-saving of administrative expenses Engineering Division Support action plan • ‌Collected ideas from employees, partners and people through operation of a budget (Dean of contract (Director of Labor First, self-help efforts Later, policy support  Improvements in Total Income  saving center: Incentive reviews and rewards for performances from October to December. management) Management) • Lack ‌ of new investment and track access • ‌Limit in suppression of debt increase through (Unit: 100 million won) (Manager of charge is expected to trigger sustained self-help efforts Establishing monitoring system System utilization Achievements and reflux electric power) increase in debts ‌Making improvements to systems of track Classification Amount Rate (%) ‌Suppressing increase in debts by cutting access charge and state-owned asset sales • ‌Continuous monitoring system • Maximized misused budgets Operating income 5,896 Increase from • ‌After checking adequacy, took down on costs Reducing debts by increasing income (Audit Office) • ‌Recovered misused budgets Non-operating income 320 previous year action against illegal matters • SAP management (budget unit) and shared cases  More Savings from Previous Year  2010 6,216 Operating income 7,326 124.3 Slashing Costs via Systematic Budget Management 3.3 billion won 【Short-Term】 ‌Reducing costs such as improving construction methods Reinvesting expense savings Non-operating income 443 138.4 165 KR is striving to achieve investment efficiency and budget-saving targets by mapping out plans based Reducing total project costs Inhibiting increase in debts 2011 7,769 125 on budget-reduction targets and checking the execution of budgets. 132 【Long-Term】 ‌Increasing income through policies to improve policies such as track access charge and asset sales Debt reduction Financial improvement Operating income 7,807 106.6 Recurring expenses Non-operating income 534 120.5 (Unit: 100 millions) Setting reduction Drawing up Increasing Maximizing 2012(I) 8,341 107.4 Operation plan 2012 2013 targets operational plans transparency the effect Efforts for Financial Improvement to Curb Increase in Debts Operating income 8,105 102.2 Reinforcing frequent Monthly Executive Recurring KR has created a tangible financial performance since 2010 through efforts for financial improvement Non-operating income 516 95.9 expenses Savings: 6.8 billion won Setting (11.5% in total) allotment, Establishing Council, Quarterly Surpassing targets (165 billion won) 133.9 billion won such as forming a financial improvement team in 2008. 2013(I) 8,621 101.8 frequent adjustment fees review analysis 4,914 * (I): IFRS Quarterly allocation Check budget Savings: 303.3 billion won Surpassing target 3,575 Capital budget and formulating meetings and Capital budget Setting (10% in total) (491.4 billion won) implementation plan site inspections 2010 Late 2013 ~ (Unit: 100 millions) ~ 2008 • ‌Established liability2012 • ‌Pushing forward with 2012 2013 specialized department managerial reform to • Established ‌ long-term Enhancing Investment Efficiency through Reinvestment of Saved Budgets • ‌Started to generate • ‌Formed financial cut down on debts and financial plan KR increased investment efficiency by moving budgets saved in a year to other sectors of the same income on full scale restructuring TF team wiping out irresponsible • Built ‌ segment accounting system (target: 200 billion won) (3 teams of 15 units) management project or other projects for reinvestment. • Raised credit rating by two grade 50 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 51 Economic Value Creation KR is enhancing people’s happiness through economic value creation such as the construction of user-friendly railway networks, Recovery of More Investment Fees by Expanding Track Access Charges  ‌Improving System to Additionally  KR constructs high-speed railways for railway operators and collects track access charges through Collect Access Charges job creation, and maximum asset utilization. contracts every year. KR raises funds to pay debts by collecting fees in a timely manner. KR reorganized Stipulated grounds for collecting additional use fees the fee calculation system through active consultation with relevant organizations and go ahead with when signing track use agreements on March 28, 2018. Construction of Efficient Railway Network  Number of Developing New Railway Projects  an increase in fee collection. We collect 375 billion won in track access charges, 27.9 billion more from a KR is realizing a more efficient national rail network by developing new railway projects and enhancing Basic Plan Feasibility Study Pre-project research year ago by stipulating grounds for the collection of increased fees and will take advantage of the fees the quality of service by turning the existing railways into high-speed ones. 29 for reinvestments such as investments in safety facilities. • ‌To be used in reinvestment in building railway safety facilities  Development of New Railway Business  • ‌To lead railways operators to pay more 19  Collection of High-Speed Track Access Charges in 2013  attention to safety 17 14 • ‌Pre-survey, feasibility study, developing business opportunities appropriate expenses 7 2 6 Additional collection after reflected in the basic planning stages railway 2 0 Contracts signed Final track access charges (Unit: project) accurate calculation  Asset Income Breakdown  (preliminary feasibility study selection: Five in 2012 → Seven in 2013, a 140% increase) By 2011 By 2012 By 2013 (Unit: 100 millions) • ‌Securing 2014 budget to perform follow-up work through the development of new Signed track access charge 16.9 billion won Final amount:375 billion won business (90.1 billion won in nine projects)  Details of High-Speed Railway Projects  contract to receive (Ground: Article 8, Clause 3 of Classification Earning Achievements (an 8% increase year on year) • ‌Seeking new business in collaboration with relevant authorities (municipalities, Ministry 358.1 billion won in 2013 Track Use Contract Regulation) Advertising Rent Reparation of Land and Transportation, lawmakers) in accordance with the government’s 3.0 policies Fee(512) income through information sharing and strengthening KR’s cooperation with private sectors. 430 42 40 Maximize Profits by Diversifying Income from Assets PrivatelyKR exceeded 100 billion won in asset income (107.1 billion won, a year-on year increase of 10.1%) by Investing Debt funded  Turning Four Lines Connecting to Gyeongbu and Honam into High-Speed Railway  Usage fee(418) companies recovery transforming its use permit-oriented revenue structure into a business development one and through station Turnout Replacement (elastic turnout to turnout with movable change and innovation. KR is steadily generating income through asset utilization diversification and an 373 27 18 Name Route Detail Effects nose crossing) Cheonglyangli~Singyeongju 45.8km under Increasing speed by 30~100km/h and increase in value. By-products(141) 141 Jung-Ang Lines (325.7km) construction saving 179 minutes Total 1,071 Cheonan~Daeya Increasing speed by 50~80km/h and Janghang Line 32.4km under design (141.6km) saving 37 minutes Classification Details Bujeon~Samcheok 186.3km under Increasing speed by 30~80km/h and Achieved 51.2 billion won in fee • 43 billion won from use of idle land and disused tracks Results of expanding income Donghae Line (308.1km) construction saving 45 minutes revenues through asset income • 4.2 billion won from compensation for illegal land occupation base through promotion of Bujeon~Gwangju Songjeong Increasing speed by 50~80km/h and diversification • 4 billion won from advertising in properties evelopment projects Gyeongjeon Line 51.5km planned (286km) saving 26 minutes • Idle land marketing activities for target audience (profit: 3.4 billion won) Completed KR's first development project, With creativity and innovation • ‌Improvement in land pricing system for idle land ‘composite transport facilities at Gwangmyeong * Support for ensuring the success of the Pyeongchang Olympics through Acceleration of Speed of Jungang Line Revenue increased foundation (increase of 249.1 billion won in value of assets) Station’ and began its business on full scale Catenary tensioning • Expanded stock material reuse and sell-off (profit: 14.1 billion won) • Income ‌ (1.9 billion won in 2013) and expected New Job Creation ATP Track circuit Alarms • ‌Signed MOU with municipalities with now-defunct Southern Donghae Line to utilize and return: 82.2 billion won (Private use charges: 76.1 Direction of train operation (Train Actively utilized develop land with disused tracks billion won, development gains: 6.1 billion won) With the aim of easing unemployment problems and realizing a job creation-oriented economy, KR is Manual (manned) LEU detection) ABS • ‌Built nation’s first transfer system between KTX and operation 1st by the demolition site Expected return: 110 billion won for 30 years, new jobs: 90 conducting a variety of activities to stimulate the construction business and create new jobs. In 2013, Enhance asset value • ‌Developed now-defunct Yeongdong and Gyeongchun Railway facilities into theme park long-distance (high-speed) buses and promoted these activities helped create 21,577 jobs, a year on year increase of 19.9%. Track Access Charge: 900 million won, new jobs: 138 area around Gwangmyeong Station (Position information, ATS • ‌Community development and economic contribution through partnership with As' aquatic Yeoksegwon development proposals Fixed balise Variable balise speed information) specify Accept Yeoksegwon Promoted local governments Achievements ATP: ‌Automatic Train Protection equipment By strengthening local ‌Increased asset management efficiency and promoted local economy by utilizing development of areas around stations through Classification Details (Automatic Train Protection) cooperation elevated railways proposal on developing area around Suseo Station (persons) Controlling speed automatically according to the Maximize asset utilization • ‌Promoted rural economy through support for farming in idle railway land • Ensured ‌ business resilience by securing grounds • Efforts to secure project budgets Job creation through promotion of preceding train’s location ‌Signed agreement to help those who develop idle railway land into farming land and for use of areas free from development restrictions • Seeking reinvestment by reducing budgets 19,543 railway construction projects provided such land Became contributor to housing welfare, new • ‌Effective budget use through systematic project management  Job Creation Targets and Results  • Promoting railway property development business government's goal, through support for happy 21,577 home project Job creation by strengthening • ‌Utilization and development of idle railway land and facilities partnerships with private sector • Development of railway technology 891 19,803 Expanding Profit Base through Promotion of Development Projects • Signed ‌ work-sharing agreement for Oryu-Gajwa • Entry into international railway market KR is stepping up efforts to secure a stable and sustainable revenue base by promoting development district (KR ⇔ LH Corporation) 18,003 Laid foundation for Happiness House project at Job creation by outsourcing jobs • Outsourcing non-core or simple work 600 projects with an increase in need for the creation of new profits through the development of new sites (Unit: jobs) small railway land Job creation through support for • ‌Offering jobs to marginalized people in areas with railway construction sites and profit sources. Moreover, KR’s development of small sites supports the Happiness Housing Project, • Signed ‌ agreement with Gyeonggi Urban 543 Results in 2012 Target for 2013 Results in 2013 marginalized people’s job searches • Social equity-based recruitment of young interns Development Corporation * Increased 19.9% from 2012 contributing to the enhancement of people’s housing conditions. 52 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 53 Economic Performance Summary KR increased income through the expansion of track access charges, new property development and business innovation. Receipt of Government’s Contributions (Unit: 100 million won) (Unit: 100 million won) International Classification Track use Rental income Other sales Sales totals Business 2011 2012 2013 2012(a) 6,821 731 150 104 7,806 2013(b) 7,087 774 109 135 8,105 35,136 41,590 46,834 increase (b-a) +266 +43 -41 +31 +299 Summarized Financial Statements Economic Value Distribution (Unit: one million won) Summarized Statement of Financial Position (Unit: 100 million) Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Total shareholders' equity Current assets 5,000 2,521 7,365 Sales Economic government contributions 7,970,924 8,779,291 10,153,894 Assets Non-current assets 201,547 194,760 156,169 16,353.4 billion won Value Creation bonds Total assets 206,546 197,280 163,534 Partners (business investment orders) 5,433,166 6,204,257 7,097,277 2011 20,654.6 Finance costs Current liabilities 32,478 47,207 25,602 2,439,205 2,485,080 3,380,459 (including principal and interest) 2012 19,728 Economic Liabilities Non-current liabilities 123,196 126,199 156,381 Employees (labor cost) 92,584 101,325 99,856 Value Distribution 2013 16,353.4 Total Liabilities 155,674 173,406 181,983 Government (taxes and dues) 185 26 513 Operating expenses Basic property 68,931 42,834 31,697 26,608 24,860 (including recurring expenses) Loss (17,904) (18,838) (18,438) Capital Total Liabilities Other capital components (155) (122) (12) Indirect economic effects Total shareholders' equity 50,872 23,874 (18,450) 18,198.3 billion won * The data in 2013 were calculated in accordance with a new international standard (General standards for the data in 2011 and 2012). Jobs (Unit: persons) 2011 15,567.4 Promoting railway business partnership with private firms outsourcing the marginalized 2012 17,340.6 Summary of Income Statement (Unit: 100 million) 2013 18,198.3 581 477 600 543 Classification 2011 2012 2013 148 891 Sales 7,326 7,806 8,105 Cost of sales 5,140 4,688 4,877 Total capital 2012 2013 18,003 18,003 Gross Profit 2,186 3,118 3,228 (1,845) billion won 19,209 21,577 Operating Profit 2,186 3,118 3,228 Non-operating income 443 499 515 2011 5,087.2 Non-operating expenses 4,542 4,549 4,701 2012 2,387.4 * The figures are different from those in the 2013 sustainability report due to differences in calculation systems Net loss 1,913 932 958 2013 (1,845) • 2012: 13.7 jobs per 1 billion won (job creation effects by industries by the Bank of Korea in 2010) • 2013: Survey of workers at construction sites of five regional headquarters (2013.12.19. ~ 2014.01.29.) * Loss incurred due to interest cost from bonds issued for high-speed railways projects. 54 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 55 Social Performance 56 Customer Satisfaction 60 Employees 62 Communities 65 Social Performance Summary Interview Kim So-hee, director at Senior Citizens Center in Donggu “The Dong-gu Region has the most low-income families in Daejeon. KR regularly gives a lot of help to the welfare center by understanding local characteristics accurately and therefore, helping marginalized families and serving meals. Such outreach activities are well received by local communities. Thus, senior citizens return the help by putting on a puppet show against sexual violence, donating talent and forming a senior citizen volunteer corps in a virtuous cycle. I hope that KR will steadily make endeavors to bring happiness to more marginalized people by strengthening community-based support.” 56 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 57 Customer Satisfaction KR built a CS vision system and is operating a companywide CS organization to realize customer value. The company obtained the patent CS Activities for Customers of the Integrated Sorisaem Customer Management System, the first such kind among public organizations. The system reflects its results in KR’s management. Operation of Characterized VOC Collection System KR operates various VOC collection systems such as Sorisaem, a uniform management system of CS Management System customer opinions, Customer Suggestion Center, an outlet for various suggestions, Civil Affairs Office, which collects stakeholder’s complaints and improvement suggestions, and offline communication CS Vision Systems channels of face-to-face communication to understand and interact with customers. KR set the CS Vision called ‘green railways to create the future of customer satisfaction’ and establish Operation of Sorisaem four strategic directions and 18 action plans to achieve the vision. In addition, the company provides differentiated services for various customers by identifying current and future customers and taking the lead Customer Information 2nd: VOC Management Automatic alarm 1st: VOC Management Management to improve in dealing with customer needs. This substantiates our efforts to realize the CS vision. Operating together with Registration and search of 1st: Reception and 2nd: Making VOC issues PMS issues and Customer information management of VOC and corrective action automatic alert about management Green Railway for Customer Satisfaction which Creates Better Future Customer Satisfaction Center poor performance Better Image of VOC Control System Improve Customer Strengthening CS Green Railways Enhancement Services Capabilities Sorisaem (Customer Satisfaction • Advancement ‌ of Strategic • ‌Advancement of VOC • ‌Upgrade of Service quality • ‌Enhancing awareness Management System) CSR Promotion System management process management system sharing activities about • Raising ‌ general public • ‌Building VOC collaborative • ‌Improvement in Partners’ direction of CS awareness of eco-friendly systems with KORAIL Business Processes ‌ • Devising measures about Mutual Evaluation Plan Management Statistical Analysis Satisfaction Survey railways • ‌Strengthening • ‌Proactively dealing with CS implementation ‌ • Strengthening public management activities to complaints ‌ education system • CS Building mutual evaluation CS Plans by departments Collecting and analyzing Eight internal and external participatory activities manage networks with • ‌Collaboration with enhancement system on CS improvement and quarterly performance statistics such satisfaction, customer satisfaction • Enhancing ‌ General public related organizations partners for complaints plan and 2nd VOC content management customer preference, VOC surveys communication • ‌Devising measures for • ‌Enhancing railway Call Center • Increase ‌ external trust VOC collection and information Service via compliance with commercialization • ‌Evaluation from users’ international standards perspectives Establishment of VOC Response System KR provides more public transportation through timely completion of rail network construction projects and manages customer VOC in a systematic manner to reduce public inconvenience. KR resolved major CS Promotion Organization issues reported through VOC by using 6 Sigma Innovative Tasks in a timely manner, removing the root KR operates an effective CS structural system to provide the highest-quality customer service. The cause of civil complaints. Strategy and Management Review Deliberation Committee decides on the core CS strategies, and the Customer Service Department creates and operates the company-wide CS promotion plan. KR also Customer-friendly Amenities and Service employs CS Barista* in all departments under the CS promotional plan to carry out CS activities for each In-house CS mentoring KR implemented various amenities and goods such as office devices in the Integrity Customer Service department while the Integrity Customer Service Center. Call centers respond to the suggestions of Center for the convenience of visiting customers and provides customer-friendly service by opening customers in real-time. Interior and exterior of Customer Satisfaction Center the conference room for customer use. All visiting customers were served within five minutes to reduce waiting time and increase customer satisfaction. Settling Efforts of CS Management KR promotes voluntary CS management through CS baristas deployed in each department, and Active Customer Suggestions quarterly barista workshops are held to improve weak points and reinforce strong points. KR compares KR collects the customers’ ideas in real-time through Customer Suggestion Center on its webpage and and reviews the CS activities of different departments to guarantee the transparency and objectivity of reflects them in management. KR is promptly updating customers with results through emails and SMS the review. The Seoul Metropolitan Headquarters monitors each department’s voluntary CS activities after internal reviews of related departments. Customers are also rewarded for outstanding ideas that quarterly to analyze and examine weaknesses to provide customized mentoring and carry out Celebrities’ Special Lectures are applied to the policies, and KR thus gains more voluntary participation from them. improvement. KR uses five internal CS instructors produced by the company to enhance the effect and receptivity of this education. Customer Suggestion Center * CS baristas (44 people): CS experts who offer customized service to meet customer needs. 58 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 59 Customer Satisfaction Promotion Result of CS Management  Major Customer Satisfaction  Conflict Resolution through Reinforced Communication Highest Rating for Four Consecutive Years in the Customer Satisfaction Survey Conducted by Compared to Item 2012 2013 ‘Conflict Impact Analysis’ the Government l KR made tremendous efforts to exceed customer satisfaction expectations to earn previous year Conflict Resolution Process Projects their true loyalty in 2013. The company took action to deal promptly with customer complaints in a Visitor customer KR operates a Conflict Resolution Process to prevent social conflicts occurring in the process of 95.8 96.5 +0.7 1. History of higher frequency of conflicts timely manner by improving the VOC process and shortening the processing time. In addition, with a satisfaction rail network construction. KR changed the subject of management and scope of work and revised 2. ‌Intensity of conflicts is significant enough Satisfaction of customers view to understand customer needs, we expanded customized sectoral education from three times in 97.5 98.0 +0.5 guidelines on conflict prevention and resolution since efforts for continuous and systematic conflict to cause a greater and longer impact who sent letters 2012 to 18 times in 2013. KR achieved the highest level of customer satisfaction for three consecutive 3. ‌Risk of excessive social cost is likely Partner satisfaction 93.3 93.5 +0.2 management are required. In addition, by establishing a comprehensive conflict management plan, KR due to conflict years in a survey hosted by the government by communicating with customers through various online Kindness of employees on is strengthening its public conflict management system that switches to pre-project conflict prevention 86.7 90.5 +3.8 4. ‌Line passes near excellent ecosystem area or and off-line channels and reflecting customers’ opinions in system improvement and customer support. the phone and a proactive conflict prevention system from post-project conflict management and proceeding through a built-up urban area Satisfaction with handling Furthermore, KR conducts our own customer satisfaction survey and mentoring program. The surveys 74.6 74.9 +0.3 with early conflict resolution. 5. Construction of railway depot of complaints showed an increase in customer satisfaction. KR will strive to realize CS management of the highest level among public agencies.  Flow of Conflict Management Process   Shortening Time of Handling VOC  Conflict prediction Stakeholder engagement Consensus  Classification by Conflict Stages  Information Disclosing Activities to Honor Customers’ Right to Know 4.1 3.8 3.5 KR provides management information through a variety of channels, including its website for the Conflict Deciding conflict resolution method, utilizing Stage Explanation Checking Conflict impact analysis prevention participatory prevention techniques purpose of improving customers’ right to know and facilitating customer accessibility. (Design of conflict Written agreement Cycle (Civic participation, consensus conferences, resolution system) We revised its guidelines on information and revealed the full list of documents produced to actively public opinion research, and so forth) Deadlock No change or progress Monthly disclose and share information while expanding the number of disclosed information items from 69 to (Unit: day) Bilateral deliberation spells Quarterly Conflict Arbitration Conflict task Stakeholders Conflict arbitration 2011 2012 2013 Conflict occurs management 108. We opened national railway statistics information to the private sector and improved accessibility force operations agreed committee resolution Conflict Issue is settled as Emiannually for users through agreements signed with information centers and railway-related colleges. Settlement  ‌Increase in Percentage of resolution Selecting Confirm facts, running Conflict solution stakeholders find solutions Conflict among In addition, the 4-Call System provides data to customer, promoting customer-oriented work process Disclosing Information members from conflict council measures Completion people and others HR pool (if required) Advice and review based on a requester-friendly system that informs requesters of progress. 95.7 91.4 In 2013, demands for information grew 15%, increasing the ratio of information opening. But we 83.6 satisfied information requesters by finishing the work within five days. Establishment of Conflict Prevention Project Management System  Anti-Conflict Task Management  (But the implementation of the obligatory Information Opening 4-Call System increased the average required days from 2.9 days to KR performs an impact analysis to promote proactive prevention activities through the development of Name of Conflict Status 3.3 days, an increase of 0.4 days) conflict-prevention tasks and selected six conflict-prevention tasks through a self-collected conflict task (Unit: %) Building bridge in earthwork section of coordination committee. KR checks progress by improving the system to enable it to monitor conflict arbitration 2011 2012 2013 station in Nam Wonju  4-Call System Process  management in the PMS (Project Management System). In addition, if a conflict intensifies, the company Building bridge and underground pass in Reporting Decisions arbitration  ‌Increase in Satisfaction about  goes ahead with railway projects with various and rapid responses such as experts’ advice given through Geumho-eup Reception Call Transferring Call Processing Call Checking Call Information Disclosure the Conflict Management Committee. KR conducts customized education befitting the characteristics of Conflict over environmental damage 92.3 94.4 due to route through Sobaek Mountain arbitration Reception and Informing period and Checking results to be Checking requester’s 90.3 railways by operating public conflict management courses to foster conflict management professionals. with environmental groups understanding requests procedures to staff told to requester satisfaction and feedback Opposing transmission tower in Pyeongchang area of settlement Anti-Conflict Task Management System Conflict Resolving Committee Wonju-Gangneung project Efforts to Protect Railway Information (Unit: point) Residents’ complaints against noise, KR builds and operates various cyber-attack response systems to protect personal information and railway 2011 2012 2013 vibration, fissures in buildings due to settlement information assets. KR is doing everything in its power to block information leaks by operating security blasting in Dongmak Town  ‌Information Security Rating by  Request for linear change in route systems on personal information, service companies, information protection and an information system settlement National Information Service involving Bono Apartment and a log management system according to its own rules such as personal information work instructions, 82.95 information security work instructions, and cyber crisis response manuals. KR is thoroughly prepared such 76.59 • ‌Conflict prevention card registration and monthly as drills and security diagnoses through My PC Keeper* on Monthly Cyber Security Day. In the future, KR is progress update • Chairman: Head of Planning and Finance HQ will strengthen the execution of security activities in order to achieve zero cyber accidents. ※ ‌Highlights: Conflict name, department, conflict • ‌Committee: Head of planning and budget and * ‌My PC Keeper: A program to check 12 items such as running vaccines and changing passwords on Wednesday in the third week of overview, impact, measures, stakeholders, completion managers of HQs in charge of conflict resolving tasks (Unit: point) date, pictures, progress, plan, registration of report on every month. • Secretary: Head of Shared Growth Dept. Average KR analysis of conflict’s impact 60 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 61 Employees KR’s organization efficiency is enhanced through politically correct recruitment, efficient HR management, rational compensation and Work-Life Balance systematic capability development. In addition, work-life balance and the promotion of labor-management communication help build an open organizational culture at KR. Advanced Labor Relations  Labor Union Membership  KR improved unreasonable labor practices in order to build future-oriented and rational laborClassification 2011 2012 2013 Fair HR Management management relations based on mutual trust and consensus. Union Admission Rate (%) 93.1 92.1 77.66 KR secures power to execute by establishing a systematic labor-management relation advancement Union members joined (persons) 1,130 1,058 1,074 Improvement in strategy which takes into our internal and external business environments and government policies. Membership candidates (persons) 1,214 1,149 1,383 Organizational Culture System and Recruitment Policy Recruitment Process Emphasizing the importance of communication among organizations encourages KR to build • ‌Ignored principals’ recommendations and * ‌In 2013, a regulation was changed to allow executives to customized communication channels among different classes in order to implement worksites where academic performance-based restrictions when Mutual Communication join the labor union, increasing the number of membership hiring high school graduates candidates and bringing down the union admission rate bosses are trusted, employees take pride in duties and respect one another. A lot of efforts are made KR strengthened its capabilities for labor affairs management through customized labor education • ‌Recruitment after considering graduation time to promote KR’s organizational culture that can promote discussions and dialogues and create a workby job classes. In addition, KR’s labor-management debate room promotes labor-management (Mid-year recruitment → recruitment at end or  ‌Chairman’s Philosophy on  life balance culture. In addition, KR honors employment policies as recommended by the government start of year) communication. KR promoted the use of communication channels to actively identify employee Labor-Management Communication • ‌Expanding foreign language proficiency grievances. In 2013, a joint debate strengthened the rationality of collective agreements and took and runs a fair personnel management system, and introduced a flexible HR system. This fact allows (Including Japanese and Chinese in addition KR to efficiently carry out HR management through personnel allotment based on strategic directions remedial action against 61 unfair labor-management practices. to English) by core tasks. In addition, fair and advanced recruitment criteria and procedures contributed to • Reflecting KR’s core values in interview evaluation easing unemployment problems among youth and expanding the employment of talented people. Development of Culture to Improve Quality Of Life New recruits are given 250% of the legal minimum salaries as their salaries. Gender discrimination is To improve the quality of life of our employees, KR operates family-friendly programs such as Family prevented since the company implements anti-sexual harassment education programs. Day, and take-your-child-to-work events. In an effort to build a work-life balance culture, KR also  Recruitment Breakdown  eradicated unfair elements such as banning disadvantages to those who apply for the system and 【Address in inauguration ceremony】 We should pursue offering incentives for the purpose of establishing a flexible working system. mutual trust and win-win cooperation where various Performance-Based Personnel Management Classification 2012 2013 knowledge and experiences are shared and will strive for KR does its best to change employees’ awareness of the labor culture and provide a stable work KR clearly designates assignments as department goals and individual goals (MBO) to achieve Women 6 10 honest communication and dialogue. environment for employees. strategic management. KR established and operate a virtuous cycle of strategy, innovation, evaluation, Disabled and compensation to evaluate and compensate employees. KR is creating a fair performance-based Local talent 9 9  Flexible Working System  compensation culture by paying performance based bonuses (individual and group performanceHigh school graduates 2 4  Welfare Program  Short workweek system based bonuses) according to government policies after preparing performance-based incentive system Graduates from specialized 15-35 hours per week (over a month) Classification Detail Classification Detail high schools and reflecting job performance 100%. Flexible working system • Staff’s family cultural events (2 times) • ‌Running employee grievance system Science and engineering Two types of working hours (Daily 08:00 to 17:00, 10:00 to 19:00) 8 11 • ‌Experiencing rural life linked to social (Labor-management meeting, conversation majors contributions: Making kimchi and harvesting Resolving with chairman and mentoring) Selective agent working hours  Compensation System  Family Total 15 21 crops Trouble • ‌Free legal services for employees Business people need Independent working hours such as parents friendly • ‌Excellent Travel for Employees’ Families (2 times) (a total of 65 cases in 2013: 16 personal and Reflecting Different • ‌“Family Day” operations on every Wednesday Incentives Position 49 business cases) Confirming Performances incentives induction of going home on time results of Deciding final • ‌Executive / Biggest • ‌Promoting flexible working system  Results of Flexible Working System  40% (first half ) • ‌KR Workplace Nurseries and childcare support Individual and performance payment rate Director compensation (short work hours, flexible working system, + 60% (2005.9 ~) Implementing 142 Group Incentives evaluation • Manager is twice lowest selective working hours) (second half )  Educational Performance Indicators  Reducing • ‌Excluding women from overnight work, systems • Staff compensation • ‌Selective welfare system (Self-development / 128 childcare providing nursing facilities burden • ‌Paternity leaves for male workers (5 days) family-friendly / cultural activities) Classification 2012 2013 • ‌Maternity leave (up to 3 years for those with Employee Satisfaction (point) 92.77 93.60 • ‌Annual insurance subscription renewal for children less than 6 years old) (Unit: persons) Efforts for Human Resources and Capability Development health employee health and employee group Per-capita educational cost (1,000 won) 860.9 919.6 • ‌Happy life design education program 2012 2013 KR is operating a customized education and training system to continue to develop the abilities of its Retirement • ‌Various hobby clubs (39) and gym / Per-capita educational hour (hour) 126 132 for retirees Others planning table tennis clubs. personnel and secure the fairness of personnel management. In addition, KR leads employees to set • ‌Retirement counselors Capability development satisfaction (point) 77.0 78.1  Satisfaction about Employee Welfare  career goals by performing a diagnosis of their capabilities through the establishment of a CDP-based HR Satisfaction about instructor (point) 92.08 94.39 75.7 development process. KR executes managers’ coaching their staff members for their career development and 73.2 gives education to employees to help them supplement their capabilities. Therefore, KR was selected as the Before After Occupational Health and Safety Management Classification “2013 best human resource development authority in the public sector. With an eye toward steady support education education KR is doing everything it can do for the safety and health of employees by expanding the range of for employees’ capabilities and the reinforcement of its connection with HR management, KR provided Academic achievement 61.65 96.83 (Unit: point) health checks such as annual health checks and screening employees 35 years old or older for cancer. Application at worksites 78.75 87.37 2012 2013 feedback to set career goals and the feedback is used for personnel management. 62 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 63 Communities KR is making endeavors to bring itself and its local communities together through non-profit social activities such as environmental campaigns, volunteer work, sharing programs for rural towns and the marginalized. Social Contribution ❶ ❹ Social Contribution Implementation System  Social Contribution in 2013  KR selected its most fulfilling tasks for social responsibility as a public institution as part of its strategy Classification Results Remarks for company-wide implementation when establishing its 2020 Global Management Strategy. To do 2,638 people, Year-on-year this systematically and effectively, the company established four strategies public collaboration, Participation 1.97 times/person increase of 2% community, education and talent donation and environment protection and enhanced feedback on 15,297 hours, Year-on-year Service time challenges. KR’s social contribution is part of its management strategies beyond a simple charitable 5.8 hours/person decrease of 2% activity. KR is putting a lot of efforts into implementing strategic social contribution that can satisfy all 235 million won, ❷ ❸ ❺ Year-on-year Fundraising 176,000 won/ of the participants and subjects. increase of 25% ① ‌Cultural Program for KR Boy Scouts ③ ‌Blood Donation of Love person ② ‌Scholarship Award Ceremony for ④ Helping rural villages Agricultural KR Boy Scouts ⑤ Bazaar of Love 6 million won Organization of Contributions to Society purchases Sharing Talent using KR Capabilities KR operates the KR Volunteer’s Group and the Social Contribution Committee to promote continuous Blood Year-on-year KR donates its surplus PCs to the less-privileged persons living near railways. KR also promotes the “KR  People-friendly railway facilities  344 people Donation increase of 27% social contribution activities. The CEO leads the contribution activities as the head of KR Volunteer’s Young Adults Hope Project” as its major social contribution activities. Group, while the deputy chief director is in charge of establishing action plans and deliberating budgets In addition, the KR Daddy-Longlegs Program offers studying rooms and guides and educational as the chairman of the Committee. programs to visit railway construction sites and railway travels for marginalized teenagers. In addition,  ‌Organizational System of  Contribution to Society KR is conducting sharing activities based on KR’s capabilities by repairing or replacing old electric Social Contribution Activities Based on KR’s Capabilities KR Social Service facilities along with partners. KR conducts socially responsible business with local communities as a government-run firm. KR is Head (CEO) developing and implementing various programs to conserve the environment, build eco-friendly Eco-Friendly Sharing Creating an athletic part under a section of an elevated Secretariat railway from Kim Yu-jeong and Nam Chuncheon Station railways and national welfare in cooperation with the private sector including NGOs to revitalize areas (General Affairs Team) KR conducted a tree-planting ceremony and environmental cleanup campaign with ‘Building KR around railway construction as good areas in which to live. Blue Forest’ that creates green spaces to improve the quality of life of local residents. In addition, KR Vice Head (Head of implements social contribution and environmental management by changing lots under elevated Management Support) Sharing through Public Cooperation railways and disused railway land into people-friendly facilities such as trails and athletic facilities. KR promotes social contribution activities through organic cooperation with stakeholders including Regional Headquarters KR Family Space under an Headquarters Trail Fence NGOs. KR donates money to soldiers, the Community Chest of Korea, the Korea Tuberculosis Association Volunteer Volunteer elevated railway Volunteer (maintenance) and implements a blood donation drive in February and August when blood donation is most needed Group (9) Group Group (6) Creating a trail under Toigyewon Station of Gyeongchun Line in partnership with the Korea Red Cross. In addition, KR spreades a culture of sharing by holding the  KR’s Social Contribution Activities in 2013  Love-Sharing Bazaar to sell more than 800 household goods donated by employees such as clothing Social Contribution Committee Classification Details Classification Details and books and various household goods and food produced by social companies ahead of the Chuseok Chairman Blood Donation Drive of Love 344 people took part in the event in February and August Volunteer Work at Regular support for 11 welfare centers near railways including holiday. (Deputy Chief Director) Welfare Centers sharing activities on national holidays and at the end of a year. Bazaar of Love Donation by employees (893 articles of 20 kinds) Administrator Korea Tuberculosis Association (X-mas seals), the Community Chest KR Teenager Group’s Hope Scholarships and school uniforms for teenagers of Financial Support Project low-income families (Head of of Korea, donations to Korean Armed Forces Sharing Activities with Local Communities General Affairs Team) Repairing or replacing superannuated electric equipment Love of Train Camp and Visiting railway construction sites KR Daddy-Longlegs KR is making diversified efforts to carry out sharing activities with local communities. Employees’ Sharing Light of Love (10 houses of home-along senior citizens or seriously Cultural Experiences and cultural events Mentoring Program Vice-chairman disabled people) voluntary participation is helping the disabled at welfare centers near railways adapt themselves ( Head of Management Study Rooms and Children’s Welfare Center in Samgol KR Daddy-Longlegs Donating Free Coal Briquettes Delivering 37,000 free coal briquettes to the marginalized to society. KR formed 1:1 sisterhood ties with rural communities near railways. KR contributes to the Support) Educational Support in Chungcheong Province (59 times) Mentoring Program Helping Less-Privileged Persons Distributing foods (71 times by 3 teams) and donating goods invigoration of farming communities with the participation of employees’ families. Taking Care of KR Forests KR Forest Love in Shintanjin and tree-planting event Members (Heads of departments, office, near Railways (twice a year) to people in small poor village. directors, and executives of Labor Union) Clean-up Activities near Volunteer Work for Rural Town Regular volunteer work for the sisterhood rural town (17 times) Clean-up activities at trails in mountains Railways 64 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 65 Communities Social Performance Summary Indirect Economic Effects Employment Breakdown of Employees by Ages Creating New Jobs in Private Sector  Job Creation Target  Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 KR devised measures to create jobs in the private sector and set four directions to create public jobs Quota person 1,352 1,363 1,363 20~29 person 41 33 29 21,577 to fulfill its social responsibility as a public institution, reduce unemployment, and invigorate local 19,803 Current No. person 1,396 1,347 1,333 30~39 person 332 297 218 18,003 economies. KR conducts multi-faceted activities through systematic project management and efficient Non-regular workers persons 15 20 48 40~49 person 743 712 696 execution of project budgets, enhancing partnerships with the private sector, strategic outsourcing Retirees person 5 2 11 50~59 person 280 304 380 implementation, the employment of the marginalized and social support activities in order to promote Early retirees person 39 23 29 60 or older person 8 (Unit: job) the railway construction industry, revitalize the construction business and maximize the creation of Results in 2012 Target for 2013 Results in 2013 Average service years year 17.2 17.7 18.9 construction jobs. We are working actively to ensure sustainable growth and create new jobs.  Recruitment Target System  Minority Employees Education Time and Investment  Highlights of Job Creation  Classification Target Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2013 Highlights Gender equality 20% of new recruits No. of female employees (percentage) Employee 150(10.2%) 135(10%) 144(11%) Per-capital education hours Hour 119 126 132 Promoting railway • ‌Three high-speed, 27 general, eight wide railway projects, 10 consignment and People from non-Seoul area 20% of new recruits No. of female employees who are team Per-capital investment 1000 won 1,061 859 919 construction projects two privately funded projects (16,123 jobs in 2012 to 19,543 jobs in 2013) Employee 1 Disabled people 10% of new recruits leaders or higher Percentage of secured core HR % 31.51 33.38 36.67 Strengthening partnership • Private ‌ utilization and promotion of railway assets and idle land War veterans and patriots 10% of new recruits Employees who are disabled (percentage) % 3.24 3.36 3.4 with private sector Rail bike, auto camping, solar power projects, parking lots (822 in 2012 to 891 in 2013) Over 5% more than average • Job creation by outsource simple non-core business Engineering majors recruitment of engineering Outsourcing Management ‌ of KR's buildings and training center, special security for railway traffic majors over past three years Recruitment of Regular Workers Employee Welfare and Workplace Safety control center (581 in 2012 to 600 in 2013) Support for employment of • ‌Offering employment opportunities to Underprivileged people such as pensioners, Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 marginalized persons senior citizens (477 in 2012 to 543 in 2013)  Job Creation Bulletin Board  Women person 6 10 Employee Satisfaction Point 73.70 76.40 78.5 Disabled person Percentage of returning to work after % 92.31 95.24 95.69 maternity leaves Vitalization of Economy of Common Citizens Local residents person 1 9 9 Accidents Case 1 1 High school graduates person 2 4 Vitalizing Traditional Market and Contributing to Stability of Consumer Prices Graduates of specialized high schools person KR vitalizes traditional marketplaces by setting goals for Onnuri gift certificate purchases and Majors in science and Engineering person 0 8 11 monitoring their monthly purchases. In 2013, the figure reached 91,039,000 won, 30% more than Total person 15 21 Customer Satisfaction targeted. Moreover, KR is stepping up its efforts for win-win growth with local governments such as Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 offering a lot under one section of the Gyeongchun Line as a space for a traditional market in Maseok, Recruitment of Non-Regular Workers Satisfaction about handling complaints point 72.5 74.6 74.9 Nam Yangju which was nearly closed due to an ecological stream restoration project. Partner satisfaction point 89.75 93.25 94.85 Furthermore, KR made contributions to stimulating local economies and creating new jobs by offering Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 PCSI point 95.43 93.98 94.1 idle railway lots as vegetable gardens for those who return to rural areas from cities. Young Interns person 90 79 99 Contract-based professionals person 3 5 8  Utilization of Idle Railway Land  Screenshot Contract-based workers with high school diplomas person Part-timers person Others Revival of Maseok Woori Support for those who Returned to Farmers Traditional Market  ‌Traditional Market (Onnuri) Gift Certificate  Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Purchases Ethical General Integrity by Civil Rights Support for SMEs point 8.81 8.22 8.36 Classification Details management Commission Target 70,030,000 won Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Local Community Service Time hour 9.8 11.4 5.8 Grounds for setting goals 0.4% of recurring expenses Percentage of SME product purchases % 28 24.71 26.77 community per Employee Performances 91,039,000 won Overall society Violations case KR’s agreement with the Tobacco Farming Cooperative allowed farmers to Created 110 shops in land (4,197m2) Applications for joint R&D projects and application / 2/6 6/7 10/13 use land of 6,800m2 in Noeun-ri, Hongbuk-myeon, Hongseong-gun under an elevated railway Plan for 2014 69,348,000 won participating companies company Safety Construction Accident Rate % 0.142 0.082 0.102 66 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 67 Environmental Performance 68 Eco-Friendly Railway Construction 70 Response to Climate Change and Environmental Protection 72 Environmental Performance Summary Interview Kim Kyung-han, general secretary at Baekdudaegan Environmental Group “In railway construction, it is quite an important issue to tackle and manage environmental damage. We were opposed to the project as an environmental group since double track railway construction in Gangneung-Wonju became a threat to the environment. But the project could not be suspended forever. Thus, we compromised with KR to an extent that the project will minimize damage. We could significantly decrease damage by forming the Ecological Monitoring Advisor Group, analyzing problems at construction sites in Daegwallyeong and changing construction sections and construction methods. During railway construction, nothing can be put before communication with local communities including environmental groups.It is imperative to set a regular process for preservation and development by collecting the opinions various stakeholders during design as our opposition is needed to minimize damage.” 68 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 69 Eco-friendly Railway Construction With the goal of creating an eco-friendly ecological environment, KR is moving ahead with the construction of eco-friendly railways that The construction, upgrade and relocation of railways resulted in widespread idle land  ‌Ecological Restoration of Disused  Railway Bridge focus on environmental elements from design, to construction and disuse. • Developing ‌ ideas • Neglect of national assets • ‌Bulk waste generated during demolition Various utilization methods (TF team. knowledge activities) • Communities shun them are needed • Deliberation ‌ with relevant organizations (Ministry of Environment and Eco-Friendly Design and Construction Before local governments) • Marketing ‌ to promote participation of locals Eco-Friendly Design Ecological restoration projects that Expanding solar power generation Cultural Recreational Facilities to KR studies, predicts and evaluates environmental impacts by conducting environmental impact reconnect nature disconnected Improve the quality of life facilities to lay foundation by railways for creation of future energy assessment during railway construction. Then KR promotes eco-friendly design by reflecting the • By ‌ 2012, three projects including ecolog• Construction ‌ of railway theme park (Yeo• Introducing ‌ solar power generation results. KR promotes a variety of activities to implement environmentally friendly buildings by applying ical restoration of Saecheon Stream were ngdong Line) facilities at demolition sites of Honam and new and renewable facilities such as geothermal plants, and solar plants at stations. KR obtained the completed • Building ‌ bicycle roads, rail bike facilities Jeolla Lines (130,552m2, 8MW) After • Ecological ‌ restoration of Ilsan Line’s Won(Gyeongchun and Joongang Lines) • Going ‌ ahead with construction of demopreliminary green building certification of Gwangju Songjeong, Jungeup, and Gongju Stations by dang Station was completed by 2013 • ‌Traditional Maseok Woori Market in Nam lition sites of Gyeongjeon, Joongang and pursuing a ‘green building certification’ by the Building Code to be recognized officially as eco-friendly (400 million won) Yangjoo (Gyeongchun Line) Gyeongwon Lines (177,343m2) ‌Secured connectivity as a buffer area • ‌Turning disused railway facilities into external design activities. Amid an increase in needs for noise and vibration solutions for areas around that connects the metropolitan city and tourism attractions Near Jojong Stream of Gyeongchun Line railways and measures to decrease them, we developed a railway noise prediction program based on forests (Changwon Wine Tunnel, specialty cellar) train types and track conditions by going ahead with R&D. The development enabled the company to • Secured ‌ biodiversity and provided green space residents through creation of buffer zones in ecosystems improve the living conditions of residents and users. Achievements • ‌Transformed demolition sites into greenways and contribute to the local economy through job creation Anti-Noise Wall • ‌Returned assets to society and realization of virtuous cycle of resources by recycling resources from disused railways  Eco-Friendly Building Certification Process  Recycling of Used Resources KR strives to minimize the waste generated in the improvement and construction of rail network facilities through various efforts such as analyzing the recycling material and current status of Preliminary building Application Issuing businesses, improving the recycling standards of construction waste and utilization rate, and preventing Building Design for preliminary preliminary certification permit environmental pollution. Moreover, KR builds a strategic resources recycling process, monitors the Rail bike certification certificate status of recycling such as selling off by-products from demolition with a view to maximizing the recycling of railway materials. Furthermore, we strive to recycle woods and trees from construction sites  Utilization of Materials  as resources as much as possible. Final building Therefore, trees are replanted and trees in poor condition are processed into wood chips, compost and Classification Details Savings certification Issuing final Application for Breaking Completion firewood in an effort to minimize damage to the environment at construction sites. 238 kinds of electric certificate final certificate ground Reuse 7.1 billion won Agreement on a disused site of Donghae Nambu Line and track products  Strategic Resources Circulation Process  Selling off 20,000 tons of electric 14.1 billion won by-products and track products Building collaboration system Improving procedures Material recycling measures Selling off Efforts to Protect Ecosystem 370,000 sleepers 900 million won waste sleepers In 2012, KR produced a midto long-term roadmap on ecological restoration projects as the utilization Integration of management proceDecreasing number of days for • Expanding material use dures of material using departments handling by-products • ‌Promotion of sale of track materials of disused tracks increased by the construction, upgrade and transfers of railways and eco-friendly and material management depart• ‌Pushing for reuse of waste sleepers restoration methods gained ground. Besides, KR is engaging in an ecological restoration project that ments and their sharing of information transformed disused railway land into ecosystems and assisting local communities by going ahead with the return of ecological preservation cooperation funds. KR prepared environmental conservation Utilization of Renewable Energy measures through the operation of the Green Rail Advisory and ecological monitoring with various KR has installed eco-friendly facilities to save energy at stations and conducted research on the NGOs. By signing an agreement on demolition sites of the southern part of Donghae (East sea) Line Grand Prize at Environmental Awards expanded application of renewable energy in the field of rail networks such as solar, wind, and and completing an ecological restoration project for the Ilsan Line’s Wondang Station, KR ensured geothermal energy. Under consideration of construction are 67 solar energy structures in platforms, connectivity as a forest buffer zone linking forests and the metropolitan area. KR also received the railway vehicles bases, 33 geothermal energy structures, eight wind energy structures in diverse areas. Grand Prize at the Natural Environment Awards of the Ministry of Environment by pushing for an Once these renewable energy applications are completed, greenhouse gas will be reduced by 1,540tCO2 ecological restoration project at a disused Gyeongchun Line railway bridge. on an annual basis. The generation of 17.1MWp electricity is expected from these new solar energy structures. Solar Energy 70 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 71 Response to Climate Change and Environmental Protection According to its midto long-term roadmap for addressing climate change, KR is carrying out a variety of activities such as the expansion Anti-Climate Change Activities  Segmentation of GHG Emissions in Basic Unit  of low-carbon facilities and the reduction of GHG emissions and low-carbon equipment-based profit generation. Classification Unit Earthwork(s) Bridge Tunnel Energy-Saving and Greenhouse Gas Reduction l KR built a greenhouse gas management system at a High-Speed 5 26 15 railway construction site, and grasped the status and problems in order to cope with climate change Railway 1000 Coping with Climate Change due to global warming. As a result, a methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions has Conventional tons/km and Metropolitan 5 23 10 been established. But the company operates a TF team consisting of inside and outside experts Railway System to Combat Climate Change  Finalized Reduction Targets by Sector (%)  to systematically reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), since the company does not have an ton / Trackbed of In line with international trends, KR established the “Midto Long-Term Promotion Plans to Respond to internal work process. In addition, research on simple carbon emissions calculation method spelled Stations 1 million 1.4 2.2 2.2 Industry 18.2 Agriculture and fishery 5.2 won Climate Change (December 2012)” in order to grow into a government-run company that takes the lead the development of additional basic units by railway types and facilities. A site GHG management Transition 26.7 Waste 12.3 in low-carbon green growth. By 2020, KR will take the initiative in green growth through a reduction in procedure led to the operation of a GHG reduction model site. KR also proactively responded to Transportation 34.3 Public and others 25 GHG emissions in the railway construction sector by developing detailed plans or drafts from contracts reduction targets in the construction sector by preparing a GHG management manual for construction  Pollution Prevention Facility  Building 26.9 Nationwide 30 to construction in compliance with the Plan to Reduce GHG Emissions from Railway Construction. sites including the use of equipment and materials for the first time in the public construction sector. The Kyoto Convention forces National GHG Emissions We comply with indoor temperature regulations and prohibit the use of unauthorized heaters and reduce by 30% by 2020 compared to the BAU. * ‌Among industries, the construction industry has to cut by strive to save energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions through energy stewardship and capacity Midto Long-Term Promotion Plans to Respond to Climate Change  7.1% compared to the BAU (3.22 million tonCO2e) enforcement education. Extensive Promotion Period Mid-to LongTerm 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016~2020  ‌Plan to Reduce GHG Emissions from   Strategic Process for Resources Circulation  Railway Construction Sites Reduction in 2013 Target for 2014 Target for 2015 High-speed Railways Honam High-speed Railway – 49km Reduction target (2 Projects including Honam High-speed Railway) – 289km 24.8% 19% 20% Classification BAU Nonpoint Source Pollution Abatement Facility (18 Projects including the Rail Network Percentage (%) Reduction (tCO2e) (1,440 tonCO2e) (1,101 tonCO2e) (1,159 tonCO2e) Conventional Railways (12 Projects including Deokso~Wonju Construction Project of 2013 2,649 13.2 350 Double track Lines in Joonang Line) – 103km Wonju~Gangneung Section) – 542km 2014 3,422 7.1 243 Establishment Metropolitan Railways (5 Projects including Yongsan~Munsan (8 Projects including Bansan~Ulsan Efforts to Prevent Environmental Contamination of Low-carbon Double-track Lines) – 108km Double-track Lines) – 285km 2015 2,890 7.1 205 Rail Network Application of Renewable Energy (Solar Energy Equipment, Wind Energy Equipment, Etc.) 2016~2020 8,737 7.1 620 Facilities Pollution Prevention Facilities l With an eye toward building environmentally friendly railways to prevent Research on Revision of Total 17,698 1,418 Voluntary Agreement on damage due to rail construction, KR conducted surveys of life and natural environments around project Carbon Footprint Carbon Reduction Greenhouse Gas Reduction Calculation Guidelines Participation in Carbon Market sites and prepared environment conservation measures by accepting advice from NGOs. This allows KR to Development of GHG Emission Management System for develop eco-friendly railway programs such as the installation of nonpoint source pollution abatement Construction of Low-Carbon Railways Installing Anti-Pollution Net facilities, pollution abatement facilities, restoration of disused railwaybridges and ecological passages. Establishment Founding and Continuous Promotion of Ecosystem Restoration Project Candidates of Roadmap (Minimum 2 Cases annually) In addition, we minimized environmental damage to some of the Baekdudaegan (mountain range) area Promotion of Green Rail during Gangneung-Wonju railway construction by operating the Baekdudaegan Environmental Advisory Purchase of Green Goods (Minimum 90% of Goal) Network Group. Meanwhile, the Environment Monitoring Committee on Honam High-Speed Railway minimized Infrastructure Greenhouse Gas Energy Reduction in the Public Sector (20% of Current Emissions)  Formulating Detailed Sectoral Plans  environmental damage to Gyeryong Mountain and prevented environmental conflicts. Creation of Solar Energy Generation Expanded Application of Relevant Projects Applicants Evaluating reduction efforts when Profits Using Plants (20 New Plants) (Minimum 3 Cases Annually) Contract selecting successful bidders  Status of Installed Pollution Prevention Equipment  Low carbon Equipment Green ODA Projects (3 Projects) Development of New Projects (Minimum 1 Case Annually) Evaluating reduction based on Design Classification Details proper design R&D Development Installation of pollution Water pollution control facilities including water treatment facilities(252), air pollution control (Eco-friendly Electricity Planning) Evaluating reduction when R&D Development Construction reduction facilities facilities such as Ventilation (275), waste storage facilities(147), and temporary noise barriers (116) Addition of Research Function to design is changed (Founding of Minimum 2 Cases Annually) ‌ • Ecological restoration of bridge of Gyeongchun Line(Grand Prize at Environment Awards of the Environmental Agency Restoring bridges of Development (Establishment of Feedback System) Ministry of Environment,Nov. 22, 2013) disused railways and of Green • ‌Creating Green Forest near Baekdu Station of Gyeongin Line Agreement with Baekdudaegan Development Modification of installing ecological Railway Eco-friendly • ‌Viaduct type ecological passagesand channel concrete boxes that can double as passages (17) of Construction Guidelines and Trial Application Expanded Field Application Put calculation of GHG emission reduction to Environmental Advisory Group Technology Facilities Survey passages Methods Specifications and fences (135 fences, 1,391m) practical use (2013) Installation of High-speed Battery Charger for Electric Cars Addressing noise and (Sooseo Station in High-speed Railway and Monitoring and Increased Application Installing railway noise barriers for residents near railways(3,985m) Will revise design evaluation indices (2014) vibration problems Songjeong Station in Gwanju) 72 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 73 Environmental Performance Summary KR is systematically managing the total amount of input materials such as energy consumption and fuel consumption and Output the total amount of emissions such as greenhouse gas and waste emissions. KR (National and regional HQs) Railway Construction Sites (Cooperate Company) Input GHG EmissionsBuilding (Unit: tCO2eq) GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) Railway Construction Site (partner) KR (National and regional HQs) Indirect Direct Classification 2011 2012 2013 Indirect 18,710.91 27,984.27 23,354.82 2011 4,199.68 852.99 Building Direct 4,693.27 3,012.67 1,900.90 Energy Use (Unit: TJ) Energy Use (Unit: TJ) 2012 3,411.39 779.23 Vehicle Direct 61,191.69 12,834.84 13,257.74 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Building Car Construction Indirect 7,061.07 7,329.35 2013 3,114.80 680.10 Machinery Building 430.51 584.83 478.61 Direct 220,084.09 217,728.38 2011 97.53 9.66 Vehicle 879.31 184.92 190.70 * In 2013, we surveyed GHG emissions from buildings and vehicles only. Construction Machinery 3,263.93 3,233.69 2012 80.96 8.60 * In 2013, only energy use by buildings and vehicles was surveyed. GHG Emissions Vehicles (Unit: tCO2eq) 2013 73.51 8.14 Discharged Waste (Unit: tCO2eq) 2011 665.95 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Material Use Waste Generation Amount 718,088.00 889,831.40 1,402,839 (Unit: ton) 2012 595.43 Construction Waste Recycled Amount 686,594.00 865,108.58 1,390,682 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Running Water Use – Water Supply 2013 561.20 (Unit: ton) Industrial Waste Generation Amount 71,677.95 389,709.79 464,812,70 Steel bars 485,283 710,336 880,432 Waste Recycled Amount 39,659.63 229,515.13 276,992.80 rails (new material) 29,595 32,659 33,431 2011 44,880 Designated Waste Generation Amount 7,235.08 1,129.15 5,646.50 Rail (reuse) 559 1,360 1,329 2012 38,738 Emissions of Designated Waste (Unit: ton) waste Recycled Amount 8.96 15.53 876.00 PC sleepers (new material) 108,934 130,824 176,635 PC sleepers (reuse) 3,495 17,344 23,046 2013 47,043 Total emissions Recycled amount Neck sleepers (new material) 342 621 4,404(piece) 2011 16.00 13.00 Air Pollutant Emissions Neck sleepers (reuse) 866 377 4,283(piece) Aggregate (General) 2,606,046 5,149,954 3,452,853 2012 28.00 11.00 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Aggregate (circulation) 72,381 309,033 331,811 Annual dust emissions (kg) 3,141 2,049 2,526 2013 27.00 11.00 Mold (Wood) 2,603,792 3,398,301 3,031,012 Number of places with facilities that emit air pollutants 17 24 22 Mold (Alternative) 1,319,416 3,015,981 1,951,122 Water Pollutants Water Use (Unit: ton) Classification 2011 2012 2013 Major Environmental Indicators Classification 2011 2012 2013 Annually discharged wastewater(ton) 4,868,269 4,697,721 7,176,449 Total 2,782,504 2,673,165 2,507,456 Performance Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 BOD(mg/l) 4.4 4.9 5.8 Recycled water 158,117 37,736 28,135 Environmental management index point 113.1 158.1 212.6 COD(mg/l) 6.8 9.4 9.1 * Major water sources in 2013: Dongmak, Osan, Gohyeon, Hwajeon, Hanbat Streams Greenhouse gas reduction rate % 5.8 16.6 24.8 SS(mg/l) 8.9 12.0 8.9 Environmental legislation violations point 0 0 4 Number of places with facilities that 107 103 92 emit wastewater Recycling rate of construction waste % 95.6 97.2 99.1 74 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 75 Appendix 76 Assessment on Application Level of ISO 26000 78 Third Party Assurance Report 80 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 85 Recognitions and Affiliation 86 Framework of Sustainability Management Implementation 87 Readers’ Survey 76 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 77 Assessment on Application Level of ISO 26000 Level of ISO 26000 Messrs. Employees and Stakeholders of Korea Rail Network Authority Evaluation Level I. ‌Evaluation of Social Responsibility Process: III. Departmental Recommendation recommended to set a process to reduce and manage GHG emissions from The Korea Standard Association (KSA) has published the “Social Responsibility 322 points out of 360 Upon a detailed departmental evaluation, the recommendation is as follows. construction sites. Fulfillment Level Evaluation Checklist” under ISO 26000, which is the The CEO expresses his strong will to raise awareness of sustainability and ⑤ Fair Operating Practices international standard for social responsibility. The ISO 26000 checklist reflect social responsibility as one of its key management policies at KR. ① Organizational Governance KR holds a rally for all employees to honor integrity and raise their awareness includes the outcome evaluation for the implementation process of social The company has clear about the application of and standards on the core KR regularly reports the goals and performances of its social responsibility of preventing corruptions through lifelong integrity education and Integrity responsibility and 7 core tsubjects (organizational governance, human themes of social responsibility. The level of its due diligence process is high, activities to its Board of Directors and is enhancing job specialties through Ombudsman activities. But since KR is a big ordering company, the company rights, labour practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer too. The company is making endeavors to actively cope with the order of non-executive directors with expertise and experiences in various sectors. In should identify and intensively manage business areas vulnerable to issues, community involvement and development). KSA evaluated KR’s social priority of key issues. The organization communicates with stakeholders the future, the operation of a sustainability management committee (subcorruptions and promote the whistle-blower system. responsibility implementation level according to the ISO 26000 checklist. through various methods and routes but lacks the organization of a committee within Board of Directors) is recommended to make the Board of specialized unit or activities to raise awareness. It is recommended to Directors make decisions not only about general management matters but ⑥ Consumer Issues Evaluation limitation build a system to reflect the results of social responsibility activities and about ISO 26000 issues. It is evaluated that KR excels at dealing with consumer issues such as winning KSA evaluated KR’s overall external/internal activities, medium and long term performances in job performance evaluation and encourage members. the highest grade among government-run companies in the 2013 quality ② Human Rights strategies, social responsibility activities, and sustainability management level evaluation by the KSA. It is recommended to steadily reinforce design, KR stipulates policy on civil rights, fair employment, and prohibition of strategy implementation processes. The evaluation result was made by  Results of Process Analysis  (Progress: %) safety checks and facilities for users of railways and stations (including weak discrimination in its human resource regulation and code of ethics, and reviewing open internal documents on policy and activities, outcome data, people such as children, the disabled and senior citizens). Social responsibility awareness manage human rights issues through the online and offline grievance system and calculation system. 100 Stakeholder identification and counseling. In the future, it is recommended that KR establish an actual ⑦ Community Involvement and Development Improvement 84.0 80 and engagement standard to investigate actual conditions related to civil rights violations Evaluation Method 60 93.3 KR contributes to the development of local communities by turning railway 80.0 40 (harassment, sexual harassment, occupational safety, observes Labor Standard KSA implemented the following based on data, collected from each land into nature and ecology study centers, bike paths, rail bikes and auto 20 Law, overdue wage, maternity protection) and regularly grasp impacts on department, related to sustainability report publication according to an 86.7 Key themes and camping sites. Verification 86.7 issues analysis human rights within itself and at partners. objective evaluation standard. The KR Young Adult Hope Project provides scholarships, study rooms and • ‌Review of internal documents on activities and outcome of sustainability cultural experience events to children living near railways. It is needed for KR 95.0 83.3 ③ Labor Practice 80.0 to hire more people who will work for KR’s social contribution to promote its management of KR Communication Priority setting and KR places its priority on railway safety by placing the Office of Safety and • ‌Interview with staff in charge of each social responsible management issue implementation strategies, local community engagement and development and diversify channels to planning Quality under the chairman. Its working conditions and HR development at KR Execution raise funds for social contribution. We recommend KR to develop global social system are excellent. It is recommended that KR strengthen its support contribution programs linked to its international projects. for the safety and health of employees and workers at construction sites Evaluation Result II. ‌Diagnosis of Seven Major Themes: and introduce systems and programs for the management of employees’ KR received 903 points out of 1,000 points upon evaluation, and confirms the Scored 581 points out of 640 points mental health. Evaluation Conclusion application of social responsibility implementation level IV of ISO26000. This KR’s implementation of expected items in the seven core themes of the According to the result of the ISO 26000 Implementation Evaluation, KR indicates a high understanding of social responsibility by members, and that ISO 26000 is generally excellent. Specifically, its implementation is excellent ④ The Environment received 903 out of 1,000, which qualifies KR for SR IV. KR is in the process of the organization management system, policy, and practice are well organized. in corporate governance, human rights, the environment, community KR has produced tangible results in reducing GHG emissions and introduced expanding social responsibility activities to all parts of the organization and engagement and development. new and renewable energy technology through the design of eco-friendly is excellent in corporate governance, human rights, the environment and stations every year. In addition, the company is striving to minimize railway local communities. The reputation and social value of KR hinge on producing Key Topics Total Points Diagnostic Score  Results of Core Subjects Analysis  construction’s impacts on the environment through environmental advisory results that satisfy the demand of stakeholders. I hope that KR will develop Process 360 322 (Progress: %) groups. But KR lacks those in charge of environmental issues compared to its into an institution trusted by stakeholders through its transparent and Organizational Performance 640 581 governance size. Thus, the company needs to recruit more people to deal with them. It is successful railway construction projects. Total 1,000 903 100 100 Community 80 involvement and Human rights 90.6 60 development 91.4 40 20 August 1, 2014 As a special legal body established under the Korea Industrial Standardization Act in 1962, the Korea Standards Association is a knowledge service agency that spreads industry standardization, 94.7 90.6 quality management, sustainability and KS and ISO certification. In particular, the association is Acting Chairman of KSA Kim Moo-hong Consumer issues Labour practices contributing to the sustainable development of our society as a domestic ISO 26000 agency, a GRI education institution, an AA1000 assurance provider, a Korea Sustainability Index (KSI) operating 86.8 88.6 agency, a UN CDM operator, and a greenhouse gas target management verification authority. Fair operating practices The environment 78 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 79 Third Party Assurance Report To the Readers of Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014: Foreword Responsiveness The Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) has been requested by Korea Rail Network Authority (KR) to verify the contents of its Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and Sustainability Report 2014 (the Report). KR is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. Our responsibility is to carry performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. out assurance engagement on specific information in the assurance scope stipulated below. • ‌The assurance team did not find any evidence that KR’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. In addition, the assurance team checked that the KR complied with the GRI G3.1 in preparing the Report, and that the Report fulfills the requirements of GRI Assurance scope and standard application level ‘A+’. KR describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. KMAR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. That is, the assurance team assessed whether inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness were observed, and verified the followings to assess the reliability of the data and information specified in the Report where professional judgement of the practitioner of KMAR’s assurance Our independence team was exercised as materiality criteria. With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other KR business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. Assurance of the economic section: Reviews whether the financial data and information have been extracted appropriately from KR’s 2013 financial statements and public notification data 6 August 2014 Assurance of the environmental and social section: CEO Ki Ho Park Reviews whether the environmental and social data and information included in the Report are presented appropriately Korea Management Association “Appropriately presented” means that the original data and information are reported appropriately in the Report with consistency and reliability. Registrations & Assessments Inc. The confirmation of the application level of GRI G3.1 utilized as the report criteria was included in the scope of assurance. Assurance process In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, KMAR’s assurance team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: • Assessed internal documents and materials • Reviewed the GRI G3.1 application level which was used as a reporting framework Conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, we had several discussions with KR on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data and information are not presented appropriately. Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. • ‌KR is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team did not find any critical stakeholder group left out during this procedure. Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. • ‌KR is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team did not find any critical issues left out in this process. 80 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 81 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ●Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable ●Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Core Subject and Issue Page Reported GRI Description ISO 26000 Core Subject and Issue Page Reported Stakeholder Engagement Principle 6.8.3 Engagement of community 20~23 ● Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance 4.10 16~17 ● Border Protocol 6.6.6 Promotion of social responsibility in value chain 2 ● (particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance) Strategy and Analysis 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 13~14 ● Statement from the most senior decision maker (e.g. CEO, chairman, or other equivalent executives)of Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 1.1 4~5 ● 4.12 85 ● which the organization subscribes or endorses the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 6.2 Organizational governance Memberships in associations such as industry associations and/or national/ 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18~19 ● 4.13 85 ● international advocacy organizations 6.2 Organizational governance Organizational Profile 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 20~23 ● 2.1 Name of the organization 12 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 20~23 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12~13 ● Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, 4.16 20~23 ● 2.3 6.2 Organizational governance 12 ● stakeholder group and joint ventures Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 12 ● 4.17 20~23 ● the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations Economic Performance Indicators (Disclosure on Management Approach) 48, 50 ● 2.5 13 ● or that are specifi cally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 12 ● 6.8 / 6.8.3 / Community involvement and development / EC1 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to 50~51, 53 ● 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 Wealth and income creation / Social investment 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers / benefi ciaries) 12 ● capital providers and governments 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 12 ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to EC2 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation 70~71 ● climate change 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 12 ● EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 6.4.4 / 6.8 61 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 85 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 47 ● Report Parameters Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at signifi cant Condition of work and social protector / 3.1 Reporting period for information provided (e.g. financial year/calendar year) 2 ● EC5 6.4.4 / 6.8 60 ● locations of operation Community involvement and development 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (when available) 2 ● Promoting social responsibility in the value chain / 3.3 Reporting cycle (annually, biannually, etc.) 2 ● 6.6.6 / 6.8 / Community involvement and development / EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 43~45 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 ● 6.8.5 / 6.8.7 Employment creation and skills development / Wealth and income creation Process for defining report content (Determining materiality, prioritizing topics within the report, and 3.5 24~25 ● Community involvement and development / identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report) Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 6.8 / 6.8.5 / EC7 Employment creation and skills development / 64~65 ● 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) 2 ● significant locations of operation 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 2 ● Economic, social and cultural rights / Community 6.3.9 / 6.8 / Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities involvement and development / Community 3.8 2 ● Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 6.8.3 / 6.8.4 / 28~33, that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations EC8 involvement / Education and culture / Technology ● through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 6.8.5 / 6.8.6 / 50~51 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 2 ● development and access / Wealth and income 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 creation / Social investment Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for 3.10 2 ● Economic, social and cultural rights / Promoting such re-statement 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / social responsibility in the value chain / Respect Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 2, 61 ● 6.6.7 / 6.7.8 / for property rights / Access to essential services/ applied in the report EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.8 / 6.8.5 / Community involvement and development / 64 ● 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 80~84 ● 6.8.6 / 6.8.7 / Employment creation and skills development / Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Scope and standards of 6.8.9 Technology development and access / Wealth and 3.13 7.6.2 Assurance 78~79 ● income creation / Social investment external assurance. Relationship between the organization and assurance service provider. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators (Disclosure on Management Approach) 68 ● 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 16~17 ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 72 ● 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 16 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 69, 72 ● For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 72 ● 4.3 16 ● the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 72 ● Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 71, 72 ● 4.4 16~17 ● governance body Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and 6.5 / 6.5.4 Environment / Sustainable resource use Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and EN6 69 ● 4.5 17 ● services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives executives, and the organization’s performance 6.2 Organizational governance EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 69, 71 ● 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 16~17 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 72 ● Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of 4.7 16 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 72 ● the highest governance body and its committees Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 72 ● 4.8 14~15 ● environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Environment / Protection of the environment, EN11 6.5 / 6.5.6 68~69 ● Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and high biodiversity value outside protected areas biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitats 4.9 16~17 ● management of economic, environmental, and social performance 82 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 83 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ●Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable ●Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Core Subject and Issue Page Reported GRI Description ISO 26000 Core Subject and Issue Page Reported Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and Labor practice / Human development and training EN12 68~69 ● Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of 6.4 / 6.4.7 / areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas LA11 in the workplace / Employment creation and skills 61 ● employees and assist them in managing career endings 6.8.5 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 68~69 ● development Environment / Protection of the environment, 6.5 / 6.5.6 Labor practice / Human development and EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitats 68~69, 71 ● LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 6.4 / 6.4.7 60 ◐ training in the workplace Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EN15 68~69, 71 ◐ Discrimination and vulnerable groups / operations, by level of extinction risk Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work / EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 73 ● LA13 16 ● group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity / 6.4 / 6.4.3 Labor practice / Employment and employment EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5 / 6.5.5 Environment / Climate change mitigation 73 ● relationships EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 70~71 ● Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Fundamental 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 Minuscule principles and rights at work / Labor practice / EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ○ LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category / 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 60 ● Emission Employment and employment relationships / 6.4.4 Condition of work and social dialogue EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight 73 ● Prohibition of discrimination against vulnerable EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 73 ● LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender group / Guarantee of economic, social, and cultural 65 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5 / 6.5.3 Environment / Prevention of pollution 73 ● rights of corporate and community members Not Human Right (Disclosure on Management Approach) 37, 53, 55 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● applicable Human right / Due diligence / Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or 6.3 / 6.33 / Not Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of HR1 Avoidance of complicity / Promoting social ● EN24 N/A that have undergone human rights screening 6.3.5 / 6.6.6 applicable the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally responsibility in the value chain Environment / Sustainable resource use / Human right / Due diligence / Avoidance of Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.3 / 6.3.3 / EN25 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and 68~69 ● Percentage of signifi cant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and complicity / Employment and employment affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff 6.5.6 HR2 6.3.5 / 6.4.3 / 43 ● restoration of natural habitats actions taken relationships / Promoting social responsibility in the 6.6.6 Environment / Sustainable resource use / value chain 6.5 / 6.5.4 / EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Promoting socialresponsibility in the value chain / 68~69, 71 ● Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 6.6.6 / 6.7.5 HR3 6.3 / 6.3.5 Human right/ Avoidance of complicity 40 ● Sustainable consumption relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained 6.5 / 6.5.4 / Environment / Sustainable resource use / Human right / Resolving grievances / Discrimination EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category N/A 6.3 / 6.3.6 / 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption and vulnerable groups / Fundamental principles HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 6.3.7 / 60~61 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with and rights at work / Employment and employment EN28 6.5 Environment 73 ● 6.3.10 / 6.4.3 environmental laws and regulations relationships Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for 6.5 / 6.5.4 / Environment / Sustainable resource use / Human right / Due diligence / Human rights risk EN29 70~71 ◐ 6.3 / 6.3.3 / the organization’s operations 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain situations/ Avoidance of complicity / Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 6.3.4 / 6.3.5 / HR5 Civil and political rights / Fundamental principles 61 ● EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 Environment ○ collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights 6.3.8 / 6.3.10 and rights at work / Employment and employment ● / 6.4.3 / 6.4.5 Labor Practices (Disclosure on Management Approach) 60 relationships / Social dialogue LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Labor practice / Employment and 65 ● Human right / Due diligence / Human rights risk 6.4 / 6.4.3 6.3 / 6.3.3 / LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover (by age group, gender, and region) employment relationships 60, 65 ● Operations identifi ed as having signifi cant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to situations / Avoidance of complicity / Not HR6 6.3.4 / 6.3.5 / ● contribute to the elimination of child labor Discrimination and vulnerable groups / applicable Labor practice / Employment and employment 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 6.4/ 6.4.3 / Fundamental principles and rights at work LA3 relationships / Condition of work and social 61 ● (by operating location) 6.4.4 6.3 / 6.3.3 / Human right / Avoidance of complicity / protector Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to Not HR7 6.3.4 / 6.3.5 / Employment and employment relationships / ● Labor practice / Employment and employment contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor applicable 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain relationships / Condition of work and social LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective agreement. 6.4.4 / 6.4.5 / 61 ● Human right / Resolving grievances / protector / Social dialogue / 6.3.10 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of 6.3 / 6.3.5 / Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Fundamental principles and rights at work HR8 38, 40 ● human rights that are relevant to operations 6.4.3 / 6.6.6 Fundamental principles and rights at work / Labor practice / Employment and employment Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes 6.4 / 6.4.3 / Employment and employment relationships LA5 relationships / Condition of work and social 61 ● (including whether it is specified in collective agreements) 6.4.4 / 6.4.5 6.3 / 6.3.6 / Human right / Resolving grievances / protector / Social dialogue HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 6.3.7 / 6.3.8 / Discrimination and vulnerable groups / 59 ● Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety LA6 37, 61 ◐ 6.6.7 Civil and political rights / Respect for property rights committees 6.4 / 6.4.6 Labor practice / Health and safety at work Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities HR10 Due diligence / Human rights risk situations 39~41 ● LA7 37 ● assessments (by region and gender) Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Labor practice / Health and safety at work / HR11 Resolving grievances 58~59 ● 6.4 / 6.4.6 / mechanisms Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, Community involvement and development / LA8 6.8 / 6.8.3 / 61 ● Social Performance Indicators (Disclosure on Management Approach) 62 ● their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Community involvement / 6.8.4 / 6.8.8 Education and culture / Health Economic, social, and cultural rights / Participation 6.3.9 / 6.8 / LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4 / 6.4.6 Labor practice / Health and safety at work 61 ● Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of in and development of regional society / Creation SO1 6.8.5 / 6.8.7 / 62~63 ● operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting of jobs and functional developments / Creation of Labor practice / Human development and 6.6.7 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 6.4 / 6.4.7 60 ● wealth and income training in the workplace 84 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 85 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index Recognitions and Affiliation Recognitions in 2013 ●Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Core Subject and Issue Page Reported External Recognition Significance Organizing Institution SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 40~41, 43 ● Excellent Organization in Evaluation Shared Took lead in win-win growth through support for SMEs (Apr. 2013) SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies/ procedures 6.6 / 6.6.3 Fair operation practice / Anti-corruption 40 ● Growth Activities SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 40 ● Grand Prize at Korea Inno Skill Contest Excellent results in price cutting, process improvement, higher productivity (July. 2013) SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 22 ● 6.6 / 6.6.4 / Fair operation practice / Responsible political Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and 6.8.3 involvement / Community involvement Not Grand Prize at Social Contribution Awards Social contributions befitting characteristics of areas such as support for the marginalized near railways SO6 ● related institutions by country applicable (regional social contribution sector) and volunteer work for rural towns (Sep. 2013) 6.6 / 6.6.5 / Fair operation practice / Fair competition / SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 43~44 ◐ 6.6.7 Respect for property rights No. 1 in KRCA and KSI Index Economic, environmental and social performances for sustainable growth (Oct. 2013) Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 6.6 / 6.6.7 / Fair operation practice / Respect for property rights SO8 65 ● laws and regulations 6.8.7 /Wealth and income creation Prize of Minister of Industry, Contributed to competiveness of companies and economic development through cooperation SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 6.8 Community involvement and development 59 ● Trade and Energy in shared growth between big and small companies (Oct. 2013) Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or Korea’s Respected Company Prize from Contributed to people’s happiness and national growth through economic railway construction, SO10 6.8 Community involvement and development 59, 64 ● actual negative impacts on local communities Minister of Industry, Trade and Energy realization of fair society and job creation (Oct. 2013) Product Responsibility (Disclosure on Management Approach) 56 ● Excellence Prize at Korea Knowledge Awards Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for Economic, social and cultural rights / Promoting (Prize of Minister of Security and Excellence in knowledge and innovation and competitiveness enhancement activities (Oct. 2013) PR1 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / 34~36 ● improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures social responsibility in the value chain / Public Administration) 6.7 / 6.7.4 / Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health Consumer issue / Protecting consumers’ health PR2 6.7.5 35~37 ● and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle by type of outcomes and safety /Sustainable consumption BEST-HRD Certification in Public Sector HRD model in nurturing railway experts and globally talented people (Nov. 2013) Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products Consumer issue / Fair marketing, factual and PR3 13 ● and services subject to such information requirements unbiased information and fair contractual practices Excellent organization in ecological restoration project for areas near railway bridge over 6.7 / 6.7.3 / Grand Prize at Environment Awards / Protecting consumers’ health and safety / Jojong Stream of Gyeongchun Line (Nov. 2013) 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 / Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product Sustainable consumption / Consumer service, Not PR4 6.7.6 / 6.7.9 ● Promoted mutual prosperity and work improvement and carried out creation and and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes support, and complaint and dispute resolution / applicable Grand Prize in National Quality Contest Education and awareness innovation activities (Nov. 2013) Consumer issue / Protecting consumers’ health Very Excellent Public Organization in Very Excellent (100 points) in evaluation of Web access and compatibility of 407 6.7 / 6.7.4 / and safety / Sustainable consumption / Consumer Web Access and Compatibility government-run organizations (Nov. 2013) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.5 / 6.7.6 / service, support, and complaint and dispute 57~58 ● 6.7.8 / 6.7.9 resolution / Access to essential services / Grand Prize at National Design VE Cut down on cost via design VE about trackbed of double track railway between Damyang and Education and awareness Competition for two consecutive years Yeongcheon (Dec. 2013) Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, Consumer issue / Fair marketing, factual and PR6 56~58 ● Six-Plus Grade in QMS Raised level of GMS operation through steady QMS improvement activities (Dec. 2013) including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 6.7 / 6.7.3 / unbiased information and fair contractual practices Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 6.7.6 / 6.7.9 / Consumer service, support, and complaint and Not PR7 ● Excellent Organization in Management of Public marketing communications dispute resolution / Education and awareness applicable Drew up and implemented public worker management plan and improved systems to Workers among Public Organizations under Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Consumer issue / Consumer data protection prevent wrongdoings (Dec. 2013) PR8 6.7 / 6.7.7 58 ● Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport customer data and privacy Selected as an excellent public organization which took the lead in integration of Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the Consumer issue / Consumer service, support, National Shinmungo Awards PR9 6.7 / 6.7.6 65 ● National Shinmungo System (2013.12) provision and use of products and services and complaint and dispute resolution Grand Prize in Earthwork at Built excellent quality management system (Dec. 2013) Construction Quality Awards Ten Principles of UNGC Grand Prize at National QCC Competition Study activities through CoP activities and positive results (May. 2014) Excellence Prize at Daejeon City’s QCC Excellently solved problems at worksites through environment, safety and quality activities based on UN Global Compact Classification Principles Competition work improvement activities (June. 2014) 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human rights 2. Ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. ‌Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to External Affiliated Organization collective bargaining Labor 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor International Union of International Association for Korea Railway Construction Korea Association of Korea Railway Association 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and Railways(UIC) Construction Association Management Projects 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Korea Industrial Technology Korea Association for Traffic Institute of Korea Korean Society of Civil Engineers Architectural Institute of Korea 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Promotion Association Railway KR became a member of the UN Global Compact, an international agreement on corporate social Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Korea Institute of Korea Association for Korea Association for Korean Society of Korea Society of Archives and responsibility and is abiding by ten principles in 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Electrical Engineers Disaster Prevention Tunnel Underground Environment Education Records Management the human rights, labor, environment and Association Korean Korea Society of Antianti-corruption sectors. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. UN Global Compact Korea Yunkyung SM Forum Korea Association of Record Corruption Association for Audit Management Information 86 Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 KR Sustainability Focused Report Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance Appendix 87 Framework of Sustainability Management Readers’ Survey Implementation The sustainability management of KR is supervised by the Planning and Innovation Department, and staff from 19 departments worked together to produce the We look forward to receiving your valued comments on the 2014 Sustainability Report. sustainability report. 1. To which of the following groups do you belong? Yeong Il Kang, Chairman & CEO Customer Employee Government Local Resident Business Partner NGOs, Citizens’ Groups or Professional Organization Others ( ) Young Woo Kim, Vice Chairman Jong Do Lee, Executive Director of Planning 2. How did you hear about this report? and Innovation Department Corporate homepage Newspaper or Media Internet Corporate employee Seminar / Lecture Others ( ) Hyo Sik Kim, Director of Performance Management Division 3. For what purpose do you intend to use this report? (You may choose multiple boxes) To gain information about the corporation To understand sustainability management activities Management Strategy Team To compare and analyze the business of the corporation Research and educational purposes Young Kyun Kim General Manager / Sang Hyun Park, Others ( ) Deputy General Manager / Jong Ho Park, Assistant Manager / Jung Bo Kim, Assistant manager / Seon Hee Koh, Staff 4. Which issues in this report interest you? (You may choose multiple boxes) Ⅰ. KR Sustainability Ⅱ. Focused Report Ⅲ. Economic Performance Ⅳ. Social Performance Ⅴ. Environmental Performance KR Sustainability Focusced Report Economy Society Environment Management and 5. If there is a section that needs to be supplemented, which section will it be? (You may choose multiple boxes) Planning & Budget Division Audit Office Financial Strategy Division Safety and Quality Office Labor Division Ⅰ. KR Sustainability Ⅱ. Focused Report Ⅲ. Economic Performance Ⅳ. Social Performance Ⅴ. Environmental Performance Hoi Heon Jung, SeungHee Jang, Assistant Dong Man Koh, Oh Na Kwon, Hee-Hyun Yang, Manager Deputy General Manager / Manager / Do Yeon Kim, Staff / Deputy General Manager / Deputy General Manager 6. Was this report helpful in understanding the Korea Rail Network Authority’s sustainability management activities? Ji Won Jung, Manager Su Yeon Jung, Staff Young Sik Kong, Staff Very helpful Somewhat helpful Average Not helpful Poor Planning and Human Resources Construction Equipment Asset Management Division Safety and Quality Office Budget Division Development Office Division Ji Ho Park, 7. What is your evaluation of this report? Hong Kwon Kim, Bi Ran Kim, Seung Sang Yoo, Yong Su Kim, Deputy General Manager / Deputy General Manager Assistant Manager Deputy General Manager Deputy General Manager Very helpful Somewhat helpful Average Not helpful Useless Se Wang Jang, Manager Degrees of Understanding Overseas Rail PR Division Asset Development Division Financial Strategy Division Projects Division Accuracy of Information Min Eun Lee, Ki Young Choi, Manager / Byung-sun Ahn, Amount of Information Assistant Manager / Eun-Young Lee, Manager Kook Hwa Kim, Staff Deputy General Manager Ji Yeon Kim, Staff Design format Management Performance Construction Planning and Division Planning Division Budget Division Rae-hyun Park, Sung-woo Jo, 8. ‌Please feel free to give your opinion on Korea Rail Network Authority’s sustainability management activities and/or contents/format DaeSeok Song, Manager Deputy General Manager Assistant Manager of theoverall report. Planning and Information Management Budget Division Division Sang Hyun Lee, Woon Seok Seong, Deputy Deputy General Manager / General Manager / Moon Seok Young Hoon Oh, Manager Jang, Deputy General Manager Contract Division Send to: ‌Division of Management Strategy, Management Outcome Division, Planning and Innovation Department, Korea Railway Network Authority, 242, Joonang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City, 300-731 Tel_82-42607-3156 / Fax_82-42-607-3169 Boo Hyun Kim, Manager Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2014 Thank you for answering the questions 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City TEL. 82-42-607-3156 FAX. 82-42-607-3169 www.kr.or.kr This report is printed on the paper produced through eco-friendly processes that use soybean oil ink.
