Contents Editorial Policy Company Profile Contents Editorial Policy Company Profile 1 Company Profile Company Philosophy Company Vision Headquarters address: 5-1-1 Onna, Atsugi-shi, Kanagawa, Japan Company Policy 2 Company founded: 1895 Top Commitment 3 Capital: 19,052 million yen*1 Business Outline 5 Net sales: 101,853 million yen*2 Resolving Social Issues through Our Core Business No. of shareholders: 15,390*1 No. of employees: 3,880 (consolidated)*1 Test and Measurement 7 757 (non-consolidated)*1 Industrial Automation 9 No. of suppliers and partners: 730*1 Information and Communications 10 *1 As of March 31, 2014 Material Issues for Anritsu Group CSR 11 *2 Consolidated, year ended March 2014 Stakeholder Dialogue 13 •Net sales CSR Management 17 (Million yen) Goal 1 18 120,000 100,000 Goal 2 24 80,000 Goal 3 39 60,000 73,548 77,853 93,622 94,685 101,853 Goal 4 64 40,000 CSR Results for FY2013, CSR Objectives for FY2014 67 20,000 0 GRI Content Index 68 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3* 2013/3 2014/3 Major Group Companies 71 * IFRS applied from the year ended March 2012. Independent Review 72 •Consolidated net sales •Consolidated net sales by business by region Editorial Policy (Year ended March 2014) (Year ended March 2014) We report our CSR activities for fiscal 2013 in “CSR Report Others 8.8% Test and Asia and Japan 2014,” which is published in digest form as a printed pamphlet Industrial Measurement others 29.6% Automation 74.6% 27.8% and in greater detail as a PDF. The digest version seeks to 16.6% explain how our businesses address social issues and to report on discussions that took place during the stakeholder dialogue and on material CSR issues for the Anritsu Group, all in a EMEA*1 manner that is easy to understand. For the detailed version, our 14.3% Americas*2 aim is to introduce our CSR activities to more stakeholders by 28.3% *1 Europe, the Middle East and Africa organizing information under 12 material issues identified *2 The United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil through materiality assessment and concretely describing the status of each activity. •Consolidated operating income / www.anritsu.com/csr ratio of operating income to net sales Consolidated operating income (Million yen) For details on financial performance, please refer to our annual Consolidated ratio of operating income to net sales (%) (%) (Million yen) 16.6 18 report or website at: 16,000 15.0 13.9 16 http://www.anritsu.com/en-US/About-Anritsu/Investor-Relations/ 14,000 14 12,000 12 Guidelines used as reference 10,000 9.0 10 · ISO 26000:2010 · GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) 8,000 8 6.2 6,000 6 Reporting Period This report covers the period from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014, and 4,000 4 also includes some activities before and after that period. 2,000 4,583 6,994 14,000 15,714 14,123 2 0 0 Boundary Definitions 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3* 2013/3 2014/3 This report covers Anritsu Corporation only or the Anritsu Group * IFRS applied from the year ended March 2012. Companies, according to subject and definitions as follows: “Anritsu” or “Anritsu Group” refers to both Anritsu Corporation and the entire Anritsu Group. •Number of employees (Anritsu Group) “Anritsu Corporation” refers to Anritsu Corporation in Japan only. (Number) “Group Company (or Companies)” refers to a group company 4,000 3,880 Asia and (or companies) or all group companies, excluding Anritsu Corporation in 413 others 3,500 either case. 402 EMEA 3,000 Date of issue: September1, 2014 3,589 3,614 3,681 3,771 859 Americas 2,500 Further inquiries: CSR·CS Promotion Team, Corporate Communication Department, Anritsu Corporation 2,000 2,206 Japan Tel : +81-46-296-6514 0 Fax : +81-46-225-8358 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 URL: http://www.anritsu.com/ (The next CSR report is scheduled for release in September 2015) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 1 Company Philosophy Company Vision Company Policy Anritsu is promoting CSR activities by putting into practice the basic principles of its company philosophy, vision and policy; by respecting the Global Compact that Anritsu upholds as the principles of action for a global enterprise; and by adhering to the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct that set out concrete values and behavioral guidelines. Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior The Anritsu Group's philosophy is to create corporate value with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm. We will provide solutions through innovation using all knowledge of all parties with the core being our original & high level technology. At the same time we will conduct our business with high ethics and the goal of contributing to the advancement of society. The Anritsu Group will act enthusiastically to carry out its corporate social responsibility with sincerity and with respect for the individual, while at the same time working to assure that we address the interests of all our stakeholders: shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, and local and global societies. Protecting Human The Anritsu Group will respect the human rights of all those who are connected with it, and will not permit any discriminatory Rights practice related to race, gender and so forth or infringement of individual dignity, and will never accept child labor or forced labor. Valuing Employees The Anritsu Group will respect each employee's individuality and will create work environments where all of its employees can fully demonstrate their abilities and carry out their jobs with enthusiasm. Harmony with Society The Anritsu Group will respect the customs and cultures of the international society and the local society, and will manage its activities in a way that contributes to the development of all societies that it interacts with. Preserving the The Anritsu Group will reduce the impact of its operations on the global environment and will contribute to build a Global Environment sustainable society. Conducting Social The Anritsu Group will, as a good corporate citizen, actively engage in activities that contribute to the betterment society in addition Contribution Activity to its normal business operations. Attaining Customer The Anritsu Group will develop and provide socially useful products and services, giving full consideration to quality, safety and the Satisfaction environment. This combination of receiving value and receiving it from a socially responsible company will result in high customer satisfaction. Conducting Ethical The Anritsu Group will engage in fair, transparent, and free competition, and will maintain healthy and normal relationships with Company Activities political institutions, governmental administration as well as citizens and other organizations. Disclosing Corporate The Anritsu Group will disclose its corporate information in a timely, clear, and appropriate manner in order to improve the Information transparency of its corporate activities. Managing Information The Anritsu Group will execute proper management of information property it obtains including observing privacy policies Property concerning individual information and customer information. The Anritsu Managers will take the responsibility for implementing this charter and for taking all necessary action in order to raise awareness in their corporation. They will also take initiative and set an example so that every employee in the Anritsu Group becomes fully aware of the philosophy in this Charter. This includes creating corporate in-house systems to fulfill the intent of the Charter and endeavoring to maintain high corporate ethics. When a law or a rule is violated, the Manager must take action to notify senior management and then work together to resolve the problem, endeavoring to clarify its causes and prevent its recurrence. And the Manager will promptly and adequately disclose all relevant information to the public when deemed appropriate, and will institute disciplinary action upon identifying who authorized and was responsible for such acts. No responsible employee or officer is to be shielded from these disciplinary actions. United Nations Global Compact Since March 2006, Anritsu has practiced the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and has linked these principles with its own CSR efforts to firmly establish them throughout Group activities worldwide. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 2 Top Commitment Anritsu Seeks to Play its Part in Resolving Social Issues through its Core Business as a Reliable, Cutting-Edge Brand September 2014 Hirokazu Hashimoto Representative Director, President Q What kind of role does Anritsu want to have in the telecommunications systems, food production, and pharmaceutical sectors, which are very important for society? Applications based on mobile telecommunications technolotinue to use its experience in telecommunications, built since gy continue to grow and evolve, change society, and improve our founding in 1895, to firmly meet our social mission under productivity. This is happening from safe-driving systems in the Anritsu brand of innovation and trust. cars using big data, to remote medical monitoring systems, In the Industrial Automation segment, our business is relatto electric power management systems that feature real-time ed to the safety and security of food. This is growing in conmonitoring of energy demand for more-efficient energy transcern globally in step with rising standards of living. With rising mission. This also includes wearable devices like smart populations, the safety of food must be ensured along with watches and smart glasses for health management. In these securing needed food resources. Also, food defense, or preapplications, when a new technology is introduced, it must be venting the willful contamination of food, is becoming a new compatible with existing systems, and devices designed and theme. Anritsu will meet its social mission of supporting safe made by different makers must be compatible with each and secure food by developing solutions always keeping other. That is, building telecom systems that link stably is an society’s perspective in R&D. We will meet this mission with important issue for society. To solve this issue, knowledge is our lineup of contaminant testing and weight testing solutions needed for the system as a whole down to individual parts. that take food cultures in different countries and regions into Anritsu has contributed to telecom service development by account, and foreign-matter contamination strategies using being knowledgeable of fundamental technologies for the worker identification and observation. telecommunications space. Going forward, Anritsu will conAnritsu CSR REPORT 2014 3 Q What does the Anritsu Group consider to be key issues to face for Q Finally, please describe what ideals the new brand statement sustainability? “envision : ensure” represents. The Anritsu Group believes that CSR should be conducted in Continuing our 120-year history, to contribute to society line with four goals demanded by society.The most important going forward, Anritsu has stated a target of being a “Global of these is to contribute to solving society’s issues through Market Leader” under our 2020 VISION. “Providing value our core business. This can be stated as our corporate misbefitting Anritsu, building a visionary brand trusted by cussion of “contributing to building a safe, secure, and comforttomers the world over, and bringing about operations with able society,” and is the axis of our business and our mission world class added value”—this is the image I have for Anritsu to society. Over six billion mobile devices have been puras a Global Market Leader. To this end, we have announced chased across the globe, compared with the global populaour 2020 VISION and even further our forward-looking brand tion of seven billion. Services that use the mobile network statement “envision : ensure.” The essence of this brand have given rise to a variety of uses and applications in statement is “As well as sharing our dream and vision with regions across the globe. These include social innovations, our customers, it shows that our dedication to innovation will such as renewable energy management and microfinance. lead to tangible results that exceed their expectations.” Society is increasingly asking for contributions that require Going forward, with our customers as true partners, Anritsu the knowledge and experience that Anritsu has. In making will strive to offer solutions that link solving society’s issues these contributions, it is crucial to actively talk with all stakewith solving customers’ needs, and further raise corporate holders to grasp society’s needs. We want to continuously value. and sincerely ask if Anritsu products and services are creatWe thank shareholders for their unwavering understanding ing value for society. We are also working hard to ensure that and support. all Anritsu Group employees understand and share our corporate mission and Code of Conduct. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 4 Business Outline Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 5 Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 6 Resolving Social Issues through Our Core Business Test and Measurement Bringing Greater Convenience and Comfort to People’s Lives Test and Measurement Solutions that Sustain Global Information Communication Services Anritsu’s Strengths Leveraging our superior technological ability, experience and know-how gained over our 120-year history, we provide test and measurement solutions that encompass the development and manufacturing of mobile devices as well as the construction and maintenance of networks, to all players involved in developing mobile broadband services. As “Anritsu, the mobile expert,” we bring comprehensive capabilities anchored in our cutting-edge technology and reliability to meet customer expectations by responding to rapid changes in the information and communication industry. Mobile Test and Measurement Business Model Supporting R&D We provide testing systems to verify that the chip sets for wireless communications developed by our customers comply with international standards. Anritsu has established itself as the de facto standard in R&D for communication standards for third generation (3G) mobile phones, and we are building on this track record and customer trust to contribute to the R&D of the next-generation LTE communication standard. Supporting Production We provide test and measurement solutions for conducting wireless transmission tests and simultaneous measurement of several wireless technologies using a single unit of equipment during the manufacturing and inspection processes in production lines for mobile devices, to enhance the quality and efficiency of production. We support manufacturing and mass production by providing measuring instruments and inspection systems suitable for the specific production systems at our customers’ sites, while also realizing energy savings and reducing environmental impact. Providing Maintenance and Support We contribute to the global expansion of wireless communication networks by providing measuring instruments for assessing quality at base station construction and maintenance sites. We lead the industry by setting the de facto standard, offering high added value such as our handheld measuring instruments that meet mobile needs at these sites. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 7 Inter view Supporting Communication Infrastructures based on Relationship of Trust with Customers Information and communication system that can be used anytime and anywhere have become an essential part of our everyday lives. Moreover, with mobile broadband systems, we face the challenge of realizing information and communication services that are more sophisticated while effectively using available frequencies as a shared human asset. To address these issues, Anritsu provides society with solutions for demonstrating products comply with international standards and ensures the reliability of these products. Since these standards are frequently upgraded for a rapidly evolving information and communication industry, we must provide continuous support to customers as they respond to these upgrades. Through our relationship of trust, an intangible asset we have developed over the years, we will consistently seek to acquire the most advanced technologies and offer valuable proposals as a reliable partner to customers and their visions for the future of their businesses. Toshihiko Takahashi Senior Vice President, Chief R&D Officer, Anritsu Corporation Anritsu Solutions Information and communication technologies are evolving gap and helping to address inequalities in education. We are every day and are expected to contribute to resolving social also approaching the day when people will be able to enjoy issues. We are making greater use of these technologies as the benefits of high-quality diagnosis and easy access to part of the social infrastructure in sending early warnings on advanced medical treatment wherever they live in the world. rapid changes in weather and the occurrence of earthInformation and communication devices that are key to quakes to minimize damage, and in collecting information addressing these issues must be tested under diverse conand confirming the safety of families in the event of a disasditions to verify compliance with international standards. ter. Moreover, we can offer distance-learning opportunities Anritsu has earned customer trust as the leading company for children who cannot easily attend school, thereby filling a in the test and measurement systems used for this purpose. A Representative Anritsu Solution Contributing to the Early Commercialization of Next-Generation Mobile Broadband Systems LTE-Advanced is even faster than LTE, which is currently being introduced across the world. LTE-Advanced incorporates a carrier aggregation function that combines multiple frequencies to create a broader virtual bandwidth. Every terminal manufacturer is required to objectively verify that the quality of their products complies with international standards. Anritsu led the industry in providing a mobile device test platform to conduct the necessary certification examination for commercializing LTE-Advanced terminals. Mobile device test platform Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 8 Resolving Social Issues through Our Core Business Industrial Automation Ensuring Security in Your Daily Life Diverse Quality Assurance Solutions that Sustain Food Safety through Contaminant Detection, Weight Testing and Quality Control Systems Inter view We Support Safety and Security by Providing Optimal Solutions Ensuring the safety and security of the food and drugs we put into our bodies every day is a shared, public concern. Food producers and pharmaceutical companies around the world are implementing a variety of safety and security initiatives, such as checking for contaminants and weighing content at the raw material stage as well as conducting inspections once products have been packaged for shipping. In some cases, a high level of quality assurance is required throughout the production process, upstream and downstream. As a reliable, long-standing partner, we have been providing optimal solutions tailored to each customer’s circumstances. We will continue to boldly innovate in a never-ending cycle of turning dreams into reality with our customers. Tetsuo Kawabe Vice President, Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. Anritsu Solutions Checkweighers can instantly measure product weight on conditions, making it necessary to customize inspection high-speed production lines, while X-ray inspection systems equipment from the design stage before installation. Anritsu and metal detectors can find contaminants at food and offers proposals that closely align with the needs of each pharmaceutical production plants. These instruments play customer through collaboration with local subsidiaries, an extremely vital role in conducting comprehensive inspecagents and local corporate partners. We deliver solutions tions before products are shipped. worldwide that ensure the safety and security of food and The level of required inspection accuracy varies by coundrugs by applying the experience and expertise gained try, region and customer. Moreover, specifications for prothrough dealing with Japan’s stringent quality control duction lines differ depending on customer factory systems. A Representative Anritsu Solution Inspection Instrument that Excels on Food Production Lines X-ray inspection instruments can check through the objects being inspected, and applications are widening with the added ability to identify shape defects and quantity shortages. We provide unique solutions for advanced quality control with greater consistency. Packaging Machine Automatic Combination Weighers HD X-ray Inspection Systems Metal Detector Checkweigher Total Quality Control System Centralized control of operational status for the entire production line Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 9 Resolving Social Issues through Our Core Business Information and Communications Supporting the Infrastructure of Our Daily Life Ensuring Safe, Secure and Efficient Connections for Society, Anytime and Anywhere Inter view We will Contribute to Establishing a “Connected” Society The widespread dissemination of smartphones and the Internet has created the image of an environment in which we are “connected anytime, anywhere.” A closer examination of the overall infrastructure, however, reveals points where connections falter, which are settings subject to risks of failure in the event of emergencies, and the presence of legacy devices in places beyond the expected reach of connectivity. I hope our network equipment can offer our customers the satisfaction of being connected and contribute to realizing the fully “connected” society of the future. Nobuo Funahashi President and Representative Director, Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Solutions In a network era in which everything is connected to the er’s facilities by offering a “Skillful” connection between legaInternet, Anritsu offers communication solutions that enable cy network facilities and the most advanced networks. We customers to reliably communicate their messages and broadly contribute to the construction of social and commudata. For example, our traffic control appliances can boost nication infrastructures by directly delivering Anritsu hardefficiency by integrating customer networks, thereby offering ware and software technologies as well as providing them to “Smart” connections. We also provide IP adaptors and IP business partners who effectively adopt them. multiplexing equipment that protect the value of a customA Representative Anritsu Solution IP Multiplexing Equipment for Analog Line (NN6001A) The IP Multiplexing Equipment for Analog Line enables IP-based transIP-MUX(NN6001A) IP-MUX(NN6001A) mission by effectively utilizing phone, FAX and data transmission Wide Area Ethernet modems. Communication networks used by many local governments Trunk Common Trunk Common Exchange Line Control Exchange Line Control and companies share massive volumes of data among distant facilities Modem Modem over phone lines. Customers have faced the challenge of effectively using their long-standing analog equipment to meet IP networking requirements. Customer who install our equipment realize a low-cost solution for achieving connectivity through IP networks while also PBX PBX Individual Phone Individual Phone retaining much of their analog equipment. We ensure stable operation Lines Lines Base A Base B FAX FAX even under severe temperature or humidity conditions. In addition, in the event of phone line outages during a disaster or other emergencies, the network can switch to a satellite connection to maintain the timely transmission of information. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 10 Material Issues for Anritsu Group CSR Promoting Global CSR Activities based on Business Strategies To be a trusted partner for all stakeholders, the Anritsu Group has incorporated the response to human rights issues and promotion of local CSR as two strategic CSR issues that we believe must be addressed to achieve CSR management worthy of a global market leader. Goal 1 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Society 2020 VISION 1.Service to Customers 2.Solutions for Social Issues 3.Response to Social Expectations 1.To be Global Market Leader Goal 2 Goal 3 GLP2014 -Build a world-class, Maintaining Harmony with Promoting Global the Global Socio-Economy Environmental Protection strong, profit generating Indicator s F Y2012 F Y2014 4.Supply Chain Management platform 5.Respect for Human Rights Sales 94.5 B Yen 110 B Yen -Create uniquely Anritsuand Promotion of Diversity 11.Promotion of 6.Human Resource Development Environmental Management Op. Income 15.5 B Yen 19 B Yen like corporate value 7.Establishment of Compliance 8.Promotion of Risk Management Net Income 10 B Yen 13 B Yen 2.Create new business 9.Labor Safety and Health ROE 20% 20% by emerging biz. 10.Promotion of Social Contribution Activities ACE* 7 B Yen 9 B Yen -Demonstrate cuttingGoal 4 edge tech in new Promoting Communications *ACE(Anritsu Capital-cost Evaluation): business field 12.Communication with Stakeholders Operating income after tax-Capital Cost CSR Goals of Anritsu CSR Results for Fiscal 2013, CSR Objectives for Fiscal 2014 We have been focusing our efforts on the 12 important issues with particular emphasis on the following 5 material issues. Unless otherwise specified, the content of objectives in this table covers operations of Anritsu Corporation and its Group Companies in Japan. Performance evaluation ○:fully attained △:attained 50% or more ×:not attained CSR Goal Key Issues Results for Fiscal 2013 Evaluation Objectives for Fiscal 2014 Goal 1 (1)Held a presentation and shared CS Action Guidelines with managers in China. ○ (1)Develop a system for gathering stakeholder feedback and improvement activities. Contributing to Build Service to (2)Recommended CS training programs for China, but fell short of implementation. × (2)Improve customer contact points and share a database of customer feedback. a Safe, Secure, and customers (3)Service in Japan: deployed SFDC (sales force for service) to enhance the 24-hour sup○ (3)Reform the global maintenance process and continue enhancing the customer sup Comfortable Society port system. Support for overseas service: introduced SFDC at some overseas locations. port center. (1)Negotiated prices based on combined procurement volume for Japan and the U.S., ○ (1)Develop a global SCM system (Promote Global Supply Chain Committee). proceeding with unification of suppliers for PCB, cable and LCD for Japan and the U.S. Formulate a common supplier scorecard for Japan and the U.S. (2)Ranked suppliers on an “ABC” range based on hazardous substance control efforts, ○ (2)Reinforce an audit system for hazardous substances. audited two, C-ranked (insufficient) suppliers. Supply chain (3)Investigated conflict minerals issues by establishing a response system. ○ (3)Establish a response to conflict minerals (promote CSR procurement). management Conduct an initial survey of targeted products. (4)Implemented measures to comply with ITAR (International Traffic in Arms Regulations): ○ (4)Strengthen BCM and governance systems. Goal 2 exchanged memoranda with 34 related companies, added required terms to the Implement circulation management of molds to meet requirements under the Act against Maintaining Harmony purchase order form). Conducted training for all Group companies alongside audit and Delay in Payment, etc. to Subcontractors. with the Global training for individual companies. Socio-Economy Respect for (1)Continued hiring in the Philippines and offering internships in China. ○ (1)Promote recruitment of foreign nationals. human rights (2)Developed new evaluation system based on job responsibilities. ○ (2)Begin preparations for introducing a new personnel system. and promotion (3)Recruited and interviewed people with disabilities for positions in manufacturing and ○ (3)Develop job types and categories and create an environment for hiring people with of diversity business administration. disabilities. Human resource (4)Reviewed staffing table (with required breakdown by gender). ○ (4)Formulate a global HR policy for HR strategy under GLP2017. development (1)Waste reduction and recycling (1)Waste reduction and recycling -Emitted waste was 125.3 tons (Japan). ○ Industrial waste emissions (Atsugi and Hiratsuka sites): 58 tons or less -Volume of landfill waste reduced by 22% compared to fiscal 2010 (U.S.A.). ○ Industrial waste emissions (Tohoku site): 9 tons or less [target: 20% reduction]. General waste emissions (disposed of in Atsugi City): 40 tons or less Maintain zero emissions (Japan). Waste to landfill emissions (U.S.A.): reduce by 13% compared to fiscal 2013. Goal 3 (2)Resource and energy conservation (2)Resource and energy conservation Promoting Global Promotion of environmental -Reduced energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) by 11.5% compared to fiscal 2012 ○ Reduce energy consumption by 1.0% compared to fiscal 2013 (Japan). Environmental (Japan). Protection management -Reduced basic unit of energy consumption per sale by 0.9% compared to fiscal 2010 × Maintain basic unit of energy consumption per sale at or below fiscal 2013 limit (U.S.A.). (U.S.A.). [target: 5% reduction]. (3)Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) (3)Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) -Completed development of all 4 targeted products as environmentally conscious products. ○ Convert all targeted products into environmentally conscious products. Achieved resource conservation of 10% or more for 3 of 4 targeted products. × Achieve resource conservation of at least 10% for all targeted products. Achieved improvement in power efficiency of 30% or more for 2 targeted products. ○ Achieve improvement in power efficiency of at least 30% for all targeted products. (1)Reviewed issues pointed out in the stakeholder dialogue and incorporated them into future ○ (1)Share issues identified in the stakeholder dialogue and have departments develop Goal 4 Communication CSR action plans. suitable actions. Promoting with (2)Completed preparations for reporting the CSR activities of each global region on a quarterly ○ (2)Improve communication with investors, consider and promote an integrated report. Communications stakeholders basis. USA represents Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 11 VOICE Promoting Global CSR Activities In light of a constantly changing business environment and emerging social issues, Anritsu conducted a review to identify key issues that more accurately reflected the needs of the times. Part of our response to these issues will entail an all-out effort to strengthen our risk management. We will identify risks and opportunities from a business perspective and verify the means through which we respond. Promoting CSR activities in each region across the world is also essential for sustaining the global expansion of our operations. Each region differs in its business environment and personnel structure, and we will establish a system for supporting activities in line with each region’s specific initiatives. In February 2014, we reformulated our brand statement. We intend to establish a shared understanding throughout the company to deliver information to all our stakeholders. Osamu Nagata Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Anritsu Corporation Selecting Our New Key Issues in CSR In 2008, Anritsu conducted a materiality assessment based took into consideration higher public expectations as reflecton discussions conducted with 30 key persons inside the ed in guidelines such as the GRI, Dow Jones Sustainability Group on 142 items of proper corporate behavior expected Index (DJSI) and CDP. by society. These have been categorized by stakeholder, As a result of the reevaluation, we selected 22 of the 46 with due consideration for objectivity and completeness. Of aspects presented by the GRI (G4, the 4th edition) as matethe 142 items, 12 items were identified as themes with parrial issues important to Anritsu. ticular importance for the Anritsu Group and were designatThese aspects were also discussed with the experts who ed as our core material issues. participated in the stakeholder dialogue, and we have reconIn our latest effort to view and confirm our materiality firmed our understanding that they indeed represent the key through a point of view, each department held internal disCSR issues for Anritsu. cussions to reevaluate their key issues. At the same time, we Selected Key CSR Issues (GRI-G4 aspects) Category Economy Environmental Social Labor Practices and Sub-Category Human Rights Society Product Responsibility Decent Work -Economic -Energy -Training and -Non-discrimination -Anti-corruption -Customer Health Performance -Water Education -Child Labor -Anti-competitive and Safety -Market Presence -Emissions -Diversity and Equal -Forced or Compulsory Behavior -Product and -Procurement -Products and Opportunity Labor -Compliance Service Labeling -Compliance Aspect Practices Services -Supplier -Supplier Human -Compliance Assessment Rights Assessment -Supplier for Labor Practices Environmental Assessment Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 12 Stakeholder Dialogue Reaching for Further Heights in Global CSR Over the past three years, we have intentionally asked the same set of experts to point out areas for improvement in our CSR initiatives, and we have been reporting our progress in those areas. As the culmination of our three-year effort, this year’s discussion revolved around the theme of initiatives for promoting our global CSR activities at an even higher level. ●Dohi: In last year’s dialogue we discussed ways to procere efforts to address and disclose issues pointed out in mote global CSR, and you provided us with various kinds this dialogue. We are now ready for the challenge of takof advice. ing our initiatives to an even higher level. In response to your recommendation to establish In other efforts, we renewed our discussion on the key shared global values throughout the Group, we have issues we designated for each division in 2008 and reextranslated our corporate philosophy and 2020 VISION into amined what constituted materiality for Anritsu in the curEnglish and Chinese, and we are now disseminating the rent context based on GRI and other guidelines. I hope translated documents throughout our worldwide organizayou will share your opinions on materiality in today’s distion. In addition, we have sought to strike a stronger cussion as well. chord with the Anritsu identity by creating a new brand statement, “envision : ensure.” We will promote this brand Demonstrating the Positive Aspects of Japanese Style Management while Adhering to across the globe to express our aspiration to share and Global Rules realize the dreams of our customers. We also followed your advice on responding to conflict ●Yamaguchi: The past two to three years have seen a minerals as a springboard for cultivating our human rights rapid consolidation in the international consensus on initiatives by designating this CSR issue as a key priority. CSR. The discussion has progressed from the stage of You also encouraged us to set key performance indicators building up individual CSR activities, such as those related (KPIs). While we made progress in setting KPIs for the to compliance and the environment, to the stage of estabenvironment, identifying appropriate KPIs for other areas lishing an overall framework. Many traditional Japanese has been left for future consideration. values, such as emphasizing the relationship with suppliIn fiscal 2013 we were honored with dual accolades, ers and adopting a long-term view on the environment, receiving an Excellent Award of the Corporate Value must be rephrased in order to be understood in the West. Improvement Award and the Integrity Award for It is important that Anritsu respond to international rules Excellence. We believe these awards recognize our sinby embracing agreed-upon values as a premise upon Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 13 Stakeholder Dialogue which to express the positive aspects of Japanese man●Akabane: Whereas Western companies may immediagement that are unique to Anritsu. ately cease doing business with a supplier that becomes problematic, this is not always the case with Japanese ●Akabane: Since you are companies. You should firmly state that while an audit you already making steady proghave conducted may have yielded certain issues, Anritsu ress in Japan, you should intends to work with suppliers to improve the situation. more deeply dive into your You should definitely communicate qualities that are global initiatives. There is a unique to Anritsu and the positive aspects of being a tendency to think in terms of Japanese company. Japan winning the involvement of the rest of the world, Identifying Materiality with a Direct Link to Business but that would always place Japan in the eye of the ●Goto: Japanese companies never talk a great game. typhoon and thus limit the While there may be some virtue in doing this, it does creMakiko Akabane Director, CSR Asia Japan spread of its activities. To ate difficulties when establishing goals. If your goal is to Commented on Anritsu’s recent CSR activities through external encourage overseas Group become a global market leader, you should set KPIs that study sessions. locations to engage in CSR clearly demonstrate the vision you seek to realize in terms activities bearing the Anritsu of accomplishments and impact. hallmark, you need to communicate your policies in the simplest way possible. ●Yamaguchi: When setting a KPI, identifying quantitative val●Yamaguchi: Speaking of the Integrity Award, the comues that accurately correlate pany must demonstrate its willingness to tackle CSR with your objectives is imporissues involving the highest risks in order for its integrity to tant. Take compliance, for be understood in the West. Which issues represent the example, where the ultimate greatest risks for Anritsu? benchmark would be the actual number of violations, and your ●Shirono: Suppliers constitute one area of risk. Recently, objective would be to eliminate we conducted intensive visits to our suppliers in the or reduce this number. Survey United States. While the local managers may have results on compliance awareToshimune Yamaguchi Director, Caux-Round Table-Japan thought a phone call or e-mail ness would be one example of Offered support for Anritsu’s would suffice, face-to-face an indicator that closely corremateriality assessment aimed at identifying 12 material issues in discussion is a uniquely lates with this objective and 2007 and 2008. Japanese priority that leads to could serve as a KPI. There is strengthening the supply also a close relationship between heightened awareness chain. There are situations, and fewer compliance violations. However, neither the however, in which we depend number of compliance training sessions nor the number on suppliers with specialized of compliance pamphlets distributed is a suitable KPI; technologies, and that poses these measures are merely management indicators for a risk. maintaining PDCA cycles. While you should avoid setting unrealistic KPIs, setting Junkichi Shirono them will definitely make your engagement in an issue Senior Vice President, Chief Environmental and Quality Officer, more concrete and persuasive. Anritsu Corporation Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 14 Stakeholder Dialogue ●Goto: One KPI would be to ●Taniai: While length of service clearly express in words or is generally considered to be numbers the concrete action shorter overseas, our data necessary for advancing an shows comparatively longer initiative one step forward. years of service at Anritsu’s Take for example a global overseas locations. We pay mobile phone company that close attention to the measures Daisuke Goto ideaship is developing business in we implement, including workOffered support on setting the CSR Goals and on ways to disclose information for 3 Africa toward the goal of ing conditions and human rights years until 2007. Toshisumi Taniai increasing overall access and initiatives. On the other hand, Director and Vice President, undertaking various initiatives Chief Administration Officer, we should improve the way of Anritsu Corporation to that end. Since the company is developing services in a reporting to the public. region with little or no pre-existing communication infrastructure, the number of subscriptions is itself a KPI. ●Akabane: Other companies are also finding it difficult to Anritsu could start with the number of users or countries identify an indicator to describe a corporate culture that in which its products can be used. values its employees. That is why they often turn to a narrative. In addition, there are many types of stakeholders, ●Nagata: In the interest of maintaining international each with a different focus, so it is best to seek the opinpeace and security, we have established a screening sysions of a high-priority stakeholder. You should differentiate tem for trade control that is far more stringent than sysbetween issues that impact the company and those that, tems used by our while not affecting the company, still impact society. competition. It includes compliance with export control ●Yamaguchi: We often see Western companies publishregulations and preventing ing the results of employee satisfaction surveys. The key conversion into weapons of is that the challenges and issues identified by stakeholdmass destruction. We are ers always carry material significance. Western companies also aiming to achieve total skillfully deal with their stakeholders and employees as optimization of risks by identiwell. The fact that Anritsu conducts these surveys is outfying key risks and implestanding. You should make better use of them. menting enterprise risk management to deal with ●Goto: There are times in the course of thinking through Osamu Nagata risks that encompass several key issues when responding to social concerns across diviVice President, departments. Chief Information Officer, sional boundaries poses a challenge. The aforementioned Anritsu Corporation mobile phone company compiled the content of its report along the lines of social materiality. It may be productive to ●Yamaguchi: That is exactly what materiality is about. set aside the current organization for a moment and reconYou should declare that trade control is one of Anritsu’s sider issues from the perspective of society as a whole. material issues and report on your actions in this area. Readers will infer that this company is seriously managing its other risks as well. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 15 Stakeholder Dialogue ●Yamaguchi: To be recognized internationally as a comissues for the Anritsu Group. pany with integrity, Anritsu must address the four essential As for other issues, such as establishing an awareness themes of human rights in the supply chain, compliance in of compliance and CSR at your various locations and overseas transactions, diversity and the environment. contributing to society as a means for living in harmony Developing comprehensive initiatives for each of these with local communities, start four areas is not necessary. However, you might consider by doing what you can in addressing the issue of human rights in the supply chain response to actual circumby first taking action at a site that may be subject to a cerstances. tain risk, then disclose that fact to demonstrate your close attention to specific risks. In the area of compliance in ●Dohi: Thank you so much overseas transactions, describe how you are addressing for your highly pertinent the issues of corruption and trade control. For diversity, advice. We will certainly use cite the results of your global employee satisfaction survey your comments as reference to establish your track record. Since you are already points for ensuring that we engaged in environmental initiatives, you can polish up consistently pursue initiatives those efforts. Also demonstrate management’s resolve to uniquely associated with Masahiko Dohi Senior Manager, address these areas by recognizing them as material Anritsu. CSR and CS Promotion Team, Anritsu Corporation Comments from Dialogue Participants Discussion Status of Anritsu’s Response Theme Review of Fiscal 2014 and Plans for the Future Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Express Anritsu’s vision as a global enterprise from We will continue to practice our corporate philosophy of “Sincerity, Harmony the perspective of how it will contribute to resolving and Enthusiasm” at a global scale while declaring our CSR vision and — social issues premised on diverse values and reviewing progress on our annual objectives through global meetings with incorporate that vision into its operations. liaisons from each region, and incorporate the results into concrete action. Present a clear policy statement that applies to Since worksites operate more efficiently when an We plan to establish a management system for each region during fiscal each country while transferring authority to each initiative is top-down rather than bottom-up, it would 2014. We will consider a mechanism for pursuing regionally driven CSR region. be a good idea to introduce CSR elements into the activities, which would include transferring authority and offering incentives, assessment criteria for top managers in each region. and promote the activities through our next mid-term CSR plan. Promotion of Grant decision-making authority to CSR liaisons and Global CSR consider developing methods of self-management for meeting each region’s requirements. Create a successful globalization model while In fiscal 2012 we defined our Guidelines on Prevention of Extortion and retaining a Japanese style in deploying the Charter Bribery, CSR Procurement Guidelines and Guidelines on Conflict Minerals, of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct to and disseminated them across the company. In fiscal 2013 we shared — overseas bases. each region’s mid-term reports on objectives for the year, annual reviews and plans for the next fiscal year. In fiscal 2014 we plan to compile details on regional issues through global meetings. In determining materiality, consider issues from the In formulating the brand statement, we conducted a global discussion on — perspective of what is necessary for Anritsu to take our unique corporate qualities and Anritsu’s ideal state. We plan to reflect our the next step forward on a global scale. findings in the next mid-term CSR plan to be formulated during fiscal 2014. Anritsu must understand its impact on human Start by identifying conflict minerals as a materiality In regard to our human rights issues, we began taking action on conflict rights issues and determine its response by starting and take the opportunity to exchange opinions and minerals as a key issue in fiscal 2013 and have sought to communicate Identifying from the ideal and working backward. Begin with information with suppliers to develop human rights our efforts with suppliers through the application of the CSR Procurement Materiality the supply chain and identify challenges through initiatives for the entire value chain. Guidelines. We plan to set KPIs in our future considerations. low-key activities such as visiting suppliers. Produce a CSR report that instantly communicates We clearly defined our “Key Issues” in our CSR Report for fiscal 2013 and Anritsu’s materiality and proactively provide sought to address them as key CSR strategies in our Mid-term Business — information. Plan. In fiscal 2014 we reviewed our materiality and identified specific themes in accordance with the 4th edition of GRI. The global employee satisfaction survey can The Human Resource Department at our headquarters and CSR liaisons be used as a KPI for benchmarking employee in each region presented a report for fiscal 2013 and considered setting — engagement. KPIs. We concurrently published a status report on employee satisfaction surveys in each region in the CSR Report. Using hours spent in training for global employee In fiscal 2012 we disclosed the number of employees, ratio of female development and occupational safety as a KPI employees and percentage of female managers. We plan to disclose as Setting KPIs — would be a good way to disclose information on much information as possible for some of our overseas bases. human resources. You need to understand your environmental impact Consider KPIs as gateways to better engagement While we have established quantitative targets in the environmental in areas such as CO2 emissions throughout the and start with areas that can be quantified. domain, we have fallen short of setting KPIs linked with management. entire lifecycles of your products. Consider setting We plan to consider this point toward the formulation of the next mid-term a KPI that links operating income to CO2. CSR plan during fiscal 2014. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 16 CSR Management CSR through our Core Business Sincerity, Harmony and Enthusiasm Corporate value by CSR Based on its company philosophy of “Sincerity, Harmony Minimize environmental impact/ Environmental/ Shareholders and Local and interers Responsibility to communicate ehold Suppliers and Stak Labor standards Employees proud of Anritsu/ investors Customers national societies and Enthusiasm, Anritsu takes corporate social responsipartners bility in its business operations from economic, social and Tax law/ Contribution to community/ Develop eco-friendly products Ecological systems for Self-motivated professionals Employees ility n/ Response with sincerity/ environmental perspectives, with due respect for laws and p o nsibtributoior s n Re ial co ility f soc ponsib Subcontracting Good partnership Financial instruments High returns/ act Resnomy regulations, ethics, and social norms. Anritsu also aims to Win-Win relationship eco Trade control law Good corporate citizenship build and elevate its corporate and brand values via better and exchange law/ Proper disclosure to law lity al, sibi leg communication and better relationships with stakeholders. s pony withsocial Antimonopoly Environmental e Company law R pl nd comical a s ethndard law/ PL law law sta CSR Promotion System The CSR Promotion Committee set up in November nization. The cooperation of all departments of Anritsu 2004 is chaired by the President so that top management and Group companies is essential for success. With this can lead CSR promotion. In addition, the CSR Promotion in mind, and to ensure effectiveness, Anritsu Center was organized as a dedicated department to Corporation's departments in charge of individual CSR encourage unified activities across a broad array of fields, including customer satisfaction and quality, human departments. The center is now called the CSR rights and social contribution, lead activities through Promotion Team, and it serves under the Corporate cross-sectional cooperation across Group companies. Communication Department as the secretariat of the The CSR Promotion Team serves as the secretariat. We CSR Promotion Committee to support Anritsu’s CSR identify and analyze the current situation of individual activities in line with the committee’s policies. CSR cannot areas from a CSR perspective and strive to address be fulfilled by the efforts of any single department or orgaissues of improvement for the future of Anritsu. Anritsu Group Corporate Governance CSR and CS Promotion Shareholders/ Compliance/corporate ethics Local team investors communities CS activites Anritsu Corporation CSR Promotion Committee Information security National/ Customers local goverments Areas of CSR Quality Anritsu Group companies Suppliers Supply chain management NGO、 NPO and partners Respect for human rights/ Departments in workplace environment charge of individual CSR areas Environmental management The Global Employees Environment Social contribution activities and Nature CSR Promotion Sub-Committee Conservation IR/SRI Promotion of Global CSR To promote CSR activities on a global scale and deepen communication with L Action Items our stakeholders across the world, the Anritsu Group is exchanging informa-CS activities, Quality Improvement tion internally based on a regional system and annual schedule. -Quality Improvement -Health and Safety Each year, regional staff report to the Head Office CSR and CS Promotion -Compliance Team on the ten items listed at right. -Supply Chain L Our Global System -Information Security Headquarter : Corporate Communication Department (CSR and CS Promotion team) -Protecting Human Rights Americas : Human Resources Division, Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) -Valuing Employees EMEA : Human Resources Division, Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) -Promotion of Environmental Management Asia : Human Resources Division, Anritsu Company Ltd. (China) -Conducting Social Contribution Activities Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 17 Goal 1 Service to Customers Basic Concept Under its action guideline, “We will become a CS enterprise deeply trusted by customers,” Anritsu believes each employee must be cordial when serving customers and closely communicate with them in order to meet their needs, while at the same time identifying their needs and challenges. We establish win-win relationships with customers and propose new value that delivers customer satisfaction. Because it is vital that employees who directly contact with customers have the right mindset, we place priority on programs that focus on employee awareness, training and recognition. Customer Satisfaction (CS) Promotion Framework The Anritsu Group in Japan encourages mutual sharing of CS issues and improvement activities through the Japan CS Committee, which consists of representatives from Anritsu Group companies. Toward our goal of becoming a CS company deeply trusted by customers, we identified issues requiring our attention with regard to the Anritsu Group’s customer contact points and sought to improve our web-based contact point as part of that effort in fiscal 2013. Company Vision Company Policy 1.Make energetic organization synthesizing the knowledge Achieve continuous growth with sustainable superior profits of all employees through innovation using all knowledge of all parties 2.Capture growth drivers through innovation 3.Be a leader in the global market Be a global market leader through innovation with a 4.Contribute to the creation of a society that is friendly to market-driven and customer-centric focus people and the Earth as a good corporate citizen CS Strategy for GLP President’s Management Policy on CS Action guideline: We will become a CS enterprise deeply Adopt a market-out approach to accurately understand trusted by customers customer issues and provide solutions Strategy: Enhance accessibility for customers Corporate strategy meeting Report CSR・CS Promotion Team Business Strategy (CS Objectives) CS Committee Device Business Corporate Information Test and SCM Division Management G lo ba l and Industrial Communication Information Measurement O pe ra ti o n Communications Automation System Department Department Ce nt e r Business Business Business Global Customer Service Activities Anritsu’s test and measurement business serves customers around the world by providing solutions through a network of 25 Group companies in 18 countries, including 7 R&D bases and 3 manufacturing bases. We also maintain 18 service centers in 14 countries to offer a variety of services to ensure our international customers can reliably use our products. Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. undertakes multifaceted operations: maintenance, including calibration and repair of measuring instruments; testing, such as EMC*; measurement technical support for responding to technical inquiries about calibrating measuring instruments; and global support, which responds to requests for repairs and parts supply from Anritsu product service centers around the world. We began upgrading our web-based service to replace our existing system in fiscal 2014 and achieve further improvements. In addition, the Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. maintenance network now covers about 40 countries and provides reliable maintenance services to customers operating on a global level. Supplying maintenance parts to overseas sites *Electromagnetic Compatibility Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 18 Service to Customers Service to Customers Customer Satisfaction (CS) Surveys L Level of Satisfaction for Fiscal 2013 (U.S.A.) Don’t know 0% As part of its efforts to raise CS levels, the Anritsu Group Very dissatisfied Very satisfied conducts a survey and then formulates and promptly 1% 55% Dissatisfied implements improvement plans based on customer feed2% Neutral back. 5% Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. conducts a CS surSatisfied 36% vey every year on topics such as calibration and repair services and EMC testing services. We systematically improve items that score lower than Employee Training the previous year, and strive daily to further increase CS We conduct CS training in Japan to deepen CS awareon items that score higher than the previous year. ness among employees. We continue to implement the In an effort to quickly respond to customer requests, we training program for new managers, launched in fiscal have also started asking customers of our services to pro2011, with the goal of having all new managers attend vide immediate feedback on their level of satisfaction, every year. Our curriculum integrates training content for assess the likelihood of using our services again, and newly appointed managers and for staff in charge to ensure share comments. that CS awareness is shared within the same division. In addition, we recognize employees for their contribuL Customer Satisfaction Levels for Calibration and tions to enhancing CS with the CSR Award. The purpose Repair Services (Baseline: Fiscal 2011) of this program is to recognize employee contributions Collection and delivery Accuracy of operations Price Overall Response of contact point that go beyond cusDelivery time Report of operations 105% tomer service, includ104.1 102.7 ing efforts to improve 100% 100.7 the environment, soci98.5 98.2 ety and our brand. 97.0 96.7 Many employees have 95％ 2011 2012 2013 Fiscal year earned this reward. CS Training Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) has been implementing the Voice of the Customer Program as part of its CS survey to Operations of Each Group Company enhance our products and services by consistently seekL Using Customer Feedback to Enhance Our Service ing customer feedback on improvements. We gather cusAnritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. supports the development tomer requests and suggestions for improvements of the Test & Measurement business, and enhancing serthrough questionnaires attached to repaired products, vices based on customer feedback is an essential part of hearings conducted four times a year with customers who this work. We conduct questionnaires to clarify issues that have purchased our products, inquiries we receive via our require close attention and incorporate the results into website, and ordinary meetings. We report these improveimproving the quality of our technological capabilities, ment requests and suggestions to management and use products and services. them to improve employee response to customers. We In fiscal 2014, we will strive to further raise our technomake a point of promptly responding to requests and taklogical capabilities while strengthening our ability to recing corrective action by identifying underlying causes. ommend optimal services These activities ensure that customers are able to safely through a collaborative use our products and services. effort between staff in charge of technology and sales staff. Developing technological capabilities through external activities Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 19 Service to Customers L Providing High-Quality Maintenance Services -Take the entire process into consideration by maintaining Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. has a customer supthe policy of “your next process is the customer” port center that operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, -Proactively suggest improvements to establish a system for enabling customers to contact maintenance engineers at any time. L Promoting the Quality Management System Full-scale operation of our new IT Maintenance Support Anritsu operates its quality management system in accorSystem will begin in fiscal 2014. We intend to satisfy cusdance with ISO 9001 international quality management tomers with high-quality maintenance service and seek to standards for quality assurance, and has obtained certifidevelop and improve our products by gathering, sharing cation by external auditing institutions since 1993. We and utilizing customer information. develop a consistent global framework, from product design and development to production, services and L Various Technical Support maintenance. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. has opened a new customer Continuous improvements support center to provide a single point of contact for are also being made as we offering after-sales service for all types of equipment. effectively implement the Support engineers with excellent technical skills work daily PDCA cycle. ISO 9001 management system to meet the goal of responding within one day to inquiries certificates about the installation, configuration, handling or repair of Anritsu products. L Products and Weighing Control of the Constantly aware of our contribution to keeping society Anritsu Group safe and secure, we conduct business by maintaining the The measuring instruments we provide are, in effect, functions and performance of equipment and systems “mother tools” for the quality management conducted by that sustain social infrastructures. our customers. Our products must therefore demonstrate unwavering high quality. As with our measuring instruments, the products that Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. and the Anritsu Group supply are manufactured under stringent quality controls under the ISO 9001 quality management system. To maintain this high standard, Customer support center at work appropriate weighing control is essential. For the measurQuality Management ing instruments used by the Anritsu Group, we perform L Basic Concept regular inspections and calibration management in comAnritsu Corporation has established quality policies and pliance with the weighing standard traceable to internaaction guidelines under its corporate philosophy, tional and national standards. “Contribute to the development of a safe, secure and prosperous global society by offering Original & High Level products and services with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm,” and firmly implement them in order to provide products and services that satisfy customers and society. • Quality Policy We work with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm to create products that satisfy customers and society. • Quality Policy Action Guidelines -Eliminate product defects through dedicated attention to detail Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 20 Solutions for Social Issues Basic Concept Anritsu seeks to skillfully apply its highly advanced technology to solve social issues in partnership with our customers and achieve our goal of creating value that is uniquely Anritsu. Contributing to the Early Commercialization Device manufacturers conduct verification using certified test cases of Next-Generation Mobile Broadband Systems GCF/PTCRB reviews results of verification and provides certification Smartphone and tablet devices have become easier to operate amid the proliferation of convenient and useful Commercialization of LTE/LTE-Advanced devices applications, placing ever-growing demands on mobile *3 Third Generation Partnership Project: An organization that formulates international standards for mobile phone systems. data lines. How do we create a comfortable, stress-free environment for using mobile applications? The need to Approved as Testing Device for Certification resolve this issue has accelerated the pace of development of Smart Meter*4 and HEMS*5 Equipment for LTE-Advanced, which seeks to achieve higher speed A Smart Grid is a next-generation electric power network and wider bandwidth than LTE, the mobile communications that uses IT to identify real-time demand in order to protocol currently being introduced around the world. achieve efficient power transmission. The Smart Meter GCF and PTCRB are two organizations that play a *1 *2 and HEMS are essential elements of a Smart Grid. Since key role in the commercialization of LTE-Advanced devicthey incorporate communications technology, standards es. They review whether a device being developed is in have been formulated by the Wi-SUN Alliance*6 and the conformity with international standards for LTE-Advanced ECHONET Consortium*7. The development and manufacand provide certification. As a condition for certification, turing of Smart Meters and HEMS equipment must comGCF/PTCRB requires the device to be evaluated based ply with standards and certification for interoperability. on testing criteria known as a “test case.” They also proAnritsu and Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. participated in vide certification on whether a test case meets required all of the interoperability test events hosted by the Wi-SUN specifications. This has fostered heated competition Alliance and have contributed to the formulation and verifiamong measuring instrument manufacturers to develop cation of the testing standards, while at the same time test cases and obtain GCF/PTCRB certification. developing a conformance test system. In addition to our proven track record for LTE, Anritsu As a result of these efforts, the Wi-SUN Alliance certileads the industry in conformance test systems, with the fied our verification test system for the PHY protocol*8 most GCF/PTCRB certified test cases for LTE-Advanced. This is our contribution to the early commercialization of mobile broadband systems. *1 Global Certification Forum: An organization that seeks to ensure global connectivity between mobile phone devices by setting operational standards for networks and conformance testing standards for mobile phones. By approving measurement systems and testing criteria, GCF guarantees that test performance (measurement procedures and accuracy) is compatible with the required conditions of a conformance test for mobile phone devices. *2 PCS Type Certification Review Board: An organization that plays a similar role to GCF, but differs from GCF in that it targets frequency bands used in North America. *4 Electricity meters equipped with communications functions Certification Process for LTE/LTE-Advanced *5 Home Energy Management System *6 International industry group, established under the leadership of the National 3GPP*3 formulates international standards Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT), that engages in activities aimed at formulating communications specifications and GCF/PTCRB formulates measurement standards ensuring interoperability for Smart Meters, etc. *7 Organization that promotes the development of software and hardware for home network infrastructure such as remote control and monitoring of Measuring instrument manufacturers develop test cases household appliances. *8 Protocol specifying the methods for connection and transmission in the GCF/PTCRB certifies test cases physical layer of networks such as the material property of cables and shape of connectors and the method for data-electric signal conversion. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 21 Solutions for Social Issues applied to communications specifications for Smart Meters as well as our verification test system for the Wi-SUN ECHONET profile, which specifies the requirements for applying Wi-SUN to the ECHONET Lite communications protocol. Contributing to Maintaining the Quality of Pharmaceuticals Taking a medication can be the first step toward recovering health, and the pharmaceutical industry operates under stringent control systems to guarantee the quality of products. This includes direct visual inspection and camera surveillance to identify missing tablets and defective SightVisor for Wide Area Video Surveillance packaging during the packaging process. The recent Over the past few years, localized torrential rains have been increase in the use of non-transparent aluminum packagoccurring with greater frequency, resulting in flooding, landing material to maintain pharmaceutical quality, however, slides and debris flows within an extremely short time span, has driven the growing demand for an inspection method causing severe damage. To minimize such damage, Japan’s to replace cameras. Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. has applied its has installed more than 15,000 surveillance cameras (CCTV X-ray control technology to develop an X-ray inspection cameras) nationwide to control roads and rivers. Similarly, system as a solution for identifying defective packaging on prefectural and local governments responsible for overseeing the production line, thereby contributing to maintaining the Class B rivers and tributaries have also set up surveillance quality of pharmaceuticals. systems involving the installation of many cameras. Wide area video surveillance systems such as these Contributing to Food Safety and Security require a centralized viewing environment capable of hanIn the wake of successive food recalls, consumers have dling many types of information, including weather data. raised their voices to demand safe, secure food. The food Anritsu Network Co., Ltd.’s SightVisor is able to store data industry faces the need to guarantee product quality and from over 1,000 surveillance camera and web-based chansafety while taking food defense measures to guard nels and can simultaneously display up to six screens of against the deliberate insertion of external contaminants. video from various locations as well as information on disasAnritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. provides detection ter prevention and weather distributed over the Web. equipment to identify contaminants that find their way into SightVisor can also be connected to high-definition multifood products during production and to eliminate defecmedia monitors and plays an important role in ensuring the tive products. It also offers the QuiCCA quality managesafety and security of our daily lives. ment and control system to centralize management of quality records during manufacturing. QuiCCA not only facilitates the automatic and comprehensive recording and analysis of information related to the shipping quality of food products, but also supports management in conjunction with monitoring information from surveillance cameras. In the event of an abnormality, the system identifies which section of the process is causing the problem and enables a prompt response to prevent the shipment of defective products, thus contributing to ensuring food safety and security. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 22 Response to Social Expectations Basic Concept Anritsu gives priority to proactively responding to global social expectations through its business activities. Agree to the Global Compact Global Compact (GC) and Related Activities Since March 2006, Anritsu has practiced the ten princiAnritsu's CSR activities during fiscal year 2013 relate to ples of the United Nations Global Compact, and has the ten principles of the Global Compact*. The United linked these principles with its own CSR efforts to firmly Nation's Global Compact Office has selected Anritsu CSR establish them throughout Group activities worldwide. Report 2007 as one that matches their Notable COP (Communication on Progress) policies. The Ten Global Compact Principles Anritsu's Major Actions in Fiscal Year 2013 Related Pages ·The Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, which reflects the spirit of the Global Compact, now serves as the basis of our group activities. ·We began applying the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct to our activities on a global Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Applying the ten GC scale. Promoting compliance, Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies made efforts to Overall Anritsu Group Code of Conduct principles prevent violations and to establish more pleasant workplaces by (1) familiarizing people Establishment of Compliance with Anritsu Code of Conduct; (2) promoting groupwide education, including training by organizational levels; (3) avoiding risks on ethical matters via questionnaire survey; and (4)preventing violation of ethics rules via help-lines inside and outside the company. Businesses should ·Anritsu Corp. and the Group Companies promoted activities to secure workplace Labor Safety and Health support and respect safety and health. Supply Chain Management Principle the protection 1 of internationally ·We included a clear statement on protecting human rights in the CSR Procurement proclaimed human Guidelines intended for suppliers and partners, collaborated with them on actions Supply Chain Management Human rights; and addressing the issue of conflict minerals, and requested their compliance. Rights ·Anritsu Corp. and the Group Company surveyed the actual status of harassment to make sure that they are employee by ethics questionnaire. Principle Establishment of Compliance not complicit in human ·We opened an external helpline in fiscal 2012 to address harassment and other 2 compliance issues. rights abuses. ·Anritsu Corp. requested that its suppliers and partners not be complicit in human rights abuses. Supply Chain Management Businesses should uphold the freedom ·Responding to employee requests, and in order to improve work-life balance, Principle of association and the Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies continued to improve labor conditions. Respect for Human Rights and 3 effective recognition of In Japan, we set up an internal website that can be accessed by employees to Promotion of Diversity the right to collective support work-life balance. bargaining; ·We are maintaining our efforts to establish the Charter of Corporate Behavior the elimination of all Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Principle and Code of Conduct worldwide. forms of forced and Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Labor 4 ·Anritsu Corp. continues to request that its suppliers and partners not be compulsory labour; Supply Chain Management Standards complicit in forced labor. ·We sought to establish the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Principle the effective abolition Conduct worldwide. Anritsu Group Code of Conduct 5 of child labour; and ·Anritsu Corp. requested that its suppliers and partners not be complicit in child labor. Supply Chain Management the elimination of discrimination Principle ·Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies continue to promote employment Respect for Human Rights and in respect of 6 across borders. Promotion of Diversity employment and occupation. Businesses ·Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies promoted Eco-Factory and EcoEco-Office and Eco-Factory should support Office activities. Principle a precautionary 7 approach to ·Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies in Japan continued environmental environmental Environmental Accounting accounting. challenges; undertake initiatives ·Anritsu committed to Eco-Management Eco-Management and Eco-Mind Environment Principle to promote greater ·Anritsu promoted activities of Eco-Minded Employees. 8 environmental responsibility, and; ·Anritsu continued its efforts to prevent of global warming. Eco-Office and Eco-Factory encourage the development Principle ·Anritsu Group in Japan promoted development of environmentally conscious and diffusion of Eco-Products Development 9 products. environmentally friendly technologies. ·Established the Anritsu Group Guidelines on Prevention of Extortion and Businesses should Bribery in fiscal 2012 and sought to establish the Guidelines worldwide. Establishment of Compliance work against ·Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies in Japan circulated case study sheets AntiPrinciple on anticorruption measures in an ongoing effort to educate employees. corruption in all its Corruption 10 forms, including ·Provided clear information about our prohibition of transactions with extortion and bribery. antisocial forces in “Requests,” which is given to suppliers and partners, and Supply Chain Management sought to reinforce their awareness of this issue. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 23 Goal 2 Establishment of Compliance Basic Concept By promoting sound and fair corporate behavior that addresses social concerns beyond basic adherence to ethical standards, laws and regulations, Anritsu continually advances key measures for strengthening its Ethics and Compliance Promotion System and to enhancing ethical awareness throughout the Group’s entire workforce. We believe it is important to respond to public expectations by developing a deep awareness of our corporate social responsibility, complying with laws and regulations in all aspects of our corporate activity, and acting according to social ethics. Ethics and Compliance Promotion System President CSR Promotion Committee (Secretariat: CSR･CS Promotion Team) Executive officer in charge of compliance Each executive officer in charge Corporate Ethics Anritsu Group Promotion Committee Various committees Support Cooperation companies outside • Security trade control • Information security Japan Helpline Workplace Legal Department • Fair trade promotion Support Private E-mail Helpline • Environmental management and others Hotline, Industrial Complaint box counselor Outside Lawyer Notice/ Guidance/ Notice/ Guidance/ consultation direction Global Audit Department consultation direction Helpline of Group companies Anritsu Group companies Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee and Ongoing Improvement Activities (annual) The Anritsu Group in Japan set up a Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee consisting of representatives from individual departments related to corporate ethics and from Group companies. The committee plans, supports and implements Group compliance activities. We conduct a corporate ethics survey during Corporate Ethics Month (October), and each business unit formulates an annual action plan for the next fiscal year based on the results of the survey. To ensure continuous improvement of our compliance activities, we follow a one-year cycle in which each business unit monitors the implementation of its annual plan and uses the survey to assess its effectiveness. Compliance Promotion Activities Constituent Departments of the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee April: Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee CSR Reinforcement Week ･Submission of confirmation letter on Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Management Information System ･Lecture meeting Global Audit Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Corporate Communication (Reporting on annual plan, development of Compliance Reinforcement Week plan) Implementation of the Compliance Legal Promotion Activity Program Development of Compliance Trade Control Promotion Activity Program Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Reviewing progress of annual plan, Accounting and Control Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee planning Corporate Ethics Month) (Compilation/analysis of the questionnaire) Procurement Business Strategy Support Team, Global Operation Center October: CSR Promotion Month Representatives from group companies • Ethics questionnaire • Lecture meeting • Group training Human Resource and Administration Development Support, R&D Division Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 24 Establishment of Compliance Compliance Promotion Activities ed to incidents within the respective countries but extend L CSR Reinforcement Week and CSR to incidents that occur outside them as well. Extortion and Promotion Month bribery represent major compliance risks for the Anritsu Every year, we designate mid-April as CSR Reinforcement Group, which conducts business on a global scale, and Week and October as CSR Promotion Month. At these we are therefore working on preventive measures. times we hold lectures by invited speakers and provide While the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct already protraining as well as specialized instruction by the departhibits extortion and bribery, we sought to more firmly ment participating in the Corporate Ethics Promotion uphold this prohibition throughout the group in Japan and Committee in order to raise compliance awareness overseas by establishing the Anritsu Group Guidelines on among Anritsu Group employees working in Japan. Prevention of Extortion and Bribery in April 2012. We also During CSR Reinforcement Week, Anritsu Group employconduct training in how to prevent bribery for staff workees in Japan including temporary workers are required to ing in sales divisions in Japan who are at high risk of submit confirmation letters that provide assurance they encountering such situations. understand and agree to the Code of Conduct of the Anritsu Group. During CSR Promotion Month, employees •Case Study Sheets in Japan and business partners of the Anritsu Group take Every month, the Anritsu Group in Japan selects concrete part in an ethics survey aimed at assessing the effectivecases that have actually occurred or could occur, under ness of our compliance promotion activities and at helping the two themes of daily life and business, and publishes each organization identify and address their compliance these as Case Study Sheets that include concise advice issues. Survey results, related considerations and a review and explanations. Sheets are posted on our intranet and are communicated to executive officers and the top manas printed posters, and are used as educational tools of agement of each organization toward formulating plans individual organizational units. A total of 162 cases have for future compliance promotion activities. been published as of March 2014. -Training by organizational level (e.g.,new recruits, newly promoted managers) L Compliance Situation of the Antimonopoly -Individual/specialized training by separate committee or Law and Internal Audit department To confirm the conduct of fair and free sales activities, the -Lecture meeting with invited external speakers (once or Anritsu Group in Japan conducts internal audits of the twice a year) activity status and order intake/sales process of the sales -Lending and showing of videos or DVDs departments (including local bases) once a year. In conjunction with the internal audit, we also conduct compliance training (Act on Prohibition of Private Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade; Act against Delay in Payment, etc. to Subcontractors; export controls; etc.) Lecture meeting with experts L Helpline To prevent violations of ethics and laws and maintain L Guidelines on Preventing Extortion and pleasant workplace conditions, Anritsu Group companies Bribery / Publication of Case Study Sheets in Japan operate the Helpline, which accepts internal •Guidelines on Preventing Extortion and Bribery reports and requests for consultation. Lawyers are availBribery is a serious issue throughout the world. Particularly able from outside the company for employees to consult stringent bribery laws have been enacted in the United for legal advice. In addition, Legal Consultation Days States and the United Kingdom. These laws are not limit(twice a month) are held to provide legal consultation on Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 25 Establishment of Compliance internal problems as well as any other issues affecting the lives of employees. Furthermore, in October 2012 we began running our Workplace Helpline, consigning the operation of contact points to a private company with no vested interests in the Anritsu Group. Consultation is provided by industrial counselors. The Workplace Helpline maintains strict rules of confidentiality as a matter of course and accepts requests for consultation outside office hours—including on holidays—as well as in English (on designated days), giving employees better access to the service. In fiscal 2013 (April 2013 to March 2014), the Workplace Helpline provided ten consultations; eight were conducted over the phone and two via e-mail. Information card promoting the Workplace Helpline Reports and requests from employees within the Anritsu Group (confidential) I nquiry counter for Feedback group companies Superior or colleague Helpline outside the company Helpline inside the company Internal line Emergency Workplace Helpline Complaint Interoffice mail Outside Lawyer Private E-mail Hotline box Direct visit Cooperation Related Department Legal department Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Exective officer in charge of compliance President Flow of the Helpline L Working with Overseas Group Companies products and technologies from falling into the hands of As part of our activities for promoting corporate complicountries developing weapons of mass destruction and ance at Anritsu Group companies outside Japan in fiscal terrorist groups (non-state actors). Under a framework 2013, we sought to collaborate with Group companies in centered on Anritsu’s Export Control Committee, we folChina. We set up an English language website for the low stringent export control procedures, which include Legal Department that can be accessed from overseas compliance with relevant laws and regulations in Japan locations. The site provides case study sheets citing conand abroad as well as our own internal regulations (comcrete examples of various compliance violations in the pliance program). same way as our Japanese language site. We created Furthermore, Anritsu has been granted a Special three language versions for each sheet, one in English Comprehensive License from Japan’s Ministry of and two in Chinese, to facilitate their use in training activiEconomy, Trade and Industry, and Authorized Exporter ties in China. We plan to expand the content of this interstatus from Yokohama Customs, which not only reflect a national site to support and collaborate in activities for high level of trust in our export control system, but also promoting compliance at other overseas Group locations. provide practical benefits in facilitating the flow of our exports. L Export Control We will continue to contribute toward bolstering internaAs our contribution to maintaining and promoting peace tional security while seeking to improve and strengthen and security in the international community, we have been our compliance program and risk management in order to reinforcing our export control efforts to prevent Anritsu continually improve the international flow of goods. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 26 Promotion of Risk Management Basic Concept Anritsu has identified seven major risk categories: (1) management decision-making and business operations; (2) legal violations; (3) environmental preservation; (4) quality of product and service; (5) import/export management; (6) information security, and; (7) disasters. For each category, a chief administrator has been assigned to carry out analysis and evaluation while establishing rules and guidelines. This administrator also conducts education and training to raise the level of risk management and ensure ongoing business development. Enhancing Corporate Value through L Specific Activities and Topics in Fiscal 2013 Internal Controls In fiscal 2013, we conducted a survey involving the heads L Basic Concept and Policies of overseas subsidiaries to ascertain the status of risk Anritsu believes its global business development depends management as part of our Group-wide effort to firmly upon effectively controlling factors that could inhibit the establish enterprise risk management. We also held trainattainment of its goals and transforming risks into a ing sessions on the practical aspects of risk management source of competitive advantage. To this end, we will furfor management-level employees at the head office and ther reinforce the collaborative relationships established subsidiaries in Japan to develop their practical skills in this with Group companies in and outside of Japan through area as managers responsible for operations. the process of improving our internal control system. We Strategic improvements were implemented against will also upgrade our risk management to enhance corpopotential risks identified during the evaluation process. In rate value. April 2014, we underwent an audit on Group-wide corporate philosophy and ethics, control of accounting policy L Promotion/Management System and procedures, and control of IT infrastructure and busiAnritsu has established basic internal control system regness processes related to financial reporting. As a result, ulations and set up an Internal Control Committee, the auditing company concluded that the internal controls chaired by an executive officer appointed by the of Anritsu Group companies President, to oversee the overall improvement and operain Japan and overseas for tion of internal controls concerning the financial reporting the fiscal year were as effecof Anritsu and Group companies. Furthermore, the Global tive as in the previous year. Audit Department, our internal audit division, is in charge Training sessions of risk management of promoting risk management through business audits. Committees and Other Risk Categories and Related Rules Responsibility for Risk Management Organizations Executive officers in charge of each Business risks associated with management decision making and execution of business division, presidents of Executive organ of each business 1 operations subsidiaries and executive officers in division and the corporate division charge of operations Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Executive officer in charge of compli2 Risks associated with legal violations Behavior (Committee for Promoting Fair Trade in Sales Activities) ance Anritsu Group Code of Conduct (Committee for Promoting Fair Trade in Procurement) Risks associated with environmental Chief officer in charge of environmental 3 Basic Rules of Environmental Systems Environmental Management Committee preservation management Risks associated with product and 4 Rules on Quality Management Systems Chief quality officer Quality Management System Committee service quality Risks associated with export/import 5 Rules on Security Trade Control Chief officer in charge of trade control Export Control Committee management Chief officer in charge of information 6 Information security risks Basic Rules on Information Management Information Management Committee management Basic Rules on Disasters and EmerChief officer in charge of disaster pre7 Risks associated with disasters Disaster Prevention Headquarters gency Response vention Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 27 Promotion of Risk Management Business Continuity Management mine whether the manual requires a review and to revise it L Basic Policy on Business Continuity as needed. Management Each Anritsu division creates a business continuity plan L Developing the Infrastructure for Stable Supply (BCP) to maintain smooth operations in the event of a Seeking to disperse exposure to risks, Tohoku Anritsu disaster or emergency by minimizing damage and resumCo., Ltd. opened a second plant in July 2013. Production ing full business activities as quickly as possible. lines have been distributed between the two plants to ensure stable supply. In addition, we are strengthening our L BCM at Manufacturing Bases research and development capabilities by building a The stable procurement of materials for parts production worldwide headquarters that will function both as a head represents the very backbone of any manufacturing comoffice and R&D location. The building has been designed pany’s BCP. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. and the Koriyama to withstand major earthquakes by incorporating the most Business Office of Anritsu Corporation, which serve as the advanced anti-seismic technologies. manufacturing base of the Anritsu Group, have formulated BCPs to respond to earthquakes and other natural disasL Securing the Information System ters by identifying them as material risks. These BCPs For key information systems, including the Group’s misclearly set out concrete steps for each process in the sion-critical systems and e-mail, we have established a event of a disaster. structure in which data is replicated across our Osaka Organization of Koriyama BCP Data Center, Atsugi site and Koriyama site. This allows us to continue operating these systems from an alternate site, Maintenance Infrastructure/ Labor Safety ●Support and even in the event that any one site is stricken by a disaster. Team Infrastructure Team and Health We are preparing our response to disasters by designating General Manager of Koriyama Restoration ●Manufacturing emergency procedures with a targeted time for recovery. R&D Team of Team Business Office Manufacturing We also conduct regular recovery drills based on projected ●Production Management Team scenarios to assess the effectiveness of our procedures Logistics Restoration ●Procurement Team BCP by SCM Division in and correct any problems that may arise. Team of SCM ●Production Support Team Head Office ●Quality Assurance Team Japanese Overseas locations locations In the wake of a disaster, a BCP headquarters is set up in accordance with RAS guidelines in a manual to ensure the safety of employees, secure Remite Access infrastructure and lifelines, and seek early restoration of production lines. IIJ-VPN Internet L Creation of a BCP Manual Weekly Daily Differential copy Differential copy Even before the Great East Japan Earthquake, Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. had recognized the serious risks posed Standby servers Production servers Production servers Standby servers Production servers Differential copy by natural disasters such as earthquakes and had created Koriyama Site Atsugi Site Osaka Data Center the BCP Manual to deal with them. Applying the lessons learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake, we L Working with Business Partners revised the criteria for invoking the BCP in an emergency In our effort to minimize disruptions in supplying products to prepare against a broader range of risks and refined to customers, we have visualized our supply chain. We our procedures for responding to each risk. have created a database on the status of approximately 2,000 sites operated by our business partners to underL Education, Training and Manual Revisions stand their standard and alternative transport routes to Each year, we formulate an annual education plan and Anritsu, and we seek to identify and minimize any risks conduct training and drills on a regular basis. The officer in that may emerge in the immediate aftermath of a disaster. charge of BCPs also participates in these drills to deterIn addition, we request key business partners to provide Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 28 Promotion of Risk Management information on their business partners further upstream in address changes in the risks we face. In fiscal 2013, we the supply chain. We have also developed an in-house systook action to address risks in the following two areas: tem for exchanging information on business partners to further strengthen our ability to maintain stable supply during -Encryption of Material Information emergency situations. (risk due to changes in the external and internal environment) In fiscal 2012, we constructed a site for managing material Information Security Management information utilizing rights management with file encryption to L Basic Concept prevent leaks, and several departments began using the site. Anritsu is making a continuous effort to maintain and In fiscal 2013, we expanded the use of this site to all Group enhance information security through its information secucompanies in Japan. With respect to our standards for hanrity management system. dling confidential sales information, we unified the various policies that had emerged across the Group and introduced L Management System and immediately deployed an automatic encryption tool. The (Information Security Management) tool safeguards the confidentiality of content even when a file Anritsu’s management system consists of the Information has been mistakenly transmitted outside the company, by Management Committee comprising key executive officers designating the decryption rights for the encrypted file to the from each business division and Group companies, the department that is primarily responsible for the information, Information Security Subcommittee comprising representathereby minimizing the risk of data leakage. tives from business divisions in Japan, and the Global Security Committee, whose members include representa-Response to the End of Support for Windows XP tives of IT departments at overseas Group companies. (risk due to changes in the external environment) The Information Management Committee formulates On April 9, 2014, Microsoft Corporation formally ended its basic policies on information management for the entire support for its Windows XP operating system. As of April Group. The Information Security Subcommittee and Global 2013, there were approximately 2,000 PCs running on Security Committee develop annual action plans and conWindows XP at Anritsu. We have installed Windows 7 on crete measures. The plans these high-level bodies formuapproximately 700 PCs used for general office purposes such late are implemented through the actions of each as accessing websites and e-mails. We have also prohibited department. Anritsu uses this management system to Internet access and taken additional actions to address vuloversee its annual PDCA cycle. nerabilities on PCs still using Windows XP. Information Management Committee Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Formulate policy for the entire Group) Information Security Administration •Promoting Employee Education Activities -Officer and Employee Education Imformation Security Subcommitee Global Security Committee (Formulate and promote measures and (Formulate and promote measures and plans for the entire Group in Japan) plans for overseas Group companies) Each year, officers and employees of the Anritsu Group in Japan view a video on security and discuss its content with members of their own (Management Information System Dept.) Business Divisions in Japan Divisions at Group companies in Japan departments to deepen their shared understanding of security issues. (Manage and implement measures, etc.) Internal Audit •Educating the System Administration Divisions (Internal Audit Committee and Global Audit Dept.) The challenge of defending systems from sophisticated cyber attacks requires the development of organizational capabiliL Major Activities in Fiscal 2013 ties for minimizing damage and promptly recovering opera•Risk Assessment Related to Information Security tions. In fiscal 2013, we offered an educational program on and Countermeasure Development incident response for system administrators. Participants Anritsu tracks the ever-changing nature of threats to IT sought to develop their response capabilities by working systems by conducting an annual risk assessment to through drills to learn about the process from discovery to the development and implementation of countermeasures. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 29 Supply Chain Management Basic Concept Anritsu’s procurement operations are global in scope, reaching beyond Japan and across the world. We offer equal opportunities to every company in Japan and overseas through fair assessment practices. We strive to respond to the expectations and demands of society across the entire supply chain by developing stronger partnerships through the willing involvement of suppliers and partners in various activities, and by ensuring compliance with relevant laws and regulations, business practices and social norms as well as initiatives for preserving the local environment. Anritsu Basic Rules of Procurement and Basic Rules for Procurement Requests Anritsu believes in the importance of moving as one with 1. Selection of suppliers and partners the entire supply chain, together with our business partAnritsu always keeps the door open to new potential suppliners, in conducting procurement. With this conviction, we ers and partners inside and outside Japan, in a spirit of fairness and impartiality. Anritsu objectively selects suppliers established our Basic Rules of Procurement and Requests and partners based on proper standards focusing on qualifor forging partnerships anchored in mutual trust by seekty, price, delivery schedules and environmental measures. ing the cooperation of suppliers and business partners. 2. Partnership Anritsu builds mutually beneficial relationships with all suppliers and partners through sound business practices. Requests 3. Compliance and secrecy protection 1. Observance of laws and social norms Anritsu conducts business in full compliance with relevant laws, and does not disclose information acquired through Observance of relevant laws, prohibition of child labor, business with suppliers and partners to any third party withforced labor and cheap labor; and prohibition of disout these suppliers’ and partners’ prior consent. crimination and transaction with antisocial forces 4. Activity based on ethical concepts 2. Environmental considerations Personnel involved in procurement keep in mind at all times the importance of performing assignments fairly, free of perRealization of environmental measures in line with sonal interests with suppliers and partners, while maintaining Anritsu's Green Procurement Guidelines, environmental sound relationships with these parties. requirements, etc. 5. Considerations of human rights and labor 3. Ensuring good quality, supply at fair prices and mainAnritsu respects human rights and promotes industrial tenance of delivery schedules hygiene, safety and security, and requests that suppliers and partners agree to this policy and promote these activities as 4. Preventing leakage of secret information and respect part of their supply chain operations. Anritsu may reconsider for intellectual property rights relationships with suppliers and partners if their business operations are linked with human rights violations, such as 5. Prompt response to contingencies and timely, approthe use of child labor, racial and sexual discrimination, etc. priate information disclosure Furthermore, we will work together with our suppliers and partners regarding non-use of conflict minerals that lead to these human rights issues. 6. Environmental considerations Anritsu stipulates Green Procurement Guideline and promotes green procurement by purchasing parts and materials that have been proven less damaging to the environment. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 30 Supply Chain Management Global Supply Chain Committee Conflict Minerals as a Human Rights issue Anritsu maintains three main development locations in the Following the 2012 adoption of the final rule of Section United States, Europe and Japan. Until now, parts have 1502—the conflict minerals provision of the U.S. Financial been procured through an approval process using Reform Bill—Anritsu declared its support and began assessment criteria established at each location. Anritsu is working with its supply chain to prevent the use of conflict currently establishing a globally unified set of assessment minerals in Anritsu products. We also hold briefings for criteria approved by each location to optimize the mutual our business partners to prevent any oversights. use of the supply chain. We intend to promote parts proWe respond to customer inquiries related to this issue curement through global collaboration. by requesting investigations by business partners in Mutual approval is also offered as a means for recognizJapan and abroad. We also channel this information to ing business partners that provide us with products we the Conflict Minerals Working Group at our headquarters commonly use as Global Preferred Suppliers. We also to accumulate information in a shared database. intend to shorten time to market (TTM) for product develAnritsu Group (3) Request opment by sharing development roadmaps and technoBusiness Partner A investigation Related Procurement Division (Japan) logical issues with these suppliers. (4)Response to domestic Sales Division (Japan) (4) Request (1) Request Customer (Japan) procurement investigation investigation Business Partner B Promoting CSR Procurement Procurement (5)Response (6)Response Business Partner C Division Related to Anritsu believes that promoting CSR procurement requires overseas (Americas, Europe) procurement Business Partner D a concerted effort with our suppliers and partners. In fiscal Share 2010, we formulated and posted to our website the Share Conflict Minerals Working Share Anritsu Group Corporate Procurement Guidelines, which Group (Secretariat) Accumulation/ complies with the “Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Reference Guidebook” published by the Japan Electronics and Shared Database Information Technology Industries Association. Since Response to Customers in Japan 2011 we have been seeking the cooperation of business partners in promoting CSR procurement under these Exhibition of Products Our Partners Make guidelines by requesting them to submit letters of conWe held an exhibition at the Anritsu head office featursent. ing products manufactured by 54 of our suppliers and Furthermore, to stay abreast of regulatory revisions, partners. The exhibition acquainted development engiincluding environmental considerations, we conduct briefneers at Anritsu with new products and technologies such ings to share information and provide support to suppliers as components for wireless communications (for example, and partners in their efforts to promote CSR activities. Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, LTE-Advanced) and optical networks, as well as general-purpose electric parts, optical parts and CSR Procurement Survey components that ensure electromagnetic compatibility Anritsu began conducting CSR Procurement Surveys to (EMC). The event also included seminars featuring lecturmonitor CSR efforts at our business partners in fiscal ers from our business partners, aimed at keeping partici2011. We have distributed surveys to 77 major suppliers pants abreast of cutting-edge technologies. and received 66 replies, a response rate of approximately 85%. In fiscal 2012, we set up “Direct Delivery” mailboxes in the negotiation rooms of our head office and the Koriyama Business Office in an effort to promote CSR procurement based on the direct feedback from our partners and survey results. Introducing new products and technologies Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 31 Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity Basic Concept Anritsu upholds respect for human rights as one of the highest priority issues in both the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Anritsu Group Code of Conduct. Given the rapid evolution of business worldwide, we believe it is important to attract a diverse workforce in terms of nationality, gender, age and views on work. This enables us to develop systems and programs that allow every individual to demonstrate their strengths based on their lifestyles, and to provide safe, secure and comfortable working conditions. Human Rights Training and Plan Employee Data: Group Companies in Japan To cultivate sensitivity for human rights among Anritsu Employee Data of Group companies in Japan as of the End of March (eg., data for fiscal 2013 is as of March 31, 2014) employees, we incorporated experiential learning—such FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 as using a wheelchair or simulating the experience of Total No. of employees of 2,240 2,206 2,194 2,206 Group companies in Japan elderly persons—into the human rights portion of our new Male 1,952 1,927 1,900 1,913 employee education program. The training was conductFemale 288 279 294 293 ed in cooperation with the Aozora Voluntary Group for the Foreign nationals 20 16 24 26 Average age 40.3 41.5 41.5 41.9 Promotion of Social Welfare Education based in Atsugi Average working years 18.5 18.6 18.5 18.9 City. We also implemented a number of activities such as Non-regular employee 376 463 525 567 organizational level training to foster an awareness of Ratio of Employees with Disabilities 1.98 2.25 1.95 1.71 human rights within and outside the company on issues (non-consolidated) % that require constant vigilance, including discrimination Ratio of Employees with Disabilities 1.50 1.56 1.70 1.75 against minority groups, sexual harassment and abuse of (The Anritsu Group in Japan) % power in the workplace, and to improve communication. Planned ratio (Reference) 1.80 1.80 1.80 2.00 To promote respect for human rights across the entire supply chain, the Anritsu CSR Procurement Guidelines conEmployee Data(Anritsu Corporation) tain articles calling for the abolition of forced labor and prohiAnritsu Corporation Employee Data as of the End of March (eg., data for fiscal 2013 is as of March 31, 2014) bition of inhuman treatment, child labor and discrimination. F Y2 010 F Y2 011 F Y2 012 F Y2 013 No. of Male 711（165） 711（176） 712（174） 646（165） Creating Jobs for People with Disabilities employees: Figures in Female 114（4） 113（4） 119（4） 111（4） parentheses Our employment ratio of people with disabilities for fiscal refer to number of 2013 (as of December 2013) declined for the second conmanagers Total 825（169） 824（180） 831（178） 757（169） included in total secutive year to 1.70%. We were unable to meet the count Male 41 40.4 41.7 41.5 legally mandated employment ratio, which was raised to Average age Female 36.4 36.1 37.3 37.3 2.0% as of April 1, 2013. To meet this higher requirement Total 40.3 39.9 41.0 41.0 in fiscal 2014, we will continue our recruitment efforts and Male 17.4 16.5 17.6 17.6 Average Female 13.8 13.4 14.5 14.9 workplace improvements while establishing greater coopworking years Total 16.9 16.1 17.1 17.2 eration for people with disabilities and expanding the Annual rated working hours 1,875.50 1,875.50 1,860.00 1,860.00 range of available jobs so they can better apply their Average days of paid holidays 14.6 15.6 14.2 14.5 used per year strengths. No. of employees who took paid 6 9 8 9 childcare leave As of the end of December No. of employees No. of 2 010 /12 2 011/12 2 012 /12 2 013 /12 whose eligible 19 18 19 6 employment has employees Planned ratio 1.80% 1.80% 1.80% 2.0 0% been extended (non-consolidated) beyond normal retirement age No. of Actual ratio 1.98% 2.25% 1.95% 1.70% (non-consolidated) (for hiring employees over 11 15 14 4 employees over retirement age Ref: Actual ratio retirement age) hired (in Japan, consolidated) 1.50% 1.56% 1.69% 1.59% Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 32 Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity Diversity Anritsu Corporation’s Action Plan to Support Child Welfare 3rd Stage (April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2015) Anritsu emphasizes the creation of a safe, secure and Objec t ives Measures Ac t ions Taken comfortable workplace environment in which employees A llow male a nd f emale Enhance the child-Shorter work hours can enrich their lives and develop their careers. employe e s to ta ke raising leave program, available for more le a ve f or child-r aising widen the eligibility for parents of children In regard to supporting women in their career developwith gre a ter pe a c e of shorter schedules for up to the sixth grade mind. working parents, etc. (FY2012). ment, we are proactively working to establish a workplace -Introduced parental leave for child-raising environment that supports balancing work and childcare. (FY2013). This includes providing programs for paid leave, maternity Reinforce system Subsidize child-raising Introduced a program to temporarily help service charges at to subsidize day care leave and reinstatement, both before and after childbirth employees with children a family support fees of a family support pay for day care fees. center run by a local center (FY2012) and during childrearing. To ensure that employees applygovernment. ing for these programs can balance work and family with Enhance understanding Launch a website Launched a website among employees that o n p ro g r a m s t h a t o n p ro g r a m s t h a t greater peace of mind—regardless of gender—we diswe support a greater support child-raising, support child-raising work-family balance in achieving a work-life and achieving a workseminate information companywide to establish familiarity child-raising. balance, etc. life balance. with the programs and raise awareness to inspire greater understanding. Global Recruiting Actions L Borderless Recruiting Worldwide Percentages of Female Employees Anritsu Corporation and Group companies in Japan conJapan Americas EMEA Asia and Total duct recruitment activities regardless of nationality through Others Percentages of FY2013 13% 30% 22% 26% 19% such means as participating in recruiting fairs* held by unifemale employees FY2012 17% 31% 25% 31% 22% versities outside Japan, offering internships to students (No. of female employees / Total from universities in Japan and abroad, and employing foremployees) FY2011 14% 31% 26% 27% 23% eign students in Japanese universities. As of the end of Percentages of FY2013 9% 59% 74% 78% 47% March 2014, 26 Anritsu Group employees of foreign female managers to male Managers nationality are working in Japan. FY2012 8% 59% 82% 57% 45% ( ( No. of female In addition, three foreign nationals hired in Japan are managers / No. of female currently stationed overseas. employees )/ FY2011 14% 59% 60% 54% 48% * Forums for information exchange and mutual understanding between job ( No. of male applicants and employers managers / No. of male employees ) ) L Employee Support Program in America The Wellness Program for employees that the Anritsu Balancing Work and Family Company (U.S.A.) offers includes Bike to Work Days, hikAnritsu Corporation is preparing the third stage of its ing and marathons.These programs not only improve the three-year plan (see the following chart) and taking the health of employees through participation and physical necessary measures to advance employees’ work-life balexercise, but also enliven communication among them. ance. In fiscal 2013, we launched a new website in a reinBike to Work Day forced effort to provide information on balancing work and -Hiking in the state park life, and we sought to encourage fathers to participate in -Half-marathons and other events the experience of raising their children by introducing a paid leave program for this purpose in April 2014. In fiscal 2014, we will seek to firmly establish and validate these new programs and more broadly disseminate information to employees who can benefit from them. Moreover, we Bike to Work Day Hiking in the state park will continue considering ways for enhancing our support for other needs such as nursing care. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 33 Human Resource Development Basic Concept Anritsu believes in the importance of being an organization in which employees feel they are contributing to society and growing while being vibrant and actively achieving the company’s goals. With this belief, we constantly strive to create a workplace in which employees can grow through their work. Education/Training System Global Human Resource Development Anritsu Corporation focuses on on-the-job training as a Anritsu is working to expand its business overseas, priframework for supporting every employee in identifying marily in the area of test and measurement. Developing the areas of work that are in line with their individual interhuman resources capable of leading these overseas busiests and developing the skills that enable them to realize nesses represents a key challenge for achieving growth in their aspirations. Programs that are shared among all the coming years. Anritsu Group companies in Japan include new recruit oriIn developing global human resources, we think it is entation, training by organizational level, correspondence particularly important to raise the level of language proficourses and language studies, which all support the prociency and build on that foundation by strengthening our fessional development of every Group employee. communication skills with non-Japanese people. Development of Specialized Training Others For example, new employees from the Philippines parcore human resources by Job Style Manager Technical Training Self-development support ticipated in group sessions during new employee training Global Leader Development Program/Management Electricity and electronics / Optical technology /Signal Correspondence course/ E-learning/Foreign in fiscal 2013 in the mission of developing and presenting training/Training newly processing/FPGA/Communicat conversation assigned managers ions and networks/Project a plan to bring innovation to the Anritsu Group. Over a management/Production and Career development support Middle Management/leader quality/Process improvement/Intellectual two-month period, each group engaged in recurring disCareer design training/Life Management training/ property plan training/Self-assessment Leadership training system/Open recruitment cussions simulating actual project activities and presented within the company New recruit Sales training their proposals at the end of the training period. The New recruit follow-up Business etiquette/Sales Global human resource training/New recruit practice/Legal affairs/ Response to customers/ development experience provided them with insights into the difficulties training Global employee exchange marketing/Product knowledge/Sales management program/Cross-cultural and importance of communicating with workers from communication other countries. Education and Training in Fiscal 2013 We will continue to focus on providing education and In fiscal 2013, we held training for mid-career employees training to develop global human resources, including lesat all Group companies in Japan using content revised in sons in languages other than English and training sesfiscal 2012. Our objective was to develop the mindset sions to help our employees understand different cultures. employees need to become valued staff members who can achieve more as leaders in the workplace and as team members, as evaluated from the perspectives of five primary roles that mid-career employees are expected to take in their mid-thirties. Innovation Training for New Employees We also carried out marketing training based on case studies for mid-career employees engaged in marketing and sales operations. Participants consider themes from the various case studies in order to develop the skills required for formulating marketing strategies such as analysis, insight and Group work in mid-career planning. employee training Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 34 Human Resource Development Global Training for the Test & Global Meeting Measurement Business Each Anritsu department holds a global meeting every We held our 2013 Global Training session at headquarters year. Members of the business division, Global Audit for about two weeks beginning on April. Each year, sales Department, Environment and Quality Promotion engineers working in the Test & Measurement business at Department, Management Information System Anritsu’s overseas bases gather to exchange information Department, Accounting and Control Department, Human on market trends, the latest news on major customers Resource and Administration Department, Trade Control and Anritsu strategy, and to learn about products by Department, and Procurement Department gather at locaattending lectures and operating the actual equipment. tions in Japan and abroad to share information about Approximately ninety business guidelines, external trends and issues from a engineers participated in global perspective. the training, with the support of about ten employees serving as trainers. Global Training L Global Activities on Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity and Human Resource Development Results for Fiscal 2013 Plans for Fiscal 2014 Conducted training for managers on laws related to Conduct training on laws related to employee supervision. U.S. employee supervision. Continue engagement survey. Completed engagement survey in December 2013. Held regular team meetings. Promote online newsletter to provide information on EMEA Conducted face-to-face interviews with managers. activities by other teams. Continue employee satisfaction survey. Complete employee satisfaction survey. China Continue holding a monthly party for birthdays during Hold a monthly party for birthdays during that month. that month. VO I C E Focusing Our Efforts on Developing Global Human Resources As a global enterprise, Anritsu recognizes the importance of developing human resources to drive its overseas business operations. We will continue to strengthen our existing initiatives while deepening our discussions on the kind of human resources that are required at a global level and the means to develop them. We are also actively recruiting across nationalities. Under this initiative, we have been offering internships for university graduates in the ASEAN region and setting up scholarships at Chinese universities. Reinforcing our relationship with educational institutions overseas will establish greater recognition for Anritsu among students while bolstering the underlying technological capabilities of each country. The development of human resources is a long-term effort. We will steadfastly maintain our activities with a firm eye on the future. Toshisumi Taniai Director and Vice President, Chief Administration Officer, Anritsu Corporation Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 35 Labor Safety and Health Basic Concept Our Charter of Corporate Behavior calls for “Respect for employees.” Anritsu believes that in order to enable every employee to fully achieve their potential, it is important to secure employee safety and health and to create an ideal workplace. Safety and Health, Health Management System L Frequency Rate of Lost-worktime Injuries (per million hours) 1.58 The Anritsu Group in Japan established a safety and 2.00 1.50 health management system that complies with Japan’s 1.00 0.94 Occupational Safety and Health Act. Industrial health staff, 0.50 led by industrial physicians and counselors assigned to 0.41 0.00 00 the Health Management Center, provide support services 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 All industries, Manufacturing industry, and to maintain the health of group employees. Electric machinery and apparatus industry: injuries that required more than four days of All industries Manufacturing industry Anritsu Anritsu group lost worktime; Anritsu: injuries that required Electric machinery and apparatus industry more than one day of lost worktime Major Efforts for Safety and Health, Health Management Seminars and Lectures at Anritsu -Having the Safety and Health Committee review activity status In fiscal 2012, the number of commuting accidents involving and formulate plans to prevent employees from accidents Group employees in Japan increased by three from the previ-Reducing the risk of accidents by conducting inspections before introducing, relocating or changing equipment, or when purchasous year to eight. In view of this, we held traffic safety semiing chemical materials nars and training with the cooperation of the Atsugi Police -Enhancing the awareness of safety and health through training at different organizational levels, and providing training on specific Department for anticipating dangerous traffic situations, priissues such as risk assessment marily focused on bicycles. While commuting accidents in fis-Providing safe, secure and comfortable workplaces by assessing working environments and conducting periodic inspections cal 2013 decreased from the previous year to five, two of the -Conducting health checkups—initial, periodic, special, and for incidents resulted in lost work time. We will further strengthen expatriates, as well as follow-up examinations -Screening through questionnaire and industrial physician interviews our efforts to raise awareness to prevent accidents. to those who work extended hours to prevent impaired health Meanwhile, the ratio of abnormalities found in regular health -Raising health awareness through lectures by industrial physicians, for example, on preventing lifestyle diseases checkups for Group employees in Japan continues to steadily -Mental healthcare education for managers increase in line with the national trend. In 2013, our industrial -Counseling health staff offered guidance for individual employees based on health checkup results. We also promoted health education opportunities, such as lectures for small groups by industrial physicians on each health checkup criterion, as well as general health education classes. Safety and Health Committee meeting Lecture on preventing infectious diseases Overseas Topic (OHSAS 18001 Certification) In May 2012, Anritsu EMEA Ltd. in the United Kingdom Labor Accident obtained certification for OHSAS 18001 (2007 version), the No accidents leading to absence from work were reported international standard for labor safety and health. These standards for management practice comply with labor stanin the Anritsu Group in Japan during fiscal 2013 (one case dard laws and regulations in various for the Anritsu Group in Japan in fiscal 2012). At the end countries and mandates companies to effectively oversee labor safety and of March 2013, Anritsu Corporation in Atsugi reached a health. The objective is to raise the level record of 15.25 million labor hours without any accidents, of labor safety and health as well as labor productivity and the overall awareness of and as of the publication of this report, the record of no labor safety. accident performance continues. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 36 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Basic Concept Anritsu contributes to society through its business operations while at the same time pursuing activities that benefit the development of the local community as a corporate citizen. Community-based social contribution programs are at the center of these initiatives under the three pillars of partnerships for educating youth, contributing to local communities and protecting the environment (biodiversity conservation), we carry out activities that our employees can participate in continuously. Partnerships for Educating Youth L Workplace Experience for Junior High School L Kanagawa Science Summer Sponsored by Students Kanagawa Prefecture For many years, Anritsu has supported local educational proAnritsu participated in the 13th “Kanagawa Science grams that offer junior high school students the opportunity Summer” event organized by Kanagawa Prefecture. Our proto experience actual work at companies and stores in the gram focused on the environment and manufacturing, and community. In fiscal 2012, we received requests from one consisted of a talk and a “Let’s Make a Radio” Children’s neighboring school. Science and Environment Class, designed to familiarize chilA workplace experience at Anritsu took place at the recydren with wireless technology through building a radio. cling center of Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., where students disThe one-day event was held during the children’s sumassembled personal mer vacation and attended by 36 participants comprising computers and also learned 18 Kanagawa Prefecture elementary school children each how to sort equipment paired with a parent. components by material. We also provided environmental training on recycling. Workplace Experience Support for Youth Sports Competitions We serve as a co-sponsor for the following youth sports Kanagawa Science Summer competitions as a part of our contribution to the local L Fun Science Laboratory Sponsored by the community in Atsugi City, the location of Anritsu Atsugi City School Board, Kanagawa Prefecture Corporation’s head office. There has been a growing concern with regard to young people’s waning interest in science. At the suggestion of L Anritsu Cup Atsugi City Invitational Boys’ the Atsugi City School Board, Anritsu has offered “Fun Soccer Competition Science Laboratory” at neighboring elementary schools Anritsu Corporation has been co-sponsoring the annual since fiscal 2007 with the aim of raising children’s interest Atsugi City Boys’ Soccer Competition held in February in science through a variety of experiences. In fiscal 2013, since 1995, Anritsu’s centennial year. we explained the basics of electricity in lectures entitled “How to Generate Electricity” and “What is a Battery?” We L Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition also conducted science experiments to demonstrate the Anritsu Corporation has mechanism of a battery in been co-sponsoring the order to stimulate further Anritsu Cup Atsugi City interest. Many of the particKids’ Softball Competition ipating children told us the since fiscal 2011. Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition event had been exciting and fun. Fun Science Laboratory Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 37 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities L Anritsu Cup Dodge Ball Competition Protecting the Environment In fiscal 2013, Anritsu (Biodiversity Conservation) Corporation co-sponsored LD  onating to Forest Development through the the 2nd Anritsu Cup Dodge Sales of Soft Drink Vending Machines Ball Competition, organized The Anritsu Corporation headquarters in Atsugi donates part by the Atsugi Dodge Ball of its sales proceeds from vending machines to the Green Committee since fiscal 2012. Dodge Ball Competition Fund in Japan. In fiscal 2013, Anritsu raised funds equivalent to 134 Contributing to Local Communities Japanese spindle trees and 86 Yoshino L Collecting Plastic Bottle Caps cherry trees, also equivalent to 1,892 The Anritsu Group in Japan collects plastic bottle caps in colsquare meters (11,488 square meters laboration with the Amadera Industrial Park Council. The caps in total) of afforestation or 638 kiloare sold as resin material with the proceeds used to purchase grams (3,875 kilograms in total) of Vending machines for polio vaccines. This year, proceeds from the combined total of absorbed carbon dioxide. the Green Fund in Japan caps collected by the Anritsu Group and the Amadera L Community Cleanup Efforts Industrial Park Council were Every year, Anritsu Group companies in Japan organize used to donate 652 doses of cleanups of the areas surrounding the Head Office of the vaccine. Anritsu Corporation and Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. The Head Collecting Plastic Bottle Caps Office of Anritsu Corporation carried it out 4 times a year L Cooperating with Social and Recreational Events keeping up with Amadera clean-up campaign by and Employee Education at Other Companies Conference of the Amadera Industrial Park Council. A large The site of Anritsu Corporation’s head office includes a number of employees participated in the project by picking sports field, which is normally used as a practice field for up litter and weeding around the company. We also particithe company baseball team as well as a sports venue for pate in community environemployees. The field is also available for use by other local mental preservation companies upon request. In fiscal 2013, we received activities and other commurequests from two companies that later thanked us for the nity projects such as the use of the field, especially for the opportunity it provided for Sagami River Clean-up deepening employee relationships. Campaign. Picking up litter around the company Another local company also requested a tour of our plant to learn about manufacturing expertise as part of its new L Supporting Reconstruction following the Great employee education. We obliged with cooperation from East Japan Earthquake Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. Anritsu Corporation supports a program organized by Save the Children Japan to provide opportunities for preschool L Charity Event children in Fukushima Prefecture to play outdoors. In fiscal Anritsu EMEA Ltd. participated in a charity event organized by 2014, we plan to become a co-sponsor and include volunMacmillan Cancer Support. Many tary activities by Anritsu employees. The program encouragemployees took part, and the money es children to embrace outdoor activities in the same way as they raised by selling homemade cakes the Autumn Camp in Konan that took place in fiscal 2012, in was donated to fund the organization’s which we also collaborated with Save the Children Japan. activities. Founded in 1991, Macmillan In addition, we offer our own programs to promote outdoor Cancer Support is a British organization play for children of employees in the Koriyama area. that provides expert information on canSelling homemade cakes Public Interest Incorporated Association, Save the Children Japan (SCJ) cer and medical support. http://www.savechildren.or.jp/jpnem/eng/index.html Macmillan Cancer Support http://www.macmillan.org.uk/Home.aspx Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 38 Promotion of Environmental Management Goal 3 Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Taking Action to Reduce Our Environmental Impact Junkichi Shirono Senior Vice President, Chief Environmental and Quality Officer, Anritsu Corporation Anritsu is focused on developing environmentally sound products that consider the entire product life cycle, from parts procurement, design and manufacturing, to shipping, customer use and recycling. While complying with global environmental laws and regulations, we will continue to design and develop products based on an accurate understanding of specific customer requirements that vary by region across the globe. We will also maintain our efforts to further enhance the quality of our internal audits to balance the needs of quality enhancement and environmental consideration. In taking action to reduce our environmental impact, we believe collaboration with our suppliers is essential. We will create a system for ensuring both efficiency and effectiveness to a greater degree than before. The Anritsu Group will continue conducting environmental management to fulfill the expectations of all our stakeholders. Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Developing corporate environmental management group-wide, Anritsu further advances its activities toward the creation of Eco-Office, Eco-Factory and Eco-Products with Eco-Minded Employees. The Anritsu Group’s Environmental Principle Anritsu strives to give due consideration to the environment in both the development and manufacture of our products. Through sincerity, harmony and enthusiasm we will endeavor to foster a prosperous society at one with nature. Action Guidelines We create Eco-Office, Eco-Factory and Eco-Products with the Eco-Mind of every one of our employees. Contribution to Society ◆Eco-Management To help lower the environmental load of ◆Eco-Products our customers, management will We develop products that help to allocate the necessary management improve the environment in customer resources and take action to reduce the Eco-Management usage settings with full consideration environmental load of business activities, for saving energy and resources and provide products with less environmental reducing harmful substances load and deliver products that contribute throughout product lifecycles. to lowering overall environmental impact. EcoEcoEcoOﬃce Products Factory ◆Eco-Factory ◆Eco-Oﬃce We strive to reduce environmental impact through saving energy and We make eﬀorts to reduce environmental observing the 3Rs while complying with impact by saving energy and resources Ecolegal mandates and reducing and managing waste in our oﬃces. Family environmental risks. ◆Eco-Mind Each individual employee will aspire to ◆Eco-Family become a good corporate citizen by EcoAt home we will strive to reduce the recognizing their responsibility in the Mind environmental load in our daily lives product lifecycle and by making as good citizens through energy environmental improvements in their conservation, resource conservation and daily operations. the 3Rs (reduce, reuse and recycle). The articles in Preserving the Global Environment cover Anritsu Corp. and the following Group Companies: Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Anritsu Customer Suppor t Co., Ltd. Group Companies in Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Anritsu Net works Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Japan : Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. Group Companies Anritsu Company (USA) Anritsu Ltd. (UK) Anritsu A/S (Denmark) outside Japan : Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 39 Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Environmental Management at Anritsu The Anritsu Group is pursuing environmental management worldwide by taking into account the entire product lifecycle using the environmental strategy illustrated in the figure. Concretely, we are focusing on four key policies : “Provision of energy/resource-saving products” and “Provision of products with reduced harmful substances” in product development; “Promotion of energy conservation” in our business operations; and “Strengthening of Eco-Mind and environmental communication,” which supports the entire strategy. We will also continue to maintain and improve the efforts of “Promotion of 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle)” and “Reduction of chemical substances and risk countermeasures” in business activities. In addition, we have established the Basic Rules of Biodiversity Conservation, reflecting due consideration for the relationship between Anritsu’s business structure and biodiversity. We believe implementing these rules will help mitigate climate change, the loss of habitat from overexploitation and pollution. Strengthen our global environmental management through a life cycle thinking approach Basic rules for biodiversity conservation Energy Resources Chemical substances Preventing Creating a recycling Reducing global warming -oriented society harmful substances Product Plan1 Plan2 Development Provide energy/ resource-saving products Provide products with reduced (Eco Products) Green of products Green by solutions harmful substances Plan3 Promote Promote 3Rs Chemical substance Business activities (Significant progress in reduction and risk energy conservation ongoing waste reduction) countermeasures (Eco Office) (Eco Factory) Reduce CO2 emissions Reduce environmental compliance risks Plan4 Strengthen Eco-Mind/environmental communication The Anritsu Group is applying a life cycle thinking approach to its global environmental management. We intend to reduce our environmental impact from the dual perspectives of developing environmentally sound products that consider the entire product life cycle and identifying and making improvements in the environmental impact of all our locations around the world. Development of environmentally conscious products (saving energy and resources, reducing harmful substances, beneficial to the environment) Supplier Transport Overall business Transport Use by customers Disposal activities Material procurement Transportation Factories/Offices Transportation Customer use Disassembly/Waste CO2 85,032t CO2 CO2 13,541t CO2 3,795t CO2 32,258t CO2 77t Water Waste Water 84,000m³ Waste Waste 392t Depletion of resources NOx 1,094kg S O x（ J a p a n ） 386kg BOD（J a p a n ） 261kg Capital goods CO2 12,061t Employee business trips CO2 3,773t Employee commuting CO2 4,279t Waste disposal CO2 31t Landfill amount to 22％ total waste disposal Identifying and improving the environmental impact of all our locations around the world *In the diagram above, quantitative data is provided only for items for which environmental impact has been identified to date. *Figures are calculated in accordance with the “Basic guidelines on calculating greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain.” *Underlined figures indicate that the scope of data collected for these items was expanded from fiscal 2012. For detailed information, please refer to the Detailed Data. Detailed Data Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 40 Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Scope 3 Calculations Applying the life cycle thinking approach, we have calculated greenhouse gas emissions indirectly generated along the supply chain of our business operations in accordance with the Scope 3 Standard of the GHG Protocol. Emissions for the 15 categories are provided below. We have obtained third-party verification for actual emissions in fiscal 2013. Emissions Data CapCategories of Scope 3 Emissions Calculation Method Preconditions, Supplementary Notes (t-CO2) ture Rate -Limited to purchased parts and services directly related to 1 Purchased goods and services 85,032 Approx.100% Amount of purchase × Basic unit*1 our products. -Calculation not applicable to Denmark. 2 Capital goods 12,024 Approx.100% Acquisition amount for capital assets × Basic unit*1 Fueland energy-related activities not 3 Not applicable included in Scope 1 and 2 Japan:Revised ton-kilometer method or conventional tonUpstream transportation and 4 3,795 95% or more kilometer method*2 Calculation not applicable to Denmark. distribution U.S.:CO2 emissions data submitted by transportation companies 5 Waste generated in operations 31 95% or more Weight of waste × Basic unit*1 Calculation not applicable to Denmark. Japan: -Airplane: Distance between airports × Basic unit*1 -Railway, bus, taxi: Transportation expenses × Basic unit*1 6 Business travel 3,773 Approx. 90% Calculation not applicable to Denmark. -Accommodation: Number of nights stayed × Basic unit*1 U.S.: -CO2 emissions data submitted by travel agencies -Railway, bus: Transportation expenses × Basic unit*3 7 Employee commuting 4,279 Approx. 100% Calculation not applicable to Denmark. -Automobile, motorbike: Commuting distance ×Mileage × Basic unit*3 8 Upstream leased assets Not applicable 9 Downstream transportation and distribution Included in upstream transportation and distribution. 10 Processing of sold products Not applicable -Applied only to hardware products and does not include software or services. -Electricity consumption is based on the representative value listed in the product catalog or specification document. Number of products sold × Electricity consumption × 11 Use of sold products 32,258 Approx. 90% Optional products and upgrades are not included. Total operating time × Basic unit*4 -Total operating time is based on the representative value listed in the specification document or length of warranty. -Calculated based on the Japanese basic unit. -Calculation not applicable to Denmark. -Calculation for CO2 emissions generated by disposal of 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products 77 Approx. 90% Weight of shipment × Basic unit*1 products sold during the current fiscal year. -Calculation not applicable to Denmark. 13 Downstream leased assets Not applicable 14 Franchises Not applicable No possibility of ascertaining greenhouse gas emissions or 15 Investments implementing measures to reduce emissions. Calculation not applicable to the U.K. *1 Green Value Chain Platform (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) *2 CO2 Emissions Calculation Method for Logistics Operations (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan) or Calculation Tool for CO2 Emissions from Transportation & Distribution (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan) *3 Japan: Green Value Chain Platform (Ministry of the Environment, Japan); U.S.: GHG Protocol *4 FY2012 basic unit for CO2 emissions published by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan CDP The CDP is a not-for-profit organization that collaborates with institutional investors (722 companies with approximately 8.7 trillion dollars in combined assets under management) to conduct surveys on a selection of the world’s leading companies (approximately 5,000 companies worldwide, and 500 in Japan), requesting disclosure of information on climate change strategy and volume of greenhouse gas emissions. The CDP analyzes and assesses the responses and discloses the results to investors to aid in their investment decisions. Anritsu has received and duly responded to the CDP survey since fiscal 2012. In this year’s survey, we sought for the first time to collect and disclose data for five categories under Scope 3 (indirect CO2 emissions from a company’s supply chain), and consequently improved our results from last year by earning a disclosure score of 77 [72] and performance score of B [C]. We intend to continue disclosing information and reducing CO2 emissions throughout our supply chain to prevent global warming. *[ ] indicates scores for fiscal 2012. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 41 Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Environmental Management Promotion System In response to increasing demand for global efforts, including responses to the European RoHS Directive and the environmental expectations of customers, we reviewed our environmental management promotion system in fiscal 2005 and set up a Global Environment Management Meeting to deliberate and decide on environment-related matters. We held Global Environment Management Meetings at our U.S. locations in fiscal 2012, and in the U.K. and Denmark in fiscal 2013, to review local efforts and confirm the status of curOverall Environment Management Controller rent issues. In Japan, the Environment Management Committee, Global Environment Management Meeting Product Assessment Committee and Promotion of RoHS Group Environment Management Committee (promotion of environmental management system) Meeting respectively promote the environmental management sysProduct Assessment Committee tem, the development of environmentally sound products and the (promotion of developing environmentally conscious products) elimination of harmful substances in products. Promotion of RoHS Group Meeting Environmental Management Organization (Japan) Overall Environment Management Controller Environment Management The environmental management organization of the Legally Environment Committee Internal Product Assessment authorized Environmental Management Anritsu Group in Japan promotes environmental manpersonnel Auditor Representative Committee agement activities under the leadership of the director Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. (including SCM Division) Anritsu Techmac Co., Ltd Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. R&D Group Sales Division Marketing Division Corporate (including Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd.) Environment and Quality Promotion Department of environmental management (Anritsu Corporation’s vice president in charge of overall environmental management). We integrated the SCM Divisions of our Atsugi and Tohoku sites with the management organization of Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. in April 2014. Environmental Management Systems The Anritsu Group has established environmental management systems at major production sites in Japan and the United States and has obtained ISO 14001 certification. Registration Company Anritsu Corporation (Head Office) Certification Date : August 1998 Update: February 2013 Certification Organization : JQA/JQA-EM0210 -Anritsu Corporation -Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. -Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. -AT Techmac Co., Ltd. -Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. -Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. -Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. -Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. -Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. -Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. *Expanded the scope of ISO14001 accreditation to include Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd., which independently acquired certification in October 1999. Anritsu Company(USA) Address：490 Jarvis Drive Morgan Hill, CA 95037 Certification Date：March 2007 Update：March 2013 Certification Organization：NQA/EN12275 Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 42 Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Environmental Audit In fiscal 2013, we received an external environmental recertification audit for ISO 14001 including the combined assessment of ISO 9001 (quality management system) and ISO 27001 (information security management system). All items were found to be in compliance. In addition, we conducted two internal environmental audits of the conformance and effectiveness of our environmental management system and environOn-site patrol by ISO14001 mental performance in July and compliance status in October, resulting in 35 certification institution and 8 indications of nonconformance, respectively. We also report on and improve common Group issues through the Environment Management Committee. Topics Registered as a Certified Business Site Promoting Environmental Consideration Following Kanagawa Prefecture’s revised regulation on preserving the living environment, which went into effect in October 2012, a new registration and certification program for business sites promoting environmental consideration was launched in addition to the existing program for business sites practicing environmental management. Under the new program, Kanagawa Prefecture recognizes companies that meet its requirements for reducing environmental impact, properly controlling chemical substances and establishing organizational frameworks for the environment, and registers them as certified business sites that promote environmental considerations. In June 2013, the headquarters (Atsugi site) of Anritsu Corporation became the first registered under the new certification, in addition to its existing status as a certified business site practicing environmental management. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 43 Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Efforts to Preserve Biodiversity Biodiversity Conservation L Basic Policy for Conserving Biodiversity The business operations of the Anritsu Group benefit Basic Policy We strive to reduce environmental impact, focusing on the following three and influence the ecosystem supported by diverse areas of our business activities: • Mitigation of climate change • Control overexploitation/habitat loss • Control pollution/habitat loss organisms at the same time. Preserving the biodiverBusiness Operations Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact sity which is the foundation of the ecosystem is Business activities with Global warming prevention therefore a vital concern for environmental manageenvironmental impact → Mitigation of climate change limited within an acceptable range for the Resource-saving/recycling ment. The basic policy of the Anritsu Group is to earth → Control overexploitation/habitat loss encourage activities that reduce our environmental Control chemical substance release → Control pollution/habitat loss impact associated with our business operations and to preserve biodiversity through social contribution Social Contribution Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact Activities efforts that protect the natural environment. Increase the regenerative Social contribution activities for biodiversity capacity of the earth → Tree planting, local cleanups, etc. L Acknowledging the Current Situation We work to conserve biodiversity fully recognizing that the Anritsu Group’s business activities enjoy various benefits from the biodiversity of the surrounding ecosystem, and that these business activities, in turn, impact biodiversity. L Biodiversity Relevance Map We created a relevance map based on the Japan Business Initiative for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity format to better understand the relationships between our business activities and biodiversity. The map illustrates our relationship with ecosystems and helps identify areas of major impact. The result is reflected in our Basic Policy for Conservation of Biodiversity. Energy resources ・ Loss of habitats Crude oil (as fuel), ● Chemical substance release Benefit ・ Introduction of alien uranium To atmosphere: CO2, NOx, SOx species To water: BOD, COD, SS ・ Pollution/climate change Impact Renewable To soil: slug, sludge, unspecified energy resources ・Overexploitation solid waste /overconsumption Water, wood Energy resources Crude oil (as fuel), coal, natural gas, uranium Design Energy resources Shipping Production Sale Crude oil (as fuel) Renewable energy resources Renewable Water, wood energy resources Business Activities Wood Mineral resources Gold, silver, copper, Raw material ● Chemical platinum, iron, tin, procurement Use Maintenance substance release lead, zinc, nickel, chrome,bauxite, CO 2,NOx,SOx manganese, crude oil (as raw materials) ・Loss of habitats Collection ・Introduction of alien species ・Loss of habitats Land use Recycling ・Pollution/climate change ・Introduction of alien species ・Overexploitation ・Pollution/climate change /overconsumption ・Overexploitation /overconsumption Substance ● Chemical substance release introduction/removal Energy resources 生息地喪失 Change in land外来生物導入 use 汚染 気候変動 CO 2,NOx,SOx Crude oil (as fuel) Loss of habitats, Introduction of alien species, Pollution/climate change L Joined Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity Anritsu has endorsed Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity and participates as a promotion partner to exercise leadership in creating a society that values and supports biodiversity. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 44 Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Environmental Education for Employees To raise the environmental awareness of each employee and encourage them to actively engage in environmental activities, we provide general education through e-learning every year for all Anritsu Group employees as well as environmental education programs designed for each job type and rank. These programs are also attended by employees of business partners under consignment. Educational Programs New employee education Internal auditor training program Internal auditor follow-up education Education for technology General education Education for sales depar tments depar tments O nsite consignment worker Chemical substances manager High-pressure gas handler courses education training Ecological Education Eco-Mind Awareness of Employees We conduct a survey of all Anritsu Group employees in Environmental Policy and Behavioral Guidelines We create Eco-Office, Eco-Factory and Eco-Products Japan to determine the degree to which we share an Ecowith the Eco-Mind of every one of our employees. Mind awareness. Highly eco-minded person = Person who acts on behalf of the environment Questions were designed to determine the state of workplace activities by asking whether action is being Do you engage in environmental activities at the workplace? taken toward creating the Eco Office (promoting conserDo you engage in environmental activities at home? vation, promoting the 3Rs and reducing environmental Are you aware of Anritsu’s environmental efforts? compliance risks), as well as the state of activities at home Enhance Anritsu Eco-Mind and about participant awareness with regard to efforts Eco-Mind Survey undertaken by Anritsu. In fiscal 2013 we implemented actions that reflected the ■Excellent Eco-Person ■Eco-Person ■Eco-Person Challenger results of last year’s survey, which led to an increase in the FY2012 13.2% 52.5% 34.3% ratio of “Excellent Eco-Persons,” who scored above 90 points on the survey, to 16.3%. We intend to increase the ratio of FY2013 16.3% 54.5% 29.2% Excellent Eco-Persons by motivating employees to participate in environmental activities through the Eco-Mind Survey and through other actions in response to survey results. Promoting Environmental Communication We disseminate information inside and outside the company with a firm belief in the vital importance of raising stakeholder awareness of our environmental activities and gaining their support in Anritsu’s efforts to protect the global environment. To provide environmental information tailored for each group of stakeholders, we publish an “Environment Leaflet” for customers and “Eco Club” for employees, in addition to our CSR report, environmental advertisements and environment-related features offered via the Internet. Environment Leaflet Eco Club for for customers employees Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 45 Promotion of Environmental Management Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Energy-saving Activities at Factories and Offices Energy conservation represents a key means for reducing CO2 emissions associated with global warming. Anritsu is pursuing ongoing efforts to save electric power, which accounts for about 95% of its energy consumption (in crude oil equivalent). We have been conserving energy by upgrading equipment, such as ice thermal storage units, inverters for air conditioning and lighting equipment, and low-loss transformers, while replacing older models with energy-saving equipment. In fiscal 2013, we sought to improve our energy efficiency by upgrading turbo chillers and air conditioners at the Atsugi site and upgrading air conditioners and introducing inverter lighting equipment at the Tohoku site. Despite a rise in electric power consumption at the Tohoku site due to the opening of the Koriyama Second Business Office, our electric power consumption nationwide decreased by 1.9% from fiscal 2012. The electric and electronics-related industries in Japan launched a program in fiscal 2013 aimed at creating a low-carbon society. It also seeks to achieve the common goal of improving the basic unit of energy by 1% every year toward 2020. As a participant in this program, we will strive to further reduce our energy use. L Change in electric energy use (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) ■Touhoku Site ■Hiratsuka Site ■Tanasawa Site (MWh) 31,798 ■Azabu Site ■Atsugi Site 30,000 25,676 25,426 24,243 23,367 21,433 21,035 20,000 10,000 0 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FY [Reference] We calculated CO2 emissions resulting from the use of all energy sources at Anritsu Group companies in Japan using the emission basic unit adopted by the Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming (revised March 29, 2006). Note that CO2 emissions associated with electric power are calculated using the CO2 emission basic unit (t-CO2/MWh) published by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan for each fiscal year (the actual figure for fiscal 2012 was temporarily used as the emission basic unit for fiscal 2013). The CO2 emission basic unit varies each fiscal year according to the supply situation of each electric power company. Therefore, some fiscal years show an increase in CO2 emissions, despite reductions in electric energy consumption (example: the emission basic unit was 2.3% higher for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011) L [Reference] CO2 emissions from total energy use (Antirsu Group companies in Japan) (thousand t-CO2) ■Touhoku Site ■Hiratsuka Site ■Tanasawa Site 14.58 ■Azabu Site ■Atsugi Site 15 11.76 11.01 10.81 10.11 10 9.01 9.46 5 0 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FY (0.417) (0.373) (0.351) (0.350) (0.476) (0.487) (0.487) Emission coefficient by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (provisional value for fiscal 2012) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 46 Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Environmental Measures Taken at the Koriyama Second Business Office In July 2013, construction was completed for our Koriyama Second Business Office in the No. 2 Industrial Park in western Koriyama. The building has a total floor space of approximately 8,000 square meters and total site area spanning approximately 70,000 square meters. Based on the grand concept of building a safe, secure factory that also preserves the environment, it features various environmental considerations. In terms of energy conservation, we installed a solar power generation facility on the roof with a maximum outL Electric power generated by the solar power generating facility in FY2013 put capacity of 200 kW and enhanced insulation by fitting (MWh) 25.58 double-glazed windows and using sandwich panels for the 25 walls. We also adopted a zone control system for 19.30 19.90 20 18.30 improved air conditioning efficiency, incorporated natural 15 lighting and installed LED lighting throughout the building. 12.58 12.06 11.52 10.08 These measures enabled us to limit electricity consump10 7.69 tion at the Koriyama Second Business Office to approxi5 mately 968 MWh during the period from July 2013 to 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 01 02 03 FY March 2014, with solar power accounting for 137 MWh, or approximately 14%, of total electricity needs. We sought to conserve resources by extensively using recycled materials for the building and reusing construction waste for landscaping, shaping soil into mounds and arranging excavated rock as part of the design. To conSolar Power Generating facility of Koriyama Second Office serve water, we started using automatic faucets and a water-saving toilet system. Acting on our concern for the ecosystem, we constructed a pond within the grounds, and employees are planting trees, suited to the region’s climate and soil, as well as indigenous plant species (potential natural vegetation). We have built an environmentally friendly factory that ranks among the best in the world. View of the Koriyama Second Office Compliance Status We strive to ensure compliance by adopting voluntary management standards that are more demanding than statutory regulations. In fiscal 2013, compliance levels at the Atsugi, Tanasawa and Tohoku sites remained higher than required, with no violations in water quality, air quality or noise. More than fifty years have passed since we opened our office at the Atsugi site, so we are currently undertaking a scrap-and-build operation for aging buildings and facilities. While this has involved numerous tasks related to submitting requests and gaining regulatory approval, we make sure to follow the proper procedures by maintaining close contact with the relevant public agencies. We received one complaint about noise and vibration at the Atsugi site during the demolition of old facilities to upgrade a treatment facility for wastewater discharged from manufacturing processes. We were able to resolve the issue by limiting the period of construction work and making improvements to the working methods. Looking ahead, we will further reduce our environmental impact through ongoing maintenance while maintaining full compliance. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 47 Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Wastewater discharge from operations L Wastewater discharge from operations (m3) ■Tanasawa Site ■Atsugi Site In the past we used large volumes of water in industrial pro2,500 2,349 2,318 2,218 cesses such as manufacturing printed wiring boards as well 1,944 2,000 1,917 1,858 1,928 1,883 as coating and plating at the Atsugi site. In 2002, we have 1,744 completely discontinued all these processes and dramatically 1,500 1,310 1,176 reduced industrial effluent containing harmful substances. 1,000 Although we use alkaline cleaning solutions for the degreasing 500 equipment at the Hiratsuka site, all the water is disposed as 0 industrial waste, leaving no wastewater discharge from opera03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 tions. In addition, water used for rinsing equipment is circulated between filters and ion-exchange resin equipment so it can be reused as rinse water as part of our efforts to reduce water use and waste. No facility at the Tohoku site currently uses harmful substances. Atsugi Site: regulations regarding discharge into public sewage systems Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item Regulation value Voluntary control value Average Min. Max. pH 5.0-9.0 5.7-8.7 7.4 6.7 8.2 SS 600 300 8.8 ＜ 2.0 34.0 BOD 600 300 37.3 1.2 150.0 Normal hexane extracts 5 3 ＜ 1.0 ＜ 1.0 ＜ 1.0 Mineral oil Normal hexane extracts 30 18 ＜ 1.0 ＜ 1.0 ＜ 1.0 Organic oil Iodine consumption 220 90 ＜ 1.0 ＜ 1.0 ＜ 1.0 Fluorine 8 4.8 0.8 0.3 1.5 Total cyanide 1 0.4 ＜ 0.01 ＜ 0.01 ＜ 0.01 Nitrogen 380 125 2.3 0.5 5.5 Boron Chromium Dissolved iron 10 4 0.11 ＜ 0.05 0.22 Copper 3 1.2 0.07 ＜ 0.05 0.21 Zinc 2 1.2 0.09 ＜ 0.05 0.17 Dissolved manganese Nickel 1 0.6 ＜ 0.05 ＜ 0.05 0.05 Lead 0.1 0.06 0.02 ＜ 0.01 0.05 Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 48 Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Tohoku Site (Koriyama First Business Office) : regulations by Fukushima Prefecture Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item*1 Regulation value Voluntary control value Average Min. Max. pH 5.8-8.6 6.0-8.4 7.0 7.0 7.4 SS 70 30 2.5 1.0 4.8 BOD 40 20 2.2 1.0 5.9 Below the detection limit Dissolved iron 10 4 (*2) (*2) [0.05mg/l] Below the detection limit Copper 2 0.8 (*2) (*2) [0.01mg/l] Zinc 2 1.2 0.09 (*2) (*2) Below the detection limit Nickel 2 0.8 (*2) (*2) [0.01mg/l] Below the detection limit Lead 0.1 0.08 (*2) (*2) [0.05mg/l] Number of colon bacillus 3000 2400 25.8 0 310.0 (piece/m3) *1. Items subject to the laws and regulations but excluded from this list were not used as raw materials and therefore not measured. *2. There is no max. or min. records as survey is conducted only once a year. Tohoku Site (Koriyama Second Business Office): regulations by Fukushima Prefecture Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item*1 Regulation value Voluntary control value Average Min. Max. pH 5.8-8.6 6.0-8.4 6.6 5.8 7.4 SS 70 30 4.7 1.6 9.2 BOD 40 20 4.2 3.8 10.0 Dissolved iron 10 4 0.26 (*2) (*2) Below the detection limit Copper 2 0.8 (*2) (*2) [0.01mg/l] Zinc 2 1.2 0.03 (*2) (*2) Below the detection limit Nickel 2 0.8 (*2) (*2) [0.01mg/l] Below the detection limit Lead 0.1 0.08 (*2) (*2) [0.05mg/l] Number of colon bacillus 3000 2400 0 0 0 (piece/m3) *1. Items subject to the laws and regulations but excluded from this list were not used as raw materials and therefore not measured. *2. There is no max. or min. records as survey is conducted only once a year. Environmental Data of Each Site Prevention of Air Pollution Having eliminated the coating process in 2000, no facility at the Atsugi site generates air pollution subject to legal regulations. The Tohoku site operates heavy oil boilers subject to the Air Pollution Control Law. The boilers are operated on a voluntary management standard to control air quality. No facility at the Hiratsuka site generates air pollution subject to legal regulations. Tohoku Site (Koriyama First Business Office): Air Pollution Control Law Emission standard Item Measured value [mg/l] Regulation value Voluntary control value Below the detection limit Smuts [g/m3N] 0.3 0.18 [0.005mg/l] Sulfur oxide [m3N/h] 4.37 2.63 0.11 Nitrogen oxide [ppm] 180 170 115 Environmental Data of Each Site Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 49 Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Noise We are implementing a variety of efforts to detect abnormalities at an early stage, including a system of prior examination before introducing equipment, equipment inspections at the beginning of every operation and regular patrols on the premises. We also regularly monitor noise levels at borders every year. At the Hiratsuka site, a location with many types of machining equipment, we are working to reduce risks by moving particularly noisy equipment to a soundproofed room and placing noise reducing covers over exhaust vents. Results show that measured noise levels not only meet legal standards but fall below our own voluntary standards as well. Soundproofed room Exhaust vent with a noise reduction cover Atsugi Site: Kanagawa Prefecture Government regulations Measured point Regulation value [dB][daytime] Voluntary control value [dB][daytime] Measured value [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 70 68 66 At the western border line 70 68 58 At the southern border line 70 68 57 At the northern border line 70 68 64 Tohoku Site (Koriyama First Business Office): Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Measured point Regulation value [dB][daytime] Voluntary control value [dB][daytime] Measured value [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 75 73 45 At the western border line 75 73 49 At the southern border line 1 75 73 61 At the southern border line 2 75 73 52 Tohoku Site (Koriyama Second Business Office): Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Measured point Regulation value [dB][daytime] Voluntary control value [dB][daytime] Measured value [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 75 73 47 At the western border line 1 75 73 46 At the western border line 2 75 73 46 At the northern border line 75 73 46 Hiratsuka Site: Kanagawa Prefecture Government regulations Measured point Regulation value [dB][daytime] Voluntary control value [dB][daytime] Measured value [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 65 64 59 At the western border line 65 64 49 At the southern border line 75 73 64 At the northern border line 75 73 59 Environmental Data of Each Site Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 50 Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Groundwater Management With regard to organochlorine substances, we completely eliminated the use of trichloroethylene in 1970 and 1,1,1-trichloroethane in 1993. The Atsugi site uses its own two wells, one for drawing groundwater and the other for monitoring groundwater, to continuously monitor water quality by regularly testing for the presence of six organochlorine substances. In fiscal 2013, levels of tetrachloroethylene were higher than permitted under environmental standards. Anritsu, however, has never used this substance, and the local government is also aware that the source of contamination lies upstream from Anritsu. We will nevertheless continue to monitor the site. Item Environmental standard level [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Trichloroethylene 0.03 0.0074 Tetrachloroethylene*1 0.01 0.0257 1,1,1-trichloroethane 1 <0.0005 1,1-dichloroethylene 0.1 <0.002 Dichloromethane 0.02 （*2） Cis-1,2-dichloroethylene 0.04 0.012 *1. Tetrachloroethylene surpassed acceptable level, but Atsugi site has never used it. *2 Results for fiscal 2008 were below the lower limit of quantification (0.002 mg/l) and therefore not measured. Environmental Data of Each Site Risk Countermeasures The Atsugi site operates an industrial wastewater treatment facility to detoxify wastewater containing acids and alkali from industrial wastewater release sections and wastewater discharged from boilers. In fiscal 2013 we upgraded this facility, partly to address the wear and tear of facilities, but also because changes in our business structure have led to a significant decrease in the volume of wastewater as well as a change in its quality. Moreover, intermediate treatment liquids stored in large tanks posed a major risk of leakage in the event of a contingency such as an earthquake. To eliminate the risk of such leakages, we upgraded the facilities by modifying the structure to incorporate a breakwater to prevent any leaks of wastewater or chemicals. We further reduced the risk by adding a second monitoring system to ensure that water exceeding the permitted pH limit would not be discharged into the surrounding environment. At the Tohoku site we have installed a pH monitor and emergency cutoff valve to address the risk of water being discharged from boilers and septic tanks in the event of malfunction, which could cause the pH level to exceed regulatory standards. In addition, each site has developed response procedures to address the potential leakage of chemical substances due to human error or natural disaster, and regular equipment inspections and training are also conducted. Overall view of the industrial wastewater Neutralization segment of the industrial treatment facility wastewater treatment facility Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 51 Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Water Resources Over the past ten years, the Anritsu Group in Japan has reduced water use by nearly 50%. We have been reducing water use at the Atsugi site over the years through efforts such as monthly leakage inspections, upgrading to water-saving toilets and using circulated water in facilities. We will continue to use water effectively. L Water consumption (Anritsu Group in Japan) (m3) 180,000 ■Hiratsuka Site ■Touhoku Site Efforts to Preserve Resources 141,194 ■Tanasawa Site ■Atsugi Site 150,000 127,070 Introduced a body detection sensor for men’s toilets 140,402 129,213 129,681 Introduced water-saving toilets 120,000 109,558 98,402 Introduced automatic faucets 94,561 99,578 Used well water for toilet flushing 90,000 79,325 Installed water-saving valves for faucets 72,448 Installed a sound emulator, “Otohime,” for toilets 60,000 Conducted leakage inspections 30,000 Participated in Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Efforts (participated in a tree planting activity) 0 Participated in a clean-up of the Sagami River 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 FY Chemical Substances Management Utilization of chemical substances by the Anritsu Group companies in Japan is determined by designating banned or restricted substances from the standpoints of environmental regulations, hazardousness, safety and health, and disaster prevention, and having expert evaluators with knowledge of each criterion conduct prior assessments. In addition, each department enters the amounts of chemical substances purchased, used and disposed within a three-month period into a chemical substances management system. We use this database to compile the amount of substances subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, calculate the total stored amount of hazardous materials as designated by the Fire Service Act, and monitor chemical substances designated by revisions in laws and regulations. In fiscal 2013 we raised the efficiency of our chemical substances management operations by upgrading the chemical substances management system used for prior assessment and registration of the above-mentioned substances and for monitoring their use. We also sought to visualize our internal efforts in chemical substances management through measures such as expanding the checklist for environmental regulations related to the use of chemical substances. With respect to substances designated by the PRTR Law, the volume we handle at our sites changed significantly due to a revision of the law in 2010 that excluded from the list liquid bisphenol A epoxy resin, an ingredient used at the Atsugi site, while adding new ingredients, including methylnaphthalene, which is an additive agent, to heavy oil used as fuel at the Tohoku site. More than one ton of methylnaphthalene was handled at the Tohoku site in fiscal 2013 and reported accordingly. Because it is burned in a boiler, very little methylnaphthalene is externally released; nevertheless, we will reduce the amount we handle by reducing our use of heavy oil. Use Regulates Chemical Substances of Anritsu Group L Chemical Substances Management under PRTR Law (t) 10.14 C l a s s of 7 s u b s t a n c e s : C F C ( C h l o r of l u o r o c a r b o n s ) , 10 Banned halon, arbon tetrachloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, HBFC ■Hiratsuka Site substances ( Hydrobromof luoroc ar bons ), bromochloroethane, 8 ■Touhoku Site 7.43 methyl bromide ■Tanasawa Site 6 Class of 7 substances: HCFC ■Atsugi Site 4.81 (Hydrochlorofluorocarbons), trichloroethylene, 4 Limited-use 2.55 2.60 2.48 2.61 tetrachloroethylene, dichloromethane, HFC substances (Hydrofluorocarbons), PFC ( Perfluorocarbons), 2 1.62 SF6 (sulfur hexafluoride) 0.41 0.51 0.70 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 FY Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 52 Eco-Office, Eco-Factory PCB Management At the Atsugi site, we tightly control condensers of electric devices, fluorescent ballasts and pressure sensitive copying paper that contain polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) within the storage standards for specially controlled industrial waste. Storage status is reported annually to the prefecture under the Law concerning Special Measures for Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Waste. In 2006, analysis conducted while upgrading an extra high-voltage transformation installation identified a small amount of PCB in two large transformers. In the course of replacing transformers in 2010, we identified a small amount of PCB in the insulation oil of decrepit equipment and issued an additional notification in June 2011. In 2005, we filed an early request for the treatment of PCBs with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation. Waste Reduction The Anritsu Group in Japan has sought to reduce waste and achieve zero emissions* through a companywide initiative involving all employees by conducting training and raising awareness, and by promoting 3R activities and separation of waste in our offices and production lines. As a result, we have achieved and maintained zero emissions since 2004. At the Atsugi site, we began separating paper containers used for food in fiscal 2013. This is expected to further improve the situation by shifting approximately two tons of paper food containers each year from thermal recycling to material recycling. We will continue our efforts to enhance the quality of our recycling activities. In fiscal 2013, the volume of industrial waste was higher than in fiscal 2012 due to factors such as an increase in waste oil generated by mechanical repairs at the Hiratsuka site. * Zero emissions: Recycling all waste. Anritsu defines this as achieving a final landfill disposal rate of less than 0.5%. L Examples of separate collection of waste L The amount of waste by type (Antirsu Group companies in Japan) By thorough classification collection, we are working to reduce waste. (t) ■General waste 196 191 189 200 ■Industrial waste 165 161 165 137 125 115 116 115 100 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 FY Co lum n Kanagawa Prefecture Distinguished Service Award for Environmental Preservation In recognition of my service to environmental preservation and contribution to reducing waste and promoting recycling, I was honored in fiscal 2013 to become the first Anritsu employee to receive the Distinguished Service Award for Environmental Preservation from the head of the prefectural administration center for the central region of Kanagawa Prefecture. To date, we have implemented the following measures at the company. ·Reduced sludge by modifying the operating conditions of the kitchen drain water Recycling Center, Anritsu Kousan processing facility Co., Ltd. ·Introduced an earthworm farm to reduce general waste by using earthworm Makoto Noji ecology to decompose leaves and weeds into soil-enriching matter ·Upgraded the chemical substances management system to improve its efficiency and maintain compliance with laws and regulations ·Upgraded the industrial wastewater treatment facility to address issues including aging facilities and reducing the risks of leakage and exceeding permitted pH levels Outside the company, we are promoting the 3Rs in the community in collaboration with regional offices, local government and waste disposal companies as a member of the Atsugi Area Waste Renewal Conference. I have been encouraged by this award to seek an even deeper level of partnership with the regional community in environmental preservation efforts both inside and outside the company. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 53 Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Eco-Logistics L Overview of Eco-Logistics •Delivery: The carrier takes out the product from a returnable box and delivers it to the place customer has designated. After delivery, the returnable box is brought back by the carrier. •Pick up: The carrier picks up the product after they wrapped with the packaging materials they brought by themselves. •Response to carrier: We maintain transport quality by conducting in-depth discussions between carrier and Anritsu to build a safety system on transport. L Comparison of conventional cardboard packaging with Eco-Logistics Conventional cardboard packaging Eco-Logistics Customer needs to dispose a lot of packaging materials. Customer needs to dispose only a few packaging materials. At deliver y -A large amount of waste. -Small amount of waste. -Cost of waste disposal will be expensive. -Enable to reduce the cost of waste disposal. Carrier picks up the product af ter wrapping it with their Customers package by themselves with the packaging materials packaging materials. sent by Anritsu. -Customer's product packaging operation becomes At pick up -Customer's product packaging operation occurs. unnecessar y. -New packaging materials are required. = Waste occurs. -New packaging materials are unnecessar y. = Waste reduction. L An example of delivery The product is Carrier removes The product first covered with the product and attached polyethylene bag from the returnequipment box to prevent from able box. are delivered to scratches and customer, covdust, and then packaged in returnable ered with polyethylene bag for protection. box. Invoice is attached to the product. The product and attached equipment After delivery, carrier brings back the box are packaged as in the left picture. returnable box and packaging materials. L Reduction of packaging material waste For returnable box, customer only needs to dispose the polyethylene bag that covers (%) 100 100 the product. Comparing the traditional cardboard packaging with returnable containers, waste 50 emissions by packaging materials for customer will be greatly improved, which is about 6 0 94% reduction by weight. (Assuming that returnable box is used 20 times) Cardboard Ecopackaging Logistics Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 54 Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Col umn C reating Env iro nmentally S ou n d E x port P a c k a gi n g Logistics Center, Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Koichi Fujisaki (Left) Hardware Technology Department, No. 2 Business Division, Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Yutaka Yoshino (right) Measuring instruments are Anritsu’s core products, and as precision tools they require packaging for protection from vibration and shock during transport. Over the years, our export packages had been growing in volume despite the small size of the actual product, due to the use of urethane foam, produced through the chemical reaction of mixing two liquids, as shock-absorbing material. Packaging with this foam is thick so that it maintains the necessary buffer for absorbing the shock of a fall. In addition, the liquid concentrate for urethane foam also contains Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate, designated as a Type I chemical substance under the PRTR Law. Due to our concerns for the environment, we sought to reduce the size of the packaging and develop shock-absorbing material that does not include urethane foam. First, we developed a shock-absorbing method using a structural assembly of cardboard. Next, we tackled the packaging of standard attachments and optional parts, which had formerly been packaged separately. We effectively used the space between the outer packaging and shock absorbers to house standard attachments and devised an efficient method using standardized packaging forms for optional parts. As a result, we were able to reduce the size of the packages by 40% compared to our conventional packages and create an environmentally sound export packaging free of hazardous substances. (1) Reducing package size (2) New cardboard package without urethane foam as The new cardboard package a shock-absorbing material Main body is smaller than the previous of measuring package. instrument Using a structural assembly of cardboard to absorb shock Standard attachments and optional parts Making effective use of space between the outer packaging and shock absorbers to house standard attachments and optional parts Left: New cardboard package New package has been reduced in Right: Previous package with urethane size by 40% compared to the previous foam as a shock-absorbing material package and efficiently houses the main body of the measuring instrument, standard attachments and optional parts. Recycling Used Products Anritsu led the measuring instrument industry in establishing the Recycling Center L Recycling System at Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., in 2000. Anritsu Kousan obtained a license to Finite resources engage in the industrial waste disposal business in September 2002 and started operating in fiscal 2003. Material The Recycling Center has been rigorously separating waste since fiscal 2005. Material recycling Once completely sorted, all waste emitted from the Recycle Center is recycled. Chemical recycling The Recycling Center also promotes the reuse and refurbishment of used products. Recycling Thermal recycling Refurbished measuring instruments are products used for demonstration. Although these products are recycled, they are highly reliable after being recondiDisassembly/Selection Reuse Design/production tioned and calibrated by Anritsu and are provided with a one-year guarantee. Zero emission Collection Refurbish Sales Anritsu Kousan, acting as a sales agent, sells the products to universities and other educational institutions in Japan, thus extending the lives of the products. Customers Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 55 Promotion of Environmental Management Eco-Products Development Eco-Products Development Applying the life cycle thinking approach, Anritsu is promoting environmental efforts across the product life cycle, from product design, parts procurement and manufacturing to shipment, customer use and recycling. To accelerate the provision of environmentally sound products as a pillar of environmental management, Anritsu is actively pursuing efforts whereby it utilizes its own technologies to comply with environmental regulations around the world and conducts high-quality product assessment from the early design stage of every product’s development. Complying with Product Environmental Regulations Worldwide The European Union (EU) enacted the WEEE Directive in 2005, the RoHS Directive in 2006, the REACH regulations in 2007 and the ErP Directive in 2009. Environmental regulation of products centered on the EU has been expanding throughout the world. Moreover, product environmental regulations now require prompt response. Communication, information sharing and the unified response of Group companies outside Japan are facilitated by the Global Environment Management Meeting, for example. Global Product Assessment Implementation Guidelines The development of environmentally sound products has been conducted separately as product assessment in Anritsu Group companies in Japan and as DfE (Design for Environment) in Anritsu Company (U.S.A.). Anritsu established global product assessment standards and global product assessment implementation guidelines to integrate these methods so that Anritsu Group companies could develop environmentally sound products within a unified, global standard in 2008. In fiscal 2012, we responded to environmental regulations and customer requirements by revising the product assessment criteria for the Anritsu Group in Japan. In fiscal 2013, we began applying revised criteria for product assessment. We also began conducting LCA* for all our developed products instead of only selected developed products. * Life Cycle Assessment: method for quantitatively assessing environmental impact across the entire life cycle of a product, encompassing the extraction of raw materials, manufacturing, use, collection and disposal. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 56 Eco-Products Development L Operational Procedure Global product assessment (target setting, design review, and evaluations) is incorporated into the product development process (including target setting, test production and evaluation) prior to commercialization. To ensure objective and responsible product assessment, Anritsu conducts third-party evaluation by the Quality Management Department and other entities, and initiates follow-up actions if targets have not been achieved. Development proposal Develpoment decision Detailed design Test production Commercialization Basic design Evaluation Utilization Recycling Product assessment Ⅰ Recycling Center (target setting stage) Customers Product assessment Ⅱ Technology (design review stage) development division Product assessment Ⅲ (Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd.) Quality control division (evaluation stage) * Follow-ups are conducted as needed at each stage of product assessment. L Evaluation Items Evaluation items in the global product assessment cover basic factors such as improvements in volume, mass and power consumption against a reference product. Additional items for evaluation include resource savings and the reduction of harmful substances and overall environmental impact throughout production, physical distribution, use and disposal. ·Reduced volume and mass · Reduction of consumable supplies Resource saving ; ·Adoption of reusable or recyclable components · Reduction of surface treatment Reduced load during ·Expanded functionality and longer operating life · Reduction of difficult-to-process materials manufacturing ·Use of recycled paper for operation manuals Reduced harmful ·Elimination of banned substances in products ·Compliance with RoHS Directive substances ·Reduction of substances subject to RoHS Directive ·Reduction of other harmful substances Reduced load in physical ∙Reduction of packing materials ·Ease of transport af ter collection distribution ·Use of recycled paper for packing materials ·Reduced power consumption during operation ·Designed to lower power consumption Reduced load during use ·Inclusion of a standby mode ·Clear instructions on power-saving functions ∙Fewer parts ∙Recycle labeling on batteries ∙Reduced use of dif ficult-to-recycle materials ∙Response to WEEE Directive Reduced load at time of ∙Designed for easy dismantling and disassembly ∙Response to Chinese RoHS disposal ∙Identification of the material on resin components ∙Reduced variety of materials and use of common materials Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 57 Eco-Products Development Eco-Product Program L Major Environmentally Conscious Criteria for L Environmentally Conscious Products Excellent Eco Products Anritsu Group certifies the Excellent Eco Product and Eco •Top industry ranking for environmentally conscious Product as environmentally conscious products based on the properties •Environmental information ready for disclosure results of global product assessment. •CO2 emission evaluated by Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) •Excellent Eco Product: •Environmental management system in place at the Product that meets Excellent Eco Product requirements relevant business entity and main production site. •Eco Product: Product that meets Eco Product requirements •Assessed Product: Product that meets Assessed Product requirements Environmentally Conscious Excellent Eco Product Products Eco Product For Excellent Eco Product, Excellent Eco Product mark and environmental information of the product is Assessed Product described in the catalog etc. Excellent Eco Product Eco -P ro d uc t s R e c o g ni z e d in Fis c a l 2013 NH2505A Remote Monitor and Control Equipment Development Department, Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Yasuhiro Nishikawa The NH2505A Remote Monitor and Control Equipment is an all-in-one telemeter with the functions required for remotely monitoring areas such as river environments, and is accessible via a leased 3.4 kHz line, leased 50 b/s line, public analog line or IP network. While it retains the basic functions of the NH3000 series used as the master station, the product benefits from greater emphasis on remote monitoring functions, which makes it better suited for use as a slave station. In developing it as an environmentally sound product, our goal was to reduce the size of the equipment without sacrificing performance. This was accomplished by designing circuitry while focused on its functions as a slave station and modifying the casing structure. Specifically, we achieved this result by designing the circuitry based on a selection of components that are optimal for reducing size and saving energy and by reducing the number of LED displays. We also modified the structural design of the casing to guarantee strength without using steel sheets. Weight was significantly reduced by replacing the 1.6 mm thick steel sheets used as the main material for our conventional products with 1.2 mm aluminum sheets. LRepresentative system As a result, we reduced volume by 19%, mass by 64% and power consumption by configuration 78% compared to conventional products. In addition, we modified the heat dissipation NH3001A I/O NH3002A structure to meet the need for transverse installation, thus enabling its use in locations Master station with limited space. （%） Volume （%） Mass （%） Power consumption Leased line 100 Reduced by 100 100 19% Reduced by 64% Reduced by 50 50 50 78% NH2505A NH2505A Slave station 0 0 0 Conventional NH2505A Conventional NH2505A Conventional NH2505A product product product I/O I/O Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 58 Eco-Products Development Ec o -P ro d uc t s R e c o g ni z e d in Fis c a l 2013 KWS9005/9006ANxx Built-In Multi-Lane Weighing System 1st Development Department, Development Division, Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. The KWS9005/9006ANxx Built-In Multi-Lane Weighing System comprises operation, control and weighting segments, which are built into a filling machine. It provides highly accurate weight measurements of objects having various shapes, from food products to precision parts. The system is optimal for weighing miniature parts and narrow pitch conditions, capable of meeting the needs of high-density layouts with a thin scale measuring 30 mm wide and a minimum pitch of 33 mm. A relentless effort was made to facilitate its incorporation by reducing the size of the operation, control and weighting segments and by realizing single-cable connection between the segments. In focusing on its incorporation into the filling machine, we sought to reduce the size and weight of the controlling unit by assembling the control segment into the packaging machine to reduce the casing, and to minimize the printed circuit board by switching to a high-density unit and adopting serial communication to reduce the amount of circuitry and connectors. Power consumption was reduced by selecting higher efficiency components and modifying the circuitry in order to facilitate the switch from hardware to software. As a result, we reduced volume by 80%, mass by 73% and power consumption by 88% compared to conventional products. (%) Volume (%) Mass (%) Power consumption 100 100 100 50 Reduced by 50 Reduced by 50 80% 73% Reduced by 88% 0 0 0 Conventional KWS9005/ Conventional KWS9005/ Conventional KWS9005/ product 9006ANxx product 9006ANxx product 9006ANxx Operation segment Control segment Weighting segment Weighting segment (in isolation) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 59 Eco-Products Development Promotion of Supply Chain Management The provision of environmentally sound products requires the use of parts and materials that reduce environmental impact. The Anritsu Group pursues environmentally conscious supply chain management by practicing green procurement and conducting research on chemical substances contained in purchased parts. Green Procurement Anritsu undertakes green procurement in accordance with its Green Procurement Guidelines established in fiscal 1999 by preferentially procuring environmentally sound parts and materials. Since Anritsu Corporation’s environmental partner company certification system was launched in 2001, the company has been evaluating the status of Anritsu suppliers’ environmental management systems (EMS) and product assessment procedures by ranking them at three levels and encouraging the environmental initiatives of suppliers. In fiscal 2009, we incorporated into the system a means for assessing the management status of chemical substances in products. We have also provided suppliers with check sheets and conducted factory audits to strengthen the reliability of information on chemical substances in products. In fiscal 2011, we introduced the concept of preserving biodiversity to our activities and began implementing initiatives to deepen supplier understanding of biodiversity preservation. Anritsu Group As of fiscal 2013, 151 suppliers have been certified as environmental partners. Green Procurement Guidelines Green Procurement Guidelines Management of Chemical Substances Contained in Products Ensuring no harmful substances are in our products requires proper and continuing chemical substance management by suppliers and companies further upstream. Anritsu seeks to procure appropriate parts and materials by investigating chemical substances contained in purchased goods in accordance with our Green Procurement Guidelines and entering the results into a database. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 60 Promotion of Environmental Management Group Environmental Impact Data Group Environmental Impact Data*1 (fiscal 2013) Anritsu quantifies its environmental impact and environmental protection activities in monetary and physical units in order to assess and upgrade the efficiency of these activities. We disclose the results to enable our stakeholders to gain a deeper understanding of our environmental actions. The environmental impact mass balance of the Anritsu Group’s global business activities is summarized below. Percentage changes from fiscal year 2012 are in parentheses. INPUT OUTPUT Electricity CO2*2 Electric power purchased 27,458.2 MWh Carbon dioxides generated 12,710.8 t from power companies for use at manufacturing (-1.4(%) as a result of using electric (-1.5 %) power, gas and fuels sites and offices NOx Gas 71,801.5 m³ Nitrogen oxides 1,053.5 kg City gas, LPG and natural (-8.2%) generated as a result of (61.7 %) Global Environmental Impact Data gas used as energy using gas and fuels SOx Fuels 154.5kl Sulfuric oxides 385.6 kg Heavy oil and light oil (-2.3%) generated as a result of using gas and fuels (50.5 %) used as energy Wastewater Water Wastewater discharged 82,582.3 m³ 100,518.8 m³ from manufacturing sites ( -8.7 %) Tap water and ground water (excluding recycled water) (-7.9%) and offices BOD 261.3 kg Biochemical oxygen demand (36.5 %) Chemical substances Chemical substances that are regulated by laws in Japan 12.8 t Waste (toxic, deleterious and hazadous (-22.6%) Municipal waste in Japan substances, organic solvents, and specified chemical Waste other than industrial substances) waste that is generated as a 59.1 t result of business activities (such as kitchen waste, (6.3 %) waste paper and waste Paper 44.8 t wood) Copy paper used at Industrial waste in Japan factories and offices (-3.6%) Waste generated as a result of business activities, that is regulated by the ‘Waste 66.2 t Disposal and Public (11.7 %) Packaging Material Cleaning Law' such as Wrapping, packing and 334.6 t sludge, waste plastics, packaging material for products waste acid and waste alkali and packaging material for (3.3%) transportation Waste outside Japan 252.6 t All waste generated by (17.7 %) business activities Recycling rate 78.5% Environmental Performance Data Sheet For a breakdown of the data, please refer to the Environmental Performance Data Sheet. *1 Environmental impact expressed in the form of a balance sheet in which substances entering the company are identified and listed by name and mass in one column and substances and mass exiting the company are identified and listed in the other column to more clearly display the relationship between business activities and environmental impact. *2 Calculations for energy sources other than electricity for sites both in and outside Japan are based on the emission factor under the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, as revised March 29, 2006. Calculation of CO2 emission volume from electricity use in the United States is based on the emission factor of 0.285, while CO2 emission volume from electricity use in regions other than the United States is based on the emission factor provided by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (actual figure for fiscal 2012: 0.487). Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 61 Promotion of Environmental Management Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting (fiscal 2013) In fiscal 2013, investment into environmental conservation increased by 34.4% compared to the previous fiscal year, due to upgrades in air conditioning and industrial wastewater treatment facilities, and a shift to Hf inverter fluorescent lighting. Costs decreased by 8.0% as a result of eliminating extraordinary costs related to soil contamination reported in fiscal 2012. The 18.9% increase in economic impact was partially due to our consistent efforts to systematically upgrade air conditioners to higher efficiency options, our annual energy-saving activities, such as the Cool Biz and Warm Biz initiatives, and lower power consumption achieved by our products. •Aggregate scope: Anritsu Corp. and Group Companies in Japan •Period: April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Figures in brackets are the results from FY 2012 Environmental conservation cost Benefits Investment Cost Economic benefits Environmental impact Category Breakdown (in million yen) (in million yen) (in million yen) reduction benefits Pollution prevention cost 3.3 [0.02] 22.0 [41.1] 149.4 [146.1] Global environmental Prevention of global 3,764 (t-CO2) 18.8 [17.0] 16.9 [12.3] 164.6 [135.7] Business area cost conservation cost warming [3,346（t-CO2 )] Resource recycling/ Reduced due to sale Resource circulation 59.1 [62.4] 0.0[0.0] utilization activities of valuable resources cost Waste disposal cost 48.3 [50.6] 27.0 [12.2] 224 (t) Green purchasing/procurement cost 23.4[23.2] Upstream/ Design of environmentally 56.6 [38.4]* 1,254(t-CO 2 )* 20.2 [22.3] downstream cost conscious products [1,076(t-CO 2 )] Recycling and treatment of products, 0.0 [0.0] containers and packaging Environmental education/training 20.3 [26.6] 3.7 [0.0] Operation and maintenance of EMS and 45.2 [46.4] 3.1 [0.0] internal audit Administration cost Environmental load monitoring and 0.8 [0.0] 19.2 [18.2] 1.4 [0.0] measurement cost Personnel expenses for 6.2 [4.9] 0.0 [0.0] environmental management Greening and upkeep of greenery 9.3 [9.8] 0.0 [0.0] Support to community groups, 1.2 [1.2] 0.0 [0.0] environmental conservation bodies, etc. Social activity cost Disclosure of information 9.8 [8.1] 0.0 [0.0] Research and development to reduce R&D cost 0.1 [0.4] 0.4 [0.0] environmental loads Environmental Cost incurred for recovery from 0.0 [0.0] 0.0 [0.0] remediation cost environmental degradation Total 22.9 [17.1] 301.3 [327.4] 406.4 [332.5] Total after the removal of Upstream/downstream cost 349.7 [294.0] Percentage change from FY2012 to FY 2013 34.4% -8.0% 18.9% * Estimated environmental impact reduction benefits when products are in use. Reduction of electric power: 2,574 MWh [2,261 MWh] The Anritsu Group is gradually switching to energy-saving equipment as part of our ongoing effort to reduce greenhouse gases. In fiscal 2013, we implemented the following measures at the Atsugi and Tohoku sites. Atsugi site:upgraded turbo chillers •Cost:91 million yen •Reduction in CO2 emissions:76 t-CO2/year Tohoku site:upgraded air conditioners, shifted to Hf inverter fluorescent lighting •Cost:73.9 million yen •Reduction in CO2 emissions:16 t-CO2/year Centrifugal chiller unit Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 62 History of Anritsu's Environmental Management Activities Certified and registered as an “Environmentally Sound Business Site” under the Kanagawa Prefectural Ordinance on Conservation of Living 2013 Environment (Atsugi site). Established an environmentally sound factory, the Koriyama Second Business Office. Ceased operations at the Tanasawa site due to the consolidation of Anritsu Device Co., Ltd. operations at the Atsugi site. 2012 Created the new Hiratsuka site following the opening of a new plant by AT Techmac Co., Ltd. (Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa Prefecture). 2011 Contributed to local communities through activities such as the Radiation Seminars for PTAs in Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture. Received the Kanagawa Prefecture award for meritorious service in environmental improvement (for promoting a recycling-oriented society) as a 2010 company from the Governor of Kanagawa Prefecture. 2009 Joined the promotion partners for Nippon Keidanren's Declaration of Biodiversity. 2008 Expanded the scope of ISO14001 certification to the Anritsu business sites. Wins the Kanagawa Global Environment Award 2007. 2007 Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) aquired ISO14001 certification. Wins President Award from the Atsugi Area Waste Renewal Conference. 2006 Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) wins Excellence Award for 2006 from Morgan Hill, California. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. wins an excellence award for the business division in a zero emission activity proposals contest sponsored by the 2005 Fukushima Prefectural Government. The first Global Environment Management Meeting was held at Anritsu Ltd. (U.K.) Revised Anritsu Group Green Procurement Guidelines . 2004 Anritsu group Companies in Atsugi, Tanasawa, and Tohoku sites achieved zero emission. 2003 Integrated ISO14001 certification to include Anritsu group companies in Atsugi, Tanasawa, and Tohoku sites. Organized Environment Promotion Center unified disparate environment-related departments. 2002 Expanded ISO14001 certification to include Tanasawa Site and Anritsu group in the Atsugi area. Acquired the Industrial Waste Disposal Contractor License for Recycling Center in Japan. Anritsu Limited (U.K.) acquired ISO14001 certification. 2000 Established the Anritsu Eco-Product system. Established the Recycling Center. Published Anritsu Green Procurement Guidelines for product development . 1999 Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. acquired ISO14001 certification. Acquired ISO14001 certification for Atsugi Site (Japan). Atsugi site was commended by the Manager of the Kanto International Trade and Industry Bureau as an excellent 'green' factory. 1998 Organized the Environmental Engineering Group in the Technology Division. Organized the Lead-free Soldering Committee. 1997 Established Anritsu's environmental policy. Joined the Green Purchasing Network . 1996 Established the Anritsu Environment Manual. Decommissioned the facilities specified in the Air Pollution Control Act (kerosene boilers) at Atsugi Site. 1995 Received the Atsugi Site Waste Renewal Conference Chairman's Award. Reorganized the ZP Committee at Atsugi Site into the Environment Management Committee. 1994 Organized the Product Assessment Committee. Ended use of all ozone-depleting substances (except refrigerants and fire extinguishing chemicals) companywide. Organized the Environment Management Committee. Made adjustments to comply with statutory nickel-cadmium regulations. 1993 Established an environmental principle and environment management system regulations. Investigated flame retardant bromic substances and disposal methods. Organized the Energy Reduction Subcommittee. 1992 Received the Atsugi Site Waste Renewal Conference Chairman's Award. 1991 Atsugi Site received the Japan Greening Center President's Award. Started centralized purchase and distribution of chemical substances. 1990 Organized the Environment Management Section within the General Affairs Department at Atsugi Site. 1987 Constructed elevated pipelines system of inorganic wastewater processing at Atsugi Site. 1981 Atsugi Site received an Excellent Environment Preservation Award from the Kanagawa Prefecture Central Area Administration Center. 1980 Atsugi Site was commended as a Kanagawa Prefecture 'green' model factory. 1979 Atsugi Site was commended by the Kanagawa Environmental Conservation Association for its excellent environmental conservation practices. 1978 Connected waste water other than rain water to the public sewage system at Atsugi Site. 1974 Introduced an activated sludge processing facility as the kitchen drain water processing. 1970 Established the Zero Pollution (ZP) Committee at Atsugi Site. 1962 Constructed a wastewater treatment facility after opening a chemical engineering plant at Atsugi Site. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 63 Communication with Stakeholders Goal 4 Customers Communication with Stakeholders Anritsu has been developing businesses closely aligned Anritsu establishes partnerships by pro-actively disclosing with the information and communications industry in China. information and dialoguing with stakeholders throughout its To further strengthen our efforts on TDD-based LTE, on business activities. December 6, only days after obtaining our license, we coWith sponsored the “LTE and LTE-A Measurement Technology Customers Seminar” with the TD Industry Association (TDIA), an organiWith NGOs With National and NPOs and Local Governments zation that promotes TD technology in China. The seminar Goal 1 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure, and was attended by 135 participants, including leading figures in Comfortable China’s mobile services industry and reporters from the Society With With Suppliers Shareholders and Partners Goal 2 Goal 3 and Investors media. We gave a presentation on the latest LTE and LTEMaintaining Harmony Promoting Global with the Global Environmental Socio-Economy Protection Advanced measureFor the Global Goal 4 ment technology and Promoting Communications With Environment Employees and Nature Conservation set up an exhibit to 地域社会 With Local Communities との対話 demonstrate the instruments. Customers LTE and LTE-A Measurement Technology Anritsu has launched a new brand statement that expresses Seminar in China our promise of “sharing our customers’ dreams and creating a vision, and exceeding customer expectations by delivering L Exhibiting at an International Tradeshow for solid results through innovation.” Food and Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Technology Anritsu Industrial Solutions Europe Ltd. (ABUK) exhibited at interpack 2014 in Dusseldorf, Germany, one of the world’s L Mobile World Congress 2014 largest tradeshows on packaging, manufacturing and proAt the Mobile World Congress 2014 in Barcelona, Spain, the cessing machinery. world’s largest tradeshow for wireless communication, we We set up booths in the exhibition halls for food products, exhibited our latest LTE measurement solutions that are conbeverages, medical products, cosmetics manufacturing tributing to the popularity of mobile broadband services. The machines and packaging machines. Our exhibits highlighted solutions and technologies we showcased encompass the products such as the Dual X-ray Inspection System for entire spectrum, from the development and manufacturing of detecting chicken bone fragments, and automatic combinamobile devices to base stations and monitoring. We also tion weighers that boast a 50-year history as well as the demonstrated LTE-Advanced at a well-received exhibit with world’s No. 1 check weighing technology. two of our customers—leadThe Anritsu booths welcomed about 320 people. Most of ing vendors in the chipset these visitors came for specific purposes, some of them industry—providing support bringing actual food products or photographs and inquiring with their mobile phone about the level of performance our instruments can deliver in devices. detecting contamiMobile World Congress 2014 nants. We intend to incorporate their feedL LTE and LTE-A Measurement Technology back into future sales Seminar in China and development On December 4, 2013, Anritsu obtained its Chinese license for activities. Food and Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LTE services based on the TDD (Time Division Duplex) method. Technology Tradeshow Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 64 Communication with Stakeholders Shareholders and Investors Shareholders and Investors We also received the “Integrity Award,” which recognized Anritsu for We are proactively disclosing information and encouraging its excellence in corporate social responsibility, compliance and interinteractive communication to more effectively meet the needs nal control. In addition, we of shareholders and investors and applying their feedback to were selected for the improve our business and IR activities. FTSE4Good Index, a globally recognized SRI benchmark. L Disclosure Policy Anritsu will disclose accurate information at any time to every Corporate Value Improvement Award Integrity Award stakeholders with good faith and positive attitude by observing the related laws. L Activities from Fiscal 2013 to the First Quarter Action policy of Fiscal 2014 1.Anritsu will disclose accurate information Since Anritsu Corporation conducts business worldwide that does in clear and plain speech not come into direct contact with general consumers, we think it is actively with timely and promptness; and broadly with equality very important to inform our shareholders as faithfully as possible of 2.Anritsu will place a strict control on information management and strive to prevent insider trading. our business structure, framework for generating profits and other factors that affect our business results. Our ongoing activities include L System for Investor Relation Activities quarterly results briefings; individual meetings with international instiAnritsu seeks to obtain an appropriate assessment of its corporate tutional investors; roundtable conferences for shareholders after our value through communication with shareholders and investors while general shareholders’ meeting; annual reports, business reports and striving to achieve higher shareholder satisfaction by enhancing corother publications; disclosure of information and shareholder/invesporate value and delivering returns to shareholders. To this end, we tor questionnaires on our website; and posting of IR information on proactively conduct IR activities under the leadership of the IR external financial information sites. Promotion Team of the Corporate Communication Department. From fiscal 2013 to May 2014, we disclosed information mainly Comments by shareholders and investors are shared with our through quarterly financial reports and progress reports on our midInformation Disclosure Committee, which includes members of term business plan. To expand our shareholder base we actively management, and at the IR Promotion Meeting along with informacommunicated with a broad range of investors by conducting overtion on the participation of those responsible for IR activities in the seas IR activities, holding briefings for individual investors, and parManagement Strategy Center, Accounting and Control and Legal ticipating in IR forums. We also enhanced the transparency of our Departments. This feedback is also used for improving information information disclosure by publishing an annual report on a website disclosure and business activities. dedicated to investor relations. L Recognition by External Organizations In fiscal 2013, Anritsu received the “Corporate Value Improvement Award,” an Excellence Award from the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. The award is given to companies for management practices that Results briefing for institutional investors enhance corporate value from the standpoint of investors and contribute to increasing the appeal of the securities market. Anritsu was highly commended for the sincerity of our information disclosure as Annual report 2014 well as our efforts in corporate management and finance. L Shareholder Composition (as of March 31, 2014) Please refer to the Stock Info., Bonds and Rating page on our corporate website. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 65 Communication with Stakeholders Business Partners, Employees, NGOs and NPOs Business Partners Employees Strengthening trust with business partners is vital to achieving The increasing globalization of our businesses and diversificamutual growth. We value forging even stronger partnerships tion of work styles have raised the importance of respecting involving the participation of our business partners in meeting human rights and promoting diversity. Moreover, from the persociety’s expectations and needs through the operations of spectives of recruiting human resources and revitalizing interthe entire supply chain. nal communications, we are emphasizing systems and workplace environments that allow diverse groups of personL Business Partner Gathering nel to work in comfort. On January 15, 2014, we hosted a business partner gathering that As part of these efforts, the Anritsu Group conducted an drew 272 representatives of 128 Anritsu business partners from employee satisfaction survey in the U.S., the Asia-Pacific Japan and overseas. We shared a progress report on initiatives region and Japan. The survey gathered employee responses related to our “2020 VISION” and our mid-term business plan, conon issues such as how well they understood the direction of firmed Anritsu’s resolve to promote global CSR procurement, and the company, its efforts in various programs, workplace comrequested their understanding and cooperation. munication, and their general sense of fulfillment at work. The results were reported to each division and incorporated into daily operations. L Consultation Contact Points for Employees The Anritsu Group in Japan offers various means for employees to Presented awards to our valued business partners provide feedback or receive consultation. Employees can access the internal website, choose from a list of contact points, and comNGOs and NPOs municate by phone or e-mail. Anritsu contributes to society through its global business activities as well as various other initiatives. In November 2013, Typhoon Haiyan inflicted severe damage in the Philippines, and donations totaling 1,405,104 yen were collected from Anritsu employees to support people affected by the disaster. Including an additional donation from the company, a total of 5 million yen was donated to NGOs working on site through the Japan Platform, a non-profit public corporation. L Communication with the President We will continue to contribute to society through collaboraSince his appointment, President Hashimoto has been using the tions with international NGOs and NPOs. corporate intranet to convey his management policies and provide other information. He also set up his own blog, the “Online President’s Room,” to communicate with employees by commenting on familiar topics each week. Overseas employees can read content from the blog under the title “Hashimoto’s Room.” Scene of devastation in the Philippines Technical support by NICCO (NGO) ©JPF ©JPF Specified non-profit corporation, Japan Platform Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 66 CSR Results for Fiscal 2013, CSR Objectives for Fiscal 2014 Unless otherwise specified the content of objectives in this table covers operations of Anritsu Corporation and Performance evaluation its Group Companies in Japan. ○:fully attained △:attained 50% or more ×:not attained CSR Goal Key Issues Objectives for Fiscal 2013 Results for Fiscal 2013 Evaluation Objectives for Fiscal 2014 (1)Share the CS Action Guidelines. (1)Held a presentation and shared CS Action Guidelines with managers ○ (1)Collect stakeholder opinions toward developing a system for in China. improvement activities. (2)Conduct CS training in China. (2)Recommended CS training programs for China, but fell short of × (2)Enhance the customer contact point; share the response database. S er vice for implementation. Customers (3)Enhance the customer support center. (3)Service in Japan: deployed SFDC (sales force for service) to ○ (3)Reform the maintenance process globally; continue to enhance the enhance the 24-hour support system. Support for overseas service: customer support center. introduced SFDC at some overseas locations. (1) Implement brand strategy. (1)Sales website:Developed a tool to analyze site access (3rd quarter); ○ (1)Improve content of the sales website; establish a system to support G oal 1 analyzed the site and delivered information via a video distribution site local subsidiaries (excluding a part of the subsidiaries). C ontributing to Build (4th quarter); monitored access to ABCH (our Chinese-language site). a S afe, S ecure, and S olutions for (2)Continue global expansion of CSR News. (2)Recruitment information website:Renewed the site (January 2014); ○ (2)Update content of the recruitment information website with the C omfor t able S ociet y S ocial Issues since the site was initially designed for PC users, it was improved to support of young staff members; explore the use of video distribution allow for viewing by smartphone users; shared information on our and social networking sites. response to conflict materials in a meeting. (1)Implement global response to conflict minerals. (1)Implemented a global response to conflict materials and disclosed sum○ (1)Continue to implement a global response to conflict materials. mary information within the company on our responses to customers. Response to S ocial (2)Share CSR issues with representatives in locations outside (2)Shared information on our response to conflict materials at a global ○ (2)Conduct activities including information sharing with the contact E xpectations Japan and address issues at each site. meeting held by the environmental division. points of overseas business sites in response to social issues (and hold a global meeting). (1)Implement measures for enhancing awareness on (1)Collaboration with Chinese locations on compliance ○ (1)Collaborate with overseas regional headquarters on compliance. compliance, targeting Chinese and other locations outside. -Launched an English version of the Legal Department website; -Conduct web-based training for overseas employees on extortion provided case studies (in English and Chinese). and bribery. E stablishment of -Collected opinions at business sites in China to grasp the current -Share information on risks related to extortion and bribery and C ompliance state of compliance (took a trip to China). develop countermeasures. (2)Conduct Group compliance and harassment seminars in (2)Conducted harassment seminars for domestic Group companies. ○ (2)Hold a liaison meeting on harassment with domestic Group companies. Japan. Conducted seminars for Anritsu Customer Support (Atsugi and -Set a theme for each Group company.Provide Group company Koriyama sites), Techmac Co., Ltd., and part of the SCM division. support (e.g., education). (1) Strengthen management of confidential information. (1)Started to introduce an encryption tool across divisions. ○ (1)Strengthen management of confidential information. Promotion of Risk (2)Security education (2)Completed education as planned. ○ (2)Assess global security risk. Management (3)Maintain ISMS certification. (3)No material item requiring improvement was identified in the external audit. ○ (3)Security education ( Information S ecurit y) (4)Address ITGC/AC observations. (4)No material item requiring improvement was identified in the audit. ○ (4)Continue internal audit on information management. (5) Internal audit on information management (5)No material item requiring improvement was identified in the internal audit. ○ (5)Maintain ISMS certification. (1)Promote the implementation of risk management at each (1)Promoted the implementation of risk management at each division of ○ (1)Implement risk management focused on the nature of business (e.g., division of every Anritsu Group subsidiary. (Activities to every Anritsu Group company. activities to reduce material risks) at each division of every Anritsu reduce material risks) -Conducted a risk management survey at overseas Group subsidiaries. Group company. -Implemented risk management training for the sales division and executives in Japan. -Supported the domestic development divisions in risk management Promotion of Risk related to their development projects. Management (2)Enhance operational quality through the design (2)Enhanced operational quality through the design and implementation of ○ (2) Conduct an effective audit, based on risk analysis, at each division ( Internal C ontrols) andimplementation of an audit plan based on the risk an audit plan based on the risk approach. of every Anritsu Group company in Japan and overseas in support of approach. Conducted a trade compliance audit (focused on reviewing the state of their smooth business operations. risk management at domestic subsidiaries that have a Special Bulk Export License) -Launched an online compliance training program to address issues (e.g., insufficient employee training) identified in the risk management survey conducted at overseas Group subsidiaries. (1)Development a global SCM system (Promote GSCC) (1)Negotiated prices based on combined procurement volume for Japan ○ (1)Develop a global SCM system (Promote GSCC). G oal 2 and the U.S.,proceeding with unification of suppliers for PCB, cable -Develop a common supplier scorecard for Japan and the U.S.A. Maint aining and LCD for Japan and the U.S. H armony with (2)Establish an audit system for hazardous substances. (2)Ranked suppliers on an “ABC” range based on hazardous substance ○ (2)Strengthen the audit system for hazardous substances. the Global control efforts, audited two, C-ranked (insufficient) suppliers. S ocioEconomy Supply Chain (3)Establish a response to conflict minerals (3)Investigated conflict minerals issues by establishing a response system. ○ (3)Establish a response to conflict minerals (promote CSR procurement). Management (promote CSR procurement). -Conduct a preparatory survey of subject items. (4)Strengthen BCM and governance systems. (4)Implemented measures to comply with ITAR (International Traffic in ○ (4)Strengthen BCM and governance systems. Arms Regulations): exchanged memoranda with 34 related compa-Implement mold lease management in compliance with the nies, added required terms to the purchase order form). Conducted Subcontracting Act. training for all Group companies alongside audit and training for individual companies. (1)Establish recruitment of foreign nationals. (1)Continued hiring in the Philippines and offering internships in China. ○ (1)Promote the recruitment of foreign nationals. Respect for (2)Complete the draft of an evaluation system for developing (2)Developed new evaluation system based on job responsibilities. ○ (2)Start preparations for the introduction of a new human resource system. Human Rights human resources. and Promotion (3)Formulate a proposal for developing job types and (3)Recruited and interviewed people with disabilities for positions in ○ (3)Develop job types for people with disabilities and create an of Diversit y categories for the elderly and people with disabilities. manufacturing and business administration. environment for recruiting them. Human Resource (4)Recommencement of GHRC (Global Human Resource (4)Reviewed staffing table (with required breakdown by gender). ○ (4)Formulate a global HR policy toward implementing the HR strategy in Development Committee) activities. GLP2017. (1)Launch a website on programs for childcare and support (1)Launched the “Square for Work-life Balance” website to support ○ (1)Promote advancement measures related to working hours; raise for balancing work and child-raising. the balancing of work and child-raising, and have made relevant awareness of balancing work and the nursing of parents, and information available. investigate the introduction of such a program. (2)Establish a disaster prevention system (formulate a BCP (2)Established a disaster prevention system. ○ (2)Improve the BCP system for the Atsugi site. L abor S afet y and plan for the headquarters). -Conducted a comprehensive disaster prevention drill and review. H ealth -Developed a disaster prevention system for the community (the Amadera Industrial Park Council), and a communication network. Set up a disaster prevention liaison meeting for five companies (Sony, Nissan, Ricoh, Hitachi Automotive Systems, and Anritsu) and exchanged opinions. (1)Promote collaboration with NGOs and NPOs. (1)Continued responding to conflict materials (see “Human Rights” ○ (1)Promote social contribution activities at each location outside Japan; column above); launched diversity and work-life balance programs disclose information on these activities. Promotion of Social (see “human resources” column above). C ontribution (2)Promote social contribution activities at locations (2)Started to report activities for the quarter in CSR News on the website. ○ (2)Develop and promote the “Great East Japan Earthquake Activities outsideJapan. Reconstruction Support Plan;” lunteer activities of employees. Extended our support of employees at the Koriyama site for one year under “Support for reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster.” (1)Waste reduction and recycling (1)Waste reduction and recycling (1) Waste reduction and recycling Maintain waste emission under 160.4 tons (Japan). -Emitted waste was 125.3 tons (Japan). ○ -Reduce industrial waste emissions to under 58 tons (total for the Atsugi and Hiratsuka sites). Reduce volume of landfill waste by 20% compared -Volume of landfill waste reduced by 22% compared to fiscal 2010 (U.S.A.). ○ -Reduce industrial waste emissions to under 9 tons (Tohoku site). to fiscal 2010 (USA). [target: 20% reduction]. -Reduce the volume of municipal waste carried to a facility of the Atsugi City government to under 40 tons. -Maintain zero emissions (Japan). -Reduce the volume of landfill waste by 13% compared to fiscal 2013 (U.S.A.). G oal 3 (2)Resource and energy conservation (2)Resource and energy conservation (2) Resource and energy conservation Promotion of Reduce energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) by 1.0% on -Reduced energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) by 11.5% ○ -Reduce energy consumption to 1.0% or lower compared to fiscal 2013 (Japan). Promoting Global Environmental average by 2020 compared to fiscal 2012 (Japan). compared to fiscal 2012 (Japan). Environmental Management Reduce energy consumption by 5.0% compared -Reduced basic unit of energy consumption per sale by 0.9% × -Maintain energy consumption at the same level or lower compared Protection to fiscal 2010 (USA). compared to fiscal 2010(U.S.A.). [target: 5% reduction]. to fiscal 2013 (U.S.A.). (3)Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) (3)Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) (3)Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) Ratio of environmentally conscious products of all -Completed development of all 4 targeted products as environmentally ○ -Ratio of environmentally sound products of all products covered: 100% products covered: 100% conscious products. Ratio of products that can save resources by 10% Achieved resource conservation of 10% or more for 3 of 4 targeted products. × -Ratio of products that can save resources by 10% or more of all or more of all products covered: 100% products covered: 100% Ratio of products that are 30% or more power ef -Achieved improvement in power efficiency of 30% or more for 2 ○ -Ratio of products that are 30% or more power efficient of all ficient of all products covered: 100% targeted products. products covered: 100% (1)Promote communication through stakeholder dialogues. (1)Reviewed issues pointed out in the stakeholder dialogue and incorpo○ (1)Share the issues presented during stakeholder dialogues and G oal 4 rated them into future CSR action plans. promote communication activities at each division. C ommunication Promoting with S takeholders (2)Research the status of CSR communication in each global region. (2)Completed preparations for reporting the CSR activities of each ○ (2)Improve communications with investors; investigate and promote C ommunications global region on a quarterlybasis. integrated reporting. USA represents Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 67 GRI Guidelines Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) G4-1 3-4 about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 3-4,7-12 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Back Cover G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 5-6 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 1 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has signifiG4-6 18,71 cant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 1 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 1 Report the scale of the organization, including: ・Total number of employees ・Total number of operations G4-9 1 ・Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) ・Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) ・Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. G4-10 d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 33 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Website(Communication G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. with Stakeholders G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 1 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure,ownership, or its supply chain, including: ・Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 None ・Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) ・Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 2 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization G4-15 2 subscribes or which it endorses. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 1,71 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 1 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 12 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. None G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. None Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 64 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 64 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder G4-26 64-66 group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has reG4-27 sponded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the 13-16 key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 1 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 1 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-32 reference c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 41 c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Website (corporate G4-34 Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. governance ),17 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to Website (corporate G4-35 senior executives and other employees. governance ),17 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environWebsite (corporate G4-36 mental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. governance ),17 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and Compliance promotion social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. system, shareholders’ G4-37 meeting and Investors visiting,65-66 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: ・Executive or non-executive ・Independence ・Tenure on the governance body Website (corporate G4-38 ・Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments governance ),17 ・Gender ・Membership of under-represented social groups ・Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts ・Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or herfunction within the Website (corporate G4-39 organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). governance ) Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: ・Whether and how diversity is considered Website (corporate G4-40 ・Whether and how independence is considered governance ) ・Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered ・Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 68 GRI Guidelines Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Page Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: Website( Anritsu Group ・Cross-board membership G4-41 Charter of Corporate ・Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders Behavior, Chapter 5 ) ・Existence of controlling shareholder ・Related party disclosures Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organizaG4-42 17 tion’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such G4-44 evaluation is a self-assessment. 17 b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-45 17,27 b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for G4-46 17-18 economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 17 G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 24-26 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: ・Fixed pay and variable pay: -Performance-based pay -Equity-based pay -Bonuses -Deferred or vested shares Website G4-51 ・Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments (corporate governance) ・Termination payments ・Clawbacks ・Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and Website(corporate goverG4-52 whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. nance) Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuWebsite(corporate goverG4-53 neration policies and proposals, if applicable. nance) Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 2 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizaG4-57 24-26 tional integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-58 24-26 organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages Disclosures on Management Approach a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: G4-DMA 17 ・The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach ・The results of the evaluation of the management approach ・Any related adjustments to the management approach Economic ● Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 1 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Annual Report G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government NA ● Market Presence G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 32-33 ● Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Under aggregation Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 61 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 55 ● Energy Website(Group G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Impact Data),61 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 11,67 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 46,47 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 58,59 ● Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 52,61 Biodiversity Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of G4-EN14 NA extinction risk ● Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 40,61 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 40,61 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 40,61 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 46 Website (Environmental G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Data of Each Site), 51,61 Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 69 GRI Guidelines Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 48,61 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 61 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills NA ● Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 54-59 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 54-55 ● Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significantfines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations NA Transport Signifi cant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transportG4-EN30 40,41,54,55 ing members of the workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 62 ● Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 60 G4-EN33 Signifi cant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 60 Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 32 Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 36 ● Training and Education G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 34,35 ● Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group G4-LA12 1,32-33 membership, and other indicators of diversity ● Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 31 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 31 Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Human Rights Investment Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, G4-HR2 25,32 including the percentage of employees trained ● Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken NA ● Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective G4-HR5 23,30-31 abolition of child labor ● Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the G4-HR6 23,30-31 elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken NA ● Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 31-32 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 31-32 Society ● Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 25,26 ● Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes NA ● Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations NA Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 31 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 31 Product Responsibility ● Customer Health and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products G4-PR2 NA and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes ● Product and Service Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, G4-PR4 NA by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 19 Marketing Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including adverG4-PR7 NA tising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data NA ● Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services NA Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 70 Major Group Companies Major Group Companies in Japan Development, manufacture, sales, repair, maintenance and other services for industrial Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. machinery Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Manufacture of information communication equipment and measuring instruments Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Calibration, repair, maintenance and EMC / HALT testing of measuring instruments Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Development of software and hardware Development, sales, system design, maintenance and services of information commuAnritsu Networks Co., Ltd. nication products Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Development, manufacture and sales of optical devices Resale and recycling of measuring instruments, design services and production of Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. documents Anritsu Real Estate Co., Ltd. Real estate leasing Operation of shared service center for accounting, financial affairs, payroll calculation Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. and benefits AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Manufacture and sales of cutting and sheet metal parts and unit assembly articles Major Group Companies outside Japan U.S.A. Anritsu U.S. Holding, Inc.(U.S.A.) Anritsu Company(U.S.A.) Anritsu Instruments Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu Industrial Solutions U.S.A. Inc.(U.S.A.) Anritsu Electronics Ltd.(Canada) Anritsu Eletronica Ltda.(Brazil) Anritsu Company S.A. de C.V.(Mexico) EMEA Anritsu EMEA Ltd.(U.K.) Anritsu Ltd.(U.K.) Anritsu Industrial Solutions Europe Ltd.(U.K.) Anritsu GmbH(Germany) Anritsu S.A. (France) Anritsu S.r.l.(Italy) Anritsu Solutions S.r.l. (Italy) Anritsu A/S(Denmark) Anritsu AB(Sweden) Anritsu Solutions S.R.L. (Romania) Asia and others Anritsu Company Ltd.(China) Anritsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu (China) Co., Ltd. Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.(China) Anritsu Industrial Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu Company, Inc.(Taiwan) Anritsu Corporation, Ltd.(Korea) Anritsu Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) Anritsu India Private Ltd. (India) Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Thailand) Co., Ltd.(Thailand) Anritsu Pty. Ltd.(Australia) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 71 Independent Review Makiko Akabane Director, CSR Asia Japan I have participated in the last three years of stakeholder dialogues, dialogues as point-in-time observations, and not pro forma conand this is the second consecutive year in which I have been versations, and represents another outstanding example of asked to provide an independent review. Anritsu is a company Anritsu’s integrity and foresight. with a venerable history and will celebrate its 120th anniversary in Anritsu has reviewed its key CSR issues in an effort to quickly 2015. Yet, despite its many years, I am always impressed with respond to changes in the business environment and society. By Anritsu’s ability to continuously take on new challenges and transincorporating feedback from stakeholders inside and outside the form itself. In fiscal 2013, Anritsu was widely recognized for this company, it has selected 22 aspects as key issues. Publication corporate stance by winning the dual accolades of the Corporate of the fourth edition of the GRI last year has changed the trend Value Improvement Award and the Integrity Award for Excellence. from following a conventional style of CSR based on comprehenThese awards are outstanding indicators that management’s sive coverage of issues, to prioritizing specific issues that are resolve to turn Anritsu into an international market leader has important to a company. Anritsu has already responded by taken root throughout the company and is being manifested in reviewing its key issues. While Japanese companies tend to be the actions of each individual employee. satisfied by staying in line with others, Anritsu seeks to continually In the stakeholder dialogues conducted over the past three evolve its CSR toward becoming a world-class enterprise. years, the company made a point to invite the same experts to Management is resolved to contribute to addressing social participate, carry forward the list of issues discussed in previous issues through the company’s core business, without hesitation, dialogues, update the state of progress each year and report in Anritsu’s CSR, which is consistent throughout the Group in its results. This demonstrates its resolve to exercise initiative in selfsincere stance of accepting and responding to change. transformation, expresses its eagerness to actively apply these Response to Independent Review As in the previous year, Ms. Akabane took part in our dialogue We are currently pursuing our 2020 VISION, and in conjuncand provided her assessment in the independent review. To cointion with the mid-term business plan for achieving our goals in cide with the GLP2014 mid-term business plan, we conducted a 2020, we have designated response to human rights issues and dialogue with three CSR experts over the three years starting with promotion of local CSR as two strategic CSR issues. We will 2012. We have received exceedingly high marks in this year’s continue to build on the advice received during the dialogue as independent review. We are aware that this has been the result of we take action to address these issues. the three-year dialogue, from which we received sound guidance We stand committed to placing value on communicating with from experts who pointed out our CSR issues, offered advice on our stakeholders and will genuinely strive to meet the expectaour management and initiatives, and indicated how we could tions of society. incorporate initiatives into our corporate activities toward resolving social issues. CSR·CS Promotion Team, Corporate Communication Department Anritsu Corporation Anritsu CSR REPORT 2014 72
