Innovating for a Sustainable Future Our journey in 2013 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2013/2014 01/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 CCE’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report 2013/2014 is comprised of a series of 25 factsheets. About this Report ABOUT THIS REPORT REPORTING BOUNDARIES AND STANDARDS This is Coca-Cola Enterprises’ (CCE’s) ninth annual Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CRS) Report, providing a progress update on our At CCE, we have committed to taking sustainability plan and replacing CCE’s 2012/2013 CRS Report. a broader view and considering the most significant impacts of our value chain, This report is our most recent CRS disclosure and contains a full year as outlined in our sustainability plan. To of data from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013 for our business this end, where stated, our value chain operations covering eight Western European territories: Great Britain, data goes beyond our own operations. France and Monaco, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway For our own operations, unless otherwise and Sweden and our offices in the United States and Bulgaria. Also indicated, data in this report covers all included are illustrative case studies and business activities from 2014. operations (production, sales/distribution, combined sales/production facilities, For news on our sustainability initiatives and further resources, see our administrative offices and fleet) owned website – www.cokecce.com. or controlled by CCE, including our administrative offices in the United States A JOINT CRS VISION and Bulgaria. Developing strong commitments together Our carbon footprint is calculated in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and we use an operational consolidation approach Active healthy living Well-being to determine organizational boundaries. ME Product portfolio Responsible marketing The water-use data in this report refers to production facilities, where we have the Women greatest water use. All financial data in Community this report is in US dollars, unless otherwise Charitable contributions WE stated. This report has been assured by DNV GL (see Factsheet 25) and is aligned Workplace Human and workplace rights with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines, self-assessed at level B+. Water stewardship Water The report also serves as our Energy and climate change Climate protection Communication on Progress (COP) for WORLD the United Nations Global Compact and Sustainable agriculture Sustainable agriculture the Water Stewardship Factsheet 21 serves as our COP-Water, part of our endorsement Sustainable packaging of the UNGC CEO Water Mandate. Sustainable packaging and recycling ABOUT THIS REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 MATERIALITY markets brands and trademarks and MATERIAL INFORMATION – manufactures syrups. As one of the licensed, WHERE TO FIND IT In 2011, we undertook an internal and external review of our CRS aspirations and listened independent bottling partners within the CCE’s CRS programs are communicated to a wide range of stakeholders’ views and Coca-Cola System, CCE purchases, produces in a variety of publications: expectations of how our business could and packages beverages to sell and distribute to retail and wholesale customers. This report provides an overview of CCE’s contribute to a more sustainable tomorrow. progress in 2013 against our commitments This work guided the development of our Our relationship with The Coca-Cola Company and future ambitions. It includes information sustainability plan, ‘Deliver for today; Inspire influences the way we work, our spheres of on our business, our governance and for tomorrow’ (see Sustainability Plan below). responsibility and how we determine our management of CRS, our stakeholders The plan outlines our commitments and material issues. Our CRS commitments reflect and the work we are doing in each of our targets in seven areas deemed to be of the our most significant sustainability impacts, focus areas. greatest materiality for CRS in our territories: as identified by our 2011 review, and are Energy and Climate Change, Sustainable aligned with The Coca-Cola Company (see In addition, Factsheets 9-23 focus specifically Packaging and Recycling, Water Stewardship, A Joint CRS Vision overleaf). on our sustainability plan commitment Product Portfolio, Active Healthy Living, areas. A review of our 2013 CRS KPI Community and Workplace. Progress against We have made considerable progress performance data is on Factsheet 24. our targets is measured by a set of Key against many of our commitments and Performance Indicators (KPIs). See Factsheet have learned a lot since our plan was ONLINE 24 for 2013 KPI data. launched. However, we also recognize that www.cokecce.com CRS leadership has evolved. During 2014, Our corporate website has a CRS section Coca-Cola products are made by more than we intend to review our plan to continue 250 bottling partners worldwide on behalf of which includes further detail on our to develop our sustainability journey. initiatives, our CRS commitments and targets, The Coca-Cola Company, which creates and a full GRI Index and indices showing our compliance with the United Nations Global Compact and its CEO Water Mandate, SUSTAINABILITY PLAN Our strategic priorities progress updates, details of awards and events, our governance structure and Deliver for today corporate CRS policies. On our commitments and targets Country reports Each of CCE’s territories produces a Coca-Cola System report in conjunction with The Coca-Cola Company, Our sustainability vision Lead the industry giving local information of how CCE’s CRS In Energy and Climate Change and commitments are being brought to life in our We will deliver for today, growing Sustainable Packaging and Recycling communities. These reports can be found a low-carbon, zero-waste business, online at each of the following websites: and inspire and lead change for a Great Britain: more sustainable tomorrow. Innovate for the future www.cokecce.co.uk Opportunities for innovation, collaboration France (including Monaco): and partnership www.coca-cola-rse.fr Belgium and Luxembourg: A STRONG PARTNERSHIP www.cocacolabelgium.be The Netherlands: www.coca-colanederland.nl Norway: www.cceansvar.no CUSTOMER CONSUMER Sweden: FOCUS Long-term FOCUS www.cceansvar.se 11,750 employees Sustainable 130,600 employees The Coca-Cola Company provides 8 territories in Growth Over 200 countries many sources of Coca-Cola system sustainability information. In particular, its Western Europe worldwide website, www.coca-colacompany.com, contains corporate codes and policies Production/distribution Brand ownership which inform CCE’s own approach to CRS. Marketplace execution Product development Its 2012/2013 Sustainability Report, and innovation www.coca-colacompany.com/ Community and customer brand Brand marketing sustainability, contains a summary of the global Coca-Cola System sustainability work. marketing and advertising For further information please contact crs@cokecce.com. 02/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Coca-Cola Enterprises Chairman and CEO, John F. Brock (right), and Executive Vice President and President, European Group, Coca-Cola Enterprises, CEO Statement Hubert Patricot (left) INTERVIEW WITH JOHN F. BROCK from our sustainability leadership. This was increase, particularly on obesity, health and AND HUBERT PATRICOT the focus of our first Sustainability Innovation well-being. We are making strides to create Q. In October 2014, CCE’s sustainability Summit, held in October 2013. The event a positive impact through our support for plan will be three years old. What provided a valuable opportunity to learn local active lifestyle programs and our broad have you achieved so far? from pioneers and influential thinkers. portfolio of noand lowcalorie beverages, A. John F. Brock: When we launched our but we know there is much more to do. A. John F. Brock: Our research has shown sustainability plan, we committed to become that many in the wider business community A. Hubert Patricot: We’ve also seen a ‘low-carbon, zero-waste’ business and still face hurdles in making the case for many business benefits from our work defined priorities for our sustainability sustainability. The companies that are on sustainability – greater employee leadership. The good news is we’ve made committed to sustainability are seeing engagement, enhanced efficiency and some excellent progress and reduced results, but it still needs to be ‘sold in’ to effectiveness and stronger trust at a local the absolute carbon footprint of our core some businesses. Additionally, while level where we are proud to support our business operations by 23 percent we’re ahead of plan in certain areas, communities and make a significant (exceeding our original 15 percent target). we’ve found a number of our targets more socio-economic contribution. A. Hubert Patricot: In demonstrating challenging to achieve than we originally expected. Renewable energy is a great Q. What role will technology play as leadership on sustainable packaging and part of your sustainability agenda? recycling, we made an important decision example – we’ve had some success, but are not currently on track to meet our A. Hubert Patricot: Technology is an to look outside of our traditional business important enabler of collaboration, which model. We invested $18 million in two long-term target. In 2014, we’ll look again at our strategy and evaluate what success is becoming increasingly critical for a recycling joint ventures and, as a result, successful sustainability program. Our have significantly increased the amount and leadership looks like. partnership with OpenIDEO enabled us of PET plastic which can be reprocessed Q. Why does sustainability remain to utilize an open innovation platform to in Great Britain and France and secured at the heart of your business strategy draw on the optimism, inspiration and a long-term supply of high quality recycled in tough times? ideas of creative thinkers around the world PET for our bottles. A. John F. Brock: We all face significant to develop powerful ideas about how Q. What have you learned and societal and environmental challenges such to increase at-home recycling. what challenges have you faced? as increased demand for natural resources, A. John F. Brock: Technology is also proving A. Hubert Patricot: We’ve learned a lot, water scarcity and continued climate to be a powerful sustainability driver. particularly about the role that innovation change. Forward thinking businesses Many companies are using smart, online and technology can play in accelerating the will be able to turn these challenges technologies to measure and reduce their pace of change. Collaboration is critical – into opportunities. We are proud of the environmental impact. Others are using we need to share intelligence, maximize environmental leadership that we’ve been technology to design more sustainable resources, and pool ideas if we are to able to demonstrate, yet we acknowledge products, packaging and services. address our challenges and create value that stakeholder expectations continue to CEO STATEMENT AND HIGHLIGHTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Q. Are expectations of business of innovation and reshaping the and business leaders changing? interconnectivity between business A. John F. Brock: I’ve seen how dramatically and society. expectations of business have changed A. Hubert Patricot: We continue to take John F. Brock in the last 20 years. Today, businesses inspiration from the sustainability leadership Chairman and CEO are expected to take a wider view, to shown by companies like Unilever, Kingfisher Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) make a profit, define their wider contribution and Zipcar, as well as organizations like to society and protect the planet. the EU Climate Leaders Group and the A. Hubert Patricot: Successful organizations Ellen MacArthur Foundation which is take a holistic approach to defining value working to demonstrate the potential for both shareholders and stakeholders. of the circular economy. Hubert Patricot Sustainability no longer works in isolation Q. What’s next on your sustainability Executive Vice President – it touches all areas of business. In the journey? Are there any particular and President, European Group future, the most successful businesses areas you will target as you review Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) will be those that put sustainability at the heart of business decision-making and your commitments in the future? create value from sustainability. A. John F. Brock: Our sustainability agenda does not stand still; it continues to evolve A. John F. Brock: As business leaders today, and stakeholder expectations continue we need to ask ourselves what we want to rise. In 2014 we will undertake a full to be remembered for. We need to drive review of our sustainability plan. We’ll sustainability and inspire change throughout also hold a second Sustainability our own organizations and simultaneously Innovation Summit and continue to explore address the concerns of future generations. opportunities for collaboration across our value chain. We know we have to accelerate Q. Where do you seek inspiration our efforts and are determined to create from, as you look to inspire for value from our sustainability leadership in tomorrow? the future. A. John F. Brock: We learn from many different organizations that are making a strong business case for sustainability, embracing the transformative power KEY 2013 ACHIEVEMENTS SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP WATER STEWARDSHIP ACTIVE HEALTHY LIVING • Achieved our lowest-ever • Reached more than 900,000 • Held Sustainability Innovation Summit, water use ratio, with a reduction people through our active lifestyle bringing together 250 delegates to of 18 percent since 2007. programs and partnerships. explore the role of innovation, collaboration and technology. • Ranked the most water-efficient • Announced the launch of Cityrides, bottler within the global a nationwide grassroots cycling • Included in Corporate Knights 2014 Coca-Cola System. program for families in Norway and list of Global 100 Most Sustainable a new partnership with the Swedish Companies – 1st of five food and • Received the new European Water Swimming Federation. beverage companies. Stewardship Standard in recognition of our water stewardship work at our WORKPLACE ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE Dongen and Chaudfontaine plants. • Received European Diversity Team • Achieved an absolute reduction in the of the Year Award, recognizing the carbon footprint of our core business PRODUCT PORTFOLIO outstanding contribution to delivering operations by 23 percent since 2007. • Introduced Sprite with stevia in change in diversity and inclusion. Great Britain and Nestea with stevia SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING in France and Belgium, containing • Achieved a 65 percent reduction in AND RECYCLING 30 percent less sugar. our lost-time accident rate since 2007. • Invested $12 million in Infineo, our joint • Launched a new 250ml slimline SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE venture PET reprocessing plant with can for Coca-Cola, Diet Coke • Established a Sustainable APPE, and opened a new education and Coca-Cola Zero in Belgium, Agriculture Steering Group and center, highlighting the benefits of a Luxembourg, Sweden, France launched our Sustainable Agriculture circular economy. and Great Britain. Guiding Principles. • Achieved 32 percent recycled plastic (PET) in our PET bottles across our COMMUNITY markets by the end of 2013. • Invested more than $9 million in • Reached 46 million people through community programs to support consumer recycling campaigns, young people, encourage active including ‘Happiness Recycled’. lifestyles and protect the environment. • Reached more than 100,000 young people through local partnerships and our education centers. 03/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 We operate 17 manufacturing plants and serve 170 million people across eight territories in Western Europe. Our Business WHERE WE OPERATE WHAT WE DO Serving 170 million people across eight territories in Western Europe, At CCE, we manufacture and distribute Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) is one of the world’s largest independent bottlers some of the most popular beverage brands of Coca-Cola beverages. We operate in Great Britain, France, Monaco, in the world. Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden, have offices In 2013, we sold approximately 12 billion in the United States and Bulgaria and employ approximately 11,750 people. bottles and cans (or 600 million physical cases) through over one million retail OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO AS SOLD BY VOLUME customers across our territories, generating approximately $8.2 billion in revenue and Energy drinks, sports and functional waters, water, Regular sparkling soft drinks e.g. ready-to-drink teas e.g. $914 million of operating income. We are a public company incorporated and headquartered in the United States and publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the NYSE Euronext in Paris under the symbol, CCE. OUR PRODUCTS Juice drinks e.g. Our product portfolio consists of over 40 brands of non-alcoholic, ready-to-drink beverages, including some of the world’s most recognized brands –Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Coca-Cola Light, Coca-Cola Zero, Fanta and Sprite – as well as a growing range of water, juices and juice drinks, Key sports drinks, energy drinks and  egular sparkling R 58% ready-to-drink teas. soft drinks Noand low-calorie 27% The Coca-Cola Company is our primary sparkling soft drinks strategic partner. While beverages owned 100 percent juice 1% by The Coca-Cola Company and its affiliates Juice drinks 7% represent more than 90 percent of our  percent juice e.g. 100 Noand low-calorie sparkling soft drinks e.g. Energy drinks 2% volume, we also distribute brands for other 1% franchise partners, including Capri Sun. Sports and functional waters Water 3% Ready-to-drink teas 1% and other OUR BUSINESS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PLAN Packaging: Our packaging materials come Recycling: Our bottles and cans are 100 Our business has environmental and social from a range of approved suppliers. We are percent recyclable. However, if they are not impacts across the life cycle of our products innovating within our own business and collected for recycling, they become waste. from the sourcing and use of raw materials working with these suppliers to reduce the We are working to increase recycling rates and ingredients, to the manufacturing of our impacts of the packaging materials we use. across our territories, which in turn will help products and their disposal. Our vision and us to generate more material to turn into Our business new bottles and cans. goals, set out in our sustainability plan, focus on reducing our impacts at each stage of our Manufacturing: We use water and energy to Community and active healthy living: value chain and making a positive difference produce our beverages. We are focused on Coca-Cola is a local product, made by to the communities in which we operate. increasing our operational efficiencies and local people and we have strong links minimizing our waste. We have made solid progress in reducing with our communities. We aim to make environmental impacts that we can As an employer of approximately 11,750 a positive difference wherever we control, including the amount of water and people, we provide jobs and pay taxes in manufacture and sell our products and packaging we use and the emissions from the countries and communities in which to engage our communities in active our cold drinks equipment. Our 2020 vision we operate. lifestyle programs. is to deliver for today, growing a low-carbon, Distribution: We manufacture and distribute zero-waste business, and inspire and lead our products locally, using road and rail. We change for a more sustainable tomorrow. continue to optimize our network and are Where we operate We are looking beyond our own operations working with our hauliers to increase and are working to innovate, collaborate efficiencies and investigate new, low-carbon and partner with suppliers and customers ways to get our products to market. to identify ways to continue to reduce Cooling and selling our products: Cooling impacts across our value chain. our products uses energy and refrigeration gases, so we are increasing the efficiency OUR MANUFACTURING of our cold drinks equipment and purchase AND DISTRIBUTION PROCESS only HFC-free coolers. Our supply chain The marketplace Ingredients: Approximately 95 percent of our products are made from concentrates and Product portfolio: Our wide range of syrups supplied by our brand owners. The products reflects the changing needs and rest are finished products that we distribute. demands of our consumers across our territories. With more than 40 brands, our Bulgaria We buy sugar, juices, mineral waters and products include a wide variety of pack sizes Shared service center carbon dioxide to make our products and a high proportion of noand low-calorie Key (low-calorie sweeteners are already contained soft drinks. We market our products in a CCE European in the concentrates) and are working with our responsible way through on-pack labeling Headquarters US Headquarters, Country head offices suppliers to reduce the environmental impacts and other media. Atlanta, Georgia Bottling plants of these raw materials. Our manufacturing and distribution process Value chain process Ingredients Packaging Manufacturing Distribution Refrigeration Recycling Factsheet No. 23 No. 19 No. 16 No. 17 No. 18 No. 9 No. 12 number (No.) Sustainable Sustainable Energy and Transportation Cold Drinks Product Portfolio Community Agriculture Packaging Renewable Energy and Distribution Equipment No. 22 No. 15 No. 13 & 14 No. 10 No. 11 Protecting and Energy and Climate Change Diversity and Workplace Responsible Sales Active Healthy Replenishing and Marketing Living the Water We Use No. 21 No. 20 Water Stewardship Recycling No. 7 Suppliers and Sustainability 04/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 250 people joined us at our Sustainability Innovation Summit in 2013, to explore how business can harness Our Stakeholders innovation, collaboration and technology. INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY We believe in having honest conversations and ongoing dialogue with We have developed a program of our stakeholders. Our sustainability plan was developed by listening stakeholder engagement to ensure we closely to their expectations, setting out stretching goals and addressing understand views and expectations, the significant issues and concerns highlighted across our value chain. and are able to respond to raised issues or potential concerns. We know collaboration is essential, both to achieve our targets and for society as a whole. As a result, continuing engagement and partnership with our local communities, NGOs, suppliers, customers and many others is fundamental to our progress and future innovation. CASE STUDY Sustainability Innovation Summit In 2013, we held our Sustainability Innovation Summit, bringing together an international group of influential thinkers, suppliers and customers to explore opportunities for collaboration, innovation and technology. CASE STUDY 250 delegates heard pioneering speakers from a range of organizations Working with Zero including the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, In Norway, we are working with Zero, McKinsey & Co. and Goldman Sachs an independent, Oslo-based foundation and participated in breakout sessions which works with businesses and exploring challenges such as packaging communities to help develop a lowof the future and driving recycling, zeroemission society. carbon manufacturing and sustainability In 2013, we supported its eighth annual across the value chain. Zero Emissions Conference, which The Summit provided a forum where all brought together speakers from politics, involved could learn from each other and business, public management and be inspired to take meaningful action. It research organizations from around the also offered us valuable insight for our world to discuss and develop answers 2014 sustainability plan review. (For more to the challenges of climate change and information see Factsheet 8.) how they can be solved. OUR STAKEHOLDERS 1st Ranked first of the five CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 food and beverage KEY 2013 PARTNERSHIPS companies listed in the Corporate Knights 2014 >$3.9bn Global 100 Most Sustainable Companies >1m customers, from spent with more than 13,400 suppliers in 20131 small independent retailers to large international chains Academics and Investment community Media and social media Suppliers sustainability networks Active participation and sharing Providing improved value Online reporting and interactive Developing greater collaboration of ideas chain disclosures CRS communication and innovation Our suppliers are important stakeholders Working with the academic and We disclose publicly to the Carbon We want to be transparent and to for us, helping us achieve our value sustainability community helps us remain Disclosure Project and in recent years develop open and innovative channels chain sustainability commitments. We well-informed on sustainability thought we have expanded to the CDP Water of communication. have continued to engage with them in leadership. We have collaborated with the disclosure. We are included in the CDP Our website (www.cokecce.com), our 2013 by holding a supplier sustainability University of Exeter, directly supporting its S&P 500 and continue to be members of interactive Sustainability Map and virtual meeting to share our CRS goals, One Planet Sustainability Challenge for the FTSE4Good Index. CRS forms a regular social media communications all help progress and aspirations. Following MBA students. We also participate in the part of each presentation we make to to develop and enhance our connections the success of this new approach, European School of Management and financial analysts. In 2013, we were listed with stakeholders. We also communicate we joined forces with The Coca-Cola Technology’s Sustainability Roundtable tenth in Corporate Responsibility CR our sustainability progress via @cokecce on Company, to hold a supplier webinar and SustainAbility’s Engaging Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens Twitter and we are exploring the use of open specifically focused on our Sustainable Stakeholders network and we are a and ranked first of the five food and innovation platforms with the launch of our Agriculture program. member of the EU Corporate Leaders beverage companies listed in the Group on Climate Change. Corporate Knights 2014 Global 100 Most recycling challenge with OpenIDEO. Sustainable Companies. Communities Employees Customers Non-governmental organizations Continual development Continual development Business engagement and CRS Ongoing dialogue to develop of strong local partnerships of internal CRS communications collaboration and enhance CRS programs We have strong relationships with the Our employees are fundamental to We have more than one million customers, We are a signatory to the UN Global communities in which our bottling facilities achieving our sustainability goals and ranging from small independent retailers Compact and its CEO Water Mandate are located and our operations provide continually drive our performance forward, to large international chains. Our strategic and have also entered into a water jobs for approximately 11,750 people from upholding our sustainability values business priority is to be their most valued replenishment partnership with WWF-UK. across our territories. We have a wide within the communities where we operate to supplier, so we are constantly examining We maintain relationships with a wide range of community programs and hold direct involvement in specific CRS projects. and improving our processes to ensure we range of national and local NGOs such local engagement events from our annual are meeting their needs. as those involved in active healthy living ‘CRS in Action Week’, to site family days. We have developed our ‘Ambassador’ and packaging recovery. We are continually building on our program, to help our employees understand We set annual customer satisfaction targets community engagement programs to more about our products, their ingredients and measure our performance using further involve community stakeholders. and our wider CRS aspirations. We also surveys such as those by the Advantage share CRS news on our intranet ‘iConnect’, Group. In 2013, we were rated the leading in our internal magazine ‘Contour’ and via consumer goods company in Great Britain, digital screens across our business. the Netherlands, Belgium and Sweden, and the number two supplier in France. Our bi-annual employee engagement survey highlighted CRS as the second In recent years we have also developed highest driver of employee engagement. partnerships with some of our key customers to encourage consumers to recycle more. 1 Excluding concentrate spend 05/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 a i a. ea S Andr and Br o ck , hn F. it te e ), J o From l e SC omm CCE’s ft to right to CR aison : Vé roniqu e Mora li, J E E xe c u t i ve l i Corporate a n Be nnink, P h o e b e W o o d , C a l D a r d e n ( C h a i r m a n ), L a u r a B r i ght we ll (CC Responsibility and Governance Sustainability Committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION CCE has a strong corporate governance Our vision is to be the best beverage sales and service company. structure. Our Board of Directors oversees Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CRS) is core to this the interests of the company and its vision and is a key component of our Operating Framework – our shareholders and is supported by seven roadmap for long-term, sustainable growth. committees including our CRS Committee and the Audit Committee which oversees We are committed to doing business responsibly – because it’s the our Ethics and Compliance function. right thing to do and is fundamental to the long-term sustainability of our business. As a result, our goal is to be a CRS leader in the Being accountable and transparent is a key principle by which we operate. Our food and beverage industry and embed CRS principles into our approach is set out in our Corporate everyday decision-making. Governance Guidelines and Code of Active Business Conduct (see www.cokecce.com). Our CRS Governance StructureHealthy Living CRS GOVERNANCE CCE CRS Committee Our CRS Committee meets five times a year. Its task is to guide and oversee our CRS strategy and sustainability plan, review CRS Advisory Council progress and discuss emerging CRS issues and stakeholder views. The Committee is Environmental Steering Committee chaired by CCE Board Director, Cal Darden. Supporting our CRS Committee is our CRS Energy and Sustainable Packaging Product Portfolio Community Advisory Council, chaired by Laura Brightwell, Climate Change and Recycling Senior Vice President of Public Affairs and Communications, which also meets five Water Stewardship Workplace Active times a year. The Advisory Council is a Sustainable Agriculture Healthy Living cross-functional body comprising senior managers, who in turn chair steering groups for each CRS focus area (see Our CRS Internal CRS Network and Business Unit Leadership Governance Structure). These include a new steering group, established in 2013, on Sustainable Agriculture (see Factsheet 23). The Advisory Council is supported by a network of subject matter experts and CRS managers from across CCE. GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Our Operating Framework Safeguarding our future “Governance is fundamental to our business, and without collaboration we simply can’t achieve this. Governance is about aligning with stakeholders and ensuring transparency and it comes with visible policies, strong communications and support from the highest level right through the organization. That’s why we are committed to building it into daily life at CCE.” T.J. Wolfe, CCE VP Ethics & Compliance, Financial Reporting RISK MANAGEMENT AND early 2014, we also joined The Supply BUSINESS PLANNING Chain Initiative, which aims to promote fair Social and environmental risks are business practices in the food supply chain. considered strategic business risks and are assessed annually as part of our enterprise Code of Business Conduct risk model. Incorporated within the 361 risks Our Code of Business Conduct outlines the Ethics and Compliance function. Employees in our risk register are global environmental behavior we expect of every employee – can also use a confidential and anonymous issues such as climate change, water The RIGHT Way. The Code identifies 12 hotline with a single telephone number scarcity, waste and pollution, and global guiding principles including: promoting across all territories. health and well-being trends. health and safety in the workplace, All incidents are investigated and reported complying with anti-corruption laws and Other risks include health and safety, to the Board’s Audit Committee. Serious upholding our environmental commitments. supplier management, ethics and breaches are discussed by the RIGHT Call It is one of the ways we comply with the compliance, and trust and reputation. Our Committee, a cross-functional group of ten universal principles of the UN Global top 18 risks are assigned to specific Board senior leaders, and by similar committees Compact which CCE signed in 2007 and committees and members of the Executive in each geographic business unit. Of the supports compliance with the US Foreign Leadership Team (ELT) who chair those 123 reported violations in 2013, 103 were Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. committees. substantiated and resulted in actions The Code, published on our website ranging from written or verbal warnings As the ELT member responsible for CRS, (www.cokecce.com) and intranet, is to dismissal. Laura Brightwell is accountable for social underpinned by a series of policies that and environmental risks. These are reviewed provide additional guidance on issues such annually by the Board’s CRS Committee and as anti-corruption, insider dealing and gifts, CASE STUDY risks that could materially affect our business hospitality and entertainment. and financial results are disclosed in Form iPhone app policy check-in 10-K in CCE’s Annual Report and quarterly Training In 2013, we developed a phone app to financial reporting. support and further communicate our The Code is provided to all new employees CCE Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment In accordance with the precautionary during their induction and in 2013 our Policy. The app provides easily principle, CRS is considered within the RIGHT Way online training was rolled out accessible development process for any major project, to all employees with access to a PC. This guidance on product or new investment and is built into was more than 70 percent of CCE employees. our corporate our annual business planning process. In 2014, we aim to extend the training to entertainment Progress against our sustainability plan non-PC users. Further online modules policy. It offers is reported every year. are provided as part of our Ethics and an instant Compliance training curriculum. Additional check for ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE training in specialist areas is also offered. employees, At CCE, we follow our RIGHT Way model with help on Speaking up of ethical values. Our actions, decisions what they and behavior must always be RIGHT – For the Code to be effective, employees need to maintaining Respect, Integrity, Good must be able to raise concerns without fear consider judgement, Honesty and Trust. These values of reprisal. Under our RIGHT Call process, in order are the foundation of our Code of Business employees who suspect a breach of the to comply. Conduct and are qualities that underpin Code or one of our policies are encouraged our decisions and working practices. In to contact their own or a more senior manager, or, if necessary, the HR, Legal or 1 Consolidated from 43 risks following the 2013 risk review. 06/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 18% 15% and reduction in water and energy use ratios respectively since 2007. Our Manufacturing INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY We manufacture more than 40 brands including some of the Our sustainable manufacturing strategy most popular soft drinks in the world – Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, focuses on: Coca-Cola Light, Coca-Cola Zero, Fanta and Sprite. We operate • Manufacturing excellence: developing 17 manufacturing sites in six countries, which includes a total of and adopting high standards consistently 87 production lines and more than 4,600 employees. across our plants. Manufacturing is at the heart of our business. Our focus is on • Our people: working in collaboration to excellence and efficiency, providing quality and value for our customers continually drive better performance. and protecting the safety of our employees and the environment in • Innovation and investment: developing which we operate. In 2013, we invested $65 million in process and technology and process efficiencies and improvements. equipment innovation and improvements. We have also developed Sustainability Master Plans for all our sites. We’ll continue to seek MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE further improvements within our operations and in collaboration Our aim is to achieve and continually drive with our suppliers. excellence and high operating standards This factsheet provides an overview of our sustainability approach in our plants. We focus on efficiency and within our manufacturing operations. For more detail on our specific effectiveness through a harmonized workplace safety, energy and renewable energy, water stewardship management and operational approach, and water protection programs, see Factsheets 14, 16, 21 and 22. rolling out consistent standards, new innovations and best practice across our territories. We call this the ‘CCE Way’. 18% reduction in water 15% reduction in energy As part of this system, all our plants are certified to the food safety standard, use ratio since 2007 FSSC 22000, and 16 are certified to the use ratio since 2007 internationally recognized standards for health and safety, ISO 18001, and environmental management, ISO 14001. We continue to explore opportunities to innovate and enhance our approach. For example, we have piloted the new energy management standard, ISO 50001, at Wakefield and East Kilbride in Great Britain, 14 sites 65% Dunkerque in France and Chaudfontaine in Belgium and plan to incorporate lessons reduction in lost-time learned in our management system updates. achieved zero waste to landfill accident rate since 2007 OUR MANUFACTURING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 . I. CASE STUDY Manufacturing for the future Higher standards and more efficient Between 2012 and 2013 we invested equipment have had an outstanding $100 million in our operations in impact on both environmental and safety Norway. Our plant has been completely performance. Water and energy use in one transformed with the installation of new year have reduced by 13 and 14.5 percent lines, the latest in production equipment respectively and safety performance has and improvements to production changed from being a plant with one of processes, enabling the plant to now the highest accident rates in CCE in 2012 use recyclable, non-refillable to now having one of the lowest within CCE PET bottles. and the Coca-Cola System. OUR PEOPLE WATER We have also invested in low-carbon and People and collaboration are key to our Our water saving efforts focus on both renewable energy with solar photovoltaic success. We operate a strong network innovation and encouraging the right panels installed in Great Britain at Edmonton, of plant and national environment and safety behaviors. Recent projects include optimizing Sidcup, Wakefield and our new head office in management teams, working together processes and procedures linked to water Uxbridge where they are linked to electric to focus on specific projects, corporate treatment, manufacturing and cleaning, the car charging points. goals and targets as well as sharing new rinsing of containers and recycling and In 2014, we plan to instal a Combined innovations and efficiency measures. reclaiming water where possible. Heat and Power (CHP) unit at Wakefield We set environmental and safety targets As a result, in 2013, we were rated the most in Great Britain and are continuing the annually across the company. These are water-efficient bottler within the Coca-Cola pilot project between our Dongen plant supported by improvement plans and System and achieved our lowest ever water in the Netherlands and a neighboring monthly performance reviews at plant, use ratio of 1.35 liters of water used per liter glass manufacturer, Ardagh, to test country and senior leadership level. Plant of product produced, a 3.5 percent whether we can capture and use waste directors and senior leaders are also made improvement from 2012 (1.40l/l). heat lost during glass production. accountable and incentivized through the See Factsheet 16 for more detail on our We seek both to conserve water within inclusion of CRS targets within personal energy and renewable energy strategy. our own operations and to protect our water objectives and appraisals. sources. All our plants have completed Source Vulnerability Assessments (SVAs) WASTE AND RECYCLING INNOVATION AND INVESTMENT and Source Water Protection Plans (SWPPs) We are committed to reducing and We devote a great deal of time, resources to ensure water is abstracted in a recycling the waste at our manufacturing and investment to driving down our energy sustainable way, whether from the ground plants. The vast majority of this waste is and water use. During 2013, we invested or from the municipal supply. readily recyclable and for many years we more than $57 million in new production have operated a robust waste recycling lines and equipment and a further $8 million In recognition of our high standards of water program based on raising awareness, in additional energy and water saving management, we were the first to receive monitoring waste data and separating technologies, collectively providing savings the new gold-level European Water waste at source. of $1.6 million, plus more than 7,200 tonnes Stewardship (EWS) Standard at our facility in of CO2e and 9,800 cubic meters (m3) of water. Dongen in the Netherlands and our mineral In 2009, we set a target of zero waste This included new PET lines in Wakefield, water plant in Chaudfontaine in Belgium. to landfill by the end of 2014. In 2013, Great Britain and Clamart in France. 14 sites had achieved this goal and See Factsheets 21 and 22 for more detail 99.5 percent of our overall waste was We have invested in monitoring and targeting on water stewardship and water protection being recycled or recovered compared systems and metering in our plants. This and replenishment respectively. to 99.4 percent in 2012. provides operators with live data to monitor and benchmark water and energy use and ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLES identify opportunities for improvement. Fostering good behaviors is also at the heart CASE STUDY of our energy-efficiency programs. We have Carbon Trust Standards We have identified our top five techniques a company-wide maintenance and air leak for saving water and energy and dedicated CCE holds the Carbon Trust Standard for survey and repair program and carry out teams are rolling these out across our plants. greenhouse gas reduction and in 2013 equipment upgrades to reduce energy We have also adopted the Water and Energy was one of the first businesses to gain use. In 2013, these included installing Savers programs jointly developed by The the newly created Carbon Trust Water energy-efficient LED lighting, making our Coca-Cola Company and the World Wildlife Standard for efficient water use. These bottle-blowers more efficient, converting Fund (WWF) to help bottlers around the world standards are designed to recognize an our packer ovens to gas, optimizing our achieve new levels of efficiency. The water organization’s commitment and compressed air systems and introducing program has been implemented at the achievements in carbon and water conveyor sleep modes. majority of our plants and six facilities management. Both awards apply have been certified as completing the With these and other initiatives, in 2013 we across our entire energy program. achieved our lowest-ever energy use ratio European of 76.83 kWh per 1,000 liters of manufactured operation. product, a reduction of nearly six percent since 2012 (81.54 kWh). 07/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 We are working with our suppliers to improve their sustainability performance and reduce carbon emissions across our value chain. Suppliers and Sustainability INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY We recognize that our suppliers are essential partners in our Our sustainable procurement strategy sustainability journey. From analyzing our water and carbon footprint, focuses on three pillars: we found that our most significant environmental impacts occur • Our people: training our procurement outside of our own business, in our value chain. teams on sustainability. • Our procurement processes: ensuring We believe collaboration and innovation throughout our supply chain our processes support sustainable are essential in advancing our sustainable growth. We want to inspire purchasing decisions. and drive sustainable change with those we work with as well as • Our suppliers: encouraging our through our own organization. We have embedded sustainability suppliers to improve their own into our procurement processes and supplier relationships, and have sustainability performance. developed additional programs to support strategic opportunities for collaboration. OUR PEOPLE 75% In CCE, we have developed a bespoke modular training toolkit to equip our procurement teams with a good of our procurement understanding of what we mean by 140 We are working with 140 of spend in 2013 was in countries where we operate and 96 percent sustainability and how this affects our purchasing decisions. The toolkit comprises of: our key suppliers to reduce was within the EU. >$3.9bn • Module 1 – CCE’s sustainability journey carbon emissions across each We spent more than and commitments. stage of our value chain. $3.9 billion with • Module 2 – CCE’s expectations of suppliers approximately and how to use our supplier scorecard. 13,400 suppliers in 2013. • Module 3 – sustainability issues related to We held our specific commodities. fourth Supplier In 2013, we rolled out this program to Sustainability meeting procurement teams in all of our territories. with our suppliers All of our procurement managers working to investigate ways we can work together directly with suppliers have now received to encourage innovation this training, enabling them to work with throughout our suppliers to identify opportunities, further value chain. drive our sustainability ambitions and help build long-term supplier value. SUPPLIERS AND SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 OUR PROCUREMENT PROCESSES responsible sourcing practices and audit A supplier’s CRS Score is an important part We have been working to embed program design to align supplier audits and of the SRM process, receiving the same sustainability criteria into all our procurement reduce duplication and costs for suppliers. weighting as other SRM criteria. Outstanding processes, from sourcing new suppliers to Our audits are aligned with the forum and performance is recognized annually by our tendering. We want to ensure that our are recognized by its members. Similarly, Supplier of the Year awards. In 2013, our CRS suppliers understand and adhere to our we recognize audits carried out on behalf Supplier of the Year was one of our cold drink own sustainability standards. To help us, of other signatory companies. equipment suppliers, ISA. Where the score is we have a number of mechanisms in place. low, we work with the supplier to improve In 2013, we adopted The Coca-Cola their score. Company’s Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Code of Business Conduct Principles for suppliers of sugar beet and Our Code of Business Conduct outlines sugar cane as part of our sustainable Supplier spotlight the principles by which we operate within agriculture program. We are now developing CCE and how we work with our suppliers. In 2013, we held a virtual bespoke tools to support our sustainable supplier sustainability meeting and The code is available on our website – sourcing strategy. (For more information see www.cokecce.com. webinar to bring together our key Factsheet 23.) suppliers and continue our CRS Supplier Guiding Principles collaboration and innovation dialogue. OUR SUPPLIERS Our Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs) More than 140 suppliers and 300 people Our aim is to work with our suppliers to set out the minimum requirements we participated in the meeting, which encourage them to improve their own expect our suppliers to adhere to, including focused on sharing experiences and sustainability performance. labor laws and regulations, health and supplier examples to showcase how safety, human rights, environment and Our Supplier Relationship Management organizations have improved their business integrity (see below). (SRM) process underpins the management sustainability performance and of our relationships with our key suppliers, carbon footprint. Our SGPs reflect and communicate our helping to build collaboration and provide own principles and emphasize the To extend and continue our discussions, management focus. We use a framework importance of responsible workplace we launched our online sustainability to evaluate each supplier’s performance policies and practices, respect for human hub. Hosted by 2degrees, a sustainability based on quality, cost and value, service rights and environmental protection. network organization, the hub has and innovation, and corporate responsibility SGPs are included in all new contracts and sustainability (CRS). enabled us to share and collaborate and are being incorporated into current across our value chain even further. The CRS evaluation comprises two inputs: multi-year contracts during renewal. In 2013, 67 percent of our spend with suppliers was • Sustainability rating from an independent covered by contracts containing our SGPs. company, EcoVadis. CCE’s carbon challenge process The Coca-Cola Company works with • Results from our suppliers’ carbon Measure, reduce independent third-party auditors to regularly challenge. and share monitor the SGP compliance of companies Measure which supply to the Coca-Cola System. In EcoVadis and reduce Measure the last three years, they have undertaken a EcoVadis evaluates our suppliers on four series of audits including over two thirds of areas – environmental, social, ethical Low Medium High Coca-Cola Enterprises’ suppliers of and supply chain management – and Supplier carbon impact category ingredients and packaging. undertakes a 360 degree review of the organization. In collaboration with our Together with The Coca-Cola Company, suppliers, this information is used to develop Bring suppliers together CCE is a member of the AIM-PROGRESS action plans to help them raise their rating “This year we held our first ever supplier forum – a global group promoting and create risk reduction plans. sustainability webinar as part of our procurement strategy. This was a great Supplier Guiding Principles Carbon Challenge opportunity to communicate our Our SGPs outline minimum requirements Our ‘Carbon Challenge’ supports our carbon expectations and continue the dialogue and address the following key areas: commitment. This three-stage program is with our key suppliers. We want to designed to prioritize efforts and encourage encourage and help them to improve their • Laws and regulations suppliers to progress along each stage of CRS performance and more specifically • Child labor their carbon management journey. their carbon maturity, which is essential to • Forced labor help us reduce our carbon footprint across The challenge starts by encouraging each • Abuse of labor the value chain.” organization to measure and manage its • F reedom of association and carbon footprint, then to develop carbon Mélanie Leroy, CCE Senior Manager, Strategic Procurement collective bargaining improvement plans and finally to share carbon information. Suppliers are directed • Discrimination towards particular stages of the challenge to • Wages and benefits reflect the carbon classification assigned to • Work hours and overtime the commodity or service they provide – low, • Health and safety medium or high impact (see CCE’s Carbon Challenge Process). • Environment • Demonstration of compliance 08/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 In October 2013, we held our first Sustainability Innovation Summit to explore how business can use innovation, technology and collaboration for a more Innovate sustainable tomorrow. for the Future INTRODUCTION THOUGHT LEADERSHIP ‘Innovate for the Future’ is one of three strategic priorities within In 2013, we worked with the Economist our sustainability plan. We are making good progress towards many Intelligence Unit to explore how senior of our sustainability targets. However, we recognize that the size business leaders view the sustainability and scale of the sustainability challenges we face will require industry strategies and commitments that businesses are making – and to leaders to accelerate progress at a faster rate. We need to drive new understand what the key drivers opportunities for innovation, collaboration and partnership and inspire and barriers to success have been. people to think differently – both inside and outside our company. Sustainability Insights – Learning from OUR STRATEGY Business Leaders 1 highlighted that many companies are moving forward with their We are focused on solutions that will take us beyond our four walls sustainability activities, despite the recent benefiting ourselves, broader industry and society as a whole through: economic downturn. The research also • Thought leadership to explore and develop solutions to new issues highlighted that: and challenges. • Technology is proving to be a powerful • Collaboration and engagement with suppliers, customers and sustainability driver. other stakeholders to drive innovation and unlock new ideas • Leading companies are turning to and opportunities. a broader form of collaboration. • Accelerating the pace of change by developing and harnessing • Innovative and disruptive business innovation and technology. models have the potential to impact the way mainstream business operates and address social and environmental challenges. • Building the right business case remains challenging due to concerns about the perceived high cost and lack of rate of return. Our work with the Economist Intelligence Unit has been important in highlighting the opportunities that exist as we progress on our sustainability journey. 1 For details of the findings, see www.cokecce. com/system/file_resources/93/report__ACTUAL_FINAL.pdf INNOVATE FOR THE FUTURE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 COLLABORATION WWF-UK (see Factsheet 22) and our active lifestyle partnerships with the Norwegian CASE STUDY The next era of sustainable business will be defined by more meaningful collaboration – Red Cross, the Swedish Swimming Sustainability Innovation Summit with businesses working alongside Federation and Special Olympics (see government and civil society to identify the Factsheet 11). innovation that is required for sustainability. ACCELERATING THE PACE OF CHANGE We recognize that we are unable to meet Given the scale of the sustainability our sustainability commitments by acting challenges we face, we recognize the alone. In the search for solutions, we will be importance of accelerating the pace of more effective by looking outside our own change. This will include consideration of how operations and by working in partnership we can use innovative new business models. across our entire value chain. For this reason, collaboration runs through all To support our commitment to reduce the In October 2013, we held our first our sustainability activities. carbon footprint of the drink in your hand Sustainability Innovation Summit, by a third and to create a step-change in inviting an international group of As part of our ‘Recycle for the Future’ recycling in two of our markets, we have influential stakeholders to explore program, we continue to forge partnerships established two new joint business ventures. how business can use innovation and to increase recycling. We have worked closely with the University of Exeter to Working with ECOPlastics in Great Britain technology, embrace new business understand recycling behavior and have and APPE in France, we have invested over models and think differently as part launched a recycling challenge in partnership $18 million to create two new state of the art of the shift to a low-carbon economy. with OpenIDEO (see case study below). recycling plants, Continuum in Great Britain The event was attended by more than and Infineo in France. As a result, at the end 250 delegates including policy-makers, Supplier collaboration is also a key of 2013, we were able to include an average NGOs and industry leaders. Attendees component of our sustainability strategy, of 32 percent recycled plastic (rPET) in our heard from a range of entrepreneurial whether in pursuit of low-carbon innovation PET bottles (see Factsheet 20). and pioneering speakers from the within our manufacturing plants or in developing energy-efficient vendors We have also furthered our water Ellen MacArthur Foundation, McKinsey and coolers. stewardship agenda by trialing innovative & Co., Goldman Sachs, IBM and new water-saving technologies including Salesforce.com. We are also working closely with the use of electro-chemically activated water The Summit explored how many different NGOs and community and dry and semi-dry lubricants on our organizations can drive the next era of organizations. Projects include our river manufacturing lines (see Factsheet 21). sustainable business and the important replenishment work in Great Britain with role that collaboration will have to play. CASE STUDY Our keynote speaker, Peter Schwartz from Salesforce.com, also highlighted Recycle for the Future the important role of technology. He said, “The question of how we deploy • Better information is needed to technology is quite fundamental to the address common misconceptions question of sustainability.” about recycling. Summit breakout sessions explored • There is an opportunity to leverage topics directly related to CCE’s core the ‘power of community’ through business including ‘packaging of the digital communication to encourage future’ and ‘how to drive consumer new recycling habits. behavior change on recycling’. Recycling is something in which everyone In April 2014, we used the findings from The Summit provided an important has a role to play. It is arguably one of the this work to launch a new online recycling opportunity for CCE to hold a wider easier ways to contribute to protecting the challenge in partnership with OpenIDEO, discussion about the role of business environment. However, recycling rates in an online open innovation platform. and enable like-minded organizations two of our territories – Great Britain and The partnership enabled CCE to draw to share ideas and explore France – still fall short of the European inspiration from a wide variety of sources opportunities for collaboration. average. and generate a range of ideas and “Today, we are responsible for working In 2013, we commissioned the University solutions to encourage consumer outside of conventional boundaries and of Exeter to undertake a pioneering recycling at home. convening and leading a conversation six-month study into recycling behaviors in Ideas will be evaluated by the OpenIDEO that will help to shape the future of our the home. The study observed 20 online community and an Expert Advisory business and also the world around households in Great Britain and France to Panel, including representatives from us,” said Hubert Patricot, Executive help understand the barriers to at-home Casino, WRAP and Fostplus. We aim to Vice President and President, European recycling. The study discovered that: select at least one winning idea to bring to Group, Coca-Cola Enterprises. • People don’t make conscious decisions life through a prototype, field-test or full Video highlights from the Summit can about recycling. project launch. be found on www.cokecce.com • New thinking is required to help See more at – www.openideo.com/challenge/ We will hold our second Sustainability people form new habits. recycle-challenge Innovation Summit in October 2014. 9/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 In 2013, in Great Britain, we launched Sprite with stevia, a zero-calorie sweetener from natural origins, reducing the sugar content by 30%. Product Portfolio OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will provide a wide variety of quality, refreshing beverages Our product portfolio strategy has with nutritional and ingredient information so consumers can three priorities: make informed beverage choices. • Offering greater choice: we are introducing new products, reducing INTRODUCTION calories and sugar across our range We are fully engaged in the debate on obesity and the health of products and raising awareness of and well-being of the communities in which we operate. While noand low-calorie alternatives. no single food or drink is responsible for obesity, all calories • Providing more information: being open count, including those in our products. about the calories and ingredients in our products through clear guideline daily Obesity is a complicated problem. We are committed to playing amount labeling (see Factsheet 10). our part and helping people find the right energy balance in their • Ensuring that our products are sold and daily lives, balancing calories consumed and calories burned. We marketed responsibly (see Factsheet 10). are taking action by providing a wide range of product choices, DEVELOPING OUR PORTFOLIO including noand low-calorie beverages in a variety of packaging sizes with clear nutritional information. We are also helping people We manufacture and distribute beverages to get active (see Factsheet 11). owned by other companies. To ensure a successful, balanced portfolio, we work with The Coca-Cola Company and our other brand owners to develop and introduce new 54% products and package sizes in line with our strategy. We try to ensure that each outlet has a range of choices available. of our full-sugar Our core sparkling brands such as Coca-Cola, brands have Fanta and Sprite represent 29 percent of noor low-calorie alternatives1 19% of our products are the products in our portfolio. We also have a wide range of noand low-calorie soft drinks from Diet Coke, Coca-Cola Light in small portion sizes and Coca-Cola Zero to alternatives for the (250ml packs or less) majority of our flavored drinks (nearly every one of our full-sugar sparkling soft drinks has a low-calorie alternative). The rest of our portfolio consists of categories such as waters, sports drinks, functional waters 1 CCE’s full sugar brands, excluding water and hot drinks. Including water and hot drinks brands, this equals 56%. Our most popular and energy drinks. sugar brands (Coca-Cola, Fanta, Sprite) all have low-calorie alternatives and together these make up 90% of CCE’s volume. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 In 2013, we introduced 375ml Coca-Cola, Diet Coke We continue to increase these percentages average calories per liter of our range of and Coca-Cola Zero bottles by introducing reformulated versions of our sparkling soft drinks in Great Britain by five and 250ml slimline cans, popular drinks, by expanding sales of percent between 2012 and 2014 through expanding our range of pack our existing low-calorie products, and by a combination of reformulations and sizes to help consumers ensuring that noand low-calorie products marketing investments behind our manage their calorie are consistently distributed alongside our no-calorie and zero-sugar offerings. intake. regular soft drinks. Choice Smaller portion sizes Since the European Union approved the We offer a wide product and packaging Another way we help consumers to use of the naturally sourced, zero-calorie choice so that people can decide which manage their calorie intake is to offer our sweetener, stevia, in 2011, we have started of our beverages best meet their needs drinks in smaller packages. 19 percent of to use it in products such as Sprite and and lifestyles and we work with The our products are now available in units of GLACEAU vitaminwater. We will continue to Coca-Cola Company to encourage people less than 250ml, such as our 150ml cans, explore opportunities to expand our portfolio to make choices which balance their and we are looking to increase these smaller using stevia. nutritional needs. packaging choices. In 2012, we introduced In 2013, noand low-calorie reformulations ‘pocket-sized’ 375ml Coca-Cola, Diet Coke The Coca-Cola Company is also using the of existing products and additions which and Coca-Cola Zero bottles to be sold power and reach of its advertising to raise help us to promote healthy choices included: alongside our 500ml bottles. In 2013, awareness and provide information about we launched a new 250ml can to help the calories in our products and what people • Sprite with stevia in Great Britain. consumers manage their calories (see case need to do to expend these. The 2013 ‘Be OK’ • Monster Absolute Zero. study below). advertisement puts calories front and center • GLACEAU vitaminwater, reformulated of brand communications to consumers, We have also limited our cup sizes for with stevia for 30 percent less sugar, conveying that each can of Coca-Cola has fountain beverages in France and Belgium, and more recently with zero calories. 139 calories and giving examples of some of where we no longer sell branded cups the physical activities needed to burn these Since 2012, the Coca-Cola System in larger than 500ml in restaurants, leisure off, as well as promoting Coca-Cola Zero as Great Britain has voluntarily supported parks and most cinemas. a no-calorie alternative. The ‘Grandfather’ the British Government’s calorie reduction advertisement encouraged our consumers initiative, alongside a number of leading food retailers, restaurant chains and food CASE STUDY to adopt a balanced lifestyle by taking the stairs and eating smaller portions, as our and drinks manufacturers. The initiative is a ESFA reconfirmation grandparents used to do. key part of the Public Health Responsibility of aspartame safety Deal, enabling the Government, industry and The Coca-Cola Company will continue to health groups to work together to tackle Low-calorie sweeteners, if used promote the importance of energy balance complex health challenges such as obesity. consistently to replace caloric and active lifestyles in its 2014 advertising, We have pledged that we will reduce the sweeteners, can contribute to weight particularly in conjunction with Coca-Cola’s loss and maintenance, and are sponsorship of the FIFA World Cup™ in Brazil. important tools in the effort to tackle CASE STUDY obesity. Aspartame is one of the At CCE we continue to invest with The New slimline 250ml can sweeteners we use in noand Coca-Cola Company to develop grassroots low-calorie products such as Diet Coke, active lifestyle and sports programs in every Coca-Cola Light and Coca-Cola Zero. market in which we operate to ensure we It has been used in many everyday are helping people to get active in their products, including confectionery, communities (see Factsheet 11). yogurt and soft drinks, for more than Quality 30 years and is made from two amino acids that are also found naturally in We want to ensure that consumers trust our high-protein foods like eggs and meat. products and are satisfied with the quality we offer. All our 17 production facilities are In December 2013, the European Food In 2013, Coca-Cola introduced a new accredited to the quality standard ISO 9001 Safety Authority (EFSA) published its slimline 250ml can for Coca-Cola, and Food Safety Standard FSSC 22000 and opinion on aspartame after a thorough Diet Coke and Coca-Cola Zero in we have response centers in every country assessment of scientific research on Great Britain, France, Belgium, to constantly monitor consumer feedback. In the sweetener, answering a request Luxembourg, and Sweden. This new 2013, we received 115,086 consumer contacts by the European Commission to pack has been introduced in addition of which 13 percent were related to product re-evaluate all food additives by 2020. to the standard 330ml can and reflects quality. This is equivalent to 1.24 product EFSA reconfirmed aspartame is safe our commitment to offering consumers quality complaints per million units sold, a and that there is no need to change the a greater choice in terms of calories reduction of nearly five percent since 2012. current Acceptable Daily Intake (ADI) for and portion size. In Great Britain, this aspartame. This opinion aligns with that Noand low-calorie beverages initiative forms part of our commitment of the World Health Organization and to the UK Government’s ‘calorie 541 percent of the brands we sell have nomore than 200 international studies, reduction pledge’ – a voluntary initiative or low-calorie alternatives. Including water making it one of the most thoroughly by food and drink businesses to help and hot drinks these alternatives make up tested ingredients. tackle obesity. 31 percent of the volume of drinks we sell3. 2 Covers CCE’s wholly owned facilities, but we also require co-packers and other partners to have quality certification standards in place. 3 Figures include water and hot drinks and are measured using unit cases. 10/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 We want to ensure that people know what is in our products and were one of the first companies to introduce Guideline Responsible Sales Daily Amounts (GDA) labeling. and Marketing OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will ensure that our products are sold and marketed in a CCE aligns with The Coca-Cola Company’s responsible way. Global Responsible Marketing policy. Together, with the rest of our industry in INTRODUCTION Europe, we have signed up to a series of clear, compelling and verifiable industry-wide With the influence of our marketing comes responsibility and we take commitments to market our products seriously the need to sell and market our products in a responsible way. responsibly. These focus on: The Coca-Cola System is committed to being part of the solution and • Public education: providing consumers helping to address the complex challenge of obesity. Over the past with relevant information to encourage year it has been using its marketing and advertising to provide clear healthy active lifestyles. information about the benefits and range of our beverages and the • Consumer information: providing nutrition calories in our products as well as encouraging people to get active. education on our packs. We also aim to support and safeguard the role of parents and adult • Advertising and commercial communication: carers as the gatekeepers of their children’s dietary choices, so we ensuring that we do not place adhere to strict policies which ensure that the way we market our communications in media aimed at children. products is appropriate and responsible and we do not market our • Primary schools: not engaging in any direct products to under-12s. commercial activity in primary schools. • Promotions and choice: increasing the number of new beverages with noand low-calorie content and the choice and availability of individual packaging sizes. • Research: contributing to public and private research into consumer behavior as appropriate. Our 98% advertisements PUBLIC EDUCATION are never shown during children’s Through our European trade association, programing or UNESDA, we have committed to increase on websites our involvement in educational programs of our products have targeted at aimed at providing consumers with relevant information on healthy eating on-pack GDA labeling children. and active lifestyles. In 2013, the Coca-Cola System launched an ongoing campaign in our territories which RESPONSIBLE SALES AND MARKETING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 reinforced our commitment to being part We do not advertise or market any of our of the solution to obesity. This included products directly to children under 12. This television advertisements focused on the means that our advertisements are never Independent importance of energy balance in managing shown during children’s programing and auditing in 2012-2013 weight. We will continue this messaging in we do not undertake promotional activities showed >95 percent future advertising. aimed at children under 12. We never compliance rate with provide free samples to children under UNESDA’s industry CONSUMER INFORMATION 12 unless an adult or carer is present. responsible marketing Through UNESDA, we have committed At CCE, we recognize the growing use of guidelines. to provide nutrition information as well digital and internet communications by as on-pack calorie information per 100ml children and support The Coca-Cola and/or individual serving size. Company’s policies for responsible To make the right choices, consumers marketing of our products on the internet need to know what their food and drinks and via digital media. Our internet sites, contain and how this information relates to content and related technologies are a balanced diet. In 2007, we were one of the designed for visitors aged 12 or above PROMOTIONS AND CHOICE first companies to introduce ‘Guideline Daily and we use features and elements on Through UNESDA and our own sustainability Amount’ (GDA) labeling and we’re now our websites that appeal predominantly plan commitments, we have pledged to moving to the new EU ‘Reference Intakes’ (RI) to visitors over the age of 12. increase the number of new beverages label. GDA labeling currently covers with noor low-calorie content and light SCHOOLS 98 percent of the products we sell. Our versions of existing beverages as well as pack labels also include information on As part of a global Coca-Cola policy to increase the choice and availability of ingredients and nutrition. We take advice and through UNESDA, we have committed individual packaging sizes to help manage from local and European Scientific Advisory not to undertake direct commercial activity informed consumption. Councils and make no health claims unless in primary schools unless requested by school authorities or parents. Although each We have made strong progress against these are scientifically proven. Product country in which we operate has different this commitment in 2013 with the launch information is also available through policies on the distribution of our products in of our new 250ml small can in Great Britain, websites, care lines and consumer secondary schools, our commitments can be France, Belgium, Luxembourg and Sweden, information centers in all the countries summarized as follows: as well as the launch of Sprite with stevia, where we operate. reducing the sugar content by 30 percent. We also provide extra information about • To ensure that a full range of beverages For further information on our portfolio ingredients on pack labels to help (including waters, juices and noand developments, see Factsheet 9. consumers make the right personal choices. low-calorie products) is available in For example, our energy drinks carry a appropriate portion control sizes. RESEARCH statement indicating that they are not • Non-branded vending: to include Our commitments with UNESDA also suitable for children and pregnant and educational images and messages on mean that we contribute to public breast-feeding women, specific groups vending machines to promote balanced and private research into consumer for whom caffeine is not recommended. diets and to respect the commercial-free behavior and responsiveness to educational character of schools. campaigns aimed at encouraging healthy ADVERTISING AND COMMERCIAL • Third-party distributors: to ensure that eating and active lifestyles. In the COMMUNICATION those responsible for the final distribution Netherlands, for example, we are partnering Through UNESDA we have committed not of our products to schools are aware of with the JOGG (youngsters of healthy weight) to advertise in printed media, on websites these commitments. initiative, piloting a new multi-partner or during broadcast programs specifically approach to help young people lead aimed at children. We have also signed the UNESDA initiative to balanced lives. (For more information ensure that energy drinks are not marketed on our active lifestyle programs, see to under-16s. Factsheet 11.) Further reading UNESDA Commitments to Act Responsibly: The Coca-Cola Company Global www.unesda.org/our-unesdaResponsible Marketing policy: commitments-act-responsibly www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/ UNESDA Digital Marketing Commitments: responsible-marketing-policy www.unesda.org/unesda-commitments The Coca-Cola Company Global School UNESDA Code for Energy Drinks and Shots: Beverage Guidelines: www.unesda.org/blog/code-conductwww.coca-colacompany.com/stories/ energy-shots global-school-beverage-guidelines The Coca-Cola Company Responsible Marketing Charter, Great Britain: www.coca-cola.co.uk/about-us/ responsible-marketing.html 11/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 We are working in partnership with programs such as Olympic Moves in the Netherlands and Belgium to encourage people to move more, more often, and live healthier and Active Healthy happier lives. Living OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will encourage active healthy living by supporting physical We aim to raise awareness of the activity and nutrition education programs. benefits of moving more, more often. Through partnering with national and INTRODUCTION local organizations, we will continue to develop our active lifestyle programs to Obesity is a complex health challenge and we take the well-being get young people and their families and of our consumers and the communities in which we operate communities involved. We have at least seriously. Being more physically active is one of the most important one major physical activity program in things people can do for their health and happiness. every country where we operate. Together with The Coca-Cola Company, CCE is investing in a ACTIVE LIFESTYLES range of active lifestyle and sports programs across our territories. From team sports like football to everyday activities like walking, The Coca-Cola Company is using the power and reach of its advertising to encourage swimming or running, we aim to offer people of all ages and people to be more active. Its most recent backgrounds the opportunity to move more, more often. ‘Movement is Happiness’ campaign is linked to its FIFA World Cup™ sponsorship and promotes the joy of movement. At CCE, we continue to invest, with The Coca-Cola Company, to develop grassroots active lifestyle and sports programs to help people to get active in their communities. These include: Special Olympics We have a long-standing partnership more than with Special Olympics, the world’s biggest 900,000 sports charity for children and adults with intellectual disabilities – giving them the chance to get active, learn new skills and build their confidence through sport. people reached through The Coca-Cola Company has sponsored our active lifestyle Special Olympics for 35 years and CCE is proud to add its support. Our partnership programs in 2013 began in Belgium in 1990 and extended to Great Britain in 2010. Further partnerships were formed in 2013 in France and the ACTIVE HEALTHY LIVING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 near Brussels where 11,000 young schools and local companies, the scheme people were given the chance to discover develops and implements programs to 30 Olympic sports and 20 other activities. encourage healthy lives. The program has also been extended to ‘Le Sport Ca Me Dit’, France schools. Between March and May 2013, In France, we sponsor ‘Le Sport Ca Me Dit’ approximately 13,000 young people from (‘I Like Sport’), created in 2008 with support 250 schools were introduced to two from the Ministry of Sports and the French lesser-known Olympic disciplines, National Olympic Committee to provide taekwondo and fencing. We look forward to The Coca-Cola Company’s ‘Grandfather’ simple ways for young people to take part expanding this program further in 2014. advertisement encourages people to in sports and games. Under the scheme, adopt a more balanced lifestyle by StreetGames, Great Britain municipalities are offered equipment for moving more and eating smaller portions, six different activities, all packaged in a as our grandparents used to do. With The Coca-Cola Company, Great Britain one-meter cube and able to be set up very we support StreetGames, a UK charity quickly in streets, parks and other urban focused on making sports accessible for Netherlands. The main focus of our activities spaces. The project has so far involved more younger people in disadvantaged in 2013 was our sponsorship of the Special than 800,000 young people and currently communities. The program includes Olympics National Summer Games in operates in over 770 municipalities. improved coaching, a greater choice of Great Britain (see case study). local activities, sports festivals and training Swimming Federation, Sweden Olympic Moves, Netherlands with high profile sportsmen and women. In 2013, CCE partnered with the Swedish and Belgium Bloso and Adeps, Belgium Swimming Federation to encourage Started in 2003 by The Coca-Cola Company exercise through swimming and improve In Belgium, we support the French and the Dutch Olympic Committee, Olympic the nation’s swimming ability. We will and Flemish national sports associations, Moves (previously called Mission Olympic) promote swimming in co-operation with Bloso and Adeps, which train coaches is the biggest annual school sports local associations, giving people tips and and organize sporting events in Belgium’s competition in the Netherlands. Supported challenges from champion swimmers via different languages. by CCE, it encourages 12to 18-year-olds to digital channels. The collaboration will discover sports in a fun way and to develop JOGG, Netherlands initially span three years and cover a a lifelong interest in physical activity. variety of swimming activities. In Dongen, in the Netherlands, we are Olympic Moves extends to more than working with The Coca-Cola Company and Cityride, Norway 300 Dutch schools. JOGG (youngsters of a healthy weight), a CCE has partnered with Cityride in Norway Olympic Moves has now been introduced community-based initiative helping young to promote the joy and advantages of cycling in Belgium. In May 2013, we sponsored a people lead healthy lives. Together with and to encourage young people and their three-day event at the King Baudoin stadium sports organizations, the local municipality, families to get involved. In 2014, Cityride events are planned to take place in 20 CASE STUDY offering a life-changing opportunity for locations across Norway. athletes to compete at national level. Held Special Olympics national every four years, the games are at the Global Corporate Challenge summer games, Great Britain heart of the Special Olympics’ program, In 2013, CCE joined the Global Corporate offering community sports for children Challenge (GCC). Over a 16-week period, and adults at all levels, ages and abilities. 300 teams of seven CCE employees set themselves the challenge of walking In addition to CCE’s sponsorship and 10,000 steps a day. We are looking forward fundraising activities at our sites, 35 to running this program again in 2014 (see employees provided hands-on support Factsheet 14). for the event, volunteering almost 2,000 hours. The Coca-Cola Foundation also Supporting swimming in Sweden provided funding for those attending. “We are excited to have launched a In addition, we worked with our partner, partnership with The Coca-Cola Company Recoup, to provide recycling facilities at and CCE in Sweden to focus on improving In August 2013, we were proud to the Games – collecting over 30,000 PET our nation’s swimming ability. This support the Special Olympics national bottles for reprocessing at our Continuum collaboration will help us to encourage summer games. Held over five days recycling plant. (For more information on more people to get involved in swimming.” at the University of Bath, the event Recycling, see Factsheet 20.) Bengt Jonsson, Head of the Swedish Swimming Federation saw 1,700 athletes competing in 12 different sports. We look forward to continuing our support at the Special Olympics European The games are the UK’s largest sporting Games taking place in Antwerp in event for people with intellectual disabilities, September 2014. 12/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Real Business Challenge regional champions, Scotland and national runners-ups, Auchinleck Academy, Supporting with Sean Collins, CCE Senior community Manager Field Sales programs through and Bev Burnham, collaboration, CCE CRS Manager. partnership and volunteering across our territories. Community OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will make a positive difference in our communities, work with local At CCE, our community program focuses partners and support the active involvement of our employees. on three pillars: • Supporting young people in developing INTRODUCTION their workplace skills. Coca-Cola is a local product, made by local people. We are proud • Encouraging active, healthy living. to support the communities in which we operate and have built strong • Supporting community projects to relationships both locally and nationally. Our aim is to make a positive improve and protect the environment. difference, protecting the environment and addressing social needs. This factsheet focuses on the first and For CCE this also means supporting our employees in being actively involved. third pillars. See Factsheet 11 for details Our business makes a significant economic contribution to the countries on our Active Healthy Living programs. and communities in which we operate. At the end of 2013, we employed SUPPORTING YOUNG PEOPLE IN approximately 11,750 people, paying salaries and benefits of $1.1 billion DEVELOPING THEIR WORKPLACE SKILLS and $1.5 billion in taxes. An independent evaluation concluded that in Great Britain each job provided by Coca-Cola supports a further eight We want to help young people to gain an understanding of the workplace and the jobs and for every £1 of value CCE creates, an additional £8 is generated. skills they will need. Through a network of education centers and a series of community partnerships, we provide a variety of Community Investment work-related learning programs. Each year, In 2013, we invested $9.1 million1, just over one percent of pre-tax our education centers attract 75,000 visitors profit, in community initiatives across our territories.2 This breaks and our activities in total reach more than down as follows: 100,000 young people. • Cash contributions – 77% • In-kind contributions – 4% 1.1% Education centers in Great Britain • Management costs – 17% $9.1m of pre-tax profits invested In Great Britain we have five education centers in our plants at East Kilbride, invested in community Wakefield, Edmonton and Sidcup, and • Employee volunteering time – 2% projects and partnerships at our Continuum recycling facility in Lincolnshire. These offer school students, 1 This includes significant one-off investments in 2013. >5,000 aged 12-18, an exciting opportunity to learn about modern manufacturing and the 2 CCE’s Community Investment hours volunteered contributions reported using the by CCE employees world of work. Visits are free and highly standardized approach provided popular, typically involving a classroom by the London Benchmarking Group methodology. presentation and a tour of the factory. COMMUNITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Through local partnerships and our own education Over the past five years, 10 percent of our Water replenishment in Great Britain centers, our activities new recruits have been employed through Through our projects with WWF-UK, we are reach more than the program. working with community groups to improve 100,000 young people water quality and undertake river restoration JINC, the Netherlands each year. at the River Nar in Norfolk and the River Cray In 2013, we launched a new partnership in South London (see Factsheet 22). with JINC, an organization bringing together These centers also enable us to support companies and underprivileged young Clean the Beaches, Sweden similar initiatives designed to help students people to help students prepare for the In Sweden, we support Städa Sverige improve their employability. In 2013, these world of work. Focusing on developing the (Clean Sweden) to promote environmental included the Food and Drink Federation’s skills needed to gain employment, volunteers awareness among young people. Since ‘See Inside Manufacturing’ program and the and funding are provided for classes, 2010, more than 4,000 participants have University of Sheffield Hallam’s Women in interview coaching and one-to-one support. cleared litter from over 300 Swedish beaches. Science, Engineering and Technology (WISET). Red Cross, Norway CRS roadshow, Sweden Infineo Education Center, France In Norway, since 2003, we have supported Together with the Swedish recycling Our most recent education center opened in the Red Cross, providing financial help organization, Returpack, we took part in a October 2013 at the Infineo recycling center, and job training to four centers in Oslo, roadshow visiting schools in Swedish cities, our $12 million joint venture with the French aimed at helping young people achieve raising awareness of recycling with more recycler, APPE (see case study). their ambitions. than 5,000 students. The Real Business Challenge, SUPPORTING COMMUNITY PROJECTS TO EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING Great Britain IMPROVE AND PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT The Real Business Challenge is our We encourage volunteering as part of our We consider it essential to protect and national enterprise competition for community initiatives, helping employees to enhance the environment wherever we secondary school students, run by qualified enhance their own skills and experience. In operate and are working with local teachers. Students are challenged to tackle 2013, our employees volunteered more than communities and environmental groups a business task set by CCE and to pitch their 5,000 hours on CCE community projects. through direct activities which include: enterprise skills against other schools. In 2013, the competition reached more Source O Rama, Chaudfontaine, CASE STUDY than 75,000 students who took part in Belgium Infineo Education Center regional competitions. Our mineral water bottling site in Belgium  See more at – www.therealexperience.co.uk/ is in Chaudfontaine, a town well known for the-real-business-challenge/ its thermal water source. With the local community, we support the town’s Source European Visitors’ Center, Belgium O Rama visitors’ center, which provides Our Antwerp plant hosts our European educational programs to help students Visitors’ Center, which has recently been and local visitors learn more about mineral extensively refurbished and is expected to water and the water cycle. welcome nearly 25,000 visitors a year. The Our education center at Infineo in center offers a variety of programs focusing Burgundy, France, is a unique educational on support for students aged between The Real Business Challenge space, designed in partnership with 12 and 25. “Our Real Business Challenge French recycler APPE, our joint venture (RBC) is a great opportunity to partner, and Eco-Emballages, the Open Door and Family Day, Belgium make young people aware of what household packing recycling organization To provide insight into our production we do, in addition to the careers we offer. for France. processes and working at CCE, we opened The RBC helps students to develop a broad The center offers an interactive and visual the doors of our Antwerp plant to more than range of skills designed to help them in experience, seeking to educate visitors on 10,000 people from the local community the competitive job market including the recycling of all materials – aluminum, during Belgium’s 2013 ‘Open Door Day’. We prioritizing and team work. It also provides steel, glass, plastic, paper and cardboard. also ran a family day for our colleagues and a great opportunity for CCE colleagues to their families. volunteer and help towards CCE’s active Set out in three parts, the center gives an community role.” overview of the benefits and challenges Passport to Employment, France Bill Muirhead, of recycling and the circular economy, a In the ten years that CCE has worked on CCE Education Program Manager tour of Infineo and the bottle-to-bottle this scheme, it has helped more than recycling facility and fun quizzes to learn 15,000 young people from underprivileged more about the second life of packaging. backgrounds. Our employees provide More than 5,000 students a year are able support through interview training, to learn about packaging and recycling. explaining different job roles and mentoring The center aims to increase awareness, to help participants find their first job. change recycling behaviors and encourage visitors to recycle their waste. Espoir Banlieues (Hope for the Suburbs), France In support of this government initiative CCE has pledged to recruit unemployed people infineo RECYCLER AUJOURD’HUI, P R É S E R V E R D E M A I N COCA-COLA E N T R E P R I S E & A P P E from 750 disadvantaged areas. RED PMS Cool Coca-Cola Gray 10 C 13/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 68% of employees (nearly 8,000) took part in our core education and awareness 33% CC E e m program, ‘Diversity is ploye es, Everybody’s Business’, by O pe ratio ns, Wa kef ie ld. the end of 2013. of our Board of Diversity Directors are female (2.5 times the European average1). OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will attract, develop and retain a highly talented and diverse Within our workplace strategy, our diversity workforce within a safe and healthy workplace, to foster a winning and inclusion program focuses on: and inclusive culture. • Fostering a diverse and inclusive culture. • Working towards world-class safety status INTRODUCTION in our manufacturing and sales operations. People make a company successful and sustainable. We therefore • Developing a well-being program to believe that a fundamental part of our sustainability agenda is to recruit encourage our employees to live active, the best people, develop diverse and inclusive teams and provide our healthy lives. employees with rewarding careers. Our diversity and inclusion (D&I) This factsheet addresses the first priority programs have been designed to address a wide variety of differences, – building and supporting a diverse from gender and age to ethnicity, sexual orientation and disability, and workforce. See Factsheet 14 for information help to develop a diverse and inclusive culture. on safety, health and well-being. WORKPLACE PROFILE 2012 2013 FOSTERING A DIVERSE Total employees 13,000 11,7502,3 AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE Full-time employees (%) 94 96 Voluntary turnover rate (%) 6.4 5.4 We seek to attract, develop and retain a Employees with individual development plans (%) 64 76 workforce that reflects the diversity of the Average training days per employee 3 2.7 communities in which we operate. We Females on Board of Directors (%) 33 33 regard every employee as a valued member Females in executive roles (%) 29 25 of CCE and are committed to supporting Females in management bands (%) 36 36 and developing each individual to help Females in non-management roles (%) 21 19 them achieve their potential. Females in workforce (%) 24 24 Age profile of workforce (%) <20 1 0 At CCE, our diversity and inclusion 20–29 17 16 approach comprises three principles: 30–39 32 32 40–49 33 33 Accountability 50–59 15 17 Responsibility for diversity rests at all levels 60+ 2 2 of the business. We now have a Group Board of Directors members over 40 (%) 100 100 Diversity Council chaired by two members Ethnically diverse members of the Board of Directors (%) 17 17 of our Executive Leadership Team (ELT). We have also created a detailed D&I scorecard 1. European Commission, Women in economic to allow us to measure and benchmark decision-making in the EU: Progress report, 2012. progress across the business. 2. Difference due to business transformation program. Included consultation with work’s councils within the countries that we operate. 3. The above data corresponds with data reported in our 10-K. DIVERSITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Every quarter, the ELT, led by our CEO John more than 11,600 individuals completed Brock, reviews how each business unit and one or more Academy courses and just In 2013, function is progressing against its D&I action under 70,000 courses were provided. our diversity plan. In addition, all members of our ELT have This included more than 234,600 hours and inclusion programs individual D&I performance objectives. of training – an average of 20 hours received a number of per employee. awards including the Awareness and education European Diversity Within our workplace Award for the Our D&I learning strategy has two aspects: best diversity offering a variety of D&I courses within our We continue to improve our processes, team. existing management training curriculum organization and culture to further support and building stand-alone D&I programs. diversity and inclusion. Our ‘Diversity in Action’ program provides sites and functions culture more inclusive and supporting One of these programs – ‘Diversity is with D&I check-ups and self-assessment women’s careers. Following success in Everybody’s Business’ – is a team awareness workshops (see case study below). Since France, Benelux and Great Britain, we now program, supported by a D&I toolkit its launch in 2012, more than 500 people have groups in Norway, Sweden and the including videos, a quiz, a 360 degree have been directly involved in the program. USA (see case study below). In addition this questionnaire and employee In 2013, the program reached 24 sites, year, we again sent some of our top women self-assessments. The aim is to reach all surpassing our initial target of 16. Feedback executives to the Global Women’s Forum in employees by the beginning of 2015. from participants has been very positive: Deauville, France, providing an opportunity In 2013, we piloted our ‘Inclusive Leadership’ 100 percent said they found it useful and 97 to debate key issues with business and other program to provide training in diversity percent would recommend it to their peers. leaders from around the world. management and gender balance for our We continue to review our HR processes Since its launch in 2009, our University Talent top 500 leaders. This will be rolled out in 2014. from a D&I perspective. To achieve greater Program (UTP) has provided a pipeline of Diversity and inclusion is also about representation for women, we aim to have male and female graduate talent. In 2013, we developing and enhancing people’s own at least one female on both the candidate recruited a further 23 graduates. Currently, skills. We offer a variety of learning and list and the interview panel for every open 57 percent of all UTP graduates are female. development programs and every employee leadership position at CCE. Our efforts are is encouraged to create an Individual showing results. Women currently make Recognition Development Plan (IDP). 76 percent of up 33 percent of our Board of Directors We are pleased by the many diversity employees have a plan in place. (2.5 times the European average1), 25 percent awards we received in 2013 which recognize Development opportunities and of our ELT (almost three times the average3) our progress and the innovative nature of performance is also reviewed annually and 36 percent of our management and our diversity programs such as ‘Diversity in for all employees. leadership bands – an increase of 13 percent Action’, (see case study below). Our latest since January 2012. employee engagement survey also shows Our online CCE Academy offers training in many areas from leadership to commercial, high and rising scores for D&I across the Women’s networks within CCE have also supply chain and global functions. In 2013, organization. been important in helping to make our 3. McKinsey’s ‘Women matters’ report, 2012. CASE STUDY CASE STUDY from more experienced to less experienced employees. Women’s networks Diversity in Action In 2010, in France, we Since 2012, our ‘Diversity in Action’ Diversity in action launched Elles@Coke to program has involved more than 500 “The D&I self-assessment allowed us allow women managers to meet, people in 24 sites across the business. to understand the richness that is in exchange ideas, support each other D&I check-ups and self-assessment our teams and to take into account and work towards greater workshops are provided on topics such differences in what we do in our daily advancement and representation as gender, ethnicity and nationality, lives as managers. It was very useful. We within the company. The concept has age, disability, sexual orientation, religion realized that there are many simple things proved so successful that other and work-life balance. that we can do to leverage diversity. In countries have drawn on the lessons fact, diversity is not a complicated matter.” learned and similar networks have Follow-up meetings take place every six now been set up for employees in months for two years to review progress. Sevan Artinian, CCE Director of Operations, Marseille, France Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden, In addition, sites that participate in the Norway and the USA. program make D&I part of their management routines, with a diversity The Women’s Network in Great Britain scorecard reviewed at every local has proved extremely popular. Meetings management meeting. In Antwerp, and events are open to men as well as following the self-assessment, meetings women and are usually oversubscribed. were organized with female employees to Like our other networks, this is helping to identify opportunities to improve the work continue the development of a more environment. In Chaudfontaine, a program inclusive culture. was set up to favor the knowledge transfer 14/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 We will provide a safe working environment, continually driving higher standards and performance. A Safe, Healthy Workplace OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will provide a safe and healthy work environment with a vision Within our workplace program we focus of achieving zero accidents and attaining world-class health and our efforts on: safety status. In addition, we will provide access to health and • Fostering a diverse and inclusive culture. well-being programs for all of our employees. • Working towards world-class safety status in our manufacturing and sales operations. INTRODUCTION • Enabling and encouraging our employees We believe people make a company successful and sustainable. to lead active, healthy lives. A safe, healthy and positive working environment is essential to ensuring that our employees can give their best and achieve their This factsheet addresses the second and third priorities. For information on diversity full potential. and inclusion at CCE, see Factsheet 13. Lost-time accident rate 2007–20131 WORKING TOWARDS WORLD-CLASS SAFETY Number of lost-time accidents per 100 full-time equivalent employees. 2.97 Operations Commercial and sales CCE TOTAL 2 We aim to achieve world-class safety 2.55 2.71 standards and a zero-accident workplace, 2.13 working towards a consistent approach and 1.95 1.71 level of performance across our territories. 1.65 1.60 1.41 1.40 1.55 1.49 1.27 1.18 To ensure strong safety governance, we 1.17 1.12 1.07 1.06 0.85 1.00 0.93 operate Business Unit Safety Councils at a national level and health and safety committees at each of our production, sales 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 20133 1. Data recalculation and changes to previous years due to data improvements. and distribution sites. Our standards apply 2. Nordics are included from the year 2010 onwards. 3. Cold Drinks Centres transferred from commercial to operations. equally to employees and contractors. At the end of 2013, 16 of our 17 production facilities and all regional distribution centers 0.93 Number of lost-time accidents were certified to Occupational Health and Safety management system OHSAS 18001. Continuing a seven-year improvement trend, per 100 full-time employees our 2013 lost-time accident (LTA) rate was 0.93 accidents per 100 full-time equivalent 65% reduction in lost-time employees compared to 1.12 in 2012. There were no fatalities in 2013. LTAs are slightly lower in operations, largely because manufacturing sites are less susceptible accident rate since 2007 to external influences. WORKPLACE WELL-BEING AND SAFETY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Each year our sites are challenged to further and information management and • Offering flu vaccinations to all employees. improve their performance. In 2013, the audit, along with softer skills such as • Where possible, providing access to health most outstanding progress was in our change management, communication and fitness centers across our territories. site in Norway (see case study below). and culture. • Running awareness campaigns to help To support this drive for continued • Developing our Europe-wide health and employees to stop smoking. improvement, we have focused on the safety training curriculum to consolidate and standardize our approach and In 2013, we joined the Global Corporate following safety initiatives: provide training relevant to three levels Challenge (GCC) to encourage employees to • Revising our safety standards to of competence: awareness, manager walk, cycle or swim their way to more active make them easier to understand and practitioner. lives and will be joining it again in 2014 (see and implement. This has increased case study below). • Expanding our use and understanding awareness and compliance, changed of data, recording accidents that result in people’s attitudes to safety, empowered treatable injuries and potential incidents, employees to challenge unsafe practices commonly referred to as near misses. CASE STUDY and made individuals more aware of Investigating incidents of this type can their role in setting and enforcing Global Corporate Challenge highlight issues that need attention, while standards and safe behaviors. providing greater insight into safety • Providing intensive, week-long trends and helping to avoid more serious management training for safety teams incidents – all part of a greater emphasis in all territories. Designed to raise on accident prevention. competency levels, these covered safety • Focusing on higher safety performance disciplines such as risk management, from our contractors by raising awareness governance, root cause analysis, data of their responsibilities, acceptable behaviors and our safety standards. We intend to raise the bar among our network CASE STUDY of suppliers, contractors and partners. Safety improvements in Norway Our strong safety performance was recognized again in 2013 with all sites in Great Britain gaining The Royal Society In 2013, we joined forces with ‘Get the for the Prevention of Accidents Gold Award. World Moving’ to promote the Global Corporate Challenge across our EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING business. The GCC aims to get people We aim to promote a culture of well-being active in an easily accessible and fun that empowers and encourages our way. It’s about team spirit and bringing employees to lead active, healthy lives. colleagues together – with a little This means providing a healthy, safe and friendly competition thrown in. positive environment so that employees are engaged at work and can concentrate Designed for employees of all fitness on their performance. As well as the levels, the aim was for each team protection afforded by our employee member to walk, cycle or swim 10,000 benefits, we have, in recent years, developed ‘steps’ a day, with participants able Following the purchase of our to update progress online or by using Norwegian plant in 2010, significant a range of programs and tools to encourage employees to proactively manage their the GCC phone app. investment was made in updating production methods and ensuring overall health and resilience. These include: Three hundred teams of seven people that existing equipment met • Our Employee Assistance program, a signed up to the challenge, armed higher standards. confidential information service to support with pedometers and walking more employees who have work or personal than 1.6 million kilometers over a At the same time, the plant re-launched 16-week period, an average of 13,000 CCE’s safety standards while also problems such as bereavement, stress or financial concerns. steps per person per day. Of those developing a sharper management surveyed, over half reported losing focus to eliminate accidents and • Our Health Risk Assessments program weight and feeling less stressed. The change people’s safety behavior. which offers employees an analysis of winning team, Les Frappadingues their current state of health and support (The Crazy Ones – pictured above) from From having one of the highest accident for areas they may wish to focus on. rates in CCE in 2012, the plant has Dunkerque, consistently achieved an achieved more than 500 days without • A network of well-being champions to average daily step rate of more an LTA and is now one of the leading coordinate the roll-out of our well-being than 27,200. sites in CCE and the Coca-Cola System. programs and engage our people in local initiatives. With such a successful step change, • Publishing health and well-being the safety team in Norway received information on our HR portal, our annual internal recognition ‘HeRe Online’. award for CRS. OMERS CUST SUMERS ON AN D C 15/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 • ing CCE S Recycl (1.4 UP mm PLY CH ATIONS et r ic to n n e AI N CCE OPER O e) s CO e tonnes C 2 n Ing r edien 2 es tima (658,203 metr ic e ra t io Ref r ig te d) 1 t s Pa c kaging stribution Ma n u f a c t u r i n g D i g2 in p ackagin ded I nc l u % CC 17% i a l. E va l u a te r e c ha i ra wm n emiss re a ch 17% i o n s (e s t i m a ta fo t e d) 7% en t da u re m 52% 7% our p ro c Our estimated link e d to 1 We h a v e m e r a g e co n v e rsion fa c to r s l o g i e s. carbon footprint ode l ed e missio st r y a v o d o ns for ingredie nts a nd packaging using indu t m eth 2 As a result of packagi n g ca r b o n footpr in across our value chain Energy and Climate Change OUR COMMITMENT OUR OPERATIONAL CARBON FOOTPRINT We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand CCE’s business operations (manufacturing, by a third by delivering carbon reductions throughout our distribution and refrigeration) represent value chain. 31 percent of our value chain carbon footprint. This was 658,203 tonnes of INTRODUCTION CO2e for the period January 1, 2013 – December 31, 2013. We recognize the part we play in addressing climate change and the need for collaboration. We want to grow a low-carbon business To support our value chain commitment, and inspire our customers and suppliers to lead change for a more we set a target to reduce the absolute sustainable tomorrow. Since 2007, we have reduced the carbon carbon footprint of our business operations by 15 percent by 2020, from a 2007 baseline. footprint of the drink in your hand by nearly 18 percent. In 2013, we met this target seven years early 52 percent of emissions within our value chain comes from our with an actual reduction of 23 percent. We packaging. Of this 60 percent is from our cans and 20 percent from plan to continue our efforts to maintain this our plastic (PET) bottles. Our sustainable packaging and recycling achievement as we grow our business. targets support our value chain carbon commitment and we’re OUR STRATEGY focused on working with our suppliers to further reduce these impacts (for more information see Factsheets 7, 19 and 20). Our strategy to reduce the carbon footprint of our business operations focuses on This factsheet focuses on our commitment to reduce the carbon three themes: footprint of our business operations. • Measuring and managing our carbon footprint. CCE’s Business Operations 2007-13 • Setting supporting targets and developing carbon reduction roadmaps. 1,000,000 CO2e tonnes • Driving innovation, collaboration and technology. 800,000 600,000 nearly 18% reduction in the carbon 400,000 Business travel and other Third Party Distribution 23% reduction in the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand since 2007 200,000 CCE Fleet footprint of our own business Cold Drinks Equipment operations since 20073 0 Operations and Commercial sites 3  bsolute reduction for our business operations only A 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (manufacturing, distribution and cold drinks equipment). ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 MEASURING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT recycling, water and wastewater from • Transport fuel calculated based on actual The carbon footprint of our business our sites and the fuel used by our thirdliters used or kilometers recorded. operations is calculated in accordance with party distributors. • Supply of water, treatment of wastewater the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol We measure and seek to reduce our Scope 3 and waste management calculated by and includes manufacturing processes, emissions (those that do not occur at our using liter and kg data respectively. facilities, fleet, offices, cold drinks equipment business operations but result from our The raw data collected is converted to carbon and our business travel. We measure business) because they are significantly equivalents (CO2e) using emission factors or emissions from these activities in our eight greater than our Scope 1 and 2 (core) Global Warming Potential factors: electricity Western European territories and our offices emissions. The carbon footprint of our (IEA 2011), non-electrical (DEFRA 2013) and in the United States and Bulgaria. Our business operations in 2013 is verified in district heating from suppliers. Two percent of baseline year is 2007 and our emissions are accordance with the GHG Protocol by SGS. our operational carbon footprint is estimated. independent of any greenhouse gas trades. We use an operational control consolidation SOURCES OF DATA MANAGING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT approach to determine organizational We use a variety of methodologies Since 2010, CCE has used a Carbon boundaries. Data is consolidated from a to gather our emissions data: Allowance setting process to establish number of sources across our business and annual carbon reduction targets. Allowances • Energy data from metered sources, is analyzed centrally. Under the Protocol, we are agreed for each business unit in line with supplier invoices and estimates based measure our emissions in three ‘scopes’. our business plans. Carbon reduction plans on floor size. • Scope 1: Direct sources of emissions such and road maps are developed and progress • Refrigerant gas losses from contractors’ as the fuel we use for manufacturing and is monitored and reported quarterly. For re-gasing invoices. our own vehicles. more information on our energy and • CO2 fugitive gases from measuring our renewable energy, cold drinks equipment • Scope 2: Indirect sources of emissions stock levels and subtracting the quantity and distribution carbon reduction plans, such as the purchased electricity we use of CO2 used in our products and in see Factsheets 16, 18 and 17. at our sites. wastewater treatment. • Scope 3: Indirect sources associated • Cold drinks equipment calculated based with the electricity used by our coolers on supplier energy consumption rates and and vending machines at our customers’ by subtracting savings from carbon premises, our business travel by rail and reduction initiatives for the reporting air, emissions associated with waste, time period. The carbon footprint of CCE’s business GREENHOUSE GASES (TONNES CO2e)4 operations in 2013 was 658,203 Scope 1 Scope 3 Direct emissions Scope 2 Related third-party (e.g. fuel) Indirect emissions emissions Total (GHG) emissions 2013 2013 2013 tonnes of CO2e Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 111,015 82,356 462,887 656,258 Nitrous Oxide (N 2O) 341 0 703 1,044 Methane (CH4) 103 0 32 135 Hydro-fluorocarbons 765 0 0 765 CASE STUDY TOTAL (SCOPE) (tonnes CO2e) 112,225 82,356 463,622 658,203 Carbon % Footprint 17% 13% 70% 100% Disclosure Project We report our carbon emissions publicly ENERGY USE via the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) We use a variety of sources of energy in our operations which all contribute to our and are listed in the CDPs S&P 500. The carbon footprint. Our energy use in 2013 was as follows: CDP is a not-for-profit organization, encouraging transparency and public CCE Energy Sources and Use – 2013 (MWh5) disclosure of companies’ environmental Direct energy consumption Total natural gas used 152,865 footprint and improvement actions. by primary energy source Total LPG used 29,762 We operate a company-wide carbon Total Light Fuel Oil used 859 accounting system, reporting both Total Diesel and Petrol used 153,070 our core operations and value chain footprint. In 2013, we took this approach Total Biofuel used 6,402 one step further, piloting the new GHG Indirect energy consumption Total electricity purchased and used 332,004 Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain (Scope by primary energy source Total heat purchased and used 19,335 3) standard. Using the new methodology, Energy used in cold drinks equipment 1,472,407 we expanded our understanding and highlighted packaging, ingredients Energy from renewable or low-carbon sources 19,354 and our core operations as our key focus areas, confirming our value chain approach. 4. Please note we do not have PFCs or SF6 emissions. 5. Energy data expressed as MWh in line with CCE’s internal reporting processes and KPIs. 16/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Since 2007, we have reduced our energy use ratio by 15%. Our total energy use has risen by only 2% during a period when our production increased by 9%. Energy and Renewable Energy OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will manufacture every liter of product with 50 percent less In our manufacturing operations, our carbon emissions and source 35 percent of manufacturing energy low-carbon strategy focuses on improving from renewable and low-carbon sources by 20201. energy efficiency and using alternative energy sources by: INTRODUCTION • Managing the energy we use and We have set rigorous targets for reducing emissions across our adopting best practices and behaviors. value chain and are determined to help secure a low-carbon future. • Investing in new and improved The carbon emissions resulting from our manufacturing plants are energy-efficient equipment. associated with the energy we use to make our products. • Investing in renewable and low-carbon energy sources, where possible. We continue to make our manufacturing more energy-efficient. In 2013, we invested $57 million in new energy-efficient production ENERGY USE lines and equipment and an additional $7 million in further carbon Seventy percent of the carbon footprint of our reduction projects in our production plants. manufacturing and distribution sites is due to electricity and gas use. In 2013, the total energy use in our operations was 496,610 4% 76.83 Energy use ratio megawatt hours3 (MWh), an increase of two percent since 2007 despite a nine percent of our energy for manufacturing comes (kWh/1,000 liter) 23.56 Carbon intensity ratio increase in production. from renewable/low(CO2e g/liter) We monitor energy efficiency by calculating carbon sources the energy needed to produce a liter of product – our energy use ratio. In 2013, we ENERGY USE RATIO PROGRESS 2007–20132 AND 2014 TARGET used 76.83 kWh/1,000 liters, a reduction of nearly six percent since 2012 and 15 percent Energy consumed (kWh) per 1,000 liters of product since 2007. 90.83 89.78 88.20 88.37 81.78 81.54 76.83 ENERGY MANAGEMENT 74.51 Ensuring we manage our energy and carbon emissions is fundamental to our approach. We operate energy management and monitoring processes across CCE. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 target We have invested in monitoring and 1 2020 target assumes inclusion of grid renewable energy. targeting systems and energy metering. 2 Including Norway and Sweden from the year 2010 onwards. 3 Energy data expressed as MWh in line with CCE’s internal reporting processes and KPIs. ENERGY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 These provide operators with live data to This has reduced energy consumption by CASE STUDY monitor and benchmark our energy use 25 percent and, in Great Britain, has reduced and identify opportunities for improvement. the carbon footprint of our ovens by more Heat recovery In 2014, we will be investing in advanced than 50 percent. from air systems which link directly to our compressors production software. ALTERNATIVE AND RENEWABLE ENERGY At our Sidcup plant in Great Britain, We are implementing our top five energy Just under four percent of our manufacturing we have developed and installed a saving best practices and have rolled out energy is from renewable and low-carbon new heat recovery system on our The Coca-Cola Company and the World sources, saving more than 3,500 tonnes of low pressure and high pressure air Wildlife Fund (WWF) Energy Savers program. CO2e annually. We plan to increase this in the compressors. In a compressor, heat is Six of our plants (Antwerp, Gent and future. Current and planned projects include: generated. This has to be removed, Chaudfontaine in Belgium, Marseille and which requires energy. Instead, we have District heating Toulouse in France and Dongen in the installed heat exchangers to capture the Netherlands) have been awarded the District heating provides significant waste heat, which reduces the energy program’s ‘Energy-Savers’ certificate. efficiencies by enabling businesses and needed and enables the heat to be used homes to use a centrally generated source for cleaning networks and site heating. We have also piloted the energy of heat. However, district heating is only management standard, ISO 50001, at available in some of the areas in which we Wakefield and East Kilbride, Great Britain, operate. In Norway and Sweden we have Dunkerque, France and Chaudfontaine, linked our sites to district heating systems CASE STUDY Belgium. This has helped identify further fuelled by biomass, drawing 25 percent and opportunities which we will share across 36 percent of their energy respectively from Energy-efficient our sites. this source. LED lighting We have been recognized We have invested in Turning waste heat into energy LED lighting and intelligent as one of the leading performers in carbon At our Dongen plant in the Netherlands, management systems in many management by The we are working with the Ardagh Group to of our sites. These include our Carbon Trust and in 2013 test and investigate whether we can capture production plants in Sidcup in again received The Carbon and use waste heat produced by Ardagh’s Great Britain and Grigny and Clamart Trust Standard across all of our operations. glass production plant at our own in France and at our distribution center manufacturing site located next door. in Northampton, Great Britain. INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY The new systems offer significant Combined Heat and Power (CHP) We continue to invest in process innovation energy savings as well as higher quality CHP systems produce both electricity and and energy-efficient technologies to lighting, longer lifespans and better heat from one energy source, resulting in conserve energy. We have developed control. For our Northampton site, the lower carbon emissions. CHPs, however, centrally-led projects, concentrating on savings are predicted to halve the are not suitable for all sites as they require areas of high energy use plus site-specific site’s electricity use. sufficient demand for power and heat. We initiatives to address local opportunities. have investigated the feasibility of installing Recent projects include: CHPs at all our sites and identified our Bottle blower optimization largest plant, Wakefield in Great Britain, as Saving energy, sharing knowledge offering the most opportunity. We plan to “Collaborating with different teams has We have rolled out a company-wide start installation in 2014. enabled us to share knowledge and upgrade, installing the latest technology identify energy-efficient ideas and to reduce the energy used to blow our PET Solar photovoltaic innovations across the entire operation. bottles. We are reducing the standard air We have installed solar photovoltaic panels It’s great to find solutions at a site level pressure needed and installing air recovery in Great Britain at Edmonton, Sidcup and that can be rolled out to other plants systems. We have also installed ceramic Wakefield. In 2013, we also installed a solar and make a real difference.” reflectors to optimize the heat generated panelled car port, linked to electric car Peter Johnson within our ovens. charging points at our new head office in CCE Asset Care Systems, Professional, Sidcup, Great Britain LED energy-efficient lighting Uxbridge, Great Britain. In 2013, we continued to install Wind energy-efficient LED and intelligent lighting Wind turbines require sufficient wind systems in our sites and plan to fit more in and land to be a possible alternative 2014 (see case study). energy source. We have surveyed our Packaging oven optimization sites and invested in detailed tests where opportunities were identified. Plans and In 2013, we completed our multi-site project further investigations are being developed in Belgium and Great Britain converting for our Dongen plant in the Netherlands. electric packer ovens to use gas as a heating source to shrink film for bottle or can packs. The program also involved installing roller shutters and oven ‘sleep mode’ systems. 17/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 We are working with our customers, suppliers and logistics partners to reduce our carbon emissions and the number of kilometers driven to deliver Transportation our products. and Distribution OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will deliver a case of product with 20 percent less carbon We focus our efforts on three key areas: emissions by 2020 than in 2007. • Driving fewer kilometers by optimizing our logistics network. INTRODUCTION • Working in collaboration with our Transporting our product is one of the smallest elements of customers and suppliers to remove our value chain carbon footprint, accounting for seven percent of road kilometers through techniques the total. However, we drive more than 106 million kilometers a such as backhauling. year, which makes it important to continue to reduce our kilometers • Reducing the carbon emissions of and find new, less carbon-intensive ways of distributing our every kilometer driven by improving products. Our aim is to grow our business but not our carbon. vehicle efficiency and by encouraging Delivering products effectively and efficiently is central to how we the adoption of alternative technologies. operate and achieve this objective. NETWORK OPTIMIZATION We are Working to optimize our network is developing our We aim to drive fundamental to reducing our carbon use of alternative down our carbon emissions. Our aim is to operate the most technologies and efficient and effective distribution network per case delivered. In 2013 fuels which now by identifying opportunities to minimize and account for 5% of we achieved a remove kilometers driven. This involves three main activities: 12% our kilometers driven. • Maximizing local production and reduction in CO2e deliveries direct from our production sites. 2 • Collaborating with suppliers to understand (grams) per case opportunities for greater efficiencies. million kilometers delivered since • Working with our customers to optimize our routes to market. saved due to 2007. We continue to develop and expand local backhauling initiatives capacity and storage at our plants, reducing the need for long-distance freight. Recent projects include capacity investment in Clamart and Marseille in France, Edmonton and Wakefield in Great Britain and Oslo, Norway, as well as increasing storage capacity with automated warehousing at TRANSPORTATION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND AND DISTRIBUTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 our sites in Wakefield, Great Britain and In the Netherlands, we introduced the first Rail Dongen in the Netherlands. Eco-Combi truck in the worldwide Coca-Cola Where long-distance journeys are System to be powered by dual-fuel. We run necessary, we use multi-modal transport In working with our suppliers, we consider a further ten standard trucks fueled by using where trailers are transported by rail with how materials are delivered to our factories. landfill-derived biogas, a form of energy only short truck journeys at each end of the To minimize transportation, many of our sites produced from household waste. route. In 2013, we celebrated our 4,000th are located alongside our can suppliers, enabling the cans to be delivered directly. We have also worked closely with hauliers multi-modal rail delivery in France. Similarly, all our PET bottles are blown on in some of our other territories to trial site and in recent years we have invested in dual-fuel vehicles. In Sweden, we operate Smaller trucks and company cars PET bottle preform manufacture in-house, 33 dual-fuel delivery trucks powered by a mix We are reducing emissions from our car eliminating the need for transportation. of 75 percent rapeseed-oil biogas and 25 and van fleet through a variety of measures, percent regular diesel. Until alternative fuels from introducing caps on CO2 g/km to trialing Cutting kilometers from factory to customer electric and dual-fuel cars. and truck technologies become more viable, involves collaboration both with our we see dual-fuel vehicles as a key element of Vehicle technology is improving with more customers and across different parts of the our sustainable distribution strategy. low-carbon vehicles becoming available. business, from sales forecasting, production planning to route design and vehicle In 2013, we reviewed the vehicles we offer Electric vehicles scheduling and utilization. This is underpinned our employees, choosing models with the Electric vehicles can offer benefits for highest energy efficiency and safety by robust management practices, shared KPIs regular, shorter journeys but are limited by standards and increasing the range of and joint reporting processes. the weight they can carry. We have trialed hybrid cars. In 2013, we achieved a 171 CO2e (grams) electric vehicles for GLACEAU vitaminwater per case delivered which is a reduction of deliveries in Paris, France, completing more Since 2010, we have reduced our car fleet’s 12 percent since 2007. Network optimization than 1,100 orders in 2013. Similarly, we are average CO2g/km by 18 percent. In Belgium, projects in particular, saved more than trialing the use of electric vans for inner-city where we use smaller trucks, we limit their 5,470,000 road kilometers and 5,400 tonnes routes in Oslo, Norway and for our sales speed to 80km per hour, which also of CO2e. teams in Belgium. We also use electric saves fuel. vehicles in our company car fleet. BACKHAULING WORKING WITH THE INDUSTRY We continue to expand our backhauling To benchmark our progress and systems, ensuring where possible, that CASE STUDY demonstrate our commitment to low-carbon trucks are loaded on both the outward and vehicles and fuels, we work with industry Backhauling groups and have joined the Netherlands return legs of a delivery in order to reduce empty journeys (see case study below). In and Belgium Lean & Green program and 2013, our backhauling initiatives removed the Centre for Sustainable Freight Transport two million road kilometers and 1,900 tonnes in Great Britain. We are also working with of CO2e. ADEME in France, to help develop a carbon reduction charter and are part of the Haga ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGIES AND FUELS We have used backhauling for many emissions-reduction initiative in Sweden. Close collaboration with our third-party years to reduce our road kilometers hauliers, which now account for the majority and we continue to expand and develop of our deliveries, has led the way in new routes as new opportunities Optimizing and driving our emissions adopting new carbon-reduction are identified. “Collaboration across our network has technologies and fuels. In 2013, these enabled us to identify a variety of Led by our customer logistics and routing accounted for just under five percent of opportunities and unlock carbon emissions teams, our backhauling program is our distribution kilometers across Europe. savings, from our internal teams focusing complex. It requires close collaboration Recent developments include: on reducing kilometers needed to deliver with customers or suppliers, that typically our products, to developing customer and have a site near one of our plants. Project Eco-Combis supplier backhauling partnerships and teams work together to combine Replacing conventional diesel trucks with trialing alternative technologies. Without deliveries with collections to avoid longer ‘Eco-Combis’, capable of carrying up working together in this way, we wouldn’t vehicles returning empty. to 38 percent more per journey, cuts down have been able to come up with the the number of road trips and reduces our This way we save overall kilometers solutions we needed and achieve what emissions. In the Netherlands, we have and reduce emissions while making we have.” expanded our use of Eco-Combi vehicles to our logistics more efficient and creating Fabrice Zumerle, a fleet of ten trucks, reducing emissions per value for our partners. CCE Senior Manager, Logistics pallet moved by 22 percent. We have backhaul arrangements with 28 major customers including Tesco, Bioand dual-fuel trucks Asda, Bookers, Casino, Carrefour, We continue to trial and introduce vehicles Systeme U and similar arrangements using alternative fuels. In Sweden, we have with many of our suppliers such as those switched from fossil fuels to biodiesel with that supply our cans in Sweden and our 75 percent of our trucks running on biofuel. pallets in Dunkerque, France. Increasing our use further is currently limited by our early adoption of vehicles meeting the vehicle air quality standard, Euro 6. 18/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 We’re installing energy management devices, doors and 32% LED lighting to reduce the carbon footprint of our cold drinks reduction in the equipment. absolute carbon footprint of our cold drinks equipment since 2007. Cold Drinks Equipment OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will reduce the carbon emissions from our cold drinks equipment Our cooling equipment strategy has (CDE) by an average of 35 percent and purchase only HFC-free coolers. four priorities: • Collaborating with suppliers to purchase INTRODUCTION new, more efficient equipment. We have more than 572,000 items of cooling equipment (coolers, • Installing energy-efficient technology to vendors and fountain machines) in the marketplace, operated by our existing equipment during refurbishment customers on their own premises. Our cold drinks equipment fleet is and at our customers’ premises. one of the second largest source of carbon emissions in our value • Buying coolers that do not contain chain, accounting for 17 percent of the total. In the past four years, hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) greenhouse we have invested more than $42 million in programs to reduce these gas refrigerants. emissions. Since 2007, we have cut the annual carbon impact of our • Working with suppliers to develop cooling equipment by more than 170,000 tonnes of CO2e. This investment technology and innovation. is saving approximately 50,000 MWh of electricity for our customers each year. NEW EQUIPMENT We have high standards for new equipment 39% GROWTH IN CCE’S COLD DRINKS EQUIPMENT (CDE) AND REDUCTION IN CDE CARBON FOOTPRINT that we buy and install in our customers’ reduction in the premises. We only purchase equipment that average CO2e (grams) Units CO2et per unit of 600,000 is at least 40 percent more energy-efficient equipment 500,000 than the equivalent equipment we 400,000 purchased in 2000. 300,000 1,032g 200,000 Since 2010, we have not purchased large 100,000 open-fronted units that use high levels of (2007) 0 energy. All new coolers with a capacity of 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 over 250 liters also come with an energy management device. We also specify low-energy LED lighting or no lighting at all if customers request it. Where possible, our new purchases come with Electronically Commutated (EC) fans 632g (2013) average CO2e per unit and motors. In addition, we retrofit EC components at our customers’ premises. of equipment COLD DRINKS EQUIPMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 COLD DRINKS EQUIPMENT (CDE) – Energy management devices CASE STUDY ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY ROLL-OUT1 We are also fitting EMS-55 energy 100 management device – intelligent systems Energy management timer which recognize when a cooler is not being for drinks fountains opened regularly and respond by shutting In 2013, we launched an energy-saving off lights and adjusting temperature. This solution specifically designed for units can reduce the unit’s energy consumption by used to cool fountain drinks in venues % up to 35 percent. Since 2010, we have fitted such as pubs and cinemas. The device 182,000 EMS devices. As a result, 65 percent powers down equipment when the of the relevant coolers and 47 percent of our outlet is closed, operating only vending machines now use this technology. intermittently to maintain drink quality 0 EMS OFU LED Vendor Where space does not allow, we install and then powering up just before the doors lights programing the more compact EMS-25 Plus device, outlet opens again. % Eligible fleet fitted which also produces up to 35 percent The device prevents units running % Eligible fleet remaining energy saving. 24 hours a day and cuts energy EMS: Energy Management Systems OFU doors: Open Fronted Unit doors In 2013, we extended our program further consumption by up to 30 percent. Vendor Programing: Vending machines with by rolling out an energy management We installed 3,300 of pre-programed timers solution specifically designed for our these devices in 2013 1. Eligible is defined as models with more than 3,000 units in fountain business (see case study). and plan to install up the marketplace. to 24,000 over the next Programing our vending machines three years. Some of our vending machines can be EXISTING EQUIPMENT programed to save up to 25 percent of Cooling equipment is refurbished several energy used. We programed 2,000 times to extend its working life. We also machines in 2013 and plan to complete continue to make existing coolers and this initiative in the coming years. vendors more energy-efficient. Units are Since January 2013 99.8% refurbished at six service centers across our BECOMING HFC-FREE territories, while tens of thousands more are HFC refrigerants are potent greenhouse retrofitted with energy-efficient technology gases that can contribute to global warming of the coolers we on our customers’ premises every year. In if they leak or are released when equipment have purchased 2013, we fitted energy reduction components is disposed of in an uncontrolled manner. have been to just under 44,000 units. These include: We have made great progress in our HFC-free. transition to HFC-free refrigerants. In 2010, Fitting doors 50 percent of our cooler purchases were Fitting doors to our large, open-fronted HFC-free. By the end of 2013, this had risen coolers reduces their energy use by up to 99.8 percent. Staying cool while reducing energy to 50 percent. We have fitted doors to “We work in the field engineering team CCE is committed to purchasing only in the Netherlands. In 2013, we replaced 62 percent of our open-fronted cooler fleet HFC-free coolers. Where a commercial 5,200 fluorescent lighting tubes with and aim to reach 75 percent by the end of HFC-free solution is not currently available, energy-efficient LED tubes, which will 2016. Of the remainder, 15 percent are in we collaborate with our suppliers to develop last longer and use less energy. We outlets where access prevents doors being new HFC-free solutions. We are now looking also deactivated the illuminated header replaced and 10 percent are models we will to accelerate the transition to HFC-free in 1,000 coolers, replacing these with phase out. across the rest of our cold drinks equipment reflective, non-illuminated graphics. We are We are also fitting doors to our smaller, portfolio, including vendors and fountain proud to be working with our customers to open-fronted ‘impulse’ coolers. We have equipment. reduce energy consumption and helping to converted 21 percent of the fleet so far, with meet our 2020 commitments.” To prevent leakage of HFCs from existing more than 2,200 units upgraded in 2013, coolers, our cooling equipment is maintained Peter van Huizen, Jan Boddeman and Jan Wagt, and are planning to continue this program to high standards by our technical centers CCE Field Engineering, Netherlands in 2014. and field engineers. We also have systems More efficient lighting in place for safe disposal when equipment comes to the end of its useful life. CCE has led the way in replacing fluorescent lights in coolers and vending machines with TECHNOLOGY EVOLUTION more efficient LED lighting which can cut AND INNOVATION energy consumption by up to 80 percent. We are now installing ‘tube’ LEDs which are We believe that further developments in quick to fit and means less disruption for our innovation and technology have a significant customers. We have so far fitted long-life part to play in meeting the sustainability LED lights to more than 133,600 items of challenges of the future. We look to equipment, (28 percent of applicable units) collaborate with businesses working at and plan to fit another 21,800 in 2014. the forefront of this technology to find innovative solutions. 19/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 21,800 tonnes of CO2e saved from lightweighting and using recycled and renewable materials. Sustainable Packaging 100% of our cans and bottles are fully recyclable. OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will set the standard for sustainable packaging, achieve zero We continue to evolve and innovate our waste in our operations and recycle more packaging than we use. packaging to contribute to our commitment to reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in INTRODUCTION your hand by a third by 2020. Our strategy focuses on three core pillars: Packaging is essential to safeguard the quality of our drinks and ensure their safe delivery to our customers and consumers. • Using less material for each product. It is also an important resource. We are committed to supporting • Using more recycled and renewable a circular economy by ensuring that maximum value can be gained materials. from the use of resources. • Making sure that our own packs are recyclable. Packaging can be carbon-intensive in its manufacture and despite the fact that nearly all of our packaging is recyclable, it is often not USING LESS MATERIAL recycled. We estimate that packaging accounts for about half of We have a long-standing program of the carbon emissions in our value chain. ‘lightweighting’ our packaging and continue Reducing our carbon footprint and optimizing resource use means to challenge ourselves to do more, without looking at every aspect of our packaging from design, material affecting quality. Our redesign process uses used, weight and recyclability. environmental assessment methodologies to identify opportunities to use less material and reduce carbon emissions. We monitor improvements by tracking the average total weight of packaging per liter 3% 32.6% of recycled aluminum, steel of product – our packaging use ratio. In 2013 we used 119.8g/liter of product, just over three percent less than in 2012 (123.9g/liter). reduction in our and glass used in our packaging In 2013, lightweighting initiatives and the packaging use use of recycled and renewable materials ratio since 2012 more than reduced the carbon impact of our business by 21,800 tonnes of CO2e. These included: 32% 110,000 tonnes of recycled • Reducing the weight of our 500ml PET bottles from 24.7g to 21.7g in all territories, saving 1,500 tonnes of CO2e. We plan a average recycled PET material used in further reduction to 19.9g, starting in used in our PET bottles our packaging Benelux and Great Britain, saving another 1,200 tonnes of CO2e in 2014. SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 • Reducing the weight of our large PET In 2013, OUR 2013 PACKAGING FOOTPRINT 33% bottles by introducing lighter, shorter closures for sparkling brands in Great In 2013, we used a total of 368,261 Britain and our water brand in Belgium, tonnes of material. of our PET bottles saving 800 tonnes of CO2e. were PlantBottle™. Materials used Tonnes • Reducing the weight of our aluminum Aluminum 52,601 cans across our territories. Our lightest 330ml cans are now below 10g and we’re Steel 42,850 working to further lightweight all our cans. PET 124,563 • Continuing to lightweight our can ends Glass 73,709 Both rPET and PlantBottle™ make a with successful rollout in Great Britain Other (primary) 22,506 significant contribution to our commitment and France, saving 1,800 tonnes of to reduce the carbon footprint of our value Secondary and tertiary packaging 52,032 CO2e. Further rollout is also planned chain. We believe the best environmental for Sweden in 2014. Total 368,261 solution is to use a combination of the two. • Reducing the weight of our secondary Sustainably sourced cardboard and tertiary packaging, by reducing • Aluminum and steel plastic film weight and removing Recycling metals saves a significant The majority of the cardboard packaging cardboard trays. As a result, just over amount of energy. For example, it takes we use comes from recycled sources. That 4,000 tonnes of CO2e have been removed 95 percent less energy to produce recycled said a small proportion of virgin fiber is still from our packaging footprint. aluminum than virgin aluminum. We have needed for strength. The source of this virgin made it a priority to increase the recycled material is important to us. We are working In 2014, we plan to further reduce our large with our suppliers to gain Sustainable Forest content of our cans. We’re working with 1.5L, and 1.75L PET packs in Great Britain Management accreditation under the NGOs, government, industry bodies and from 41.7g to 40.3g and to develop the next Program of Endorsement of Forest local authorities to encourage consumers generation of lightweight closures. We will Certification (PEFC). By the end of 2013, to recycle more and support campaigns also continue to look for further packaging 90 percent of our cardboard had achieved such as Metal Matters, ‘Happiness innovation and lightweighting opportunities. accreditation. Recycled’ at local festivals and in-store USING RECYCLED AND and online customer campaigns with RENEWABLE MATERIALS retailers (see Factsheet 20). We are To ensure a supply of good-quality recycled also working with aluminum and steel A crucial step in developing sustainable material and avoid our packaging going producers and can manufacturers to make packaging and reducing our carbon footprint to landfill, it’s important to design for our cans more environmentally friendly. is to use more material from recycled and recyclability from the start. By the end of renewable sources. • PET 2013, 100 percent of our bottles and cans Approximately 60 percent less energy is were recyclable. Recycled materials used in producing recycled PET (rPET) than We believe recycled material can play an the virgin material. However, recycling important role within a circular economy levels are lower for PET than for metals. Increasing rPET in our bottles and are committed to increasing the amount To address this, we have invested in “Through collaboration with our suppliers of recycled material in all packaging types. plastics reprocessing. In Great Britain, our and technical innovation, we’ve been able joint venture, Continuum, is the largest, to achieve an average of 32% rPET across most sophisticated plant of its kind in the all PET packs in 2013. We use data and world. In France our joint venture, Infineo, in-depth analysis to help to drive step by has increased the rPET plant capacity by step improvements. As a cross-company CASE STUDY 70 percent. team, we were able to bring together • Glass different business skills, from commercial Lightest 330ml glass bottle to technical, to help achieve our goal.” Recycled glass is used in our bottles Since 2005, CCE and and we’re working with our suppliers Patrick Le Prince Marius, CCE Senior Manager, Ardagh Glass UK have and waste management companies to Commercialization; Geert Marse, CCE Associate Director, Engineering; Yui Kamikawa, CCE Senior Manager, Packaging been working to reduce increase the recycled content. the weight of our Coca-Cola, Sprite and Renewable material Fanta 330ml glass bottle. We have made progress in increasing Through various initiatives rPET in our bottles. However, to reduce the including investment in use of virgin PET even further, we have also design technology and looked to renewable sources. changes in the glass In many of our products and territories we forming process, the now use PlantBottle™, a material containing bottle now weighs 190g up to 22.5 percent plant-based material (a 21 percent reduction and 25 percent rPET. In addition, now that since 2005). Recent our plant in Norway uses recyclable and reductions have saved a further 2,100 non-returnable PET bottles, we have tonnes of CO2e. increased our use of PlantBottle™ even further. In 2013, 33 percent of all the PET bottles we produced were PlantBottle™. 20/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 In 2013, we launched our ‘Happiness Recycled’ campaign, encouraging festival-goers at events such as RockNess in Scotland to recycle Recycling more. OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will set the standard for sustainable packaging, achieve Our recycling strategy has three pillars: zero waste in our operations and recycle more packaging than • Consumer behavior and disposal: we use. In collaboration with customers, consumers, suppliers, local authorities INTRODUCTION and communities, we are using our Packaging is an important and valuable resource, but is often assets and brand marketing to influence thrown away and discarded to landfill. We’re committed to consumer behavior and inspire people supporting a circular economy, whereby resources are recycled to recycle more. and re-used for as long as possible, feeding back into the • Collecting and sorting: economy and ensuring we can obtain maximum value from We support existing collection schemes our packaging. in the countries where we operate and will support specific programs to improve In 2009, we set ourselves a goal to recycle more packaging collections in countries with the lowest than we use by 2020. We’re working to promote recycling in national recovery rates. the industry, ensuring our packaging is recyclable, investing • Re-use and reprocessing: in recycling infrastructure and using our brands to inspire and By investing in recycling and reprocessing encourage consumers to recycle more. infrastructure, we aim to ensure that, by 2020, the amount of packaging collected Our work generates more recycled material to feed back into and reprocessed through national our own packaging, reducing our carbon footprint and furthering schemes and our own initiatives is greater the circular economy. We have made significant progress in 2013, than the amount of packaging we use. ensuring that 84 percent1 of the packaging we use is recycled, including recycling through our joint ventures. CONSUMER BEHAVIOR AND DISPOSAL Working with our customers and other stakeholders, we are using our brands and a variety of marketing programs to 84% raise awareness, change people’s opportunities environmental behavior and encourage of the packaging for consumers to recycling. Programs in 2013 have included: see CCE’s recycling we use is recycled1 messaging Research and innovation We undertook a study with the University of Exeter to better understand recycling behavior in the home. Over six months, 1. Percentages of packaging recycled by championing improvements to collection schemes and investing 20 households in Great Britain and France in strategic infrastructure projects. RECYCLING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 recycling rates. With Sainsbury’s we also ran effect on community cohesion with residents 99.5% of our manufacturing waste an online ‘Don’t Waste. Create’ program to encourage consumers to reuse PET bottles in working together on issues such as littering and graffiti. fun and useful ways before recycling them. is recycled and 14 plants Festivals and events have achieved zero Running in partnership with Tesco, our waste to landfill. In 2013, we launched ‘Happiness Recycled’ ‘Together We’re Making Recycling Count’ at events such as RockNess and the Royal campaign, invited online visitors to make Highland Show in Scotland and Musilac a recycling pledge in return for money-off music festival and Braderie de Lille in France. vouchers. More than seven million people Giant flower pots, interactive bins and flash viewed our online recycling messages mob-style performers showed festival-goers and 37,000 made pledges over the six-week how easy and fun it is to recycle. were observed to analyze the dynamics of campaign. recycling and waste disposal and explore Similarly, with Casino, we ran ‘Give a new COLLECTION AND SORTING ways of boosting at-home recycling. life to your bottle’, an in-store and online To reduce packaging sent to landfill, we We have used the findings to launch a new campaign (see case study below). are working with policymakers, industry online recycling challenge, in partnership partners and national recovery schemes. with OpenIDEO, aimed at inviting and Promoting recycling in Milton Keynes These include Eco-Emballages in France, developing ideas and solutions to encourage Our ‘Recycling for your Community’ pilot Fost Plus in Belgium, Nedvang in the recycling in the home (see Factsheet 8 for in Great Britain was developed with Netherlands, Returpack and REPA in Sweden, more information). Milton Keynes Council and UK Government Norsk Resirk and Rentpak in Norway and Department for Environmental Food and WRAP, Zero Waste Scotland, DEFRA and Partnerships with retailers Rural Affairs (DEFRA) to help change recycling Valpak in Great Britain. We are one of the During 2013, we continued our partnerships behavior on two local housing estates. founding members of The Resource with retailers and others to encourage Working with five community groups, the Association and also support the plastics consumers to recycle more. scheme used low-cost initiatives and waste and resource management behavior-change techniques, from organization, Recoup, and the aluminum In collaboration with Sainsbury’s, the Local peer-to-peer communications to packaging recycling organization, Alupro, Government Association and the UK’s Waste encouraging pledges. in Great Britain. Resources Action Program (WRAP), we held a series of workshops for local authorities to Initial results show that recycling rates on At our own operations we have been raise awareness of cost-effective both estates outperformed the rest of Milton working to reduce waste going to landfill. communications as a way of raising Keynes. The scheme also had a positive In 2013, 99.5 percent of our manufacturing waste was recycled and 14 of our plants achieved zero waste to landfill. CASE STUDY CASE STUDY New recycling infineo RECYCLER AUJOURD’HUI, P R É S E R V E R D E M A I N COCA-COLA E N T R E P R I S E & A P P E Recycling campaign RE-USE AND REPROCESSING To ensure sufficient supplies of recycled education center in France with Casino RED PMS Cool plastic (rPET), we have invested heavily in Coca-Cola Gray 10 C the infrastructure for the collection and reprocessing of materials in Great Britain and France. Continuum Recycling in Great Britain, our joint venture with ECOPlastics, is the largest and most sophisticated plastic bottle reprocessing plant in the world and in 2013 In October 2013, we opened a new The aim of our joint in-store and online celebrated processing its billionth bottle. education center at our Infineo recycling campaign, ‘Give a new life to your bottle’, In France we have also opened Infineo, a facility, similar to the one already was to promote the benefits of recycling, $12 million joint venture reprocessing facility operating at Continuum in the UK. explain the lifecycle of a bottle, and what with APPE. This has increased the plant’s rPET Designed with input from Eco-Emballages, and how to recycle, invite pledges and capacity by 70 percent, along with the launch the household packaging recycling offer prizes to encourage more recycling. of a new education center (see case study). organization for France, and the Regional As a result, we were able to ensure an Ministry of Education, the center explains “Our partnership with Casino has average of 32 percent recycled material in the principles of the circular economy and been really successful, engaging our PET bottles at the end of 2013. the recycling of all types of packaging in our companies to raise consumers’ an interactive and engaging way. awareness of recycling. We can achieve “The center will host around 5,000 visitors more by working together and we hope a year and will seek to influence the to continue the good progress in the environmental behavior of school students future,” said Vianney Dubois, Associate and the public to make the circular Director, National Accounts, CCE France. economy a reality,” said Professor Sylvie Faucheux, Chancellor of the University of Burgundy. 21/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 We use dry lubricant instead of soapy water to move cans and bottles In 2013, on our conveyors, we were saving 4,000-8,000m3 rated the most of water a year. water-efficient bottler within the Water Coca-Cola System. Stewardship OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will set the standard for water efficiency, establish a water Our water stewardship program focuses on four strategic priorities: sustainable operation and minimize water impacts throughout our value chain. • Protecting our water sources for our operations and communities. INTRODUCTION • Reducing the amount of water we use Water is one of nature’s most precious resources. It is critical to by becoming more water-efficient. our communities, our ecosystems and the sustainability of our • Recycling the water we use by ensuring it business. It is an essential ingredient in our beverages and is treated and returned to the environment central both to our manufacturing processes and to many of at standards supporting aquatic life. the agricultural ingredients we use. • Replenishing the water that goes into our beverages in areas of water stress We are committed to being responsible stewards of water and or where water quality may be an issue. using as little water as possible for each liter of beverage we produce. This factsheet focuses on our water stewardship This factsheet focuses on priorities two programs within our own operations. For information on water and three. For priorities one and four, see Factsheet 22. protection and replenishment and sustainable agriculture, see Factsheets 22 and 23 respectively. USING LESS WATER Ensuring a water-efficient operation is WATER USE RATIO key to our water stewardship strategy. PROGRESS 2007–2013 AND TARGET 1 In 2013, our total water consumption Liters water used to make one liter of product was 8.6 million cubic meters (m3), down 1.8 percent from 2012, and our wastewater 1.64 1.57 1.51 1.48 In 2013, we used volume was 2.6 million m3, down 9 percent. 1.43 1.40 1.35 a total of Both were achieved despite increased 8.6m 1.20 production. We monitor our water efficiency by cubic meters calculating the water needed to produce 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 target of water a liter of product – known as our water use 1. Including Norway and Sweden from the year 2010 onwards ratio. In 2013, we used 1.35 liters/liter, which was down 3.5 percent from 2012 (1.40 l/l) and 18% down from 2007 (1.64 l/l). In 2014, we aim to further reduce our water use ratio to 1.34 liters/liter and are committed to achieving 1.20 liters/liter by 2020. WATER STEWARDSHIP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 In 2013 we invested REDUCTION AND RECYCLING Electro chemically activated water $300,000 Technological innovation is an important We have successfully trialled and installed pillar of our water reduction and recycling electro chemically activated water at our in water reduction strategy. We continued our program in 2013, Marseille plant, in France. This process In 2013, technologies. investing more than $300,000 in piloting electrolyzes salt added to water to create a 100% and implementing new technologies. Recent chlorinated cleaning solution, saving up to developments include: 2,000m3 of water per year. In 2014, we plan to implement this technology in Grigny and of our wastewater was Regeneration and re-use Dunkerque in France. treated to standards1 To purify the water for our drinks, we use supporting resin granules which need to be regularly CASE STUDY aquatic life. regenerated and then rinsed. After successful trials, our Dunkerque plant in Yorkshire Water’s top accolade While we can’t reduce the water in our France now re-uses water from the rinsing products, we can use less in our cleaning process and saves around 15,000m3 a year. and manufacturing processes. We have We plan to implement this approach in our invested in water meters, water mapping, plants in Sidcup, Great Britain and Dongen and monitoring and targeting systems and in the Netherlands. have developed process optimization techniques. Dry and semi-dry lubricants We operate company-wide water For conveyors which move cans and PET monitoring. Targets are set annually and bottles, we use dry lubricant instead of reduction options are identified and soapy water, saving between 4,000 and Left to right: Angus Kippen, Environmental Manager, modeled. We have also implemented a 8,000m3 water per year (depending on CCE Wakefield, Great Britain and Kevin Barefoot, Yorkshire Water’s Business Services Manager. water savers program, developed by The the conveyor length). We also use semi-dry Coca-Cola Company and the World Wildlife lubricants for our stainless steel glass bottle In 2013, our Wakefield plant in Great Fund (WWF), in the majority of our plants. conveyors at Antwerp, in Belgium, Dongen, Britain received Yorkshire Water’s top in the Netherlands, Jordbro, in Sweden and accolade, the Chief Executive’s Award, at We are the most water-efficient bottler in Clamart, in France, providing additional the company’s “Taking Responsibility for the Coca-Cola System. Our operations in savings of over 4,000m3 of water a year. We Business” Awards. The award recognized France, Great Britain and the Netherlands plan to roll this out to our plants in Gent, in our water stewardship, our value chain are ranked 1st, 2nd and 3rd respectively. Belgium and Marseille, in France. approach and our consideration of We have been awarded the Carbon Trust impacts in water-stressed areas. Water Standard and our operations in Air rinsers Dongen and Chaudfontaine were among When machinery is replaced or new lines Kevin Barefoot, Yorkshire Water’s the first beverage plants to receive the are installed, we use ionized air instead of Business Services Manager, said: “The gold-level European Water Standard water to rinse pre-blown bottles and cans. award recognizes the exceptional work (see Factsheet 22). Our operations in 73 percent of our plastic bottle and can lines that our customers undertake. Their Wakefield also received Yorkshire Water’s now use air rinsers. Where new air rinsers proactive attitude not only positively Chief Executive’s Award (see case study). are not possible, we’re installing new, contributes to the sustainability of their efficient nozzles, reducing water flows business but to the sustainability of the RECYCLING THE WATER WE USE and introducing water recycling. Yorkshire region and much wider It is fundamental to us that we return the supply chain.” water we use to a high standard1. In 2013, Bottle washers we again met our commitment to ensure Bottle washing equipment in plants with Saving water, drop by drop that 100 percent of our wastewater is treated refillable packaging is one of our main “Since 2007, we have reduced the water to a standard which supports aquatic life. users of water. We are investing in new, we use by 18 percent, while our production more efficient bottle washers and have has increased by more than nine percent, While most of our plants pre-treat wastewater developed a program of water optimization which is a great achievement. Each on site and then send it to municipal water to reduce water use. employee has had a role to play, sharing treatment plants, our facilities at Gent and Chaudfontaine in Belgium, Wakefield in and implementing best practices and Cleaning optimization Great Britain and Marseille in France carry out ensuring we have the right balance We have optimized our cleaning processes between investing in technology and full wastewater treatment on site. Of our total – ‘Clean in Place’ (CIP) – by using air rather challenging the way we do things.” waste water, 1,890,759m3 was treated by than water where possible, using cold water municipal wastewater treatment stations and Laure Droual and recovering the water we use for reuse 679,085m3 by our own treatment plants. CCE Senior Manager, QESH, Environment within our cleaning systems. Due to improvements in our water efficiency, We have also installed rainwater harvesting we have reduced the amount of water that systems to wash vehicles and flush toilets at needs to be treated. In 2013, this was down our sites in Northampton, Great Britain and by nine percent compared with 2012 and by at Chaudfontaine and Antwerp in Belgium. nearly 28 percent since 2007. 1 In compliance with local regulations. 22/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 157,800m3 water replenished through projects at the River Nar and River Cray in Great Britain. Protecting and Replenishing the Water We Use OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will protect the future sustainability of the water sources we We believe that being a water-sustainable use and return to nature the water used in our beverages where operation involves four elements: it is sourced from areas of water stress by investing in community • Protecting our water sources for our based water programs. operations and communities. • Reducing the amount of water we use INTRODUCTION by becoming more water-efficient. Water is one of nature’s most precious resources. It is critical to our • Recycling the water we use by ensuring communities, our ecosystems and the sustainability of our business. it is treated and returned to the Although water is generally regarded as abundant in Europe, environment at standards supporting increasingly disruptive weather patterns are raising concerns of aquatic life. scarcity, flooding and potentially unreliable water quality especially • Replenishing the water that goes into in more densely populated areas. our beverages in areas of water stress or where water quality may be an issue. CASE STUDY This factsheet focuses on steps one and four – those activities which take place Restoration and outside our operations. For information replenishment at the River Nar Secondly, we’re reducing agricultural on steps two and three, see Factsheet 21. We are working with The Coca-Cola pollution and build-up of river Company, WWF-UK and the Norfolk sediment by implementing silt traps PROTECTING OUR WATER SOURCES Rivers Trust to restore water quality and working with local farmers to adopt more sustainable farming We understand the value of water and and local wildlife habitats in the methods. the importance of protecting water sources River Nar catchment in Norfolk where and their quality. The majority of the water a high proportion of the sugar beet Finally, a river catchment we use (77 percent or 6.66 million m3) used in our drinks in Great Britain management plan has been comes from municipal sources with only is grown. developed. This explains the health 23 percent (two million m3) from on-site The project focuses on three core of the river and sets out a roadmap wells – all of which are licensed. elements. The first is to restore the Nar of actions needed to restore it. We are working hard to protect water for the to its natural, meandering state The project outcomes are future. All our plants have undertaken Source to help the river and the surrounding encouraging and are being used Vulnerability Assessments (SVAs) to assess meadows work more harmoniously in to demonstrate what good river potential risks of water quality and times of flood and attract more wildlife. management can look like. availability for our business, the local community and the ecosystem. Taking a See more at — www.wwf.org.uk/what_we_do/working_with_business/companies_ catchment-based approach, the SVAs we_partner/the_coca_cola_company/ evaluate the local water resource systems, PROTECTING AND REPLENISHING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND THE WATER WE USE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 1st organization to achieve European Water REPLENISHING OUR WATERSHEDS The Coca-Cola System is working globally to replenish or balance the water used in its finished beverages through community CASE STUDY Aquifer protection – Chaudfontaine projects such as reforestation, aquifer Stewardship 100% source water protection Standard. protection and river revitalization. As part of this global approach, we have chosen to focus on investing in replenishment plans in place at all programs in areas of water stress within our our manufacturing countries of operation. Using water stress plants. mapping, we identified these areas to be Flanders in Belgium, South East England and the South East of France. Together, our plants We have been working with the current and historic water quality, current in these areas accounted for 37.5 percent of local community, the University of water stresses and potential risks due to our 2013 production (nearly 2.4 million m3). Liege and Walloon Regional Authority extreme weather conditions or natural Our aim is to develop water-based in Chaudfontaine, Belgium, on a disasters. community projects to replenish the water large-scale project to protect the area’s we use in our products from these areas. natural warm spring from pollution. In addition to SVAs, each of our plants has put in place Source Water Protection Plans Replenishment projects The water takes 60 years to filter (SWPPs). The plans consider the conclusions through purifying rocks into the of SVAs and future water needs of the plant Since 2012, we have been working in aquifer, before emerging at the to identity mitigation plans. These plans partnership with The Coca-Cola Company surface and attracting local visitors are reviewed annually and updated as and WWF-UK on a three-year water and tourists. necessary. protection and replenishment project for two English rivers – the Nar in Norfolk and The local area has been surveyed In recognition of our high standards of water the Cray near our Sidcup plant in Kent. In and more than 1,000 homes have use from extraction to wastewater, our each case we’re developing local catchment been visited to identify potential operations in Dongen in the Netherlands plans and implementing on-the-ground risks. Protection measures are being and Chaudfontaine in Belgium have been projects to restore water and improve implemented to prevent potential awarded the European Water Stewardship water quality (see case study overleaf). pollution from a variety of sources, Standard at gold level (see case study). Calculations indicate that since 2012 from fuel tanks to livestock farms and these projects have resulted in more than sewage works. In 2013, the project CASE STUDY 157,800m3 of water being replenished and was extended to 2015 with the aim habitats have been improved in an area of of implementing 500 measures and European Water approximately four kilometers. investing a total of $1.7 million. Stewardship Standard – gold level Lessons learned from these exemplar projects will be shared to encourage others Our site in Dongen, Belgium, was WWF and Coca-Cola to introduce measures to reduce water the first beverage plant to receive the “WWF and Coca-Cola have a long history abstraction and demand and to raise gold-level European Water Stewardship of working together around the world. discussion and debate to help develop (EWS) Standard for water protection and We’re really proud of our work in the UK national water policy. stewardship practices – shortly followed which is directly helping to reduce impacts by our site in Chaudfontaine, Belgium, Replenishment in our supply chain on the freshwater environment while which was the first mineral water encouraging others to do the same.“ Our studies show that around 80 percent bottling plant to achieve the standard. Hugh Mehta, of the total water footprint of our products Head of Corporate Partnership Management, WWF-UK The EWS is a new standard which aims comes from our agricultural supply chain – to help organizations align with the in particular, the production and processing objectives of the European Water of sugar. For CCE, a significant proportion of Framework Directive and go beyond site the sugar we use is from sugar beet. water management to actively respond We must consider the amount and the to local water challenges. importance of the water we use. A large Both sites had to demonstrate high water footprint might be sustainable in a levels of water conservation from water-rich area, while a smaller one in a extraction management and water water-scarce region can have a far greater reduction initiatives to wastewater environmental impact. management and working with local In view of these geographical differences, stakeholders. we’ve been working with our European Implementing the standard provided sugar beet processors to develop bespoke additional benefits at the plants and standards supporting our Sustainable these will be shared across our Agriculture Guiding Principles (see manufacturing sites. Factsheet 23). See more at — www.ewp.eu 23/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 We are working with The Coca-Cola Company and our sugar suppliers to ensure that our sugar is sustainably sourced. Sustainable Agriculture OUR COMMITMENT OUR STRATEGY We will work with our sugar suppliers to ensure that by 2020 the sugar At CCE, our focus is on ensuring that the sugar cane and sugar beet we use in we use is sourced sustainably. North West Europe is sourced sustainably. INTRODUCTION Working with The Coca-Cola Company, Inside every bottle of Coca-Cola – indeed in many of our products – we have established a set of Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles (SAGPs) and are agricultural ingredients that start on a farm. Our business depends are developing partnerships with our sugar on the long-term availability of these products. That said, conventional suppliers to ensure that our sugar is agricultural practices can have serious environmental and social sustainably sourced. impacts. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) has identified that agriculture uses over two-thirds of the world’s fresh water. At the same time, In 2013, we established an internal agriculture can be a leading contributor of greenhouse gas emissions Sustainable Agriculture Steering Group to oversee this work. Sustainable agriculture and a primary driver of deforestation. is now a key pillar in our sustainability In our own value chain, agriculture accounts for the largest share journey and we will continue to develop of water use and the third-largest share of carbon emissions. our plans in this area. At CCE, we are working closely with The Coca-Cola Company to SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE develop our approach to sustainable agriculture. This includes an GUIDING PRINCIPLES ambitious new goal for the global Coca-Cola System to ‘sustainably In 2013, together with The Coca-Cola source key agricultural ingredients by 2020’. For information on our Company, we launched our SAGPs, broader sustainability work with our suppliers, see Factsheet 7. specifically for suppliers of agricultural ingredients. The principles are designed to work in conjunction with our Supplier Guiding Principles (see Factsheet 7). The principles set out what we mean by ‘sustainable sourcing’ and include expectations and criteria that our suppliers will be expected to meet in terms of human and workplace rights, the environment and sustainable farm management practices (see SAGPs overleaf). At CCE, we have shared our SAGPs with our suppliers of sugar beet and sugar cane and will work with them over time to ensure they are able to meet our criteria. SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 FOCUS ON SUGAR Sustainable cane Sourcing sugar sustainably Our work to understand the water footprint Sugar cane is a grass crop, produced in “In 2011, The Coca-Cola Company of our value chain highlighted that sugar sub-tropical areas. Under the existing EU conducted a wide ranging water footprint – taking account of farming, processing sugar regime, around 70 percent of Europe’s sustainability assessment looking at sugar and production – can account for up to 80 sugar cane imports are sourced from sourcing in Europe. This served as the percent of our value chain water footprint. developing countries which have preferential starting point of our journey on sustainable As a result, our focus at CCE is on ensuring trading relationships with the EU. sugar beet. We have since worked with our that the sugar cane and sugar beet we use The Coca-Cola Company has played an key suppliers and other food and beverage in North West Europe is sourced sustainably. important role in the establishment of companies to define and harmonize our Understanding the different sustainability Bonsucro, a global standard for sustainable sustainability expectations for farmers. The issues and the supply chains of these two sugar cane production. recently developed Farmer Sustainability very different crops is central to our Assessment of the Sustainable Agriculture sustainable agriculture strategy. To accelerate our move towards sustainably Initiative allows farmers to assess the sourced sugar cane in Europe, we are sustainability of their agricultural practices Sustainable beet working with The Coca-Cola Company (covering environmental, social and to consider how sustainable agricultural economic issues) and provides a basis At CCE, a significant proportion of the practices can also be implemented in for continuous improvement.” sugar we use is from sugar beet – a root smallholder sugarcane farms. In 2013, we crop grown widely in North West Europe. In Ulrike Sapiro, Director Community and Environment, took our first step on this journey by working 2013, we began working with The Coca-Cola The Coca-Cola Company, Europe with the Rainforest Alliance to develop our Company and WWF to define the best understanding of the sustainability risks practices for sustainable sugar beet farming and current best practice in the sugar cane in Europe and to identify a set of standards supply chain in Europe. We will continue that support our SAGPs. this work in 2014. In collaboration with Europe’s sugar beet processors, we worked with the Sustainable Agricultural Initiative (SAI) Platform to develop a farm-level self-assessment tool – the Farmer Sustainability Assessment (FSA). 80% of the water Following a pilot with a number of sugar beet farmers in Europe, the FSA was formally footprint of our value CASE STUDY adopted and we are now working with our chain is associated with sugar beet suppliers to roll it out. the farming, processing Communicating our principles F or more information see: www.saiplatform.org/ and the production To introduce our SAGPs, it was farmerselfassessment/farmer-self-assessment2 of sugar. important to communicate them effectively across our supply base. The principles were first shared with our sugar suppliers as part of our Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) process. In December 2013, in partnership with The Coca-Cola Company, we also convened a virtual Sustainable Agriculture Conference to launch the principles with representatives from European suppliers of sugar beet and sugar cane. Procurement and Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles (SAGPs) sustainable agriculture specialists Human and from both CCE and The Coca-Cola workplace rights Environment Management systems Company explained our commitment to sustainable sourcing and outlined Freedom of association Water management Harvest and our plans to validate suppliers for and collective bargaining Energy management postharvest handling compliance with our SAGPs from 2015. Prohibit child labor, forced and climate protection Reproductive material labor and abuse of labor Conservation of natural identity, selection Eliminate discrimination habitats and ecosystems and handling Work hours and wages Soil management Management systems, record keeping and Safe and healthy Crop protection transparency workplace Business integrity Community and traditional rights 24/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Our CRS We have seven performance data is commitments assured over a threesupported by 37 stretch year cycle by DNV GL targets. Our recent as indicated by progress is shown in the Our 2013 carbon footprint has been table below. The baseline audited by SGS as year is 2007 unless indicated by otherwise stated. 2013 CRS Data Table FACTSHEET NUMBER TARGET KPIs BY WHEN 2010 2011 2012 2013 15 Carbon Reduce the carbon footprint of the drink Reduction in value chain 2020 Not reported Not reported Measurement 17.8 Energy and Footprint in your hand by a third. CO2e emissions/total developed Climate number of products, since Change baseline (%) Carbon footprint Grow our business, but reduce the Carbon footprint – core 2020 840 769 726 658 – Core Business absolute carbon footprint of business business operations operations by 15 percent. (‘000 tonnes CO2e) 1 CO2e reduction since 2020 -2 -10 -15 -23 2007 baseline (%) 1 16 Manufacturing Manufacture every liter of product with CO2e per liter of product 2020 27.76 25.37 25.5 23.56 Energy and 50 percent less carbon emissions. manufactured (g/liter) 1 Renewable Energy use ratio 2020 88.37 81.67 81.54 76.83 Energy (kWh/1,000 liter) 1 Alternative Source 35 percent of manufacturing Energy sourced from 2020 Not reported Not reported Measurement 3.6 Energy energy from renewable/low-carbon renewable/low-carbon developed sources. sources (%) 1, 2 17 Transportation Deliver a case of product with CO2e g per case 2020 Not reported Not reported Measurement 171 Distribution 20 percent less carbon emissions. of product (g/case) developed 18 Cold Drinks Reduce the carbon emissions from our Average CO2e per 2014 0.88 0.75 0.70 0.63 Cold Drinks Equipment cold drinks equipment by an average of unit of equipment (kg/unit) Equipment 35 percent. Reduction in average CO2e 2014 -5 -19 -23 -38.7 per unit of equipment since baseline (%) Cold Drinks Purchase only HFC-free coolers from HFC-free coolers 2013 50 82 100 99.8 Equipment 1 January 2013. purchased (%) 7 Supplier Work in partnership with our suppliers to Number of suppliers Ongoing Not reported 129 130 140 Suppliers and Collaboration reduce carbon emissions across each completing CCE’s Sustainability stage of our value chain. carbon challenge Value Chain Work with partners to find innovative Number of projects/ Ongoing Not reported 0 1 2 ways to minimize water impacts partnerships established throughout our value chain. Ingredients Work with our sugar suppliers to ensure Sugar sourced from Ongoing Work in progress that the sugar we use is sustainable. sustainable sources (%) 19 Lightweighting Reduce by 25 percent the amount of Packaging use ratio 2020 131 127.5 123.9 119.8 Sustainable material we use across all packaging (g/liter product) Packaging formats. Total weight of packaging 2020 363,062 384,521 367,925 368,261 used (tonnes) Recycled Include recycled aluminum, Recycled aluminum, Ongoing Data Data 32.73 32.63 Material steel and glass in respective packaging steel and glass (%) improvements improvements formats. in progress 3 in progress 3 Total recycled materials Ongoing 123,624 130,035 127,557 111,783 used (tonnes) PET Bottles Ensure that our PET bottles set the PET that is rPET (%) 4 2020 17.9 22.5 25 32 standard for sustainable packaging, using the optimal combination of PET bottles that are 2020 0.5 25 26.9 33.3 recycled PET and PET from plant-based PlantBottle™ (%) 4 materials. 20 Recyclability Ensure 100 percent of our cans Cans and bottles 2014 99 99 99.4 100 Recycling and bottles are fully recyclable. recyclable (%) Manufacturing Send zero waste to landfill from our own Total waste produced 2014 29,810 34,480 32,894 28,019 manufacturing sites and reduce the (metric tonnes) 1 amount of waste we generate. Waste recycled (%) 1 2014 99.5 99.6 99.4 99.5 Packaging Recycle more packaging than we use by Packaging recycled as 2020 Not reported Not reported 73 84 Recycling6 championing improvements to collection percentage of total schemes and investing in strategic used (%) 5 recycling infrastructure projects. Inspiring Increase packaging recovery rates by Number of consumer Ongoing Not reported 4.7 million 32.3 million 46.3 million Consumers using our brands to educate and inspire opportunities provided to consumers to recycle more often. view brand-led recycle/ recover messaging 21 Reduce Reduce the amount of water we use, Water use ratio (liters 2020 1.48 1.43 1.40 1.35 Water aiming to manufacture every liter of water/liter product) 1 Stewardship product using an average of 1.2 liters of water Total water used (million 2020 9.5 9.4 8.8 8.6 cubic meters) 1 Recycle Safely return to nature 100 percent Water returned at standard Ongoing 100 100 100 100 of the wastewater from our supporting aquatic life (%) 1,6 manufacturing operations. 2013 DATA TABLE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 FACTSHEET NUMBER TARGET KPIs BY WHEN 2010 2011 2012 2013 22 Protect Protect the future sustainability Manufacturing plants with Ongoing 88 100 100 100 Protecting and of the water sources we use. Source Water Protection Replenishing Plans implemented (%) 1 the Water Replenish Return to nature the water used in our Water replenished (% vs 2020 Not reported Not reported Measurement 6.5 We Use beverages, where it is sourced from liters in our beverages developed areas of water stress, by investing in where sourced from community-based water programs. areas of water stress) 1 9 Choice Develop and market a wide choice of Full-sugar brands with Ongoing Not reported Not reported 47.69 53.87 Product products so people can decide which of a noor low-calorie Portfolio our beverages best meets their needs alternative (%) and lifestyles. Quality Ensure that our products meet Facilities accredited to Ongoing 94 94 94 100 the highest quality and food safety ISO 9001 and FSSC 22000 standards, in line with consumer (%) 1 expectations. Number of product quality Ongoing 1.39 1.31 1.30 1.24 complaints per million units sold Low-Calorie Accelerate the growth of noProducts which are noor Ongoing 33.4 8 31 31 31 Products and low-calorie products low-calorie (<40 calories per 250ml) (%) 9 Portion Size Increase the availability of small portion size Products in packs that Ongoing 20.8 8 19 19 19 choices for sparkling soft drinks. are 250ml or less (%) 10 Nutritional Provide easy-to-understand nutritional Products with on-pack Ongoing 97 97 97.9 98 Responsible Information and ingredient information so that GDA labeling (%) 10, 11 Marketing consumers are able to make informed beverage choices. Responsible Ensure that our products are sold Compliance with responsible Ongoing Measurement in progress Marketing and marketed in a responsible way. marketing, marketing to children, education channel and digital marketing guidelines (%) 11 Local Encourage people to lead an active, Investment in active Ongoing Not reported 867,000 1.0 million 1.3 million Active Collaboration healthy lifestyle by working with healthy living activities ($) Healthy our brands and supporting Living local partnerships. Physical Support people to participate in Numbers of people Ongoing Measurement in progress >900,000 Activity programs which encourage engaged in active active healthy living. healthy living programs Nutritional Support community partnerships Investment in nutrition Ongoing Current focus on providing ingredients information on pack. Education to highlight the importance of good education ($) aWe are looking to take this further in coming years. nutrition, balanced diets and active, healthy living. 12 Social Invest 1 percent of our annual Pre-tax profit invested (%) 12 2014 0.5 0.6 0.5 1.1 Community Investment pre-tax profit to support charitable and community partners and make a positive difference in the communities in which we operate. Community Invest in community projects and Total value of community Ongoing 4.3 5.7 3.9 9.113 partnerships where we can make the contributions (millions $) 12 biggest impact, aligned to our core business and CRS focus areas.14 Employee Support the active involvement of our Number of hours Ongoing 12,000 14,000 10,200 5,098 Volunteering employees by encouraging them volunteered by CCE to volunteer. employees (hours) 12 13 Workplace Attract, develop and retain a highly Voluntary turnover rate (%) Ongoing 6.5 5.7 6.4 5.4 Diversity and Diversity talented, engaged and diverse Inclusion workforce. Average training days Ongoing 3 3 3 2.7 per employee Females in workforce (%) Ongoing 23 23 24 24 Females in management Ongoing 32 33 36 36 roles (%) 14 Employees with individual Ongoing Not reported 478 64 76 development plans 14 Workplace Provide a safe and healthy work Lost-time accident rate 2020 1.4815 1.1815 1.1215 0.9316 A Safe, Safety environment with a vision of achieving (number of lost-time Healthy zero accidents and attaining world class accidents per 100 full-time Workplace health and safety status. equivalent employees) 1 Number of fatalities1 2020 0 0 0 0 Employee Provide access to health Employees with access 2014 Not reported Not reported Measurement 100 Well-being and well-being programs for to health and well-being developed 100 percent of our employees programs 1. KPI does not include contracted 5. Percentages of packaging recycled by 8. Does not include Norway and Sweden. 12. CCE’s community investment contributions packers (co-packers). championing improvements to collection 9. Measured using unit cases. reported using the standardized approach 2. CCE onsite renewable or low carbon schemes and investing in strategic 10. We changed the way we measured provided by the London Benchmarking energy only: excludes renewable energy infrastructure projects. 2012 data against this target in 2012. Our 2010 and Group methodology. sources via a national grid. However, recalculated due to data improvements. 2011 data in this table shows the volume 13. This includes significant one-off target includes sources via National Grid. For further information see ‘Calculation of our products with GDA labeling. From investments in 2013. 3. Through collaboration with our suppliers, Methodology – CCE Packaging 2012 to ensure greater focus on smaller 14. Percentage of women in we have improved our knowledge and Recycled’ on www.cokecce.com/ brands, we changed the measurement management bands. transparency of our data and we are corporate-responsibility-sustainability/ to products with GDA labeling rather 15. Data recalculation and changes to now able to provide improved figures for publications-and-policies than volume. The 2012 and 2013 numbers previous years due to data improvements. 2012 and 2013. We are in the process of 6. In compliance with local regulations. therefore show the percentage of our 16. Cold drinks centers transferred from recalculating 2010 and 2011 data. 7. This includes all CCE’s full-sugar brands, products with GDA labels. commercial to operations. 4. Year-end figures. excluding waters and hot drinks. Including 11. Does not include products which do waters and hot drinks = 56%. Our most not require GDA labeling such as waters popular brands (Coca-Cola, Fanta, and our fountain Bag in Box products. Sprite) all have low-calorie alternatives and together these make up over 90% of CCE’s volume. 25/25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Independent Assurance statement Our scope Basis of our opinion Our key observations and Coca-Cola Enterprises commissioned A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability recommendations DNV Two Tomorrows Limited (‘DNV GL’) and assurance specialists performed work We have provided a confidential to undertake independent assurance of at Group level. Our assurance work included Management Letter containing our its Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability the following: observations and recommendations made Report 2013/2014 as published at during the course of our work to Coca-Cola • Interviewing senior management www.cokecce.com for the following areas: Enterprises’ senior management. Without responsible for the management of affecting our assurance opinion, our overall • Coca-Cola Enterprises’ corporate corporate responsibility and sustainability, key observations and recommendations are responsibility and sustainability the Corporate Responsibility & summarised below: performance data for the year ended Sustainability Report 2013/2014 and 31 December 2013, as published in the selected data reporting systems; • We restate our recommendation to Diversity, A Safe and Healthy Workplace, • Reviewing and sample checking the Coca-Cola Enterprises to review the Water Stewardship and Protecting sustainability performance data current suite of targets and KPIs to ensure and Replenishing the Water We Use measurement, collection and reporting they are aligned with the core business factsheets; and processes at Group level for the strategy. We understand that this review • Coca-Cola Enterprises’ self-declared performance data in the factsheets in is already underway, and once complete, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) application scope of this assurance engagement; should establish targets and KPIs that are level of B+ of the GRI ‘G3.0’ Guidelines as both challenging enough to the business • Reviewing how the sustainability published in the full GRI index. and that address the expectations of performance data in scope of this customers and other key stakeholders. Our approach assurance engagement are represented in the 2013 CRS Data Table; and • We see an opportunity for Coca-Cola We performed our work using DNV GL’s Enterprises to explore how to report assurance methodology which is based • Assessing the GRI index for compliance in future on the direct and indirect on our professional experience and with the GRI ‘G3.0’ application level socio-economic impacts of its operations. international assurance best practice, requirements for B+. The breadth of these impacts will be including reference to the International Responsibilities of the Directors extensive, ranging from economic Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 of Coca-Cola Enterprises and of development amongst upstream (Revised) – ‘Assurance Engagements Other the assurance providers suppliers, ‘knock-on’ effects in the vicinity Than Audits and Reviews of Historical of manufacturing operations, economic The Directors of Coca-Cola Enterprises have Financial Information’. activity in the post-consumer value chain, sole responsibility for the preparation of the We used the GRI Quality of Information Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability and the contributions made at a national Principles to evaluate the performance data Report 2013/2014. In performing our level through taxation. together with Coca-Cola Enterprises’ data assurance work, our responsibility is to protocols for how the corporate responsibility the management of Coca-Cola Enterprises; and sustainability performance data are however our statement represents our measured, recorded and reported, as the independent opinion and is intended basis of the Reporting Criteria for to inform all of Coca-Cola Enterprises’ undertaking our assurance work. stakeholders including its senior management. We were not involved in We planned and performed our work the preparation of any part of the Report. to obtain the evidence we considered However, having reviewed and provided necessary to provide a basis for our feedback on drafts of the Report, in a assurance conclusions. We are providing number of instances changes were made a ‘limited level’ of assurance. A ‘reasonable to the final version. level’ of assurance would have required additional work at Group and site level to DNV GL provides a range of other services gain further evidence to support the basis to Coca-Cola Enterprises, none of which of our assurance conclusions. constitute a conflict of interest with this assurance work. ASSURANCE STATEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013/2014 Our key observations and recommendations Our conclusions relating to the factsheets in scope of this On the basis of the work undertaken, assurance engagement include: nothing came to our attention to suggest that: Diversity: • Coca-Cola Enterprises demonstrates a • there are any material misstatements proactive approach to employee diversity within the corporate responsibility and and inclusion, for example through the sustainability performance data for roll-out of ‘Diversity in Action’ and ‘Diversity the year ended 31 December 2013, as is Everybody’s Business’ programs. published in the Diversity and Inclusion, Current activities and KPIs reported in A Healthy and Safe Workplace, Water the factsheets focus primarily on gender Stewardship and Water Protection and diversity. We recommend Coca-Cola Replenishment factsheets; or that Enterprises should consider ways of • there is any material misstatements within expanding its reporting of performance for Coca-Cola Enterprises’ self-declared other diversity metrics, such as disability, GRI application level of B+ of the GRI ‘G3.0’ ethnicity and sexual orientation. Guidelines as published in the GRI index. A Safe and Healthy Workplace: • We restate our recommendation to for DNV Two Tomorrows Limited Coca-Cola Enterprises to include safety London performance for third party contractors 28 May 2014 in its future reports. Water Stewardship & Protecting and Replenishing the Water We Use: • Coca-Cola Enterprises has made significant progress in these areas over the last year, particularly in assessing Jon Woodhead what is required to replenish water usage Head of Department, UK Sustainability within the context of local water catchment areas. We recommend that Coca-Cola Enterprises should continue to explore the social dimensions of water protection and replenishment, to provide a more detailed account of the benefits and trade-offs involved. • We observed that Water Stewardship and Replenishment KPIs such as the Water Use Ratio and Water Replenishment are calculated by manually entering a significant number of data points from the master database. Such manual manipulation of data risks introducing human error in the data entry and transposition of figures. We recommend that Coca-Cola Enterprises considers establishing an automated system to capture data from the master database into their KPI calculation spreadsheets. DNV Two Tomorrows Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com
