Our Responsibility. Report 2013  XXXXXU1 Our Responsibility. Report 2013  KAPITEL HEAD EARNING TRUST. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  CONTENT Interview with Peter Terium 1 About this Report 66 Report Profile 66 Our Greatest Challenges 3 Independent Assurance Report 68 Corporate Challenges 3 Index According to GRI Environmental Challenges 6 (Global Reporting Initiative) 71 Social Challenges 13 GRI Level Check Statement 73 Governance Challenges 16 UN Global Compact Progress Report 2013 74 CR Strategy and Management 20 Group Portrait 20 Key Figures at a Glance 76 Value Chain: activities and challenges 23 Our Regions  26 Contact and Imprint 79 Corporate Responsibility Strategy 33 Materiality Analysis 2013 35 Our Company 80 CR Management 37 Additional Management Systems  38 Stakeholder Dialogue 41 CR Programme 43 Our CR Areas for Action 46 Climate Protection 46 Energy Efficiency 48 Biodiversity/Environmental Protection 50 Community Engagement 52 Customer Trust 54 Employees56 Supply Chain  58 Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management  60 Security of Supply 62 Innovation64 Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Interview with Peter Terium 1 INTERVIEW WITH PETER TERIUM CEO of RWE AG Mr Terium, the restructuring of the European energy RWE wants to be a partner for the energy transition. system is moving forward. Like any major process of But do our citizens want RWE to be a partner? change, there will be winners and losers. Which side We have a lot of supporters. More than 23 milwill RWE be on at the end of the journey? lion people put their trust in RWE’s expertise It would not be good if the energy transition every day: our customers. Our German and split everyone into winners and losers. We need Dutch sales companies are achieving high to take everybody with us: energy companies, scores for customer satisfaction. industry and local citizens – to secure a broad consensus for this huge challenge. In the United Kingdom, on the other hand …. … we need to do better. Even here, though, we Then everything will stay the same? have made good progress. We need to earn No, the market share that RWE will have for trust there, just like everywhere else. Not just electricity generation will fall, even if we with our customers but with all stakeholders. expand renewables. We are therefore developing new lines of business: managing photovolHow is this supposed to succeed? taic plants and wind turbines for our customers, Three things are important. Firstly: We need to building up smart grids and products for saving be better listeners and communicate more energy. We are now the biggest German energy openly. Secondly: We need to keep our promservices provider with sales of more than 500 ises. Thirdly: We need to develop innovative million euros. We want to build on that. products and services which our customers find useful and which protect the environment. The energy transition is a German project. What is happening in other RWE markets? Where do you gain the conviction that RWE will negotiA great deal. The European climate policy is ate the transition successfully? The most recent stomaking sure of that. Less CO2 and more energy ryline in the media was that RWE lacks funds and ideas. efficiency are important issues that RWE is However, the saying also goes that necessity is engaging with. Measured by capacities, we are the mother of invention. Yes, our financial the number seven for renewable energies in options are limited, but we are not short of Europe. Government now has to deliver a Eurogood ideas about how to lead on a low budget. pean initiative for integration of renewables. The Innovation Index of the European School of This is important – not least so that costs do not Management and Technology ranks RWE as one spiral out of control. of the three most innovative energy utilities in Europe. Our employees are working on the energy world of tomorrow. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Interview with Peter Terium 2 “We need to earn trust” Concerning the issue of employees: The wind is blowlike the Global Compact of the United Nations ing colder for the workforce. Job cuts and restructuring in order to be in a position to identify societal lead to uncertainties. Are these the right answers to changes at an early stage and across national the challenges posed by the energy transition? borders. Firstly, they are the answers that are necessary for our financial situation. We are in negative For years, environmental organisations have been crititerritory for the first time in more than 60 years. cising the fact that RWE sets the wrong priorities. Putting our head in the sand is not an option Should the Group have listened to its critical stakeholdand carrying on as before is no good either. We ers at an earlier stage? need to bring down costs. And that means we We have been intensively involved in building need to have a smaller workforce. However, it is gas-fired power stations generating low levels also clear that all the changes need to be agreed of CO2 emissions, we have had the courage to on socially acceptable principles and in close go to sea with offshore wind power and we cooperation with employee representatives. have invested in renewable energies in Southern Europe. These are all ecologically sustainaRWE is confronted by massive challenges in its core ble lines of business which are unfortunately business. How much time and scope is there for susnot reaping economic benefits at present for a tainability? number of reasons. The picture is more complex Sustainability is core business if we want to be than it is sometimes made to appear. a partner of society as a whole. And we are moving forward. Our CO2 emissions have come However, it is correct to say that we recognised down and we have increased our energy effithe business with photovoltaics too late in Gerciency. We have continued to operate at a high many – and it is now all the more important for level in areas where we have been good in the us to embrace this technology wholeheartedly. past – such as security of supply and community Management and marketing are key factors engagement. here. That is where things will be happening in the future. // How will RWE ensure that the company takes appropriate account of the concerns and expectations of society? We hold regular dialogues with representatives from different parts of the community in order to find out about their perception of RWE. We want to intensify this dialogue in future and get The interview was conducted by the Executive Board more involved here. We are Dr Matthias Kussin and Daniel Schneiders, also engaging in major international initiatives RWE Corporate Responsibility Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 3  Corporate Challenges OUR GREATEST CHALLENGES RWE is currently in a very difficult phase in the history of the company. We are earning less and less money with our conventional power stations. This trend will continue in the coming years. We cannot and must not rely on an improvement in this situation solely as a result of changes in framework conditions. It is therefore important that we undergo change within the company. And this also means that as a credible partner of society we need to develop new areas of business that are sustainable and enhance trust in our company. Corporate Challenges The transition begins in the company for expanding renewable energies. Investments in Up to a few years ago, electricity in most parts of offshore or onshore wind farms also give rise to North-western Europe was primarily generated in larger generating units. However, the proportion of large-scale nuclear, coal-fired and gas-fired power smaller units for electricity production is rising at the stations. Over the course of time, new power stations same time, for example with the installation of solar with ever greater capacity were constructed – also panels on the roofs of residential accommodation. with the aim of making the most of the efficiency The driving force is the political policy of producing benefits provided by bigger units. Deregulation in electricity over the long term without generating the European electricity markets at the end of the CO2 emissions and at the same time reducing 1990s provided a further driver for this development. dependence on limited fossil fuels. The biggest and most efficient conventional power stations offered the prospect of the greatest business Society wants to play a role success in the competitive European energy market. The political agendas are supported by a change in RWE pursued this logic by launching the biggest consciousness within society. Apart from efficiency investment programme in its history with the conand cost awareness, the drive towards decentralizastruction of large, modern coaland gas-fired power tion, supplier diversity and self-determination have stations with even greater capacity. also become important benchmarks for issues relating to the supply of energy. Many players are demanding Structural change in energy generation greater involvement in the generation of electricity The economic foundation underpinning the generaand they are accepting an increase in energy costs as tion of electricity with coal and gas in ever bigger a consequence. At the same time, many energy-intenunits has meanwhile been increasingly dismantled. sive companies have also constructed electricity and A key reason here has been the government subsidies heat-generation plants to meet their own energy needs. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 4  Corporate Challenges New products and services for our customers and the energy world of tomorrow world of tomorrow New products and services for our customers and the energy The market share will fall Distribution of value added This entails wide-ranging consequences for RWE. Our in € million market share in electricity generation has declined. Value added 9,687 Although we are also expanding our share in renewable energies, this will not be sufficient to maintain Distribution the current market share. This trend will continue if To employees (wages, salaries, 5,277 social security contributions) an increasing number of citizens, investors, energy cooperatives and investment companies generate To the government 4,131 (taxes and deductions) electricity for themselves in decentralised plants and feed some electricity into the public electricity grid. To lenders 2,722 This is also reducing the amount of electricity we are To minority interests 314 selling to our customers. Net income  – 2,757 This includes: Dividend payment to 615 RWE shareholders Challenges at all stages of the value chain RWE is confronted by fundamental challenges in all The value added generated by RWE exerts an effect on our immediate environment: As an employer, tax payer and investor, we contribute to areas of business. Since the demand for electricity strengthening the economic power at our locations. from our coaland gas-fired power stations is falling, we need to ask ourselves how much coal and gas we need to provide answers to the question of how we will have to produce or purchase in future. The lower will overcome this new challenge in electricity distridemand for electricity generated by conventional bution. power stations – particularly in periods when premium prices were charged – means that electricity In sales, we need to develop more new products and prices are falling in the wholesale market and this services which will be useful to our customers in restricts our opportunities to recoup the high costs of tomorrow’s energy world. This is the only way we can capital expenditure. A large proportion of RWE’s succeed in counteracting the drop in margins in our power stations are modern and highly efficient but traditional sales business, i.e. the supply of electricthey currently constitute an economic burden for the ity, gas and heat. company. Partner for restructuring the European energy On the other hand, our distribution grids are more in system demand than ever before. Up to now, electricity has In summary, RWE needs to play a proactive role in only flowed in one direction – from big generating restructuring the European energy system. We are plants to a large number of consumers. This is changconvinced that the change in the European energy ing with increasingly decentralised production and landscape is structural rather than temporary. Even if feed-in of electricity into the distribution grids. We governments change the framework conditions, the Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 5  Corporate Challenges €€ 1.5 1.5 billion billion efficiency increase in the operating result operating result efficiency increase in the expansion of renewable energies for consumers’ own more diversity which we very much encourage at consumption and marketing will continue. The logic RWE. Our objective by 2018 is for at least 22 percent of this trajectory is this: as a Group, we need to begin of our managers to be women. with ourselves and ... adapt our business to the structural changes in the ... enhance our financial strength. market through innovative products and services. Over the short term, measures for reducing costs and More diversity is an initiative to increase our opportuincreasing profits are absolutely essential. Our curnities in the marketplace. The more we reflect social rent efficiency enhancement programme runs until diversity in our workforce, the sooner we will be able the end of 2016. The aim is to generate savings of at to understand the heterogeneous needs of our conleast € 1.5 billion in the operating result. Our employsumers and develop and promote innovative prodees also need to make a contribution. The four board ucts and services. members of RWE AG are foregoing part of their compensation totalling € 500,000. There will be no pay ... align our core business more strongly towards susincrease for our managers and non-tariff employees tainability in relation to the environment, community this year. We are also expecting our shareholders to and corporate governance. take on part of the burden. The plan is for the dividend proposal in the business years from 2014 to Corporate decisions will therefore not only have to be recommend a dividend payment between 40 % and technically feasible and have to make economic sense. 50 % of the recurrent net income. Decisions will also have to embrace the prevailing values and interests of the citizens in the individual mar... achieve a substantial improvement in operating ket areas. We intend to engage more actively in diaexcellence. logue with the community to achieve this. However, this change will only succeed if this commitment is If we are to be a successful player in the future established at all levels of the company. This is the energy market, we need to intensify our efforts and prerequisite for rebuilding trust and becoming operate more efficiently than our competitors. Wellaccepted as a partner of the community. // qualified and committed employees are essential in order for this to succeed. Maintaining motivation and high performance under the pressure of the crisis is our key challenge. We will also be able to achieve above-average operating results by implementing Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 6  Environmental Challenges Less CO2 in conventional electricity generation Less CO2 in conventional electricity generation Environmental Challenges What is the future of environmental protection? weather and the time of day, can only be planned to The main instrument for making the energy supply in a limited extent and electricity is not continuously Europe more climate friendly, is the expansion of available 24/7. renewable energies. Firstly, increasing the capacities of wind, solar and biomass plants is a key factor. SecThese macroeconomic challenges are also impacting ondly, we will continue to be dependent on the use at the operational level for RWE. Low-carbon power of efficient coaland gas-fired power stations in the generation amounting to around 15.6 TWh is elimitransition period. A secure supply has not been possinated by shutting down the Biblis nuclear power stable to date without them. Thirdly, the integration of tion, corresponding to the average electricity conrenewables in the existing system is absolutely essensumption of approximately 4.5 million households. tial for successful implementation of the energy tranThe shutdown is therefore one of the reasons why sition. These are the key challenges for the economy our specific CO2 emissions increased in 2012, despite and for an energy supplier like RWE – not least in the expansion of renewables. We only succeeded in order to continue ensuring security of supply and achieving a slight decline in specific CO2 emissions affordability. The solution arrived at for these issues again in 2013. The replacement of the 150 MW ligwill determine our contribution in Europe towards nite-fired units shut down in 2012 by the units ‘BoA protecting the climate. 2&3’ also made a contribution to this fall and it was effective throughout the year for the first time in The change in the energy mix for electricity genera2013. Special efforts are therefore required for reduction is radical and it has been brought about on ing CO2 emissions from electricity generation, account of the energy transition and the phase out expanding renewable energies and integrating these from nuclear energy in Germany. Abandoning nuclear capacities into the energy system if we are to achieve energy will not realise the hopes of many stakeholdour targets for reduction of CO2 emissions. ers by completely replacing this form of generation with renewables. Declining nuclear-power capacities Less CO2 in conventional electricity generation are also being compensated by increased use of coalIn 2013, the proportion of renewables in electricity fired power stations. The baseload was mainly progeneration was for example 23.4 % in Germany and vided by lignite augmented by nuclear energy, and 15.5 % in the United Kingdom. Conventional power the latter will continue to contribute. Conversely, stations will therefore continue to be responsible for wind and solar power are unable to provide baseload generating the lion’s share of the electricity required capacity for technical reasons: The generation of over the long term, even if renewables underwent electricity from these technologies depends on the rapid expansion. Modern coaland gas-fired power Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 7  Environmental Challenges €€ 13 13 billion billion of capital expenditure in new power-station capacities power-station capacities of capital expenditure in new Specific CO2 emissions from electricity generation1 in mt/MWh 0.8 0.796 0.792 0.787 0.78 0.76 0.756 0.74 0.72 0.732 0.70 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Calculated on the basis of electricity generated without emissions from biogenic fuels stations with relatively lower CO2 intensity will therenot represent a contradiction, provided that we make fore make an important contribution to the reduction use of all the potential options for reducing CO2 emisof CO2 emissions over the coming years. sions from conventional power stations. We believe that a key challenge will be to explain this Efficient power stations link better – particularly in connection with the use of Since we launched our investment programme coal. A study by Freiberg University of Mining and throughout Europe, we have been working hard to Technology has shown that the overwhelming proporincrease the efficiency of our power plant portfolio tion of the German population wants to exit from and hence to reduce the CO2 emissions for each MWh coal-fired generation of electricity over the coming 10 of electricity generated. By the end of 2014, RWE will to 20 years – particularly because of fears about the have invested a total of around € 13 billion in new negative consequences for the climate. However, power-station capacities, and around 12.5 GW of gas70 % of citizens also believe they are poorly informed and coal-fired power stations have come on stream. about this technology. Our aim is therefore to By contrast, we have switched off a total of around improve the information deficit and make it clear that 2,400 MW of older and less efficient lignite-fired coal-fired power stations and climate protection do capacities in the Rhineland since 2005. Furthermore, Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 8  Environmental Challenges Doubling the capacities of gas-fired power stations since 2006 Doubling the capacities of gas-fired power stations since 2006 older hard-coal power stations located in the United sions from gas. However, in view of the current Kingdom with a capacity of 2,000 MW were shut framework conditions for the energy industry, these down and two units at the Westphalia location each climate-friendly gas capacities are subject to massive with a capacity of 152 MW were taken out of the economic pressure, particularly in Germany and the grid. We intend to continue the modernisation of Netherlands (p. 19). power stations in the Rhineland with the lignite-fired power station optimised unit BoA plus and replace As a result of the modernisation of existing plants, four 300 MW units. This will enable us to reduce CO2 we are reducing the CO2 emissions from electricity emissions from these capacities by 30 % generation. For example, we have invested £ 100 million (€ 118 million) in renewal of the Little Barford Over the past 8 years, we have also expanded our gas-fired power station in the UK. The two new gas capacities for gas-fired power stations during the turbines with a total capacity of 720 MW improve the course of our power-station renewal programme. efficiency of the power station and avoid the annual Since 2006, we have increased these capacities emission of around 118,000 mt of CO2. In 2013, we through the acquisition of our Dutch subsidiary also completed the modernisation of our 600 MW ligEssent to 16,440 MW and more than doubled them nite-fired units in the Rhineland that has been taken as a result. This is a development which has been several years to carry out. essentially welcomed by government and other stakeholders on account of the lower specific CO2 emisNumber of plants for renewable energies connected to the RWE distribution grid in Germany 300,000 293,492 250,000 240,644 254,859 200,000 185,821 150,000 100,000 128,876 90,663 50,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 9  Environmental Challenges 325 325 MW MW capacity in the newly opened Thornton Bank wind farm Thornton Bank wind farm capacity in the newly opened Expansion and integration of renewables As a partner in the energy transition, we want to continue expanding the proportion of renewables in our generating portfolio. However, we are encountering increasingly significant challenges along this route. This is due to the financial situation of RWE. We have therefore amended our expansion strategy during the year under review. We are making a bigger commitment to carrying out projects in cooperation with partners and we are going to focus on wind energy projects in onshore and offshore locations and hydropower. RWE sees itself as a developer, operator and marketer of plants. As far as the perspective of climate protection is concerned, it is irrelevant whether the plants are owned by RWE or whether we sell some or all of the plants to third parties in order to Technical challenges for the construchave more funds available for new projects. RWE tion and grid connection of offshore Innogy is our subsidiary for renewable capacities and wind turbines: by the end of 2014 this company intends to operate capacities of around 3,400 MW. Installation of a wind turbine at sea. The bubble curtain is a key issue in this process. It is used to reduce the noise During the year under review, we made some imporemissions when anchoring the foundation to the seabed. tant advances in this area. RWE held the official This is important in order to avoid negative impacts on opening for the Thornton Bank wind farm (325 MW) the local animal life, in particular to porpoises. where RWE is the biggest private shareholder with a stake of 26.7 %. Together with our partners, we have invested a total of € 2 billion in the Gwynt y Môr wind farm and 107 out of 160 wind turbines have now been therefore focusing on decentralised approaches and installed. Ten of the turbines are already feeding elecwe are seeking partnership with investors and municitricity into the grid. The total output of the wind farm pal utilities. We also want to work together with local is 576 MW and RWE owns a shareholding of 60 %. people to drive forward the energy transition on the ground, e.g. with smaller onshore wind farms. In the The energy transition in Germany is changing the year 2013, RWE was one of the initiators contributing energy landscape. Plants for renewables are freto the launch of the 'Citizens’ energy cooperative – In quently organised on a decentralised basis. We are partnership with citizens’ (‘BürgerEnergie eG – PartOur Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 10  Environmental Challenges More than More than 290,000 290,000 renewables-based plants renewables-based plants nerschaft mit den Bürgern’). The energy cooperative plant capacities (p. 19), various technical solutions, is already operating three solar plants and a wind such as efficient grids or intelligent demand managefarm in the Rhineland . ment and storage technologies, are required in order to make weather-dependent electricity production In the meantime, RWE has connected more than maximally efficient. 290,000 decentralised renewable energy plants to the distribution grid. However, integrating these new Efficient grids plants in the existing energy system is not straightThe expansion of renewables requires comprehensive forward. Ultimately, the existing system was designed investment in the grid infrastructure – this includes so that electricity production could be flexibly adjusted the distribution grids. A grid with a total length of to match demand. This is changing with the rising 330,160 km makes RWE one of the biggest distribuproportion of renewables that are dependent on the tion grid operators in Germany. Due to the decentralweather. Apart from a change in the design of the ised character of many plants generating renewable marketplace to ensure adequately flexible power energies, the distribution grid will take on a new role in distributing electricity. A large proportion of the plants generating renewable energy feed their electricity into this grid level. The grids therefore need to be capable of accepting large amounts of electricity from a number of sources including photovoltaic plants. We have launched a large number of pilot projects to tackle this task. For example, the “Smart Operator” project (p. 63) links up different components for generation and storage in a smart network. Moreover, innovative line technology means that transmission losses can also be reduced in the grid – and this increases the efficiency of the entire system (p. 63). Smart demand management The generation of electricity based on weatherdependent renewables is virtually impossible to manage. We are taking a number of measures to address Efficient grids are an enabler for the integration of renewable this challenge including flexible demand-side manenergies in the energy system. agement. The industry is able to contribute to this Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 11  Environmental Challenges 100,000 100,000 smart electricity meters smart electricity meters using smart load management. Larger numbers of electricity and gas meters in all domestic households retail customers are now asking for smart household and smaller non-domestic premises by 2020. 53 milmanagement systems. RWE Smart Home, for examlion meters are affected by this regulation. RWE will ple, allows household appliances to be switched on be playing a role in this project by installing approxiautomatically when adequate wind or solar power is mately 5.7 million meters. Our Hungarian subsidiary available. A modern refrigerator only needs to run for company ELMŰ-ÉMÀSZ has installed 8,193 smart about eight hours a day for the actual cooling proelectricity meters in Hungary. 7,380 smart meters cess to take place. Smart networking is necessary for were already installed there in 2012. this to take place, for example when the sun is shining and solar power is being produced. Our Smart Energy storage Home connects up appliances that can be networked, Powerful storage systems can assist in balancing out such as tumble dryers and dish washers, to create a the fluctuating feed-in of renewables. RWE is working smart energy system. RWE recently opened up its in this area on different approaches to this issue: Smart Home System for other appliance manufacturers so that an increasing number of devices such as Pumped-storage power plants are one of the proven, televisions, washing machines, heating, and electric large-scale solutions being used to store energy. RWE cars can also be integrated within the customer’s holds a 40.3 stake in the operating company running domestic system. The customers own photovoltaic the pump-storage plant in Vianden (Luxembourg) and plant can also be integrated in combination with the we are expanding this facility. An eleventh turbine is product HomePower Solar. Apart from technical increasing the output of what is now already Europe’s issues, we want to convince customers about the biggest pump-storage power plant to 1,300 MW. benefits from household automation. The key issue here is to demonstrate that smart building installation enhances convenience and comfort, as well as being able to help save energy. Smart Metering is another enabler for flexible demand management. This involves installation of smart electricity meters. In 2013, RWE completed a Smart Meter pilot project with the installation of 100,000 smart electricity meters in Mülheim an der Ruhr. The financial and legal framework conditions for Smart Metering in Germany have not yet been defined. In 2010, the UK government passed a law Pumped-storage plants produce electricity when there is no requiring electricity and gas suppliers to install smart sunshine or wind. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 12  Environmental Challenges 2,800 2,800 charging points for electric cars charging points for electric cars We are operating two “Power to Gas” plants at our largest interconnected grid of charging stations in sites in Ibbenbüren and Niederaußem to test this Germany. In Europe, RWE operates more than 2,800 technology for storing electricity. The aim of this charging points and cars were charged up with “Automethod is to convert excess electricity temporarily strom” car electricity for a total of 8 million emissioninto chemical energy as hydrogen (Ibbenbüren) or free kilometres in 2013 (2012: 4 million km). substitute natural gas (Niederaußem). The stored gas can then be converted into electricity when it is Making use of all potential options required, or supplied to the heating market. A large proportion of the energy in buildings is used for heat. Heat insulation and efficient heating techWe also offer homeowners a smaller scale solution for nology generate energy savings of up to 90 %. The storing excess electricity. Our “HomePower Solar” challenge is to implement this in existing properties. product is based on proven technology that allows In July 2013, we launched the RWE Future House homeowners to store excess electricity from a private (RWE Zukunftshaus) in Bottrop as a pilot project for photovoltaic system and then use the power during smart building technology and energy-efficient refurthe evening and at night. bishment. The existing house is a detached house from the 1960s and it was upgraded to a Plus Energy Electromobility House in this project. Electromobility offers other options for harmonising the volatility of renewables mainly over the long RWE aerial thermography is intended to make more term. All the batteries in electric cars can be regarded efficient use of heat. At the beginning of 2013, RWE as a potential store for the entire electricity system. and the city of Essen took around 24,000 thermal At times when demand is low, drained car batteries images of the metropolis on the River Ruhr and then can be charged up with electricity purchased. When analysed the energy insulating properties of all the demand is high, any surplus electricity can be fed roofs covering the city’s buildings, which house some back into the grid. 580,000 people. Since the autumn, every homeowner has been able to receive their individual thermal The key challenge here is that without an adequate image from the city. They can then make a decision charging infrastructure, customers are not able to use as to whether energy refurbishment makes sense. We this package and if sufficient customers are not availare also carrying out aerial thermography elsewhere. able the charging infrastructure is not economic. RWE is therefore taking the lead and establishing the RWE is also offering advice on energy, including therinfrastructure of charging stations in Europe. RWE mal images, for example in Hungary. Hundreds of has joined forces with partners from the energy cooperative ventures have been completed there industry like municipality-owned utilities to operate since 2008. // more than 1,850 charging points and this forms the Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 13  Social Challenges 300% 300% increase in the renewables levy increase in the renewables levy Social Challenges Social impact of rising energy costs temperatures of the winter 2012/13 led to a tempoAs a major energy supplier, RWE has to meet the rary increase in demand for electricity and gas and aspirations of a wide range of stakeholders. Each of this resulted in a hike in energy costs for consumers. our stakeholder groups, including shareholders, employees and naturally also our customers, has parAlongside this factor, other reasons are also responsiticular expectations towards RWE. Our challenge is ble for the increase in energy costs. A large proportherefore to balance and prioritise stakeholder needs. tion of the additional costs in Germany are brought At the same time the responsible business approach about by the increase in taxes and charges. These are here is to clearly explain that there are some areas billed to electricity customers for every kilowatt hour where we have little influence. This includes final conof power they use. In Germany, these elements rose sumer prices for energy which are largely made up of from 9.09 cents (€)/kWh in the year 2009 to 14.42 taxes, levies and government charges. We want to cents (€)/kWh in 2013. The levy under the Renewable use areas under our direct control and make a contriEnergies Act (EEG) for electricity generated from bution to ensuring that energy remains affordable. renewables also increased from 2.15 cents (€)/kWh Energy costs are a key competitive factor for manuto 6.24 cents (€)/kWh. Energy utilities are unable to facturing companies. Industrial companies are particexert any influence on the increase in taxes, charges ularly vulnerable because a large proportion of company revenues are generated in global markets and Electricity prices for households in Germany in 20131 these costs play a significant role in determining their in % commercial success and ultimately the choice of production location. approx. 20 % Regulated grid approx. 30 % Rising energy costs lead to private households having fees2 Electricity genless money available for other products and services eration, sales especially since it is very difficult to manage without energy. Rising energy costs can therefore quickly 50 % become a problem for low-income households. Taxes and levies Reasons for price and cost developments Energy costs are currently on the rise in many coun1 Average for the electricity price in 2013 for a sample household in Germany with a consumption of 3,500 kWh/year tries where we are operating. One reason for this in 2 Average grid fee incl. fees for measurement, operation of measuring stations and 2013 was the above-average cold weather. The low accounting, may vary significantly on a regional basis Source: German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW), electricity price analysis in November 2013 Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 14  Social Challenges 4.5 million 4.5 million households in the United Kingdom are at risk of fuel poverty are at risk of fuel poverty households in the United Kingdom and levies. Governments need to control these cost Combatting fuel poverty elements to provide consumers with stable and When energy costs rise too steeply, the problem of affordable prices over the long term. They also need so-called “fuel poverty” gets worse. RWE believes to review measures to ensure they are effective and fundamentally that the marketplace and competition efficient. Regulatory measures in Hungary, for examin the energy industry are the best economic mechaple, led to a 20% reduction in the price of energy durnisms for guaranteeing affordable, secure and enviing the period under review. ronmentally friendly energy supply. One core function of the modern welfare state is also to support people whose income is not sufficient to provide adeComposition of the electricity price in Germany* quate heating and lighting in their homes. Housein cents (€)/kWh holds are regarded as suffering from fuel poverty if they have to spend more than 10% of their net 14.42 28.84 30 income on household energy needs. Although the 11.43 25.23 11.72 25.89 government bears ultimate responsibility, RWE as an 9.09 23.21 9.80 23.69 25 energy utility is often the first point of contact for these families. 20 United Kingdom 15 The government and charitable organisations in the UK have been addressing fuel poverty as a top prior10 14.12 13.89 13.80 14.17 14.42 ity for many years. A study carried out by the British government lists three key factors as causes of fuel 5 poverty. Apart from the amount of household income and the level of energy costs, inadequate insulation 0 and higher energy consumption in buildings are spec2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ified as key parameters. A total of some 4.5 million households in the UK have been classified as being at Government taxes, levies and charges risk from fuel poverty. The households affected by Generation, transmission, sales fuel poverty in the UK have been receiving support in * Average electricity price for annual consumption of 3,500 kWh; from various programmes initiated by the government 2010 application of the equalisation mechanism directive since 1990. The “Warm Home Discount Scheme” is (AusglMechV). Source: German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW), one such measure that has been in place since 2011 Electricity Price Analysis November 2013 and requires energy suppliers to offer vulnerable customers a reduction in their electricity bill. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 15  Social Challenges Distribution of Distribution of 5,500 5,500 mt mt lignite briquettes at reduced prices reduced prices lignite briquettes at Central and Eastern Europe Measures against fuel poverty The ELMŰ ÉMÁSZ Group in Hungary combats fuel poverty by giving households more transparency and In 2013, RWE granted vulnerable customers in the United control over their own energy consumption. We do Kingdom discounts totalling £ 31 million (€ 37 million). By this by providing vulnerable households with pre-paid 2015, this amount is likely to have risen to £ 32 million electricity meters. By the end of 2013, we had installed (€ 38 million) each year. Since the start of the “Health around 9,780 of these meters in households, most of Through Warmth” scheme in 2000, about 64,250 vulnerathem were fitted free of charge. We also give vulnerable households have received financial help to install and ble households access to coal briquettes at reduced repair their heating systems and insulate their homes. prices or free of charge to heat living areas. In 2013, More than £ 74 million (€ 90 million) has been spent on we provided around 5,500 mt of lignite briquettes for providing this assistance, including £ 1.9 million (€ 2.3 coal-fired heaters at a reduced price and around 311 million) from charitable organisations and £ 8.6 million mt free of charge for particularly vulnerable families. (€ 10.7 million) provided by the RWE npower in the “Health Through Warmth” Crisis Fund. In the Czech Republic, we offer payment plans or payment by instalment to our customers in order to help them pay their energy bills. We also grant discounts to customers who are disabled. These benefits were Germany offered to some 5,000 customers in 2013. // In Germany, guaranteeing the supply of electricity and heat for low-income households is primarily a function of the welfare state. However, the rising cost of energy for many households on a low budget has become a problem. That is why we are providing supplementary advice and supporting people in reducing their energy costs. Our “Energiewelt” or ‘Energy World’ portal offers detailed information on saving energy to anyone who is interested. Structuring the energy supply in a socially acceptable way will continue to remain a challenge in the years to come. In June 2013, we contributed to the conference “Energy transition. But fair.” and used this forum to swap ideas on the transition with other organisations. > Energy transition. But fair! Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 16  Governance Challenges 48.1 48.1 % % of hard coal sourced from suppliers outside Europe outside Europe of hard coal sourced from suppliers Governance Challenges Where is the market going? chain of procurement through our own sector initiaThe markets in the energy industry are distinguished tives. We are currently in discussions about electricity by different attributes. Markets for fuels such as hard markets with political representatives in order to coal and natural gas have a larger regional range than, make the case for an effective solution in Europe. for example, markets for customised energy such as electricity and heat. Many of the operators in the Wholesale markets marketplace are also different. The individual markets Our objective is to secure sustainable sourcing of fuel are defined by a range of different factors but they over the long term. Sustainable sourcing means we are all shaped by political and technical framework need to improve the transparency relating to the proconditions. The markets are also influenced by the duction conditions of the fuels being used and we different aspirations of our stakeholders to comply should also review environmental and social standwith principles for sustainable operations based on ards for every stage of the value chain. Lignite is an an ethical approach to business, environmental and exception because RWE operates its own opencast social issues. mines very close to its power stations in Germany and Hungary. > RWE Power AG > Mátra power station RWE is facing major challenges especially in the marThe globalisation of procurement markets for hard coal, kets for fuel procurement and electricity generation. gas and biomass means that the delivery pathways can We are aiming to raise transparency in the supply hardly be tracked, particularly in the case of hard coal. Hard coal by country of origin 2013 in % 20.4 Colombia 13.5 Germany 19.0 UK 11.8 South Africa 0.7 Australia 19.0 Russia 15.2 USA 0.4 Poland Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 17  Governance Challenges Bettercoal: Strict requirements for mine operators operators Bettercoal: Strict requirements for mine RWE sources almost half of the hard coal used from countries located outside Europe. Hard coal mitted to cooperating on this matter with other comThe mining of hard coal is losing importance in Westpanies of our sector, which are confronted with simiern Europe for political and economic reasons. We lar challenges. In 2012, we founded the ‘Bettercoal’ now source hard coal from different countries initiative together with other utilities. ‘Bettercoal’ will throughout the world, including developing countries carry out independent audits in the supplier countries and emerging economies. Our stakeholders are askto create transparency for the purchasers of coal ing us about the conditions under which the coal is about the conditions under which coal is mined and being produced in these supplier countries, especially to suggest improvement processes. with regard to social standards and minimum environmental standards. The Bettercoal Code defines strict requirements for mine operators. It was created in a global consultaOur challenge is to ensure that we can continue to tion process and is also based on international rules secure the sourcing of hard coal at the required qualand regulations, such as the core conventions of the ity through the global market, while at the same time International Labour Organisation (ILO), the performonitoring that the conditions in the mines are in mance standards of the International Finance Corpoaccordance with the requirements of global standration (IFC), the OECD Guidelines and the Initiative ards. Our aim is to achieve this by developing our for Responsible Mining Assurance (IRMA). supplier management further. We are therefore comOur Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 18  Governance Challenges 100% 100% of our biomass certified in compliance with the Green Gold Label with the Green Gold Label of our biomass certified in compliance In 2014, independent auditors will start the complivigilant eye on this development but since our main ance review of coal mines in major supply countries sources of natural gas continue to be from convenand if necessary make suggestions for improvements tional gas fields we cannot currently see any major to the mine operators. ‘Bettercoal’ will make the challenges in this area. information obtained available to its member companies. It will be taken into account in the pre-qualificaBiomass tion processes for suppliers and will play a role in the The sourcing of biomass to generate electricity and counterparty approval decision for individual suppliers. heat remains important for RWE, even though the realignment of our strategy on renewable energies Gas (p. 9) means that we are concentrating on the expanThe strategic importance of own production of gas is sion of wind power plants, hydropower and photovoldeclining due in part to the shale-gas boom in the taics. On the basis of commercial reasons, we USA. We no longer believe that exploration and prodecided not to extend the operation of the biomass duction of gas and oil will be an important part of power station at Tilbury in the UK in autumn 2013, our core business in the future (p. 20). Some stakewhile the conversion of the Lynemouth power station holders are increasingly focusing a critical eye on the to biomass is continuing and well on track (p. 58). We spiralling production of shale gas, particularly in light are continuing to use biomass which is certified in of the associated environmental issues. RWE keeps a accordance with the Green Gold Label at the Amer 8 The procurement of biomass is subject to strict sustainability requirements at RWE. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our Greatest Challenges 19  Governance Challenges 6,590 6,590 MW MW planned shutdown of power station capacities power station capacities planned shutdown of power station in Geetruidenberg (NL). Biomass is also therefore submitted applications to shut down lossconceivable for use at the Eemshaven power station (NL), making power-station units to the Federal Network which is just about to come on stream. Agency. In this context, RWE has identified a total of 6,590 MW throughout Europe in the years 2013 to Electricity generation 2016. Consequently, incentives to invest in new We currently also have to master challenges in the power stations or the modernisation of existing markets for electricity generation. The government plants are lacking. There is therefore an issue in the subsidised growth of renewable energy production is electricity market as to whether there will be enough changing the way in which energy markets operate in secure baseload capacity available in the future in Continental Europe. The increased production of order to guarantee security of supply in periods electricity is reducing wholesale prices on the Energy where no wind or solar power is being generated. Exchanges. This distorts the competition and reduces Quite apart from the structure of the future energy the revenues from our coaland gas-fired power stamarket, an increase in regulation and administrative tions, particularly in Continental Europe. Many plants, interventions is likely. RWE is therefore playing a role including gas-fired power stations, are no longer able in the political process of opinion forming. to cover their operating costs. A lot of stakeholders have in fact welcomed gas-fired power stations because We want to work out solutions to these challenges in they are flexible and have low specific CO2 emissions dialogue with our stakeholders. Some solutions have compared with coal-fired power stations. been put forward in this area. The German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW) and the This generates a conflict of interests for RWE: Firstly, Association of Municipality-owned Utilities (VKU) sugwe are now aiming to operate our own power stagested establishing an additional decentralised tions at profitable levels while also making them envicapacity market open to all technologies of power ronmentally compatible. Secondly, we want to make production in order to incentivise provision of permaour contribution to the security of supply and quality nently available capacities. For RWE, the preservation of energy provision. However, achieving these aims of a European market in which all power stations can at the same time is difficult within the framework of operate within a framework of fair competition is a the current political regulatory framework of the eleckey factor. // tricity market. The priority feed-in for renewable energies has called into question the feasibility of the previous wellestablished power-only market where power stations receive payment exclusively for the electricity supplied. A number of companies in the sector have Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait20  Value Chain · Our Regions GROUP PORTRAIT RWE is one of the biggest electricity and gas utilities in Europe. We are operating at all levels of the energy value chain with our expertise in the production of oil, gas and lignite, the generation of electricity from gas, coal, nuclear power and renewable sources, our own energy-trading operations, the distribution and sale of electricity and gas, and energy-related services. RWE supplies more than 16 million electricity customalready generated a sustainable earnings effect of ers and well above seven million gas customers with € 200 million, efficiency measures and savings on perenergy. In Europe, we are ranked by sales in third sonnel costs amounting to € 800 million were added place for electricity and fifth place for gas. In Gerduring the year under review. This meant we were many, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, we already € 250 million above budget (p. 5). are among the biggest electricity and gas utilities. In the Czech Republic, we are number one in gas busiOur range of services ness. We also occupy leading positions in other marWe want to meet the changing requirements of the kets located in Central Europe. In the business year energy market at all levels of the energy value chain. 2013, we generated revenue of approximately € 54 Our business activities cover the following areas: billion. Production of oil and gas Europe’s energy industry in transition RWE Dea based in Hamburg engages in international The European energy sector is undergoing fundamenexploration and production of gas and oil. RWE Dea tal change. Associated political interventions are and its subsidiary companies have production facilichanging the framework conditions of our business. ties in Germany, the United Kingdom, Norway, DenThe expansion of renewable energies in Germany submark and Egypt. We also have licences in Algeria, sidised by government money is leading to declining Guyana, Ireland, Libya, Mauritania, Poland, Surinam, income and operating times for coal-fired and gasTrinidad and Tobago, and Turkmenistan. We currently fired power stations – and this exerts a significant have an office in Ukraine. Branches are located in impact on the profitability of our business (p. 19). In Egypt, Libya, Poland, Denmark, Portugal and Turk2011, we already launched the programme “RWE menistan. In Germany, RWE Dea operates large under2015” in order to maintain our position in this enviground gas storage facilities. ronment. This programme is designed to achieve a number of goals including comprehensive measures to reduce costs and increase profits. After we had Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait21  Value Chain · Our Regions In October 2013, RWE launched gas production in (Hungary) are located in the immediate environment the Breagh gas field. At the same time, the Breagh of our opencast mines. In Germany, we operate three gas field is one of the biggest natural gas discoveries large opencast mines and there are two smaller being exploited in the entire southern sector of the mines in Hungary. Every year, we produce a total of UK North Sea. RWE announced in March 2013 that it more than 105 million metric tons of lignite. Out of wanted to sell RWE Dea as part of restructuring the this, we use some 93 million metric tons to generate Group. In view of the wide supply on the gas trading electricity while the remaining amount of around 12 markets in Europe, we no longer regard the exploramillion metric tons is used in refinement for the protion and production of gas and oil deposits as a sigduction of lignite products. At the Mátra power stanificant part of our core business. tion (Hungary), we also use large quantities of biomass as fuel. RWE power plant portfolio At the end of 2013, RWE had power station capacity Hard coal: We have generating capacity amounting to totalling 49,036 MW. Of this, 34 % was generated 9,950 MW from hard-coal power stations in Germany, from gas, 23 % from lignite, 20 % from hard coal, 8 % the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Furtherfrom nuclear energy and 7 % from renewable enermore, two hard-coal power stations, each with more gies. This includes 6,424 MW capacity generated by than 1,500 MW generating capacity, are currently contracted power stations, with long-term contracts under construction. We are also using large quantiproviding us with access to their capacities. ties of biomass in addition to hard coal at the Amer power station (Netherlands). As far as electricity generation is concerned, 81 TWh of electricity generated from lignite made the biggest Gas: In recent years, we have considerably increased contribution in 2013, followed by hard coal (51 TWh), the capacity of our gas-fired power stations to 16,440 gas (37 TWh), nuclear energy (31 TWh) and renewaMW. Major steps in this direction were the commisbles with 14 TWh. Since 1 January 2013, the newly sioning of the Lingen power station, (887 MW), Stayestablished generating company RWE Generation has thorpe and Pembroke power stations (both in the been responsible for the construction and operation United Kingdom, 1,650 and 2,181 MW respectively) of our power stations in Germany, the Netherlands, and Claus C and Moerdijk 2 (Netherlands, 1,304 and the United Kingdom and Turkey. The lignite opencast 426 MW respectively). In 2013, the Denizil power stamines and lignite-fired power stations, the refinetion in Turkey started up operation with 787 MW. The ment facilities, and nuclear power stations continue changing framework conditions in the energy industo be operated by RWE Power, which is integrated try have placed our power stations in Germany and within RWE Generation. Since 2008, we have used the Netherlands under particular pressure (p. 19). RWE Innogy to bundle the expertise and power plants of the RWE Group in the field of renewable Nuclear energy: After shutting down the Biblis A and energies with the exception of the small biomass B power stations, we still have more than 3,900 MW power plants in Germany. These have been operated capacity of nuclear energy in Germany. Following the by RWE Germany since 2013. exit from nuclear energy adopted by the German Parliament (“Bundestag”) in 2011, our last nuclear Lignite: We operate lignite-fired power stations in power station is scheduled to exit from the grid in Germany and Austria with a total capacity of 11,071 2022. Apart from those in Germany, we have no MW. All five locations for the power stations Neurath, Niederaußem, Weisweiler, Frimmersdorf and Mátra Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait22  Value Chain · Our Regions nuclear power stations and we are no longer involved Distribution grids in investment projects for nuclear energy. RWE holds RWE operates an electricity distribution grid with a a minority shareholding in Borssele power station. total length of 330,162 km and is therefore one of the biggest operator of distribution grids in Germany. Renewable energies: In future, RWE Innogy will conIn Hungary, we are responsible for a distribution grid centrate primarily on further expansion of the core infrastructure of 46,700 km and in Poland 16,119 km. business areas of onshore and offshore wind and The energy transition means that the importance of strengthening the generation of hydropower. At the the distribution grid is increasing significantly, same time, we will be supporting innovative compabecause the electricity generated from renewable nies in their start-up and growth phase, and we will energies at decentralised locations is primarily fed provide them with pump-priming assistance for a liminto this grid. At the end of 2013, around 291,000 ited period of time. At the end of 2013, the entire photovoltaic and wind-power plants fed a total outRWE Group had consolidated generating capacity put of 16.4 GW of electricity into our German distrifrom renewable energies of 3,496 MW, of which bution grid. Over the course of the past four years 781 MW was hydropower, 2,292 MW was wind alone, capacities amounting to 8 GW have been energy and 419 MW was biomass. So far, RWE has added. We are working intensively on concepts to only erected a small number of photovoltaic plants. establish how renewable energies can be integrated As far as our total capacities of renewable energies intelligently in the electricity grid (p. 10). In 2012, are concerned, we have particularly strong represenRWE hived off its electricity transmission grid in Gertation in our home market of Germany, followed by many and it now only has a minority shareholding in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Spain, Poland Amprion. and Italy. Furthermore, we operate extensive gas distribution Energy trading and internal services grids. In Germany, we have a gas distribution grid of RWE Supply & Trading is the interface between RWE 48,200 km, and in the Czech Republic a grid and global trading markets for energy and energy63,860 km in length. In August 2013, we sold NETbased raw materials. The key functions of the com4GAS with a gas transmission grid 3,600 km long in pany are to optimise profitability and provide finanthe Czech Republic. cial hedging for the RWE Group along the entire value chain. As a leading energy trader in Europe, Sales RWE Supply & Trading is the hub for all the tradable Services associated with the use of energy are commodities in the energy sector. These primarily increasingly offering RWE new opportunities for busiinclude fuels and electricity, e.g. also CO2 emissions ness. In Germany, the United Kingdom, the Nethercertificates. RWE Supply & Trading is also responsible lands, Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, our for the optimisation of the entire non-regulated gas companies offer solutions for centralised and decenbusiness of the RWE Group, including all procuretralised energy supply. Our packages are directed ment, storage and LNG activities. We have integrated towards residential households, as well as to local services provided across the Group within the three authorities and business customers. In particular, we service companies RWE Group Business Services, RWE are expanding our packages in the area of electromoService and RWE IT. bility and smart control of consumption. During the course of the business year 2013, we continued to expand the area of business electromobility. Today we are one of the leading providers of charging infrastructure in Europe. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait23  Value Chain · Our Regions Value Chain: activities and challenges Extraction of fossil fuels / Provision and supply of biomass Area for action: Biodiversity/Environmental Protection, Supply Chain Activities Challenges Sustainable recultivation of mining areas Mining of lignite in our own opencast mines Safeguarding the water resources in the regions Structuring environmental mitigation measures Resettlement of residents at socially acceptable conditions Minimising dust and noise emissions Oil and gas exploration and drilling Environmental protection and nature conservation in sensitive areas (Wadden Sea, North Sea, North Atlantic) Handling and disposal of waste from production Ethical and transparent business dealings in countries with weak governance Provision of biomass Sustainable production of wood pellets and other forms of biomass Supply and trading Area for action: Supply Chain Activities Challenges Supply and trading with hard coal, natural gas, Human rights, social standards and environmental protection in the producing biomass, electricity, CO2 certificates countries Sustainable cultivation of biomass in the supply countries Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait24  Value Chain · Our Regions Power and heat generation Area for action: Climate Protection, Energy Efficiency, Biodiversity/Environmental Protection Activities Challenges Construction and operation of fossil-fired power Reduction in CO2 emissions stations Limiting the emission of pollutants Acceptance of the new construction of power stations Treatment and minimisation of the (cooling) water used Making the power plant portfolio more flexible in order to adjust to the volatile feed-in of renewable energies Guaranteeing security of supply Contribution to the operation and decommisSafe operation of nuclear power stations sioning of nuclear power stations Disposal of radioactive waste Preparation and safe implementation of decommissioning concepts Construction and operation of hydropower Sustainable fresh water management plants and wind farms Connection to offshore wind farms Noise abatement during the construction of offshore wind farms Construction and operation of biomass power Compliance with national and international requirements for the sustainability stations of the biomass used Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait25  Value Chain · Our Regions Distribution of electricity and gas Area for action: Biodiversity/Environmental Protection, Security of Supply, Innovation Activities Challenges Expansion, operation and maintenance of the Concepts for flexible load distribution and for feed-in of renewable energies electricity distribution grid Expansion of suitable storage capacities Uninterrupted supply with electricity Bird protection and nature conservation Acceptance of grid expansion Expansion, operation and maintenance of the Uninterrupted supply with gas gas distribution grid Sales and use of electricity and gas Area for action: Climate Protection, Energy Efficiency, Customer Trust, Innovation Activities Challenges Supply of electricity and gas to residential and Competitive, individualised and flexible packages business customers Development of products and services for energy savings Development of service packages for controlling own consumption and for marketing of renewable energies Supply of electricity and gas to industrial Support for customers in energy saving customers Supply of electricity and gas to municipalitySupport for local authorities in energy saving owned utilities Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait26  Value Chain · Our Regions Our Regions RWE is an international group which has a Total workforce of full-time employees in 19 Employees 66,341 countries. We also send employees to other External revenue in €m. 51,393 Capex in €m. 4,624 countries, in particular to Egypt and the United Kingdom, for fixed periods of time. Norway Poland Employees 94 Employees 1,352 External revenue in €m. 581 External revenue in €m. 689 Capex in €m. 191 Capex in €m. 84 UK Netherlands Germany Employees 12,073 Employees 3,202 Employees 39,268 External revenue in €m. 9,812 External revenue in €m. 4,887 External revenue in €m. 28,115 Capex in €m. 1,103 Capex in €m. 633 Capex in €m. 2,003 Belgium Luxembourg Czech Republic Employees 133 Employees 63 Employees 4,288 External revenue in €m. 847 External revenue in €m. 80 External revenue in €m. 2,838 Capex in €m. 1 Capex in €m. 44 Capex in €m. 186 France Croatia Slovakia Employees 15 Employees 26 Employees 342 External revenue in €m. 215 External revenue in €m. 7 External revenue in €m. 474 Capex in €m. 2 Capex in €m. 0 Capex in €m. 0 Spain Switzerland Hungary Employees 47 Employees 31 Employees 4,889 External revenue in €m. 94 External revenue in €m. 90 External revenue in €m. 1,914 Capex in €m. 3 Capex in €m. 0 Capex in €m. 96 Portugal Italy Turkey Employees 0 Employees 128 Employees 79 External revenue in €m. 5 External revenue in €m. 48 External revenue in €m. 204 Capex in €m. 0 Capex in €m. 16 Capex in €m. 46 Libya Egypt USA Employees 56 Employees 165 Employees 90 External revenue in €m. 0 External revenue in €m. 288 External revenue in €m. 16 Capex in €m. 0 Capex in €m. 153 Capex in €m. 12 Revenues not including gas tax/ electricity tax. Capital expenditure (Capex) on financial assets and on property, plant and equipment Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait27  Value Chain · Our Regions Germany Germany is the location of our historic roots. GerEffizienz, which develops new products based on effimany is not only our most important market, the regcient use of energy, including electromobility. RWE istered office of the Group holding company is also Energiedienstleistungen is responsible for our portfolocated here. RWE AG manages the RWE Group from lio in the area of decentralised energy supply with Essen. The registered office of our European generatthe exception of residential households. The company ing company RWE Generation is also located in Essen. operates approximately 140 district-heating power RWE Power, a company under the management of stations (of which 95 are leased) of varying sizes. RWE Generation, manages lignite production from opencast mines and operates the lignite-fired power RWE Innogy, also with head office in Essen, is the stations, the refinement plants and nuclear power biggest operator of wind farms among the energy stations. RWE Technology, which is also under the utility companies with around 480 MW installed outmanagement of RWE Generation, is responsible put capacity in Germany. RWE Supply & Trading is across the Group for the construction of new fossilalso headquartered in Essen and hosts one of the fired power stations. The new-builds constructed biggest European commodity trading floors there. include two new hard-coal units at the existing RWE Dea manages our national and international power-station site at Hamm in Westphalia with a total activities in the exploration and production of oil and output of around 1,600 megawatts. gas from Hamburg. Germany is a key production location for RWE Dea with a share of almost 60 % in gas RWE Deutschland is the biggest subsidiary company production and 35 % in oil extraction. The company in the RWE Group. It combines under its management also operates storage facilities for natural gas here. the German regional companies enviaM, LEW, Süwag Group-wide services are delivered in Germany by the and VSE. The company also has direct shareholdings three service companies RWE Group Business Serin around 70 regional and local-authority energy vices, RWE Service and RWE IT. utilities. The electricity distribution grid covers 330,160 km. RWE Deutschland also manages RWE Facts and figures for 2013 Employees FTEs 39,268 Gas MW 5,050 Revenue € million 28,115 (incl. co-generation) Capex € million 2,003 Biomass MW 79 Customers Wind onshore MW 504 Electricity thousand 6,696 Run-of-river MW 622 Gas thousand 1,305 Pumped storage MW 1,023 Power plant capacity Distribution grid Lignite MW 10,291 Electricity Km 330,160 Hard coal MW 6,662 Gas Km 48,200 Nuclear energy MW 3,901 Production of Oil thousand m³ 821 Gas million m³ 1,528 Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait28  Value Chain · Our Regions United Kingdom The United Kingdom is our second most important the former coal-fired Tilbury power station (742 MW), market. RWE npower headquartered in Swindon is which had been converted to run on biomass, for one of the leading suppliers of electricity and gas commercial reasons (p. 47). with around 5.9 million residential and business customers. Our power stations supply some 10 % of the RWE Innogy UK, a subsidiary company of RWE electricity consumed in the United Kingdom. The conInnogy, is responsible for expanding renewable enerventional power stations with a total capacity of gies, particularly in the area of onshore and offshore 9,976 MW were taken over by RWE Generation at the wind farms. We operate a total capacity of more than beginning of 2013. Gas plays a key role as an energy 937 MW of renewable energy in the United Kingdom. source in the United Kingdom. Pembroke is the bigThe Middlemoor wind farm with capacity of 54 MW gest CCGT power station in Europe with a net output came on stream during the year under review. of 2,181 MW and it also has the highest level of efficiency. We have invested around £ 1 billion (€ 1.23 RWE Supply & Trading operates energy trading floors billion) in the power station. At the end of March in Swindon and London. RWE Dea carries out explora2013, we stopped operating the coal-fired Didcot A tion and production operations for oil and natural power station (1,958 MW) and the oil-fired Fawley gas in the British sector of the North Sea and holds power station (968 MW) under the regulations an exploration licence for the west of Ireland. RWE defined in the European “Large Combustion Plant Group Business Services UK offers internal services Directive”. In September, we also ceased operating for the Group. Facts and figure for 2013 Employees FTEs 12,073 Power plant capacity Revenue € million 9,812 Hard coal MW 1,953 Capex € million 1,103 Gas MW 6,733 Customers Oil, oil distillates MW 1,689 Electricity thousand 3,583 Wind onshore MW 522 Gas thousand 2,322 Wind offshore MW 342 Run-of-river MW 74 Production of Oil thousand m³ 43 Gas million m³ 505 Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait29  Value Chain · Our Regions Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg RWE is ranked as one of the leading energy utilities in In Luxembourg, RWE Power operates the Vianden the Netherlands and Belgium. In these countries, we pump-storage plant. This is one of the most powerful supply electricity, gas, heat and energy services pumped-storage plants in Europe with a capacity of through Essent. The hard-coal and gas-fired power 1,100 MW. We are planning to increase the capacity stations with a total capacity of 4,365 MW have been of the plant by around 200 MW with the installation managed by RWE Generation since the beginning of of an eleventh turbine. The power plant plays a key 2013. The 1,560 MW coal-fired power station in Eemrole in the stabilisation of Europe’s electricity grids shaven, Netherlands, is currently under construction and in maintaining the balance between feed-in and and is scheduled to come on stream in 2014. consumption of electricity. Essent is the largest producer of electricity from As a result of the low wholesale prices, the euro crisis renewable energy sources in the Netherlands and the and the generation of solar power in Germany, the focus here is on biomass. RWE Innogy is one of the Dutch coal-fired and in particular gas-fired power stamajor investors in wind farms in the Netherlands and tions are under economic pressure. Furthermore, the Belgium, and its portfolio includes onshore and offDutch government introduced a coal tax at the beginshore facilities. At the end of 2013, the company was ning of 2013 which caused the competitive conditions operating wind turbines with a total capacity of for coal-fired power stations to deteriorate by compari214 MW. The Thornton Bank offshore wind farm has son with gas-fired power stations or coal-fired power a capacity of 325 MW and is one of the biggest facilistations abroad. The current high level of generation ties of its kind in the Belgian section of the North for electricity from biomass could decline in the future. Sea. RWE has a 26.7 % share in this facility and it At the end of 2015, the current subsidy system will became fully operational in 2013. come to an end. The scope for the continuation of this subsidy is not yet clear. > CR Report Essent Facts and figures for 2013 Netherlands Belgium Luxembourg Employees FTEs 3,202 133 63 Revenue € million 4,887 847 80 Capex € million 633 1 44 Customers Electricity thousand 2,171 332 Gas thousand 1,967 209 Power plant capacity: Hard coal MW 936 Gas MW 2,686 133 Gas/Oil MW 610 Biomass co-firing MW 295 Biomass MW 25 Wind onshore MW 214 Run-of-river MW 11 Pumped storage MW 1,096 Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait30  Value Chain · Our Regions Central Eastern and South-eastern Europe/Turkey The activities of the RWE Group in Central Eastern We are represented in Hungary by RWE Hungária and and South-east Europe and Turkey are bundled under this company supplies around 2.1 million customers the umbrella of RWE East. RWE has been an active with electricity. The ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group is concenplayer through RWE Česká republika in the energy trating on the sale and distribution of electricity. market of the Czech Republic since 2002. Overall, we Mátrai Erőmű operates a lignite-fired power station supply energy and services to around 1.7 million cuswith two associated opencast lignite mines. tomers there. RWE operates a gas-fired power station in Turkey RWE has been operating in the Polish market since which became fully operational in August 2013. 1991 and supplies around 900,000 customers there with electricity. In Poland, we are expanding renewaWe are already operating in Croatia as a wastewater ble energies and in September 2013 we held the certreatment operator in the national capital of Zagreb emony for the official opening of the Nowy Staw and as a co-owner of the hard-coal power station in wind farm. This new facility brings the total number Plomin. In June 2013, we took over the sales comof wind farms operated by RWE Innogy in Poland to pany Energija 2 (now: RWE Energija). At the end of six with an installed capacity of 197 MW. 2013, RWE Energija already supplied 28,000 customers with electricity. Facts and figures for 2013 Poland Czech Slovakia Hungary Turkey Croatia Republic Employees FTEs 1,352 4,288 342 4,889 79 26 Revenue € million 689 2,838 474 1,914 204 7 Capex € million 84 186 0 96 46 Customers Electricity thousand 908 238 2,123 28 Gas thousand 1,451 97 Power plant capacity Lignite MW 17 763 Hard coal MW Gas MW 1 3 147 787 Biomass MW 2 Wind onshore MW 197 Run-of-river MW 1 Distribution grid Electricity km 16,119 46,700 Gas km 63,860 Operating area ha 2,088 Opencast mining Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait31  Value Chain · Our Regions Western and Southern Europe RWE is almost exclusively active in the area of renewThe tense position of government finances in Spain, able energies in France, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Portugal and Italy is also leading to a reduction in RWE Innogy operates wind farms and hydropower government subsidies for renewable energies and plants in these countries. In Italy, a biomass power this factor is therefore inhibiting any further expanplant with a capacity of 19 MW started up operation sion. The Spanish government has also passed legisin the second quarter of 2013. We also have stakes in lation for additional taxation on energy generation. the Andasol solar thermal power plant in Spain. Overall, we have a total installed output of 514 MW for wind energy and 73 MW for hydropower in France, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Facts and figures for 2013 France Italy Portugal Spain Employees FTEs 15 128 47 Revenue € million 215 48 5 94 Capex € million 2 16 3 Power plant capacity: Wind onshore MW 67 447 Run-of-river MW 45 16 12 Biomass MW 19 Norway RWE Dea has a long track record of operating in Norhave holdings in several production fields and we are way over many years, and particularly in the Norwealso involved in one of the most important, newly gian sector of the North Sea and the North Atlantic. discovered deposits on the Norwegian continental RWE Dea is involved with different consortia in the shelf (Knarr). RWE Dea is currently the lead company exploration and production of oil and natural gas. We in a total of eight concessions in Norway. Facts and figures for 2013 Norway Employees FTEs 94 Revenue € million 581 Capex € million 191 Production of: Oil thousand m³ 883 Gas million m³ 428 Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Group Portrait32  Value Chain · Our Regions North Africa and Central Asia RWE Dea produces oil and natural gas in Egypt and first planned reference projects in the Desertec initiacarries out exploration and field development in tive, RWE Innogy initiated a project for combined Libya and Turkmenistan. RWE has minority interests electricity generation in Morocco, with a capacity of in consortia to carry out exploration for oil and gas 50 MW solar energy and 50 MW of wind energy. deposits in Algeria and Mauritania. As part of the Facts and figures for 2013 Egypt Libya Turkmenistan Employees FTEs 165 56 241 Revenue € million 288 Capex € million 153 24 Production of: Oil thousand m³ 486 Gas million m³ 164 1 Employees of RWE Dea Germany with their workplace in Turkmenistan Other countries We only carry out significant activities outside Europe pellets in the US state of Georgia. Furthermore, RWE and beyond the scope of exploration and production Supply & Trading has locations outside Europe in, operations relating to oil and natural gas in the USA. New York, Singapore, Jakarta and Mumbai. RWE Innogy operates a plant for manufacturing wood Facts and figures for 2013 USA Employees FTEs 90 Revenue € million 16 Capex € million 12 Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Corporate Responsibility Strategy33  Materiality Analysis 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY We pursue the objective of establishing sustainability more firmly in our core business through our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy. In 2013, we carried out an international stakeholder survey and revised our strategic focuses on the basis of these results. Our objective is to make Corporate Responsibility a in carrying out a content review to establish whether fixed element in operational controlling of the comour areas for action are appropriate and relevant in pany by the year 2020. Our roadmap “Sustainable view of the latest developments (p. 35). In order to Corporate Governance” presents developments since meet the demands of changing requirements, we 1998 and describes our long-term objective. have further developed three areas for action. The approach in the area for action Employees focuses on Further development of the areas for action changes which are particularly associated with the In future, we focus the conceptual approach underrestructuring of the Group towards creating a more pinning our CR strategy more intensively on the empowered organisation and developing a corporate dimensions of environment, social engagement and culture more geared to performance (p. 5). We have corporate governance (Environment Social Governtherefore defined a new measurement parameter for ance – ESG Model). This realignment has involved us this field with the Motivation Index. We concentrate Environment Climate Protection Energy Efficiency Biodiversity/Environmental Protection Social Community Engagement Customer Trust Employees Governance Supply Chain Occupational Safety and Security of Supply Innovation Healthcare Management Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Corporate Responsibility Strategy34  Materiality Analysis 2013 on the aspect of customer trust in the former area for opment in the areas for action, the strategy of the action Pricing and Marketplace. We want to make our RWE Group overall and changes in the boundary concontribution to the ongoing development of the ditions and the expectations of our stakeholders European energy system and our aim is to rank (p. 43). among the best companies in the sector in relation to the issues of service and credibility. Customer trust is We are also aiming to make the sustainability of our an important factor for the success of our business. corporate governance quantifiable and controllable. We have therefore adapted the title of this area for Part of the variable compensation for Members of the action to Customer Trust. The aspect of biodiversity Executive Board has therefore been linked to achievehas significantly gained importance in relation to the ment of our CR goals. The assessment is carried out issue of environmental protection. by the Supervisory Board of RWE AG. The relevant CR aspects are also channelled into the balanced scoreImplementation of the Corporate Responsibility cards of the operating companies. Strategy We have originated a programme with targets and measures to implement our CR Strategy. We update the programme every year and take account of develCorporate Responsibility Roadmap Launch Structuring Implementation Role of CR driver Best in class (1998 – 2000) (2001 – 2005) (2006 – 2010) (2011 – 2015) (2016 – 2020) Strategy Group Directive Group CR guidelines Review of CR areas Continuous CR an integral part environmental for action up-dating of the CR of Group strategy management areas for action CR strategy Embedding of CR in all business areas Coordination Permanent staff Introduction of Key performance CR as integral part CR an integral part and of environmental occupational safety indicators concept of agreement on of operations management officers management for CR targets management system Introduction of Introduction of Group-wide CR Regular reporting Environmental group-wide Code implementation on KPIs Reporting and of Conduct Information System High level of Reporting 1st systematic Convention on the Institutionalised Industry leader in acceptance in and dialogue environmental future of sustainstakeholder transparency society report able development dialogue Inclusion in Dow 1st CR report Corporate Jones Sustainability volunteering Index Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Corporate Responsibility Strategy35  Materiality Analysis 2013 Materiality Analysis 2013 Current developments within society exert an impact Areas for action in environment on the expectations that stakeholders have for RWE 2013 saw an intensive debate across Europe and parand influence our assessment. As a result, our CR ticularly in Germany about restructuring the energy areas for action also undergo change. Annual reapsystem. This exerted an effect on assessing the indipraisal of these trends is firmly integrated in our CR vidual relevance of the associated areas for action as Management with the Materiality Analysis. This is prifar as RWE is concerned. The most important issue marily based on findings derived from the dialogue continues to be climate protection which is being with our stakeholders (p. 41). We evaluate the expecgiven a very high priority on the political agenda in tations of our stakeholders by engaging in communiEurope. As far as the company is concerned, this is cation with colleagues from the specialist departextremely relevant given our high level of CO2 emisments and from companies located in the countries sions (p. 6). Energy efficiency is a key building block where we have operations. We then reconcile stakehere for achieving the climate targets in the countries holders’ expectations with priorities from the perwhere we are operating. Some of our stakeholders spective of the company. The results of interviews are also concerned that the European Union should dealing with evaluation of our CR Strategy are also establish an energy efficiency goal. We have therebeing put into the mix (p. 41). fore assessed the issue with a high priority similar to the year 2012. The chart shows the importance of our areas for action based on a relative evaluation in each case from 0 to 1. Material issues 2013 in comparison with the previous year 2012 2013 1.0 CP PM CT E EE E SE CS I BE EE Stakeholder expectations of RWE CE 0.5 SE CE I OH 0 0.5 1.0 Relevance for RWE CP Climate Protection EE Energy Efficiency E Environmental Protection BE Biodiversity/Environmental Protection CE Community Engagement PM Pricing and Marketplace CT Customer Trust E Employees SC Supply Chain OH Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management SE Security of Supply I Innovation Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Corporate Responsibility Strategy36  Materiality Analysis 2013 Our stakeholders and we perceive relevant challenges Areas for action in corporate governance in the area for action Biodiversity/Environmental ProWe meet the demands of our stakeholders in the tection. Most importantly, the expansion of renewasphere of occupational health and safety because our ble energies, for example through offshore wind stakeholders take a high standard in this sphere for farms, presents us with new challenges. Sustainable granted. We continue to regard these functions as solutions are the fundamental condition for successcore elements of our corporate governance. Essential ful restructuring of the European energy system. We management systems have meanwhile been estabare therefore continuing to assess the relevance of lished within the company. This entails that the focus this issue as high in line with our position last year, of the activities now resides with their implementaalthough our stakeholders rate it as slightly less tion across the Group and continuous improvement important. (p. 60). In conjunction with the area for action Employees, the sphere of Healthcare Management Areas for action in social engagement has gained significantly in importance for our stakeThe subject of cost-effective energy supply also holders. remains an important issue in the public debate (p. 13). The main focus is provided by the additional The area for action Security of Supply has a high pricosts arising from the subsidisation of renewable ority in 2013, particularly for our stakeholders in Gerenergies. This burden should be spread as fairly as many. On the one hand, the public discussion here possible from a community perspective. Our stakerelates to the resilience of the electricity grids. On holders attribute the highest level of importance to the other hand, a key issue is also adequate availabilthe issue of customer trust – alongside climate proity of power plant capacity that is able to meet tection and energy efficiency – in relation to achievdemand at all times. However, a trend for both issues ing sustainable development of RWE. We are thereis gradually emerging of attributing responsibility to fore aiming to generate more trust on these issues government organisations like the Federal Network and strengthen our role as a fair supplier in the Agency in Germany. The expectations placed on RWE energy market (p. 54). have therefore receded. Nevertheless, we continue to classify the subject of Security of Supply with a high The increasing cost pressure entailed by the energy priority, as demonstrated by our projects on intellitransition is continuing to exert an impact on our pergent grid solutions (p. 62). sonnel policy. We are therefore being compelled to adapt our personnel structure to the difficult frameThe other areas for action in the sphere of corporate work conditions entailed by the changing energy governance remained unchanged for RWE and its industry. This presents both our employees and our operating companies with the importance indicated company management with substantial challenges by their ranking. A sustainable supply chain will also (p. 56). The high level of importance of this area for be important in future (p. 16 and p. 58). Furtheraction is reflected in the Materiality Analysis. more, we continue to regard innovation as a key element in order to give the energy industry a futureCommunity Engagement continues to remain the proof structure and drive forward the expansion of platform for acceptance of the company by the comrenewable energies (p. 64). The expectations among munity. However, the expectations of our stakeholdour shareholders have even increased in relation to ers in relation to this area for action have receded our innovative power. slightly and we have therefore marginally downgraded its classification. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  CR Management37  Additional Management Systems · Stakeholder Dialogue · CR Programme CR Management The RWE Group Centre holds overall responsibility for We are continually adapting our areas for action to coordinating the implementation and realisation of the changing requirements of RWE and this strengthCorporate Responsible in all divisions across the ens Corporate Responsibility within the Group. To this Group. On 1 January 2014, the Corporate Responsiend, we launched a group-wide process for revising bility Department was merged with the areas of comthe Corporate Responsibility Strategy in 2012. We munication and energy policy to form the Executive completed this review process during the reporting Affairs Department in order to ensure tighter integrayear and implemented the results within the comtion of stakeholder contacts. The head of the departpany. Apart from adopting the ESG Model as a framement, Dr Peter Heinacher, reports directly to the work for the future CR Strategy of RWE, we also modChief Executive Officer Peter Terium. Meetings ified our areas for action and used a stakeholder between the staff of CR officers take place several survey to validate the results of this process. (p. 33). times a year, involving representatives of the Group Centre and the key operating companies. These serve Orientation to international standards as forums for exchanging ideas and agreeing joint We also adopt globally acknowledged targets such as activities. AA 1000 or the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative in order to comply with the growing Key issues as areas for action demands being placed on the quality of our CR ManWe track developments on the issue of sustainability agement and our reporting. We have developed a and we evaluate their relevance in consultation with Data Recording Manual with the aim of improving the our stakeholders. A selection of key issues allows us quality of our CR indicators. This manual sets out to deploy our resources where they will exert the binding definitions, assessment limits and processes greatest leverage (p. 35). for collecting data. We manage our CR Management and monitor the effectiveness of our strategy on the basis of ten areas for action, underpinned by targets, measures and concrete key performance indicators. Since 2011, we have been submitting a Declaration of Compliance with the German Sustainability Code because we want to further improve transparency for external stakeholders. > German Sustainability Code Our Responsibility. Report 2013  CR Management38  Additional Management Systems · Stakeholder Dialogue · CR Programme Additional Management Systems Corporate Responsibility in the RWE Group covers a Healthcare Management has been centrally coordibroad spectrum of issues. The responsibility for connated for all German companies since 2009. The cepts and implementation of measures in specific remaining companies have autonomous responsibility areas for action is with the responsible specialist for the issues of occupational health and occupadepartments of RWE AG or with the Group compational medicine. nies. They have developed tailor-made management systems where appropriate. Compliance RWE does not tolerate any corruption or other Environmental protection breaches of compliance regulations. Compliance Protection of the environment is a statutory requirerequirements are factored in when taking all business ment for the maintenance and continuation of the decisions in order to avoid potential material damage operating licences to run our plants and facilities. A and serious reputational risks. This also applies to guideline applicable across the Group therefore comdecisions on entering into business relations with mits the companies within the RWE Group to set up suppliers or subcontractors. The main focus of our appropriate environmental management systems. An group-wide compliance management with employees internal audit is carried out each year to check the and officers of the company is on raising the level of structure and effectiveness of the systems. These awareness and on prevention. measures have enabled us to establish a stable environmental management system that covers 99.7 % of A group-wide reference standard sets out a guidance the activities of the Group. The companies in the RWE framework for our employees and this defines princiGroup are free to choose whether to have their enviples for compliant behaviour. This standard focuses ronmental management systems certified entirely or on the prevention of corruption. Compliance with the in parts in conformity with ISO 14001. Virtually all guidelines is supported by organisational regulations, the power stations in the RWE Group are certified in e.g. the double-checking principle, separation of conformity with ISO 14001. functions, authorisation concept and rules for approval. Occupational health and safety Guaranteeing the health and work ability of our workCompliance organisation and training sessions force and the employees of subcontractors is a top The Compliance Department is responsible for hanpriority for RWE. We have therefore established comdling Compliance Management in the Group Centre. petence centres to deal with issues related to occupaCompliance Officers in all the operating companies tional safety, occupational medicine and healthcare are responsible for ensuring uniform implementation management. We agree our strategy and the associof group-wide compliance principles. An independated measures in an international occupational safety ent, external ombudsman is also available to receive forum with the aim of improving occupational safety. information about breaches of the Code of Conduct In particular, we apply international standards to from employees and from external third parties. companies operating in the sectors of oil and gas Reports can be submitted in the relevant national lanproduction, lignite mining, electricity generation and guage and must remain anonymous if requested by grid operation. Across the Group, 35.7 % of the manthe whistleblower. agement systems are certified in conformity with OHSAS 18001 or a similar standard. Occupational Our Responsibility. Report 2013  CR Management39  Additional Management Systems · Stakeholder Dialogue · CR Programme Share of sales of the RWE Group in countries with a high and very high risk of corruption* in % 15 13.0 12.0 13.7 12.7 12.4 10 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Countries that are classified with less than 60 on a scale of zero to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index of the Organisation Transparency International (TI) where 100 represents the least risk of corruption. Regular communication of information in the media The Group Audit Department regularly carries out within the Group highlights behaviour that conforms preventive compliance audits in the Group companies with compliance guidelines and draws attention to in order to review the implementation and effectivepotential risks if compliance is breached. Our workness of our Compliance Management across the force also receives training through a web-based Group and follow up any information relating to training programme and at presentation events. Parpotential breaches of compliance. If necessary, measticipation is obligatory and calibrated according to ures to remedy the situation are subsequently initithe risk of corruption associated with the relevant ated. The reviews carried out to date by the Group activity. Training sessions were delivered to more Audit Department for the year 2013 revealed no than 7,000 employees in 2013. material or systematic breaches of our compliance guidelines. Any individual shortcomings in processes Compliance supervision and monitoring or in the documentation were eliminated. We set up a group-wide database in 2010 so that we could track all compliance-sensitive procedures. The The Executive Board of RWE AG commissioned audit requirement to use this compliance IT tool means firm KPMG to carry out the audit of the Compliance that we are able to guarantee maximum transparency Management System (CMS) to combat corruption in within the company as well as offering comprehenaccordance with the IDW Audit Standard 980 drawn sive assistance in processing the defined transacup by the German Institute of Auditors (Institut der tions. Wirtschaftsprüfer) in order to ensure independent scrutiny of the compliance system. The audit of the The identification and assessment of compliance conceptual approach and the appropriateness of the risks, which arise for the RWE Group in the area of CMS was completed in 2012. The audit of the effeccorruption, is carried out in a two-stage approach. tiveness commenced in the third quarter of 2013. After we established a baseline for the risk profiles of the Group companies reporting directly to RWE AG in Innovation management 2012, we moved onto the second stage in 2013 Development and application of new technologies, which focused on developing detailed corruption risk procedures and processes are absolutely essential for scenarios. the long-term success of the RWE Group and these activities are therefore managed by a dedicated department. Their central functions include drawing Our Responsibility. Report 2013  CR Management40  Additional Management Systems · Stakeholder Dialogue · CR Programme up concepts outlining the future development of the Travel security energy supply and definition of the R&D activities RWE has a duty of care towards its employees, most that are necessary to achieve these objectives. The importantly also including periods when they are on department also manages and coordinates the business trips. RWE works together with specialist research and development activities in the operating partners to provide information on the security situacompanies. A key criterion for assessing new technoltion in the destination countries and regions where ogies is their contribution to mastering the two cenwe are operating or where we send our employees. tral challenges of climate protection and security of Business travel to high-risk countries requires security supply confronting the RWE Group. clearance by Group Security and involves security measures. Appropriate security training can be proCorporate security vided as necessary to employees and members of Protection against criminal actions is a key factor for their family for long-term secondments. long-term earnings power, stability and the business success of the Group. The security concept of RWE Crisis management covers the consistent, group-wide structures, referWe have made comprehensive organisational prepaence standards and processes, which are geared to rations to overcome crisis and emergency situations. the individual national statutory regulations, and Crisis teams have been appointed at different levels ensure inclusion of employees and co-determination and they are accessible. Manuals, alarm lists or tools, committees. and the necessary technical equipment are available for crisis management. We carry out regular emerEmployees have a group-wide whistleblower system gency training courses and exercises. Emergency for capturing and recording criminal actions. The plans are also drawn up at the operational level to departments of Compliance, Auditing and Security take account of different scenarios. Restarting critical (Group Security) work closely together as appropriate business processes after major interruptions is conin any investigations and review of breaches that may trolled by “Business Continuity Management”. be necessary. RWE also plays an active role in various security partnerships with government authorities and in industry. Energy supply and in particular the supply of electricity constitute vital infrastructures, and supply bottlenecks occur if there are any outages or impairment of the infrastructure. Such problems may have major economic consequences and public security may be significantly compromised. We are well aware of our social responsibility and we have regular communication with politicians and the responsible government agencies. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  CR Management41  Additional Management Systems · Stakeholder Dialogue · CR Programme Stakeholder Dialogue We are regularly in dialogue with customers, memtive Officer Peter Terium therefore holds regular facebers of the scientific community, politicians, repreto-face discussions with our stakeholders from the sentatives of environmental associations, citizens and region around the company, including major environother stakeholders who engage with issues relating mental conservation groups. to the energy industry and the corporate activities of RWE. The dialogue contributes to understanding the Adaptation of CR Strategy expectations of the community and transferring them The dialogue with our stakeholders serves to check to the company. At the same time, we can communithe alignment of our CR Strategy and provides a platcate corporate decisions to our stakeholders and proform for this to take place. In 2013, we undertook a vide them with a better explanation for the underlycomprehensive evaluation of our CR Strategy. With ing motives. this aim in mind, we carried out extensive interviews with 37 representatives of community organisations Dialogue at different levels and institutions from Germany, the United Kingdom, The issues covered by our dialogue include the furthe Netherlands, Poland and Hungary. The survey ther expansion of renewable energies, the future of involved questions about the relevance to RWE of our conventional power stations and the modernisation ten areas for action and the associated issues. The of the grids for the energy transition. The exchange survey also asked respondents for an appraisal of the of opinions takes place in dialogues at different levposition of RWE in relation to the issues of sustainaels. At local level, we talk to residents and particibility and social responsibility. On the basis of these pants in citizens’ initiatives, e.g. about construction results, we adjusted the content of the areas for measures and planning approval proceedings. Our action (p. 33). The assessments obtained were also projects and activities are often regarded with sceptiincorporated in our Materiality Analysis (p. 35). cism there because residents are anxious about the negative effects impacting on them and on their Stakeholder dialogue in the regions environment. We want to address these concerns Our stakeholder groups and their attitudes vary with an honest exchange of ideas and an open attiaccording to the regions where we are operating. We tude offering constructive proposals. At a national therefore use a variety of formats for dialogue in level, we talk to our stakeholders about issues like order to keep up contacts. sustainability in international supply relationships, a responsible approach to customers, the future of the Germany energy market or our respective contribution to the Acceptance for the energy transition continued to be energy transition and climate protection. the focus of communication with our stakeholders in Germany. At national level, we discuss associated The dialogue with representatives from the commuissues at events like RWE Talk, which is held on a regnity is particularly important for our decision-makers. ular basis in Berlin. It provides a platform that allows It helps them to gain a better understanding of difExecutive Managers and Board Members of RWE to ferent positions. The attitudes of different stakeholdengage in debates on important current affairs with ers here often share common ground with our goals politicians, representatives from other companies, and can lead to various forms of cooperation over the journalists, union leaders and a range of different long term (p. 42). Dialogue may also yield appropriinterest groups. ate conclusions for corporate policy. Our Chief ExecuOur Responsibility. Report 2013  CR Management42  Additional Management Systems · Stakeholder Dialogue · CR Programme Since 2011, RWE has also been holding an “Energy to a close. After this project was concluded in 2013, Round Table” (“Energiestammtisch”). This format the aim is to continue the work and the dialogue on gives local residents a forum for finding out about the issue of supply chain. the latest energy issues. They can also put forward their suggestions or voice concerns about specific Essent also supports the “Energy Agreement for Susprojects related to the energy transition. In 2013, tainable Growth”. > The Social and Economic Council Energy Round Tables were also held > RWE in diaof the Netherlands More than 40 organisations, logue at various locations in the RWE sales area. including companies, government representatives, unions and environmental organisations, use this Another successful project at regional level is the platform to swap ideas and information about differ“Neighbourhood Forum” (“Nachbarschaftsforum”) in ent interests and aspirations for a future-proof and Niederaußem which RWE set up in the Rhineland ligsustainable energy supply. nite area. The forum offers neighbours, associations and other stakeholders the opportunity to engage in Central and Eastern Europe discussion with RWE about issues related to electricIn Central and Eastern Europe, we also engage in an ity generation and power stations. RWE also engages ongoing constructive dialogue with our stakeholder in regular dialogue in the Rhineland industrial area, groups. In Hungary, we exchange views with a range discussing local issues with politicians in the commuof different stakeholders including customers, em­ nity including mayors, members of the “Landrat” (disployees and representatives from the community. trict council) and members of the “Landtag” (state We also work together with universities and aim to parliament) across the political spectrum in order to engage in a debate on issues associated with the facilitate an exchange of views about current develenergy industry and career perspectives in the sector. opments and decisions. Regular so-called “power-­ station talks” are held at different locations with the Cooperation as a result of stakeholder dialogue same objective. At the end of 2013, we started a cooperation with the International Union for Conservation of Nature United Kingdom (IUCN) aimed at protecting biological diversity, after In the United Kingdom, significant focus of the stakewe had already signed a corresponding declaration of holder dialogue is on customers and consumer prointent at the beginning of the year. The objective of tection organisations. They are represented in the the cooperation is to help us to better assess and Customer Stakeholder Council, which met twice in manage our impact on ecosystems. An initial project 2013 to discuss current issues. is planned dealing with the recultivation for the sites of former lignite mines in the Rhineland industrial Netherlands area (p. 51). Since 2010, the Executive Board of Essent has been advised by a Corporate Responsibility Council, which When it comes to supply relationships, we work is made up of five independent experts from the closely together with all the affected stakeholders in political sphere, universities, business, consumer order to develop suitable standards and assessment organisations and environmental protection. Essent criteria (p. 59). continued to participate in the Dutch Coal Dialogue (DCD) which deals with issues relating to the import of hard coal from non-European countries (p. 59). During the year under review, the DCD was brought Our Responsibility. Report 2013  CR Management43  Additional Management Systems · Stakeholder Dialogue · CR Programme CR Programme Climate Protection We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … to significantly CO2 emissions in 0.62 mt 2020 New building of more 787 MW gas-fired reducing the CO2 metric tons per CO2/MWh than 7,200 MW gas-fired, power station in intensity of our megawatt hour of 2,100 MW lignite-fired, Turkey with generation electricity 3,100 MW hard-coal fired efficiency of 57 % portfolio. generated (mt power stations, and brought on stream; CO2/MWh) 4,300 MW of renewables all other newbuilds in operation or under in progress, construction by 2014 3,496 MW renewables in operation; CO2 intensity 0.76 mt CO2/MWh Energy Efficiency We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … to increasing both Increase in energy RWE power 2015 Power plant modernising Average energy our energy efficiency in % plants: programme utilisation ratio efficiency and that average energy 40.5 % of our customers. utilisation ratio 41.3 % Biodiversity/ Environmental Protection We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … to operating our Compliance with 100 % compliance 2014 Monitoring and optimisNo significant plants safely and in licensing ing operational managebreaches of compliance with requirements in % ment of our plants environmental licensing regulaprotection laws tions at all times. and licensing regulations … to 100 % implemenGroup-wide 100 % coverage Installation of environ99.7 % coverage tation of our environmental mental management of environmental environmental management system in all new management management coverage in % companies, regular system to ensure internal audits that our plants and grids throughout the Group are operated in compliance with legal requirements at all times. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  CR Management44  Additional Management Systems · Stakeholder Dialogue · CR Programme Community Engagement We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … to strengthening Reputation Index Best reputation 2014 Extension of Corporate Best reputation in our regional in our peer Volunteering our peer group of reputation by group Expanding impact energy utilities making efficient use assessment of resources. Customer Trust We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … to having satisfied Customer Loyalty Customer 2015 Retention of good service Customer Loyalty and hence loyal Index Loyalty Index of quality Index of 73 customers over the at least 74 Expansion of energylong term. based services Employees We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … to continuing to Demography Demography 2014/ Continuation of phased-in Demography motivate our Index Index of at least 2016 retirement and redunIndex of 83.1 managers and 84 dancy conditions Motivation Index employees, and Programmes for improveof 71.1 carry out job Motivation Index Motivation Index ment of management reductions of 72.6 Increase in the number of responsibly women in leadership positions Retain high placement rate for apprentices Supply Chain We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … to mitigating Supplier manageAt least 98 % of 2014 Addition of CR criteria in Supplier managereputational risks by ment coverage in annual purchase the procurement ment coverage of taking into account all procurement volume processes 99.5 % compliance with areas in % Continuation of dialogue Expansion of the internationally with stakeholders about sector initiative recognised the purchase of coal and “BetterCoal” environmental and biomass social standards as integral part of our counterparty approval processes and procurement processes. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  CR Management45  Additional Management Systems · Stakeholder Dialogue · CR Programme Occupational Safety & Healthcare Management We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … that all our own and Number of LTIF of max. 2016 Ongoing implementation LTIF (own staff and our subcontractors’ accidents leading 1.8*) including of “Sicher voRWEg” (The subcontractors). employees return to the loss of at subcontractors Energy to Lead Safely) for 2.3 home just as least one person consistently developing healthy at the end day per million an occupational safety of the day as they working hours culture including were when they (LTIF = subcontractors arrived for work. X/1,000,000 h) … to maintaining and Introduction of 15,000 respons2015 WAI to be introduced More than 16,000 enhancing the the Work Ability es to the WAI in across Germany and the responses to the health and Index (WAI) Germany results evaluated WAI in Germany productivity of our employees. Security of Supply We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … to supplying our System Average SAIDI < 30 min./ 2014 Approx. € 650 million per SAIDI (2012): 17.1 customers with the Interruption customer year for repair and min./customer energy they need at Duration Index (Germany only) expansion of our (Germany only) all times. (SAIDI) in minutes electricity and gas grids per year and in the period from 2014 customer to 2016 Innovation We are committed … KPI Target Due Action Status 31.12.2013 … to ensuring the Degree of At least 98 % 2014 Sample projects: Processing and availability of the coverage and improvements in power communication of best solution in our communication of station efficiency, strategically core processes strategy, relevant offshore wind power, relevant R&D through innovaR&D issues in % solar thermal power, issues; managetions. compressed air energy ment covers storage, smart grids, 98.7 % smart meters, Smart Home Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action46  Climate Protection CLIMATE PROTECTION Our targets Monitoring and performance measurement Our objective is to reduce our CO2 emissions relative We use the CO2 emissions reduction for each megato the generated amount of electricity and in absowatt hour of electricity (metric t CO2/MWh) generlute terms by investing in modern and efficient coalated in percent as the key performance indicator for and gas-fired power stations, and in renewables. We the level of target attainment in the area for action have defined our target as reducing the specific CO2 Climate Protection. emissions per megawatt hour to 0.62 mt by the year 2020. Key events In the year under review, we brought 127 MW of Our motivation power-station capacities in renewable energy on By the year 2050, the long-term goal of the European stream – primarily onshore wind. The capacities in the Union is to reduce CO2 emissions by 80 % compared conventional power stations are around 45,000 MW. with the baseline year 1990. As Europe’s biggest sinThe specific CO2 emissions derived from the generagle emitter of CO2, we want to contribute to the tion of electricity came down from 0.792 mt CO2/MWh achievement of this – through capital expenditure on in the previous year to 0.756 mt CO2/MWh. Apart climate-friendly generation of electricity, alongside from the generating capacities coming on stream in packages directed towards energy efficiency and the area of renewable energies, this development is management at consumers. As well playing our part particularly attributable to shutting down capacities in climate protection, we are aiming to use this of around 2,500 MW of obsolete and less efficient approach to position RWE on a robust platform. hard-coal power-station units in Germany and the United Kingdom. We made a further contribution by starting up 950 MW of gas-fired generating capacity. More than 0.76 20 % CO2 reduction by Around € 5.6 mt CO2 /MWh reduction in the 16 119 billion of capital specific CO2 emissions MW of wind power expenditure on emissions million mt by 2020 came into operation renewable energies over six years Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action47  Climate Protection By comparison with the price of gas, the level of the The last construction stage at the Thornton Bank electricity price in the wholesale markets is low. The wind farm located off the Belgian coast was comuse of highly efficient gas-fired power stations was pleted in July 2013. The complete British offshore therefore rarely profitable during the year under wind farm Gwynt y Môr is scheduled to come on review. By the same token, this slowed the downward stream as planned in 2014 (p. 9). trend in specific emissions. Most new capacities for onshore wind farms have Initiatives and projects been constructed in the United Kingdom (75 MW) RWE is currently in the final phase of the biggest proand Poland (45 MW). gramme of investment in the history of the company. This programme has made the biggest contribution Construction work on our German offshore wind farm to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Innogy Nordsee Ost is planned for the end of 2014. achieved so far. In 2013, we started up a highly effiDuring the year under review, we were also granted cient gas-fired power station with a capacity of the licence for the Innogy Nordsee 2&3 and Galloper 787 MW and efficiency of 57% in the Turkish city of wind farms. A total of some 800 MW of renewables is Denizli. Two hard-coal power stations with a combeing constructed at present and around 6,200 MW bined output of around 3,100 MW and an efficiency of additional projects are being developed. of around 46% are still under construction. We are also planning the construction of a new lignite-fired In September 2013, commercial factors forced us to power-station unit at the Niederaußem site with an remove from the grid the former coal-fired power staefficiency of more than 45 %, which is intended to tion which had been converted to generation of elecreplace four obsolete plants each with 300 MW at the tricity from biomass located in Tilbury (United Kingsame site. dom) with an output of 742 MW. The power station no longer met the technical specifications defined in the subsidy requirements for the new British energy legislation. Development of CO2 emissions Unit 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Specific CO2 emissions1 mt/MWh 0.756 0.792 0.787 0.732 0.796 CO2 emissions from biogenic fuels million mt 10.4 7.0 3.6 2.0 2.5 Scope 1 emissions2 million mt 165.7 181.7 163.8 167.1 151.3 Scope 2 emissions3 million mt 1.5 1.9 2.4 3.1 3.5 Scope 3 emissions 4 million mt 105.0 105.2 121.0 135.7 128.1 1 Calculated on the basis of electricity generated, without emissions from biogenic fuels. 2 Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (oil and gas production, gas transmission, electricity generation). 3 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from transport and distribution of electricity generated by third parties. 4 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 or 2: They are produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the transmission and distribution in electricity grids of third parties, the production and transmission of used fuels, and the consumption of gas that we have sold to customers. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action48  Energy Efficiency ENERGY EFFICIENCY Our targets We take account of business and environmental interWe want to increase energy efficiency for our own ests when we make efficiency improvements at our power stations, our other company activities, and the power stations. Higher levels of efficiency enable us energy consumed by our customers. We are modernto reduce fuel costs and our CO2 emissions for each ising our power plant portfolio so that we can achieve unit of energy generated, enabling us to bring down an average efficiency of 41.3 % by 2015. At the same the costs of CO2 certificates. time, we are supporting domestic and commercial customers, as well as public institutions, by helping Savings in our own property portfolio and in the vehithem to save energy when they use electricity and cle fleet only represent a small proportion in the heat. overall energy footprint of the company. Nevertheless, these efforts have a high symbolic value which Our motivation heightens the awareness of our employees for the Energy efficiency is part of our core business. Already conservation issue in their everyday lives and today, we are not simply earning our money by supenhances our identity as a role model in the eyes of plying electricity, gas and heat. Rather, we are also our customers. offering customers intelligent products and services which deliver more convenience, comfort and effiMonitoring and performance measurement ciency when energy is being used. The statutory legThe average efficiency of our power stations is our islation in the United Kingdom makes it a requireperformance indicator for calculating our energy effiment for us to help private households save energy. ciency. It shows how much primary energy we use per kilowatt hour (kWh) of electricity or heat output. More than Rise in efficiency of 680,000 26 % More than energy use at power stations to users of our improvement in the 2,800 Successful completion of the “Cleverer Kiez” energy efficiency of charging points for 41.3 % online energy advice tool buildings electromobility across project by 2016 Europe Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action49  Energy Efficiency Key events Initiatives and projects We increased the energy efficiency of our power RWE set up an energy management system in constations by a robust 3 % to 40.5 % (2012: 39.2 %) in formity with ISO 50001 to enhance the efficiency of 2013. This was the result of expanded capacities due its production plants for the generating sector “RWE to new power stations coming on stream, such as the Generation Deutschland”, which includes the German Turkish gas-fired power station in Denizli. Shutting businesses of RWE Power AG and RWE Generation SE. down older and less efficient lignite-fired and hardIn 2013, the system was installed in the sectors ligcoal power stations contributed to this development nite-fired power stations, opencast mines and hard(p. 7). coal/gas. The sectors nuclear energy, hydropower and refinement will follow in 2014. We improved the overall efficiency in our real estate by 26 %. Measures such as upgrading roofs or modIn 2013, the RWE “Cleverer Kiez” or “Smart Neighernising heating systems contributed to this. We also bourhood” project supported by RWE was brought to provide consumers with initiatives to save energy. a successful conclusion. This project trained people More than 680,000 visitors have taken advantage of who are long-term unemployed as energy-saving conthe energy advice tools on our Internet pages. We sultants in Berlin’s Marzahn district. They gave advice deal with hundreds of thousands of inquiries at our to tenants of Berlin housing associations on how they 80 energy shops and service stations of the RWE could reduce their energy costs. Smart meters for Vertrieb AG throughout Germany. electricity yield a better overview of energy consumption. Detailed information empowers consumers to During the year under review, we replaced 479 older influence their own behaviour, reduce their energy vehicles in our fleet with 400 new vehicles. The CO2 consumption and cut their energy costs. So far, RWE emissions per kilometre are 10 % less in the new vehihas installed more than 100,000 meters in Germany’s cles. biggest pilot project for smart meters in Mülheim an der Ruhr. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action50  Biodiversity/Environmental Protection BIODIVERSITY/ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Our targets Monitoring and performance measurement We essentially want to avoid or at least minimise the The key performance indicators in the area of enviimpacts on ecosystems caused our value-adding ronmental protection are monitoring and controlling activities. Where this is not possible we will deploy compliance with the licensing regulations for the appropriate measures to mitigate the damage that operation of our plants. The percentage coverage by has been created. We have defined our objective to our environmental management system is a further achieve this goal as commitment to 100 % complikey performance indicator. ance with all licencing regulations related to the operation of our plants and 100 % group-wide coverKey events age of our activities by our environmental manageDuring the year under review, there were no major ment system. incidents at the plants of the RWE Group that resulted in significant impacts on the environment. Our motivation Compliance with licensing regulations continued to We have to ensure that we retain operating licences be ensured. In 2013, 16 notifiable events at notificaand obtain acceptance in the public domain if we are tion level 0 were registered for our nuclear power stato secure the future of our business. Furthermore, we tions. There were 24 notifiable events in 2012. Our are also committed to playing a proactive role in elimfossil-fired power stations were operated in 2013 inating or reducing environmental impacts. Our dediwithout any major unplanned operational downtimes cation to achieving this objective means that our and in compliance with the statutory licencing regulameasures extend beyond the statutory requirements tions. As we upgraded our power plant portfolio, we for the protection and reinstatement of healthy, fully functional ecosystems. Expenditure on 81 % 99.7 % 0 environmental protection amounting to percent of all coverage by an Cooperation with environmental major environmental run-of-river power protection environmental events € 2.6 stations equipped with fish ladders management system organisation IUCN billion Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action51  Biodiversity/Environmental Protection succeeded in reducing emissions of the pollutants As far as possible, waste from our power stations is SO2 and NOX by 7.5 % and 1.4 % to 0.37 g/kWh to recycled for further downstream usage. This primarily 0.68 g/kWh respectively. relates to ash and gypsum. The disposal of radioactive waste is carried out under the supervision of the Our Group guidelines specify that all RWE companies responsible government authorities. At the end of must set up a dedicated environmental management 2013, we entered into a cooperation with the Intersystem in conformity with the ISO 14001 internanational Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) tional standard. Compliance with this standard is with the objective of continuously developing our ensured annually by internal audits. In 2013, the biodiversity management and reporting. We therefocus of these checks was on internal lines of reportfore want to better internalise biodiversity values into ing and responsibilities. In the year under review, RWE policies and practices. This involves starting a group-wide expenditure on environmental protection pilot project in the Rhineland lignite region where we amounted to € 2.6 billion. will be looking into the measures for restoration of Development of specific pollutant emissions Unit 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Specific NOX emissions g/kWh 0.68 0.69 0.60 0.58 0.67 Specific SO2 emissions g/kWh 0.37 0.40 0.31 0.29 0.34 Specific dust emissions g/kWh 0.022 0.025 0.021 0.019 0.024 Initiatives and projects opencast mining areas with the focus on protection While operating our plants we implement measures and promotion of biodiversity. On the basis of our directed towards reducing the impacts on local ecocollective experiences, we want to develop an systems. These include fish ladders at run-of-river approach and draw up some procedures and guidepower stations, the use of technical measures to prolines for the Group. This will enable the value of biotect marine species at offshore wind farms and measdiversity to be taken into account when decisions are ures to protect birds at overhead power lines. made within the company. When we supply our thermal power stations with cooling water, we ensure that our use of water exerts minimum impact on natural resources. We prevent environmental impacts and contamination of water by recycling water, more intensive use of pumped water from opencast mines and internal water treatment, and by collecting rainwater. As a result of our renewal programme for upgrading power stations, we were able to reduce water consumption from 1.56 m3/MWh to 1.45 m3/MWh in 2013. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action52  Community Engagement COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Our targets mance indicator that we calculate every year and we We promote positive development in the regions use this as a basis for making comparisons with our where we operate by implementing a versatile set of competitors. measures and by providing financial support. Our aim is to further improve our reputation through this Key events engagement and create a distinct profile to set us We maintained a slight lead in our direct competitive apart from competitors in the sector. environment with a value of 59 (2012: 59) for the Reputation Index. RWE wants to make an active conOur motivation tribution to the development of the local communiThe challenges of the energy transition can only be ties and regions in the areas where the company has solved at the level of society as a whole. At the same operations. The volunteer commitment by our time, our activities are dependent on the acceptance employees plays a key role here and this takes place and the support of the local and regional communiunder the umbrella brand of the RWE Companius proties within society. We therefore want to enhance gramme. We also use RWE Companius selectively in trust in RWE as a reliable partner in our regional enviorder to develop the expertise of our employees furronment. ther. We have a mission to join forces with young people and develop the energy supply of the future. RWE Monitoring and performance measurement offers comprehensive information and teaching mateWe want to strengthen our regional reputation by rials, trips and advanced training courses on the subapplying the resources at our disposal to meet speject of energy for school children and teachers cific needs. The Reputation Index is a key perforthrough our education initiative “3malE – Education Highest reputation among comparable Study by the RWE Foundation on energy 3,355 11,129 Donations amounting to school children take € 4.5 projects sponsored by companies in the literacy in Germany part in the RWE RWE Companius since sector completed Schools Competition 2007 million handed over Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action53  Community Engagement Donation and Sponsoring with Energy” (“3malE – Bildung mit Energie”). Packin € million ages and campaigns can be accessed through the central online portal. > Online portal 3malE 15 13.3 We want to be in a position to assess and monitor our 12.5 social contribution in qualitative and quantitative 12 terms. In order to work out appropriate methods of evaluation, RWE advanced its objectives in this area 9 8.0 by participating in the WIE Corporate Citizenship initiative. in Germany and joining the London Benchmark6 4.5 ing Group in the United Kingdom. This involves close 4.0 cooperation between business, community organisa3 1.8 tions and public institutions. 0 Initiatives and projects Donation Sponsoring In 2013, a total of 5,577 employees made a contribution to their region within Germany and engaged in 2011 2012 2013 volunteer activities abroad through the RWE Companius volunteer scheme. The activities of the RWE Foundation complement our community engagement. In 2013, the foundation contributed a total of € 750,000 to an array of projects in the promotional areas of education, culture and social engagement. Distribution of volunteering activities for RWE Companius projects in 2013 in % 9 Other 2 Development aid 24 Care 5 Nature conservation/ Landscape preservation 22 Craft activities 6 Knowledge and skills transfer 12 Culture 20 Sport Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action54  Customer Trust CUSTOMER TRUST Our targets Monitoring and performance measurement Our aim is to be the credible and empowering partner Since 2009, we measured Customer Loyalty uniformly for our customers in the change taking place in the for all sales companies in Germany. The customer LoyEuropean energy system. Credible partner in terms of alty Index is based on surveys conducted among our customer trust means that we will offer products and residential and commercial customers. Loyalty is rated services to citizens and local authorities, as well as low for scores of 70 or less, moderate for scores of 70 cooperative ventures, which take the energy transito 79 and high for scores above 80. tion forward. These packages are intended to improve customer orientation and at the same time strengthen Key events security of supply. Our objective is to increase cusDuring the year under review, we achieved a Customer loyalty and achieve a score of at least 74 index tomer Loyalty Index of 73 in Germany and in the prepoints in Germany by 2015. vious year the value was 72. This positions us in the upper range of our comparable peer competitors. We Our motivation also survey the loyalty and the satisfaction of our cusWe want our customers to remain loyal to us over a tomers in other countries where we are operating. long period of time. They need to be interested in further products and recommend our company to other Surveys carried out in Poland for 2013 showed a people. The satisfaction and trust of our customers score of 71.4 points for small and medium-sized comwill play a key role in the success of RWE. panies and 81.2 points for some households. This represents a significant improvement compared with the previous year. Increase in Customer Customer Loyalty Customer Satisfaction Index in Germany up by 1 point to 54 % in the Netherlands over Accolade with the “Super Brand Award” Loyalty Index for residential customers of our consumers in for the Mátra site in in Poland to 73 Germany trust us 80 % Hungary 81.2 Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action55  Customer Trust We want to be perceived as the most trusted and on the issue of customer satisfaction, in spite of the high performing partner by our sales customers, as highest rate of increase at 9 %. At the moment we are well as in local authorities. In September 2013, we in sixth position and we want to climb to first place in succeeded in winning back a concession contract for a comparison by 2015. the first time with the municipality of Wehrheim in the Taunus Valley, which we had lost in 2008. Results from surveys carried out by our ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group in Hungary show that our industrial and comInitiatives and projects mercial clients are satisfied with the quality of our The trust of our customers is important to us. In service. order to reinforce and promote trust further, we carry out surveys with consumers and forge close links with In the Netherlands, more than 80 % of residential cusour partner municipalities in order to enhance the tomers surveyed in 2013 responded that they were trust of customers in RWE. satisfied with the contact to Essent. A consumer survey carried out in Germany in 2013 We have strategic partnerships with some 3,000 local found that RWE was perceived by 54 % of its customauthorities in Germany based on concession contracts. ers as a trustworthy company in dealings with conJoint projects like the sponsorship programme sumers. We want to improve our customer service “Municipal Energy Concept” (KEK) enable us to get and offer additional advice packages on saving closer to customers, build trust and further enhance energy in order to build on these results. Initial sucthe loyalty of our customers. cesses are already evident: RWE Vertrieb AG took first > Municipal Energy Concept place for the German Service Prize 2013 among a field of 65 competitors. In our role as a partner for our customers, we take action to tackle fuel poverty in our markets by providAn independent study in the United Kingdom has ing households with advice on how to save energy shown that RWE npower with a score of 57 % is trail(p. 14). ing behind in competition with other major utilities Customer Loyalty Index* 80 76 75 73 73 72 71 70 65 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * based on residential electricity customers in Germany Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action56 Employees EMPLOYEES Our targets Monitoring and performance measurement We want to make ourselves future-proof. RWE thereAs a result of the changed framework conditions for fore needs to become leaner, more flexible, closer to energy generators, we defined a new indicator in the the market and more performance-oriented. The area for action Employees in 2013 – the Motivation changed market for energy generators means that Index. This is recorded in a staff survey across the restructuring, personnel relocations and fewer jobs entire Group. Since 2011, the Motivation Index has will be unavoidable. We want to carry out this change been a performance indicator for defining the variain a responsible approach with socially acceptable ble compensation paid to the Executive Board of conditions. We are aiming to structure these changes RWE AG. so that the high level of motivation in our employees is maintained. Furthermore, our commitment is to Key events increase the proportion of women in leadership posiIn 2013, the Motivation Index achieved a value of tions to 22 % by 2018. 71.1 points. This means that we have fallen slightly short of our target value for 2013. Over the next few Our motivation years, we will be carrying out fewer major projects as Motivated and capable employees form the platform a result of the changes in the energy market and we for the economic success of RWE. The realignment of will concentrate on building up and expanding decenRWE can only succeed if we continue to retain the tralised business close to the customer. This will also motivation of our employees in a more difficult busilead to changed requirements for personnel. Last ness environment. We perceive diversity as an opporyear, the number of people in our workforce came tunity for the restructuring process and we are prodown from 70,208 to 66,341. On the basis of the curmoting diversity and inclusion in the company. rent planning status, we will employ around 6,400 Motivation index at Demography Index at More than Top 13.9 % 71.1 83.1 2,715 150 of management apprenticeship places managers in the positions held by points points at 50 sites Leadership women Programme Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action57 Employees fewer people (in FTE) by 31 December 2016. We want In order to be able to offer innovative products and to structure this process in a fair way with employee services more intensively, we want to develop a correpresentatives. porate culture in which all employees can optimally develop the full potential of their varied talents and Initiatives and projects experiences. Selectively increasing the proportion of In November 2013, the Chief Human Resources women in management positions is also part of this Officer and the Chairman of the Group Works Council approach. In 2013, the percentage of women in the signed a settlement and social plan. RWE has also entire workforce was 27.7 % (2012: 27.5 %) and the been trying to arrange placement in vacant positions percentage in senior management positions was for employees whose jobs are at risk. 13.9% (2012: 12.3 %). In the year under review, there are no women on the Executive Board of RWE AG. In 2013, we used the Organisational Health Index Three women are currently members of the 20-strong (OHI) based on a management survey to assess the Supervisory Board of RWE (two are employee repreeffectiveness of our management team. The results sentatives). demonstrate that the current challenges to our business model require a major change in management In December 2013, RWE joined forces with the “Assobehaviour. We took the first step by setting up a ciation for Women on Supervisory Boards” (“FiDAR – Leadership Programme for the top 150 managers. Frauen in die Aufsichtsräte”) to launch a promotion The seminar taught leadership skills and raised the programme directed towards preparing women for awareness of attendees to leadership styles. Supervisory Boards in Group companies and external subsidiaries. Development of the Motivation Index* 75 71 71 70 70 70 68 67 65 60 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Changing rhythm: Companies have been determining the Motivation Index since 2011 every three years. Group values as moving averages. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action58  Supply Chain SUPPLY CHAIN Our targets Monitoring and performance measurement We are joining forces with our suppliers and cooperatWe use the proportion of the purchase volume undering with our stakeholders to implement and improve lying sustainability requirements as the KPI and indienvironmental and social standards in our supply cator for target attainment in the area for action Supchain. Our sourcing of fuel for energy generation, ply Chain. goods and services, as well as power-station components is based on our Code of Conduct. Where necesKey events sary we have defined further detailed requirements. In 2013, we used a total of 11.6 million mt of hard The goal in the CR Programme is to achieve coverage coal at our coal-fired power stations. Out of this volof at least 98 %. ume of hard coal, 20 % originates from Colombia, 15 % from the USA, 19 % from Russia and 12 % from Our motivation South Africa (a complete overview of the supplier We also want to take into account and promote intercountries is provided on p. 16). national environmental and social standards in our supply chain, as they are defined in our Code of ConIn 2013, we shut down generation of electricity from duct. Our stakeholders, too, are increasingly expectbiomass at our Tilbury power station in the UK. We ing this from us. are currently equipping our coal-fired power station in Lynemouth to operate on biomass. RWE is also using biomass to generate electricity in the Netherlands and to a lesser extent in Germany and Hungary. Socially acceptable methods of cultivation in compliance with environmental standards need to be guar€ 8.5 99.5 % 100 % “Bettercoal” Initiative Implementation of tool for automated billion for standard of the purchasing adopts Code of of the imported wood early identification of goods, services and volume is subject to Practice and prepares pellets are certified corruption risks power-station sustainability assessments components requirements started Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action59  Supply Chain anteed for this energy carrier if it is to become estabThe results of the Dutch Coal Dialogue (DCD) have lished as a sustainable alternative to fossil fuels. We also been included in this initiative. After the DCD finare therefore using the GreenGold Label for certificaished in 2013, the participants of the dialogue in the tion of our imported wood pellets. Netherlands agreed to continue their efforts to take > Green Gold Label responsibility in the supply chain for hard coal. Even if the risk of breaches against environmental and social In 2013, the RWE Group purchased standard goods, obligations is comparatively low when sourcing standservices and power-station components to a value of ard goods, services and power-plant components, we some € 8.5 billion. Specific requirements on social are continually updating and improving the groupand environmental standards for suppliers are wide internal regulations. Furthermore, we integrate defined in the Group Guidelines and in the General these regulations within a uniform reporting frameTerms and Conditions of Business. work for the supplier surveys. The contractual requirements placed on business partners with regard to the During the year under review, 99.5 % of our total purissues of occupational safety, compliance and data chasing volume was covered by the Code of Conduct. protection have been transferred to the risk management tool of Group Purchasing. During the period Initiatives and projects under review, a software tool was additionally develIn February 2012, we were one of the cofounders oped in order to automatically identify any emerging involved in the establishment of the “Bettercoal” initirisks of corruption in the procurement process at an ative and in June 2013 its Code of Practice entered early stage. It assesses the compliance risk for a purformally into force. > Bettercoal Code The initiative is chasing process on the basis of value limits, country intended to lead to a continuous improvement in the and sector profiles. ethical and social conditions prevailing in coal mines, alongside advances on environmental issues. This code was developed in a global consultation process and it has been discussed at round-table talks in the most important hard-coal supplier countries (Colombia, South Africa, Russia and Indonesia). It serves as a platform for the development of new assessment tools and preparations are currently being made for the first audits in international coal mines. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action60  Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT Our targets Monitoring and performance assessment We want both our workforce and employees of our The key performance indicator for occupational safety partners to return home healthy. We defined our goal is the number of accidents with the loss of at least as reducing the number of accidents involving at least one day of work for every million hours worked (lost one day of absence to a maximum of 1.8 in one miltime incident frequency, LTIF). We measure progress lion working hours by the year 2016. The aim of our on the basis of the number of employees who have Occupational Healthcare Management (OHM) is to access to the Work Ability Index (WAI) in Germany. promote health and work ability. We also use the Work Ability Index (WAI) to achieve this. Our goal: Key events 15,000 responses on the Work Ability Index in GerWe achieved our goal of reducing the number of many. industrial accidents by 2013 (LTIF < 2.7) with an LTIF of 2.3. This enabled us to reduce the number of indusOur motivation trial accidents by around 18% compared to 2012. As an employer we need to minimise the risk of indusUnfortunately, despite the consistent improvement in trial accidents and promote the health of our employhealth and safety culture, we very much regret having ees. We achieve this with comprehensive occupato report that a fatal industrial accident occurred with tional safety management and a safety structure. This an employee from a subcontractor in 2013. is a challenge given an ageing population and the changes in the company. Training for managers of subcontractor partners has enabled us to raise the awareness of external employees on site and this has reduced the risks of industrial accidents. Workshops were held on developing disReduction of the 16,000 accident rate by an We treat employees of 0 Current LTIF is average of subcontractors in the accidents is our target 2.3 17 % same way as our own workforce responses to the WAI in Germany each year during the past eight years Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action61  Occupational Safety and Healthcare Management cussion strategies and consistent implementation of The RWE workplace safety programme “Sicher voRmethods in workplace safety in the course of our inteWEg mit Partnerfirmen” (“The Energy to Lead Safely grated management of subcontractors. with Partner Companies”) received the German Health and Safety Prize 2013 in the category “Process soluBy the end of the year 2013, 70 % of the employees tion for large companies”. In particular, the award at our German companies had access to the Work acknowledges the consistent improvement of workAbility Index (WAI). This is equivalent to the value for place safety at construction sites and in company the previous year. We use the index to record the facilities. extent to which employees regard themselves as being in a position to carry out their work. By the end In 2013, we developed our methodology for accident of 2013, approximately 16,000 questionnaires on the analysis to achieve a uniform approach throughout Work Ability Index had been completed the Group and to enhance the quality of analyses. We also established a group-wide workshop series on the Initiatives and projects issue of accident analysis for managers and operaEvery year, RWE presents an Occupational Safety tional specialists. Award for partner companies. More than 100 applications were received from partner companies in 2013. The OHM principles programme “Sustainably Positive RWE awarded first prize to a plant construction comInfluence of the Health Ratios” was launched at RWE pany for its innovative concept designed to protect Power in 2012 and this programme was presented and against falls at power stations. recommended for implementation in other RWE companies in 2013. The OHM principles programme encompasses a range of different measures, including incorporation of the issue of health into employee LTIF1 meetings and drafts of goal agreements for managers. 5 5 In 2013, we carried out three nationwide OHM cam4.3 paigns in Germany dealing with the issues of colorec4 4 tal cancer screening, rheumatism screening and type 3.5 classification for the German Bone Marrow Donor 3 2.8 2.8 Register. 3 2.3 2 1 1 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Fatal occupational accidents2 Occupational and commuting accidents1 1 Lost Time Incident Frequency (number of accidents with at least one day of absence from work for each million hours worked); occupational accidents from 2012 incl. employees of subcontractors. 2 Incl. employees of subcontractors. Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action62  Security of Supply SECURITY OF SUPPLY Our targets Key developments We want to provide our customers with a reliable and In 2012, we were able to continue to provide a largely affordable supply of electricity and gas at all times – uninterrupted supply of gas and electricity (data for even in an environment where the framework condi2013 were not available at the time when this report tions for the energy industry are changing. We have went to press). Non-availability for the electricity distherefore defined a target of restricting power outtribution grid amounted to an average of 17.1 minages in Germany to a maximum of 30 minutes per utes for each customer in Germany (2011: 18.1 mincustomer each year. utes). The average non-availability for the gas supply resulting from faults in Germany was less than one Our motivation minute per customer and year in 2012 (2011: The uninterrupted supply of energy is an essential 1.3 minutes). platform for economic stability and security. As an energy utility, our objective is to guarantee this over The energy sources necessary for secure energy supthe long term. ply were available throughout 2013. RWE is committed on the one hand to using a mix of fuels and on Monitoring and performance assessment the other to procuring fuels diversified by region and The key performance indicator in the area of security over time. Our assessment is that the supply of of supply is the number of minutes of power outages energy sources over the short and medium term is per customer and year (System Average Interruption associated with a comparatively low level of risk. Duration Indicator, SAIDI). 17.1 Electricity distribution grids with a total length One of the biggest operators of distribution Gas distribution grid of 250 min/customer of grids 48,200 test households in the 392,981 330,160 non-availability of the km in Germany and “Smart Operator” distribution grid each 63,860 km in the project year km km in Germany Czech Republic Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our CR Areas for Action63  Security of Supply Initiatives and projects fluctuating, this approach enables us to guarantee The biggest challenge for security of supply in 2013 reliable operation of the distribution grid. once again related to the changes in the energy > Research project Smart Country industry resulting from the expansion of renewable energies (p. 9). This places a high technical burden When the development phase of the project “Ampa­ on the stability of the supply system. The secure supCity” was brought to a successful conclusion at the ply of energy comprises two components: reliable beginning of 2014, a high-temperature superconducgeneration and secure transport and distribution of tor (HTS) cable around one kilometre long had been gas and electricity. We are working in both areas to integrated in the distribution grid in Essen. HST secure supplies, as well as through further expansion cables allow electricity to be transmitted at temperaof renewable energies. tures of around -200°C with virtually no losses. They can be laid on a large scale and are likely also to In 2012, RWE launched the “Smart Operator” project prove cost-effective over the medium-term. At the for progressing “intelligent” grid solutions at low same voltage, they transmit five times more electricvoltage. 250 test households were taking part in the ity than conventional underground cables. trial across three local communities. In November 2013, RWE presented the first development stage of In a pilot project in Haren (Ems), RWE is currently the model project in Wincheringen (Rhineland-Palatitesting an energy management system that has been nate). The local electricity grid was expanded by a developed in cooperation with Twente University battery storage system, smart meter, a controllable (Netherlands). A central control unit HEC (Home local grid transformer and remotely controllable disEnergy Controller) manages the operation of all tribution boxes. “Smart Operator” is a building block domestic appliances and harmonises this with the in intelligent grid management of the kind that we availability of local electricity from renewable are currently using in the “Smart Country” project. resources. For this purpose, the control unit uses Even when the feed-in from renewables is constantly the floor of the building and the consumer appliances as flexible energy stores. > Pilot project Haren System Average Interruption Duration per year and customer (RWE distribution network in Germany) 30 Outage duration min./year 25 21.9 20 19.5 18.1 18.1 17.1 15 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our CR Areas for Action64 Innovation INNOVATION Our targets Key events We want to ensure through continuous innovations We have set up a group-wide innovation managethat we always have optimum solutions to meet the ment system to coordinate all our research and develchallenges and targets in our core processes and opment (R&D) activities. All the relevant RWE compaareas of business. nies are integrated in the standard processes like R&D planning and reporting. In 2013, the level of Our motivation compliance with our key performance indicator for Our objective is to play a role in structuring the innovation management was 98.7 %. Our R&D activienergy transition to create a carbon-neutral electricties extend over the entire value chain of the RWE ity supply while at the same time being in a position Group. to make provision for future energy needs with high quality of supply over the long term. If we are to In February 2014, the RWE Group was ranked in third achieve this mission, we need to optimise existing place in the latest Innovation Index drawn up by the technologies, processes and products, and develop European School of Management and Technology new ones. (ESMT). RWE was singled out for praise among the 16 biggest European energy utilities for its wide Monitoring and performance measurement spectrum of innovation and for its activities in the We use the extent of coverage of strategically releareas of intelligent electricity grids, electromobility vant R&D issues through innovation management in and energy services. percent as the KPI and indicator for target attainment. 200 CO2 from lignite-fired power stations is 90 % Consumers adapt their behaviour to flexible AmpaCity: first tests for the R&D projects along suitable for making energy savings in the superconducting cable the entire value chain RWE Future House tariffs chemical feedstocks are successful Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Our CR Areas for Action65 Innovation Initiatives and projects solar, wind and micro-hydro power plants, a battery We have submitted the CO2 scrubbing process storage system, as well as a heat pump and an installed at the Niederaußem site to the long-term energy-management system. test using the “RealPlus” CO2 scrubbing upstream, innovative flue-gas desulphurisation unit. > CO2 scrubIn the area of new products, we have developed an bing In 2013, we succeeded in concluding our investiinnovative product with RWE HomePower solar for gations into the production of chemical feedstocks storage of solar electricity and it has now been from the CO2 generated by our coal-fired power stalaunched in the marketplace. In combination with our tions (Dream Production and CO2RRECT) with verifiSmartHome system, this will therefore create an intecation of the feasibility. > Chemical conversion of CO2 grated solution which will help to increase the customer’s own use of self-generated solar electricity by In 2013, we launched our latest project “Vibro” under as much as 70 %. the Offshore Wind Accelerator Initiative run by the British Carbon Trust. The objective is to anchor wind During the year under review, RWE also invested in power plants more cost-effectively on the seabed. In venture capital projects like the startup Kiwigrid. The order to achieve this aim, we are testing a vibration technology company develops and operates an open system that will support this process. It will also communication and control platform for intelligent reduce the very high noise emissions under the water energy management. This system helps decentralised which cause significant impairment to marine mamunits to generate, store and consume energy in distrimals such as dolphins and porpoises. bution grids. Kiwigrid also facilitates new product and service packages, e.g. achievement of virtual The completed field trial on intelligent energy use in power stations, readout of electronic meters and Mülheim has demonstrated in the area of distribution charge management for electric vehicles. grids that consumers adjust their behaviour to flexible tariffs. > Project E-DeMa In a power-to-gas demYou will find more information on the subject of innoonstration plant located at Ibbenbüren, North Rhinevation at RWE by going to Westphalia, we are testing how excess electricity > www.rwe.com/innovationen generated from wind and sun can be converted into hydrogen by electrolysis and stored in the existing gas grid. In Fót (Hungary), we have officially opened an innovative energy park. The objective was to establish an almost entirely self-sufficient supply of electricity and heat based on renewable energy for a riding-therapy and instruction centre. This is achieved by combining Our Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report66  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT Report Profile This report entitled “Our Responsibility.Report 2013” evance of the individual Areas for Action and the is aimed at analysts and investors, non-governmental expectations of the stakeholders for our company in organisations (NGOs), our workforce, customers and a Materiality Analysis. The report also serves as our suppliers, policymakers, government agencies and progress report for the Global Compact of the United the people living in the regions where we do busiNations (p. 74). ness. It describes the most important social, environmental and economic challenges facing our core busiBasic principles ness, the conflicting aims that can arise, and the The report is based on our CR strategy and develCorporate Responsibility (CR) strategy we have developed out of our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. oped in response. The relevant data are presented in line with the latest guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to The report is published in pdf format. This report allow our readers to compare our performance with was audited in its entirety by the accountancy firm that of other companies. We explain how we have Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC), which assessed it implemented these guidelines and the requirements against compliance with the Accountability Standard of the GRI Sector Supplement Electric Utilities in the AA1000-AccountAbility (p. 68). The CR Report GRI Index (p. 71). Our self-assessment of the level of includes an overview of all the important Indicators compliance with the GRI guidelines (Version 3.0) is A+. (p. 76). We provide detailed indicators for the years This assessment was confirmed by the GRI (p. 73). 2006 to 2013 interactively with the Indicator tool and as an Excel download. Data The period under review is fiscal 2013, which began Approach on 1 January and ended on 31 December. The data We developed our CR strategy on the basis of the provided in this report relate to all affiliated compachallenges posed by our business and taking account nies of the RWE Group which are included in the conof the general conditions prevailing in individual solidated financial statements. Any deviations from regions. The report is introduced with a detailed this are clearly stated. The financial data were taken description of our Greatest Challenges and a Portrait from the RWE Annual Report 2013. We present finanof the RWE Group. The report is based on the Ten cial data denominated in the relevant national curAreas for Action of the CR strategy. We assess the relrency and have converted these based on the averOur Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report67  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 age annual values for 2013 (1 US dollar = € 0.75 €, Forward-looking statements 1 UK pound sterling = € 1.18, 100 Czech crowns = This report contains forward-looking statements € 3.84, 100 Hungarian forints = € 0.34, 1 Polish zloty regarding the future development of the RWE Group = € 0.24). and its companies as well as economic and political developments. These statements are assessments For reference that we have made based on information available at This report is published in German and English. The the time this report was drawn up. In the event that Executive Board of RWE AG has approved the report the underlying assumptions do not materialise or for publication. The editorial deadline was 14 March additional risks arise, actual performance may deviate 2014. This report continues our policy of annual from the performance expected at present. We are reporting. > Archive CR Reports The next report will therefore unable to assume any responsibility whatsobe published in the spring of 2015. The term ever for the accuracy of these statements. “employee” refers to male and female employees. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report68  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 Independent Assurance Report To RWE AG, Essen Responsibility of the auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers AG WirtschaftsprüfungsgeOur responsibility is to form an independent opinion, sellschaft has performed a moderate assurance1 based on our assurance procedures, on whether facts engagement on the German version of the Corporate have come to our attention leading us to believe that Responsibility Report and issued an independent in all material respects assurance report, authoritative in German language, QQ the systems and processes installed by the which has been translated as follows: Company are not appropriate for compliance with the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of inclusivWe have been engaged by RWE AG, Essen to perform ity, materiality and responsiveness; or an independent assurance engagement to attain QQ the selected quantitative sustainability informamoderate assurance on the adherence to the AA1000 tion set out in the CR Reporting has not been AccountAbility principles in “Vertrauen verdienen: prepared in compliance with the criteria set out in Unsere Verantwortung. Bericht 2013” (the Corporate the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.0 Responsibility Report) of the RWE AG, Essen for the (p. 7 to p.17) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). fiscal CR-Reporting 2013 as well as selected data in the key data tool (in the following the “CR ReportWe also have been engaged to report on recommening”). The CR Report is published online in PDF fordations for the further development of sustainability mat at www.rwe.com/cr-report and the key data tool management and sustainability reporting on the online on http://rwe-datatool.com/. basis of the results of our assurance engagement. Responsibility of the legal representatives Our engagement concerns the German version of the It is the responsibility of the legal representatives of CR Reporting. The reviewed figures in the key data the Company tool are marked with “Reviewed 2013”. QQ to comply with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as defined in the We conducted our independent assurance engageAccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) (the ment in accordance with AA1000 Assurance Standard “AA1000 AccountAbility Principles”), and (AA1000AS) 2008 and also in accordance with InterQQ to prepare the sustainability information in the CR national Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) Reporting 2013 in accordance with the criteria set 3000. out in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.0 (pages 7 to 17) of the Global Reporting These standards require that we fulfill our profesInitiative (GRI). sional duties and plan and conduct the engagement in accordance with the principle of materiality so that This responsibility includes the conception, implewe can form an opinion with moderate assurance1, mentation and maintenance of systems and prowhich is the degree of assurance that was required by cesses for ensuring compliance with the AA1000 RWE AG. We are independent as defined by Section AccountAbility Principles and the preparation of the 3.2 of AA1000AS (2008). Due to our expertise and CR Reporting using assumptions and estimations that experience with non-financial assessments, sustainaare appropriate under the given circumstances. bility management as well as social and ecological issues, we have the competencies required to conduct this independent assurance engagement. An independent assurance engagement performed to obtain moderate assurance1 is less substantial in 1 “Moderate assurance” as specified by AA1000AS (2008) is equivalent to “limited assurance” as specified by IS AE 3000. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report69  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 scope than an independent assurance engagement Material findings and judgments performed to obtain high assurance2, with the result Findings with regard to the AA1000 AccountAbility that a corresponding lower level of assurance is Principle of inclusivity: obtained. The selection of the issues to be examined QQ Internal and external stakeholders are involved in is a matter for the dutiful judgment of the independvarious dialogue formats to discuss current issues. ent auditors performing the engagement. QQ Supraregional stakeholder dialogues are organized and controlled at group level by the central We conducted examination procedures at the level of CR management and the responsible departthe headquarters – RWE AG, Essen, RWE Deutschland ments, regional stakeholder dialogues controlled AG, Essen, RWE Power, Essen, RWE npower, Swindon and organized by the operating subsidiaries. If (UK) and RWE Innogy GmbH, Essen. there are group-wide issues, coordination took place by central CR management according to the With regard to compliance with the AccountAbility established internal rules of cooperation. Principles we conducted the following examination QQ A regular exchange is established between the procedures: responsible departments and the central CR QQ obtaining a fundamental understanding of the management. application of the AA1000 principles by interviewing responsible employees for stakeholder Findings with regard to the AA1000 AccountAbility management at the Group headquarters; Principle of materiality: QQ random sampling concerning the understanding QQ Stakeholder concerns and expectations are of the documentation regarding stakeholder gathered and evaluated in context with the dialogue, communication with stakeholders as so-called issue radar. well as of evaluation of stakeholder dialogues for QQ This issue radar is part of the annually materiality the respective subsidiaries of RWE AG; analysis, by which the CR areas for action are QQ understanding the materiality analysis at group subject to a revolving assessment. Based on the level for analyzing and prioritizing sustainability materiality analysis conducted in 2013 the CR topics and deducting CR areas for action. areas for action have been adapted. QQ The results of this analysis and the expectations With regard to selected sustainability information in and concerns expressed during the stakeholder the CR Reporting, our work included inter alia the foldialogues are, dependent on the materiality, lowing examination procedures: systematically included in the CR reporting, the QQ interviews with the responsible employees for CR management and single CR projects both reporting of sustainability information; content and structure-wise. QQ examination of the systems and processes for data collection, calculation and reporting of Findings with regard to the AA1000 AccountAbility sustainability information as well as their review Principle of responsiveness: in the context of random sampling and analytical QQ The interaction and communication with relevant procedures based on group wide target-processes stakeholders takes place in a systematic and and the respective reporting software; comprehensive manner via various communicaQQ review of the GRI G3-indicators Content Index in tion channels. terms of reliability of information; QQ The communication process enables a compreQQ assessment of internal documents. hensive and thematically balanced communication with stakeholders. 1 “Moderate assurance” as specified by AA1000AS (2008) is equivalent to “limited assurance” as specified by IS AE 3000. 2 “High assurance” as specified by AA1000AS (2008) is equivalent to “reasonable assurance” as specified by ISAE 3000. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report70  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 QQ There has been a process established between Further recommendations the holding company and the different subsidiarWithout qualifying the opinions on our engagement ies, which enables them to react quickly on stated above, we make the following recommendademands and expectations. tions for the development of the sustainability management and reporting: Based on our independent assurance engagement to QQ Continuance of the group-wide implementation of obtain moderate assurance, nothing has come to our the processes defined in the context of the attention that causes us to believe that, in all mateStakeholder Management work stream rial respects the systems and processes installed by QQ Establishment of a process for a continuous RWE AG are not appropriate for compliance with the update of the manuals for valid CR data AccountAbility Principles, and selected sustainability QQ Integration of all subsidiaries into CR software information set out in the CR Reporting has not been solution and stabilization of processes as well as prepared in compliance with the GRI criteria. ensuring consistency of available data in all reporting systems especially considering the new group organization. Berlin, 26. March 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Michael Werner ppa. Juliane von Clausbruch Our Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report71  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 Index According to GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 core indicators  Page G3 core indicators  Page incl. indicators of Sector Supplement Electric Utilities incl. indicators of Sector Supplement Electric Utilities 1. Strategy and analysis 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations 57; AR 25, 237 1.1 Statement from the CEO and the Supervisory Board Chairperson 1f. to highest governance body 1.2 Description of key impacts, 3-19, 23-25, 33-38, 4.5 Linkage between senior management 34; 56, risks and opportunities 43-45; AR 91f. compensation and sustainability goals AR 114-124, 127 2. Organisational profile 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided AR 106; 112 2.1 Name of the company RWE AG 4.7 Expertise of highest governance body in 37; AR 108, 111f. 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 10f., 20, Internet terms of sustainability 2.3 Operational structure and major divisions 20-22, 27-32; AR 55f. 4.8 Corporate mission, values, and Codes of Conduct 38, 58 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Essen, Germany 4.9 Board-level processes for overseeing sustainability 34; AR 106-108 2.5 Number/names of countries with major operations 26-32 performance 2.6 Nature of ownership RWE AG; AR 26f. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Internet; 2.7 Markets served 22, 27-32, Internet body’s performance on sustainability matters AR 106, 111, 114-116 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Internet; AR 63, 138 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary principle 38-40; AR 88-91 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, 21f.; AR 50-54, 142f. 4.12 External initiatives that the organisation 17, 37, 51, 53, 59; structure, or ownership endorses AR 126 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period AR 131 4.13 Significant memberships in industry and 17, 58f., Internet EU1 Installed capacity 21f., 27-31, Internet business associations EU2 Net energy output broken down by 21, Internet; AR 57 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 41, 66 primary energy source 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 35, 41f., Internet EU3 Residential, industrial and commercial 20, 27-30, stakeholders to engage customer accounts Internet; AR 61f. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement (type/frequency) 19, 37, 41f. EU4 Length of transmission and distribution lines 22, 27, 30, 62, Internet 4.17 Response to key concerns raised by stakeholders 33f., 37f., 41f. EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions permits Internet; AR 58f. 5. Management approach and performance indicators 3. Report parameters Economic – Management approach 4-6, 10f., 20, 26, 39f., 43, 45, 3.1 Reporting period 66 (incl. EU6, EU7, EU8*, EU9) 48f., 52, 62f., 64f.; AR 172, 177f. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report April 2013 EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed 53, Internet 3.3 Reporting cycle 67 EC2 Financial implication of 3-12, 46, Internet; AR 30-37, 44-47, 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 79 climate change 49, 51f., 58f., 73, 85-87, 91,94-96,104 3.5 Processes for defining report content 35f., 66, 68-70 EC3 Coverage of benefit pension plan obligations Internet; AR 172-177 3.6 Boundary of report 66f. EC4 Financial assistance received from government Internet; AR 26f. 3.7 Statement on specific limitations concerning the report’s scope 66f. EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers 38, 58, Internet 3.8 Basis for the reporting on joint ventures, 66f.; AR 200-224 EC7 Local hiring for senior management positions around 78 %, Internet subsidiaries etc. EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided 52f. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 37, 66 primarily for public benefit 3.10 Explanation of any restatements of information None, Internet EU10 Planned capacity vs. projected electricity demand* 19, 43, 47 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 66 EU11 Average generation efficiency 49, Internet 3.12 GRI index 71f. EU12 Transmission and distribution efficiency Internet 3.13 External verification of the report 66, 68-70 Environmental – Management approach 6-12, 16-19, 38, 42f., 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement 45-51, 62; AR 128 4.1 Governance structure, incl. responsibility for sustainability AR 106-108 EN1 Weight/volume of materials used Internet 4.2 Independence of the Supervisory AR 106, 113, 225-228 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled** Board Chairperson EN3 Direct energy consumption: 409.6 TWh = 1474.6 PJ, 4.3 No. of independent Supervisory Board members Supervisory primary sources used by company Internet Board exists Our Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report72  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 G3 core indicators  Page G3 core indicators  Page incl. indicators of Sector Supplement Electric Utilities incl. indicators of Sector Supplement Electric Utilities EN4 Indirect energy consumption: primary Human rights – Management approach 17f., 44, 58, Internet sources used through energy purchased** HR1 Investment agreements with HR clauses or screening Internet EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Internet HR2 Suppliers and contractors that underwent screening 59 EN11 Land used in protected areas 51, Internet on human rights* EN12 Significant impacts of activities on protected areas 50f. HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken** EU13 Biodiversity of replacement habitats 50f., Internet HR5 Operations with risks to freedom of association/ 17f., 58f., Internet EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse collective bargaining at risk Internet gas emissions by weight HR6 Operations with significant risk incidents 58f., Internet EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse Internet of child labour gas emissions by weight HR7 Operations with significant risk for incidents of 58f., Internet EN18 Initiatives for reducing the emission of 6-10, 43, 46f. forced or compulsory labour greenhouses gases Society – Management approach 16, 19, 38-42, EN19 Ozone-depleting substances by weight Internet (incl. EU19, EU20, EU21) 44, 52, Internet EN20 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Internet SO1 Policy to manage impacts on communities 42, Internet EN21 Water discharge by quality and destination 51, Internet EU22 Number of people displaced by new or approx. 400, Internet EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Internet expansion projects EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Internet SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 39 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental 6-12, 43, 45, 48f. SO3 Employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies* 39 impacts of products and services* SO4 Action taken in response to instances of corruption 39 EN27 Percentage of recycled products** SO5 Positions and participation in public policy development 16, 19 EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with None, and lobbying environmental regulations Internet SO8 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with laws None, Labour practices and decent work – 38, 44f., 56f., 60, and regulations Internet Management approach (incl. EU14, EU15, EU16) Internet; AR 125f., 129 Product responsibility – Management approach 14f., 38f., Internet; (incl. EU23, EU24) Internet; AR 97 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, and region* AR 74, 132 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts Internet LA2 Breakdown of employee turnover by age group, Internet; of products and services are assessed for improvements gender, and region* AR 132 EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public No information, EU17 Total subcontracted workforce Internet Internet EU18 health and safety training of contractors 60f., Internet PR3 Principles/measures related to product information/ Internet and subcontractors labeling LA4 Percentage of employees covered PR6 Programs for adherence of laws and voluntary codes* Internet 99.5 %, Internet by collective bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding 56f., Internet PR9 Fines for non-compliance with regulations concerning None, operational changes the use of products and services Internet LA7 Injuries, absentee rates and work-related 60f., Internet EU26 Percentage of population unserved Internet fatalities by region* EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment** LA8 Prevention and risk-control programs regarding 40, 61 EU28 Power outage frequency** serious diseases EU29 Average power outage duration 62 LA10 Training hours per year per employee by employee category** EU30 Average plant availability factor** LA13 Composition of senior management and 57, Internet; breakdown of employees (gender/culture/age) AR 225-228 AR = Annual Report 2013 All core indicators are presented. Some of Internet = detailed GRI Index the numbers have been skipped because LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Internet * = Status: partially reported the additional GRI indicators are not by employee category ** = not reported recorded in the index. A detailed > GRI Index including information and explanations in case of reporting partially is available on the Internet. A self-assessment we have carried out estimates that the level of compliance with the GRI G3 guidelines is A+. We had this self-assessment checked by the GRI and it was confirmed. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report73  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 GRI Level Check Statement Our Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report74  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 UN Global Compact Progress Report 2013 RWE supports the United Nations Global Compact and wants to help with the worldwide implementation of its ten principles, which have been adopted word for word in the RWE Code of Conduct. The following chart identifies the guidelines, programmes and management systems which we have also introduced within our sphere of influence. The table also highlights the measures that have been taken during the period under review and the specific results obtained. Principle Systems Measures Results Principle 1: Social Charter and minimum Restructuring with social compensation Compliance with principles 1 – 5 Support of human rights standards for restructuring scheme in cooperation with employee assured through national legislation in operations carried out for the representatives (p. 57) Europe, cooperation with the unions Principle 2: European companies in the RWE Assessment and review of suppliers and RWE’s own principles which apply Elimination of human rights Group, covering 99.5 % of the (p. 59) to employees of the companies violations workforce Co-founder of “Bettercoal” initiative, Principle 3: Ensuring Principles of personnel policy for development of a Code of Practice for Pay and social benefits above national freedom of association employees in Egypt and Libya coal mining. (p. 59) Participation in average ILO core standards are defined in “Dutch Coal Dialogue” (p. 42) Principle 4: Abolition of all the Social Charter forms of forced labour Supplier management (p. 59) Principle 5: Abolition of child labour Principle 6: Diversity management (p. 57) Senior Women's Network Percentage of women in management Elimination of discrimination Promotion programme in cooperation positions increased to 13.9 % (p. 57) with the “Association for Women on Percentage of people with severe Supervisory Boards” (“FiDAR – Frauen disabilities constant at 6.0 % in in die Aufsichtsräte”) (p. 57) Germany Principle 7: Environmental management (p. 51) Climate protection, energy efficiency Reduction of water consumption Precautionary environmental Strategy to reduce the CO2 emission and biodiversity/ environmental (p. 51) protection factors (p. 46) protection as part of the CR Programme (p. 43 ff.) Cooperation with IUCN (p. 51) Revision of internal lines of reporting and responsibilities for environmental protection (p. 50) Principle 8: Consultancy and services for intelligent Smart Meters replace old meters Initiatives to promote use of energy with residential and (p. 11, 49) greater environmental business customers (p. 10 ff., 63) Support for energy refurbishments in responsibility buildings with thermographic images (p. 12) Our Responsibility. Report 2013 About this Report75  Report Profile · Independent Assurance Report  Index According to GRI · GRI Level Check Statement · Global Compact Progress Report 2013 Principle Systems Measures Results Principle 9: Strategy to reduce the CO2 emission Research intelligent energy manageModernisation of the power plant Development and diffusion factors (p. 46) financial risks of CO2 ment (p. 65) portfolio (p. 6 ff.) of environmentally friendly are presented in Risk Management Research on manufacture of chemical Start-up of plants in the area of technologies feedstocks from CO2 (p. 65) renewable energies (p. 47) Innovation management (p. 39 f.) Expansion of renewables-based Expansion of charging infrastructure energies (p. 46) for electromobility (p. 12) Principle 10: RWE Code of Conduct and Group Drawing up detailed corruption risk Compliance training sessions for Anti-corruption measures guidelines for prevention of scenarios (p. 39) employees (p. 38 f.) corruption and organisational Training of the workforce with an regulations (p. 38 f.) Intranet-based training programme and on-site training (p. 38 f.) Review of the Compliance Management System (CMS) for anti-corruption commissioned in accordance with the German Institute of Auditors (IDW Audit) Standard 988 partially completed (p. 39) Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Key Figures at a Glance76 KEY FIGURES AT A GLANCE Field Performance indicator 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Economy External electricity sales volume billion kWh 270.9 277.8 294.6 311.2 282.8 External gas sales volume billion kWh 335.0 306.8 322.2 395.4 332.0 Electricity customers million 16.1 16.4 16.6 16.2 16.5 Gas customers million 7.4 7.7 7.8 7.9 8.0 External revenue €million 54,070 53,227 51,686 53,320 47,741 Share of the RWE Group’s revenue % 13.0 13.7 12.4 12.0 12.7 earned in countries with a high or very high risk of corruption1 Net income €million -2,757 1,306 1,806 3,308 3,571 Value added €million 990 1,589 1,286 2,876 3,177 Capital expenditure €million 4,624 5,544 7,072 6,643 15,637 Environment Power plant capacity MW 49,036 51,977 49,238 52,214 49,582 NOX emissions Particulate g/kWh 0.68 0.69 0.60 0.58 0.67 emissions SO2 emissions g/kWh 0.37 0.4 0.31 0.29 0.34 Particulate emissions g/kWh 0.022 0.025 0.021 0.019 0.024 Primary energy consumption billion kWh 409.6 435.7 390.6 403.0 368.2 Water consumption 2 m³/MWh 1.45 1.56 1.62 1.41 1.70 Specific CO2 emissions t/MWh 0.756 0.792 0.787 0.732 0.796 Scope 1 CO2 emissions3 million metric t 165.7 181.7 163.8 167.1 151.3 Scope 2 CO2 emissions4 million metric t 1.5 1.9 2.4 3.1 3.5 Scope 3 CO2 emissions­ 5 million metric t 105.0 105.2 121.0 135.7 128.1 Share of the Group’s electricity % 6.4 5.5 4.3 4.0 3.5 generation accounted for by renewables Employees6 66,341 70,208 72,068 70,856 70,726 Society Share of women in the company % 27.7 27.5 27.1 26.2 26.1 Share of women in executive % 13.9 12.3 11.3 10.8 9.0 positions7 Fluctuation rate % 11.5 10.8 10.1 8.3 8.7 Health ratio % 95.4 95.5 95.8 95.6 95.4 Lost-time incident frequency LTIF8 2.3 2.8 2.8 3.5 4.3 Fatal work-related accidents 9 1 4 3 1 5 1 Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of zero to 100 in the 2013 Corruption Perceptions Index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International, with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. 2 Difference between power plant water withdrawals and returns to rivers and other surface waters; excluding power plants with seawater cooling. 3 Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (oil and gas production, gas transmission & electricity generation). 4 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties. 5 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under scope 1 or 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party networks, the production and transmission of used fuel, as well as the consumption of gas sold to customers. 6 Converted to full-time employees. 7 2009 excluding Essent. 8 Lost Time Incident Frequency (Number of accidents leading to the loss of at least one person day per million working hours); until 2011 excluding employees of contractors, from on 2012 occupational accidents including employees of contractors. 9 Including employees of third-party companies. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Key Figures at a Glance77 Commentaries to the figures The following commentaries are specific annotations to the figures. Those are assorted corresponding to the categories in the data tool. Commentaries to the same category are displayed among each other. Category Commentaries Power Generation Including electricity procured from power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In fiscal 2013, it amounted to 21.8 billion kWh, of which 18.5 billion kWh were generated from hard coal. Power plant capacity Including capacities of power stations not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. As of 31 December 2013, these capacities amounted to 6,424 MW, of which 4,259 MW were based on hard coal CO2 emissions Includes power stations not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In the year under review, they produced 19.5 million metric tons of CO2 and stopped receiving free allocations of CO2 certificates. Based on the electricity production, not including emissions from biogenic fuels. Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (oil and gas production, gas transmission & electricity generation). Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties. Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under scope 1 or 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party networks, the production and transmission of used fuel, as well as the consumption of gas sold to customers. Pollutant emissions Not included plant fired by gas from blast furnaces. Fuels Fiscal 2007 adjusted since “Our Responisbility.Report 2007”. Fossil fuels used, without biomass. Waste Owing to a change in the rules the use of ash to refill disused opencast mines no longer counts as recycling as of 2010. Water Difference between power plant water withdrawals and returns to rivers and other surface waters excluding power plants with sea water cooling. Reportable nuclear incidents at our INES: International Nuclear Event Scale. nuclear power stations (INES) Workforce FTE = Full-Time Equivalent: Converted to full-time positions. 2009 excluding Essent. Occupational Health and Safety Lost Time Incident Frequency (Number of accidents leading to the loss of at least one person day per million working hours); from on 2012 occupational accidents including employees of partner companies. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Key Figures at a Glance78 Category Commentaries Customers Not included minority stakes. External electricity & gas sales 2011 including gas trading. volume Including small volumes subsumed under “other, consolidation.” Including small volumes in the Conventional Power Generation Division. Financial figures RWE Innogy was established in February 2008. Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of zero to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International, with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. Since 2008, EBITDA has also included operating income from investments. Dividend/dividend payment Dividend proposal for RWE AG‘s 2013 fiscal year, subject to approval by the 16 April 2014 Annual General Meeting. Value added 2007 adjusted as per the Annual Report 2008, 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water). Only the taxes actually paid are included, not tax expenditure 2007 adjusted as per the Annual Report 2008, 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water). 2008 adjusted as per the Annual Report 2009, 2007 adjusted as per the Annual Report 2008, 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water), 2013 proposed2 dividend. Our Responsibility. Report 2013 Contact and Imprint79 CONTACT AND IMPRINT Published by Responsible RWE Aktiengesellschaft Prof. Dr. Henning Rentz Opernplatz 1 Phone +49 201 12-15813 45128 Essen E-Mail henning.rentz@rwe.com Germany Phone +49 201 12-00 Concept, texts, layout in cooperation with Telefax +49 201 12-17423 akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh E-Mail responsibility@rwe.com Munich www.akzente.de Editorial office RWE Aktiengesellschaft Creation of the data tool in cooperation with Corporate Responsibility NEW.EGO GmbH Munich Dr. Matthias Kussin www.newego.de Phone +49 201 12-15586 E-Mail matthias.kussin@rwe.com Editorial Deadline 14 March 2014 Daniel Schneiders Phone +49 201 12-16566 E-Mail daniel.schneiders@rwe.com Stefanie Dudley Phone +49 201 12-15594 E-Mail stefanie.dudley@rwe.com Dr. Thomas Gremme Phone +49 201 12-15634 E-Mail thomas.gremme@rwe.com Dr. Marita Hilgenstock Phone +49 201 12-15251 E-Mail marita.hilgenstock@rwe.com Dr. Erik Riedel Phone +49 201 12-17417 E-Mail erik.riedel@rwe.com Swantje Tholen Phone +49 201 12-17466 E-Mail swantje.tholen@rwe.com Our Responsibility. Report 2013  Our Company80  OUR COMPANY RWE ranks among the leading electricity and gas utilities in Europe. We cover virtually the entire value chain from production of lignite, oil and gas, to the supply for our customers. Production 2013 Procurement and trading 2013 Power and heat generation 2013 105 million mt lignite¹ 1,145 TWh of electricity 81.2 TWh of lignite 22,000 hectares of recultivated land 1 304 billion m³ of gas 51.3 TWh of hard coal 2,625 million m³ of gas produced 2,019 million barrels of oil 37.0 TWh of gas 2.3 million m³ of oil produced 626 million CO2 certificates 30.5 TWh of nuclear energy 13.8 TWh of renewable energies 2.9 TWh other The fundamental transition in European Distribution 2013 Sales and use 2013 energy systems presents major challenges for 393,000 km o f distribution grid for 16.1 million residential and business us at every stage of the value chain and electricity customers for electricity impacts on our earnings situation. Despite 112,055 km of distribution grid for gas difficult framework conditions, we want to 7.4 million residential and business play our part in the continued development 300,000 renewable energy plants customers for gas of the energy system, proving that we are 271 TWh external sales for electricity trustworthy and high performing. 335 TWh external sales for gas THE KEY CORPORATE INDICATORS FOR 2013 AT A GLANCE: € 54.1 66,341 0.76 7.1 % € 2.6 2.3 billion external employees Metric tons of CO2 Share of renewable billion in investLTIF³ revenues per MWh of energies in power ments and expenses Occupational electricity plant capacity for environmental accidents protection 1 Data on lignite production relates to opencast mines in the Rhineland mining area 2 Programme for promoting volunteer employee engagement 3 Lost Time Incident Frequency (Number of accidents leading to the loss of at least one person day per million working hours) including employees of contractors RWE Aktiengesellschaft Opernplatz 1 45128 Essen Germany T +49 201 12-00 F +49 201 12-17423 I www.rwe.com
