Sustainability Report 2013 / GRI Service Quality Achievement integrity Respect Fairness Confidence FRAnkneSS Diversity renewal Reliability Available at www.post.at/CSR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 1 This Sustainability Report refers exclusively to Österreichische Post AG (referred to in the report as Austrian Post). Subsidiaries of Austrian Post are not included in this report. However, if a statement in the report refers to the entire Group (including all subsidiaries), this will be clearly expressed in the text by using the term Austrian Post Group. 2 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST CONTENTS 04 1 Sustainability Strategy 50 Social Performance Indicators 04 1.1 Statement by the most senior decision Labour practices and decent work maker in the organisation 06 1.2 Statement of key impacts, risks and 51 Aspect: Employment (LA1-LA3) opportunities 54 Aspect: Employee-employer relationship (LA4-LA5) 17 2 Organisational Profile 54 Aspect: Occupational safety and health care (LA6-LA9) 56 Aspect: Training and education (LA10-LA12) 21 3 Report Parameters 59 Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity (LA13-LA14) 23 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 62 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 23 4.1-4.10 Corporate Governance Indicators 28 4.11-4.13 Commitments to external initiatives Human rights 29 4.14-4.17 Stakeholder engagement 62 Aspect: Investment and procurement practices (HR2-HR4) 35 Economic Performance Indicators 64 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 36 Aspect: Direct economic value generated and Indicators distributed (EC1) Society 38 Aspect: Market presence (EC6) 38 Aspect: Indirect economic impacts (EC9) 65 Aspect: Local community (SO1) 66 Aspect: Corruption (SO2-SO4) 67 Aspect: Public policy (SO5) 39 Ecological Performance 68 Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour (SO7) Indicators 68 Aspect: Compliance with laws (SO8) 40 Aspect: Materials (EN1-EN2) 41 Aspect: Energy (EN3-EN5) 69 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 45 Aspect: Water Indicators 45 Aspect: Biodiversity (EN12) Product Responsibility 45 Aspect: Emissions, wastewater and waste (EN16-EN18, EN22, EN24) 69 Aspect: Product and service labelling 48 Aspect: Products and services (EN26) (PR3-PR5) 49 Aspect: Compliance with laws (EN28) 70 Aspect: Marketing communications (PR6-PR7) 49 Aspect: Transport (EN29) 70 Aspect: Customer privacy (PR8) 70 Aspect: Compliance with laws (PR9) 72 Thematic and Goal Matrix 74 GRI Content Index 84 Independent Certification 87 Contact and Imprint GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 3 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification 1 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 1.1 Statement by the most Against this backdrop, in 2007 Austrian Post already senior decision maker in joined the UN Global Compact, the sustainabilitythe organisation oriented initiative of the United Nations. Accordingly, the company is committed to complying with global At Austrian Post we not only have clearly-defined principles of ethical and ecological business practiobjectives and an elaborate strategy but have also ces. In addition, Austrian Post is actively involved developed a sound value structure serving as the in sustainability projects in the postal and logistics underlying intellectual backdrop of our business sectors as well as those carried out by the Interactivities. Ambitious targets and strategies are national Post Corporation (IPC). important to us, but at the same time we have to consider whether or not we want to pursue this Sustainability process and structure path. It is a question of our long-term orientation and the meaningfulness of what we do – not only on In organisational terms, responsibility for sustainaa management level but for every single employee. bility at Austrian Post is directly assigned to Chief On this basis we developed a Group-wide mission Executive Officer Georg Pölzl in the Department of statement in 2010, providing clear principles on cusInvestor Relations. CSR (corporate social responsitomer orientation, profitability and sustainability as bility) working groups meet at least twice a year to well as communication and respect. Our responsibianalyse sustainability-relevant issues in the company lity is to live these principles on a daily basis. and define objectives and measures which are then proposed to the entire Management Board for their If we succeed in orienting our activities to the three decision. core values of the mission statement, sustainable corporate management practically arises by itself. The four dimensions – society, employees, enviIf a company is correctly managed with respect ronment and economy – comprise the thematic to fundamental issues, then it will, so to speak, priorities of Austrian Post. Specific goals have been automatically act in a future-oriented manner and defined for each of these areas. They are subject to thus sustainably. This not only includes econoan annual evaluation and supported by corresponmic aspects but also the social environment, the ding measures. To optimise the measurability of its environment and naturally the employees. All these achieving the specified goals, quantitative sub-tarareas require clearly defined values and objectives gets have been defined in the individual categories to serve as guiding principles enabling the company in addition to the primary objectives, which mainly to be assured of a good future in the long term. consist of qualitative measurement criteria. These sub-targets are subordinate to the main goals. The sustainability strategy of Austrian Post is structured in the four dimensions of economy, emploDetails on the defined objectives and the extent to yees, society and environment, each of which also which they have been achieved can be found in the includes objectives and measures. In defining these respective sections on the issues of economy (page goals and measures for the individual areas, consi35 ff), environment (page 39 ff.), employees (page derable importance is attached to ensuring that they 50 ff.) and society (page 64 ff) A condensed overare aligned with each other. None of the four areas view of all objectives is contained in the Thematic should be considered on its own. The company and Goal Matrix on pages 72-73. can only be managed on a long-term and futureproof basis if all sustainability aspects are taken into account. The specified objectives and measures are always consistently oriented to the demands and expectations of Austrian Post stakeholders to enable the company to further develop for the benefit of all its stakeholder groups. 4 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Climate Protection Corporate Performance Value Creation Environmental Management economy environment Raising Shareholder Awareness Value corporate Social Reliability of responsibility Supply Corporate and Leadership culture employeeS Society Qualification and Change Service Orientation Social Health and Engagement Safety An overview of the four thematic priorities and related objectives Economy: The top priority for Austrian Post’s management Objectives: promoting a corporate and leadership is achieving the fundamental objective of ensuring culture, creating individual future perspectives and profitability on a long-term basis. Only a successful promoting occupational health and safety. company can seriously assume its corporate social responsibility on a long-term basis and at the same Society: time make an appropriate contribution to fulfilling As a provider of universal postal services, Austrian social and ecological needs. Post bears a considerable responsibility to society. It makes a decisive contribution towards maintaining Objectives: customer-oriented further development and safeguarding the communications infrastrucof services (revenue increase of 1-2% per year as ture on the basis of providing reliable, top quality well as achieving solid profitability), value creation on nationwide postal services in Austria. Because of behalf of all stakeholders and a sustainable increase its importance to the country, Austrian Post is also in enterprise value. committed to taking an active part in society. Employees: Objectives: expansion of reliable nationwide postal As one of the biggest employers in the country, services, the ongoing further development of soluAustrian Post is clearly aware of its responsibility to tions to enhance customer benefits and promoting its employees. This is due to the fact that motivated business-related, socially-relevant projects and and productive employees are the basis for corpoactivities. rate success, and high value must be placed on the factor “employees”, especially in a service company such as Austrian Post. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 5 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Environment: Non-quantifiable risks are evaluated on the basis Austrian Post operates in a resource-intensive of pre-defined qualitative criteria. In addition, the business and thus continually strives to identify central risk management team cyclically examines optimisation potential to minimise its ecological the risk situation of the individual business areas on footprint. Austrian Post also plays a pioneering role the basis of a proactive risk assessment. internationally thanks to its CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVEThe results of the identification and evaluation RY initiative. process are documented in the corresponding IT application of the risk management system. Objectives: reduction of CO2 emissions by 20% from 2010 to 2015 and annual compensation of the 2. Aggregation and reporting: remaining emissions, setting up and improvement The central risk management team gathers inforof a central environmental management system and mation and reviews the identified and evaluated sensibilisation of relevant shareholders to the need risks. The financial effects of potential overlapping for environmental and climate protection. are taken into account in the aggregation process. Subsequently, the risks are analysed by the Risk Management Committee and subject to a plausibility check. This Risk Management Committee 1.2 Statement of key impacts, consists of representatives of the controlling, legal, risks and opportunities strategy and accounting departments as well as representatives of the operating units. The results Austrian Post operates a comprehensive risk maare integrated in the quarterly report of the central nagement system integrating all business units and risk management team to the Management Board subsidiaries. The objective of risk management is to focusing on risks and their development. Risks identify risks at an early stage and manage them by which unexpectedly arise are immediately reported taking appropriate measures designed to minimise to the Management Board on an ad-hoc basis. The any potential deviation from the company’s business Supervisory Board and Audit Committee are also targets. Risks are identified, evaluated, monitored regularly informed about the risk situation. and documented in their overall context by a Groupwide risk management system in accordance with 3. Designing of measures: uniform principles. The control of risks is based on defining appropriate measures aimed to avoid or reduce risks, or else transfer them to third parties. The business areas The most important steps in the risk examine the measures on the basis of a cost-benefit management process analysis, and subsequently implement them. These measures are monitored and adjusted within the 1. Identification and evaluation: context of a quarterly analysis undertaken by the Risks are defined as the potential deviation from plrisk manager. anned corporate results. The risk managers analyse the risk situation of the respective business area on 4. Monitoring and control: a quarterly basis. An employee is selected and given In conformity with the Austrian Corporate Goverresponsibility for evaluating, managing and monitornance Code, the reliability and performance of the ing each identified risk. Risks are quantified to the risk management system is subject to an annual greatest possible extent with respect to the potential evaluation by the auditor. Moreover, in 2013 the consequences and probability of occurrence. concept, suitability and effectiveness of the risk management system were assessed by an external auditor. 6 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST The risk management process Control by Identification auditor MONITORING & IDENTIFICATION & Analysis Evaluation by CONTROL EVALUATION external auditor Evaluation Planning Assessment & plausibility check Implementation DESIGNING OF AGGREGATION & MEASURES REPORTING Aggregation Monitoring Reporting Risk strategy and policy: The Management Board 1.2.1 Description of risks defines the risk policy of the company and sets out a framework for the risk management system. Societal risks As a provider of universal postal services, Austrian Thresholds of reporting were established in the form Post bears a considerable responsibility to sociof upper limits (EUR 300,000 on a Group level), ety. It makes an important contribution towards which are deliberately aligned with the magnitude maintaining and safeguarding the communications and responsibilities of Austrian Post, its business infrastructure on the basis of providing reliable, top areas and subsidiaries. Opportunities and risks quality nationwide postal services in Austria. This whose scope falls below those levels of significance responsibility means that Austrian Post is confronted are in any case the responsibilities of experts in the with a variety of risks as well as opportunities. Moreorganisational units who handle the monitoring and over, due to the high relevance of Austrian Post to management of risks. Sustainability-related risks society, it is affected to an above-average degree by below this value of limitation are monitored by the societal trends which influence consumer behaviour. Investor Relations department which also handles CSR. If required, these risks are reported to the Risk Regulatory and legal risks Management. The full-scale liberalisation of the Austrian postal market took place on January 1, 2011 when the Further details on risk management as well as on new Postal Market Act took effect. This developthe internal control system can be found in the ment carries the risk of future shifts in market share. Annual Report 2013 Part 2, Financial Report, pages The legal framework for the full-scale liberalisation 46 to 52. of the postal sector was defined in this new Postal Market Act. In many cases, this Postal Market Act The identified and evaluated risks and opportunities does not prescribe equal treatment between Austriare integrated into the process of defining sustainabilan Post and its competitors, but places an additionity targets and developing corresponding measures. al burden on Austrian Post A list of the detailed objectives and related measures is presented in condensed form in the Thematic and Goal Matrix found on pages 72-73. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 7 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification uniform regulations relating to employment contracts and performance standards applying to both Austrian Post and its competitors in the medium term, and if no adequate compensation for universal postal services is forthcoming. At present Austrian Post does not assume that it will be obliged to grant its competitors access to all its services on an unbundled basis. If this did indeed happen, these firms could potentially provide services in segments of the postal market which are particularly lucrative, and rely on partial services provided by Austrian Post at regulated prices in less lucrative business segments. This could also potentially have a significantly negative effect on earnings. The public relations activities of Austrian Post have made it a priority to engage in an ongoing dialogue The Universal Postal Service Obligation requires with all its stakeholders with respect to the issue of Austrian Post to provide a minimum offering of liberalisation. The company considers itself responpostal services of comparable quality across the sible for making people aware of the unresolved country, and ensure a nationwide distribution netissues in connection with compensation for Univerwork of at least 1,650 postal service points. Austrian sal Postal Services, and the problems arising as the Post is only allowed to convert company-operated result of an asymmetric market liberalisation. post offices manned by its own staff to postal partner offices following a regulatory approval process. Austrian Post is subject to legal restrictions by The possibility that Austrian Post will be required to regulatory authorities in setting its business terms continue operating unprofitable postal branches, at and conditions (including postal rates) in provileast in the short term, cannot be excluded. ding universal postal services. For this reason, the company only has limited flexibility to impose price The Postal Market Act stipulates that Austrian Post adjustments for the Universal Postal Services as a is the only postal services provider in Austria requimeans of reacting to market changes. red to provide Universal Postal Services. CompenA difference in the definition of the limits to universal sation for the net costs of providing Universal Postal postal services between regulatory authorities and Services will take place on the basis of a public the company could be reflected in the design of the equalisation fund, which will be generally financed product portfolio and pricing policies. on a pro-rata basis corresponding to the market share held by Austrian Post and other licensed posRisks relating to cooperations tal operators. Only postal providers whose annual With respect to its business partnerships, Austrian revenue derived from their licensed business operaPost relies on its collaboration with a large number tions exceeds EUR 1m will be required to contribute of partners. These ties lead to a dependency on to the equalization fund. Moreover, the net costs of the general public’s perception of these partners’ providing Universal Postal Services will only be rereputation and credibility. A risk arises if these funded in case these costs exceed 2% of the entire cooperation partners are exposed to events leading annual costs incurred by Austrian Post. Assuming to negative publicity for them. This would result in a that Austrian Post continues to have a significant bad light being cast on Austrian Post as well. The market share of the postal sector also in the future, only way to minimise this risk is by intensively scruit will be obliged to assume the lion’s share of the tinizing potential candidates for such partnerships net costs for providing Universal Postal Services and with Austrian Post. Accordingly, for example, the administering the equalisation fund. partnerships with the charitable organisation Caritas, the radio station Ö3 and Mondi in conjunction The possibility of significant downward pressure on with the Ö3 Wundertüte bags have been extremely future earnings cannot be excluded if the process successful, and will continue with these strong and of postal sector liberalisation is not accompanied by reliable partners. Risks arising from working relation8 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST ships with Austrian Post’s major partners such as a key issue is the field of electronic postal delivery. BAWAG P.S.K. and Telekom Austria are subject to ongoing evaluation. Furthermore, Austrian Post continually develops innovative, new solutions in order to fulfil changing Reputation risks customer requirements and wishes. Austrian Post The transport sector is generally considered to be constantly assesses its private customer focus and one which negatively impacts the environment, in the feasibility of the measures being implemented. which case damage to the reputation of the comAccordingly, innovative online solutions are conspany could arise. As a result, private individuals and tantly being developed in order to link the physical companies are increasingly doing without the physiand digital worlds of communication. cal shipment of letters and direct mail items, and are changing over to alternative forms of shipment or A key aspect entailed in the risk of e-substitution is advertising. This could lead to a decline in revenue, the changing communications behaviour of younger in which case the fixed cost structure of the compagenerations. The mail business – and primarily ny could not be adjusted in the short-term to reflect the writing and sending of letters – is a key part this situation. of societal life. Despite this, the knowledge possessed by children and adolescents of this topic Austrian Post counteracts this risk on the basis of is progressively disappearing. For this reason, the its initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY and has been risk exists that in particular the younger generations offering “green” products throughout Austria since will cease to make use of the societal institution of 2011. This means that all shipments (letter mail and mail. Such persons are increasingly replacing the direct mail items, magazines, parcels) have been dewriting and sending of letters with different forms of livered in a climate-neutral manner in Austria since electronic communication. It is for this reason that 2011. Austrian Post regards its scope of responsibilities to include informing such people about its spectrum Risk of e-substitution of activities and safeguarding the high status and Postal companies are confronted with the general importance of Austrian Post in the future. trend that annual letter mail volumes are steadily but slightly declining (3-5% annually) due to electronic In order to achieve this, Austrian Post establishes substitution. This decrease has been correspondingpartnerships in order to foster a modern image for ly taken into account by Austrian Post in developing the company among Austria’s young people and to its business model. However, there is the risk that promote a culture of writing and reading letters. Unthis development will be intensified by an environder the title “Die Post macht Schule“, Austrian Post mentally-driven change in communication behaviour, has developed educational materials for primary for example sending e-mails instead of letters. schools which present the responsibilities, tasks and services of Austrian Post, and which are designed In this connection Austrian Post is also striving to to stimulate pupils to read and write. counteract this development on the basis of its CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY. For this reason, it has been delivering all mail items (letters, direct mail items, magazines, parcels) in a climate-neutral manner since 2011. Moreover, within the context of its membership in different trade and professional associations and in the governing bodies and working groups of these associations, Austrian Post regularly communicates its views on issues which impact the business activities of Austrian Post, and also states its concerns. The focus of Austrian Post is to provide postal services throughout the country for the benefit of the Austrian population. This has to take place in a modern and service-oriented manner. In this regard GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 9 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification ees impacted by restructuring can take advantage of a social plan in effect since the year 2011 which is designed to cushion them against the impact of these measures. Risks caused by a high rate of attrition and the age structure of employees The service sector is subject to extensive natural attrition, which nevertheless poses the challenge to maintain the high quality of services offered. For this reason Austrian Post offers target group-oriented and competence-oriented further education and professional development measures for all employees, such as specialised trainings, continuing education courses and coachings as well as trainings in all areas relating to the company’s business operations. Risks relating to employees The topic of “appreciation” is viewed as being of As one of the biggest employers in the country, central importance, as it increases the recognition Austrian Post is aware of its considerable responsiaccorded to employees. This issue is of great relebility to its approximately 19,000 employees. In the vance to the schooling of managers. They receive service sector so-called human capital is the most special training in courses held at the Management important success factor. A service company can Academy, enabling them to carry out their duties only succeed on the market in the long term on the in a performance-oriented manner while showing basis of qualified and motivated employees. Due appreciation for the services rendered. to the high relevance of employees for corporate success, this area also entails a series of risks. On The changing age structure in companies also the other hand, an effective human resources policy entails risks. The share of employees who are more which supports and encourages employees opens than 50 years old is increasing annually. Many of the up numerous opportunities. activities in the postal business are work-intensive. The result is the risk of not being able to fully retain Risks relating to structural changes the capability of older employees to satisfy the Much of Austrian Post’s business (above all the requirements ensuing from their occupations. To sending of letters) is characterised by declining volucounter this risk, Austrian Post has established mes. For this reason, a key aspect of the company’s personnel development and health promotion business strategy is to continually operate in a more programs. The opening up of new areas of activity efficient manner. Austrian Post continuously tries to is accompanied by the configuring of work to take develop solutions based on the increased application the age structure of employees and the needs of the of technologies in order to accelerate or optimize proaged into account. This also applies to target groupcedures and processes. This is precisely the reason oriented further education programs and professiwhy Austrian Post attaches considerable importance onal development programmes designed to create to ensuring future career perspectives for its emploand strengthen overall health awareness as well as yees within and outside of the company in the light to maintain and strengthen the ability of employees of a constantly changing working world. However, a to work. large proportion of the employees have employment contracts which make it more difficult to adapt to The targeted recruiting of new employees and the these changes. promotion of young “high potentials” round off the necessary age management measures taken by Austrian Post counteracts employment-related strucAustrian Post as a consequence of demographic tural problems by promoting increasingly flexible wordevelopments. king processes and working time models. Employ10 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Risks relating to insufficient occupational safety The very large number of staff members engaged in performing physical tasks necessitated by the delivery and sorting of shipments makes the topics of occupational safety and protection of health of the utmost importance. The relevance of the measures preventing accidents and protecting health stems from their ability to maintain and strengthen the capability of employees to work, with this extending well into old age. The identification and assessment of risks to health and safety ensuing from places of work and the determination of any requisite protection measures guarantee secure and ergonometric work environments. The providing of information and the holding of regularly scheduled training programs on the topic of occupational safety ensure that employees are aware of the risks associated with their activities. Their proper conduct contributes to their minimization. Risks related to rising prices for climate protection certificates Environmental risks Austrian Post has set a goal of compensating for all Austrian Post operates in a very energy-intensive CO2 emissions caused by its business operations business. With about 9,000 vehicles, the company which cannot be reduced. Within the context of its boasts the largest vehicle fleet in the country. MoCO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative, all mail items reover, the buildings used by Austrian Post con(letters, direct mail items, magazines, parcels) are sume some 151m kWh of energy each year. Austridelivered in Austria in a climate-neutral manner. This an Post is subject to risks due to its high degree of initiative is being implemented in a three-phased dependence on fossil fuels. Moreover, the delivery program: the top priority is always to avoid emisstaff of Austrian Post and thus a large proportion of sions in the company’s core processes i.e. primarily its employees work outside, and can thus be influin its buildings and vehicle fleet. The second step is enced by changing weather conditions. for Austrian Post to increasingly rely on alternative energy sources. Third, all emissions which cannot Risks relating to changes in be avoided at the present time will be compensated environmental standards by support provided to recognised and certified Changes to Austria’s exhaust emissions laws could climate protection projects. lead to a withdrawal of the permission to operate held by a portion of the delivery vehicles now being The risk is that the growing number of companies employed. These vehicles would then have to be taking part in emission trading and the lower volume replaced ahead of schedule. As a general rule, of certificates distributed on the free market will Austrian Post’s vehicles have to be replaced after increase the price of a ton of CO2. Thus a rise in eight years of use. This means that the programme the price levels means Austrian Post will have to of normally replacing vehicles would have to be bear the added costs for climate protection certificomplemented by further investments. This risk is cates. However, in the years 2011, 2012 and 2013, being minimised by the replacement of vehicles is Austrian Post decided to purchase CO2 certificates part of the current program of fleet modernisation at a low price level until 2016, at least managing to and thus limits excess costs. Over the past few counteract this risk in the medium-term. years, the share of vehicles meeting the Euro 4 and Euro 5 emissions standards in Austrian Post’s fleet has been consistently increased. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 11 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Risk in not achieving stipulated environmental objectives Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to the environment and thus continually strives to identify optimisation potential in order to minimise its ecological footprint. In addition to comprehensive climate protection measures it implements on its own, it also actively participates in projects such as the ”Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS)” of the International Post Corporation (IPC), which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Austrian Post has defined a very ambitious goal for itself: its CO2 emissions, including those of the shipping companies it uses, should be reduced by 20% in the period 2010 to 2015. unable to fulfil this obligation over a long period of time, further financial obligations can ensue. The risk here is that the stipulated reduction targets cannot be reached, which would subsequently Austrian Post counteracts this risk by inspecting damage the company‘s reputation. This is aggraits buildings to ensure they are weatherproof and vated by the ongoing technologisation of the postal making investments in their maintenance on an and logistics business, which makes it necessary to ongoing basis to ensure safe workplaces. Employdeploy more efficient machinery and thus increase ee safety is also enhanced by the fleet of modern energy consumption. Austrian Post is on the right vehicles and by driver training. track when it comes to fulfilling its objectives thanks to a consistent monitoring of CO2 emissions as well Risks relating to weather conditions in winter as the measures which have already been introRecent studies suggest that a consequence of duced, such as the complete conversion to “green global warming could be cold and snowy winters electricity“, efficient lighting concepts, optimised in the Northern Hemisphere of the Earth. Accidents route planning, a modern vehicle fleet, the expanduring work (primarily mishaps occurring on paths sion of its fleet of electric-powered vehicles and its during delivery) and days lost to sickness are closely own photovoltaic facilities. related to the weather conditions prevailing during the winter months. By way of an example, there Risks related to weather and natural disasters was an increase in accidents at work in the 2013 Ongoing climate change could give rise to an reporting year, from 903 to 980 accidents. It can increase in the incidence of natural disasters. be assumed that most of them can be attributed to Weather-caused phenomena such as heavy rain, weather conditions (the toughest winter over the last hail, landslides, floods and the like could occur more 100 years). often. The consequences and after-effects of these are damage to property and persons. This causes A modern vehicle fleet and training employees in dria need for further maintenance and repair work. ving techniques enhance staff safety. The provision A further factor is Austrian Post’s legal obligation of service and protective clothing and the conducto ensure a nationwide supply of postal services. ting of nation-wide campaigns of flu vaccinations Further financial obligations could ensue in cases in help minimise the risks arising from unfavourable which natural disasters result in the company being weather conditions. 12 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Risks relating to rising energy costs The possibility cannot be excluded that a change Austrian Post largely depends upon its vehicle fleet in legal regulations with regard to the delivery of to transport and deliver shipments. That means that government mail will put responsibility for delivering increases in fuel prices and in other costs of energy some of these mail items in the hands of comlead directly to reductions in margins. The risk exists petitors and not only Austrian Post. Diversifying that increases in taxes levied on energy or a scarcity business operations into different markets enables of resources could cause fuel prices and other costs Austrian Post to more effectively spread or minimise of energy to rise beyond the level taken into account risks in individual sectors. in corporate plans. A key feature of Austrian Post’s business strategy Due to the good supply situation in Europe, it is is to achieve growth through selective acquisitions assumed that price will develop sideways in a stable and cooperation agreements. In this regard, it is manner, and that no dramatic cost increases will important to identify suitable acquisition targets and take place. Nevertheless, Austrian Post will carry out to successfully integrate acquired companies. The new tenders for the supply of natural gas and elecfuture profitability of these projects largely depends tricity in the year 2014, in order to be able to profit on investment requirements, acquisition costs as from the current situation of lower energy prices. well as political, economic and legal factors. Economic risks Market and competitive risks Austrian Post generates most of its revenue in Austria. If current economic growth forecasts have to be revised downwards, this would force a change in the planning assumptions upon which the company operates and thus limit the reliability of its planning. In addition, the company generates a considerable share of its revenue from a small number of large customers. The sustained and successful existence of these large customers is an important prerequisite in ensuring the stable development of Austrian Post. Large customers are not contractually required to have their mail handled by Austrian Post, and could decide on a medium-term basis to contract the delivery of at least part of their mail items to competitors on the postal services market. For this reason, all investment measures must be made in accordance with strict financial criteria. The letter mail and parcels business of Austrian Post Earnings from financial services strongly depend on is subject to increasing competition. In particular, the the market success of Austrian Post’s cooperation B2C parcel business, in which Austrian Post has a partner BAWAG P.S.K., whereas its earnings from leading position in the Austrian market, is dependent telecommunications projects are closely linked on the economic development of its customers as to the product portfolio of its cooperation partner well as increased competition, which arises on the Telekom Austria. basis of market penetration of alternative providers. The possibility of a further decline in revenue cannot All the above-mentioned market and competitive be excluded. risks could lead to significant volume decreases and thus to a corresponding drop in earnings. The company is striving to maintain customer loyalty by offering an attractive range of services. Austrian Post is also counteracting the volume decline resulting from the greater use of electronic media by developing new products and services, for example in the Infomail and B2B businesses but above all along the value chain. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 13 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification 1.2.2 Description of The fourth strategic thrust – customer orientation opportunities and innovation – enables, for example, Austrian Post to exploit the potential derived from the expansion The changes which Austrian Post faces can also of its on-line offering, in new e-commerce business lead to positive deviations from the pre-defined busimodels or its range of services by developing new ness targets. For this reason, risk management also self-service solutions. focuses on identifying and managing opportunities which arise. The objective is to show opportunities and exploit potential by implementing suitable meaOpportunities in society sures. The identification, evaluation, management Austrian Post systematically focuses on identifying and reporting of opportunities take place in line with trends in society, and subsequently develops new the above-mentioned process. products and solutions on an ongoing basis in order to exploit the opportunities that arise. For example, On the one hand, the identification of opportunities opportunities arise from the sustainability trend as is carried out by the planners in the business areas well as in the field of online business. (on a bottom-up basis). On the other hand, opporCustomers attach considerable importance to tunities are also verified and supplemented by the flexibility, and an increasingly important role is being Strategy & Group Development business unit (on played by the Internet as well as by mobile applicaa top-down basis). For this reason, Austrian Post tions. For this reason, Austrian Post is continually implements an ongoing evaluation of opportunities expanding its online service offering. The extensive in order to be able to leverage the existing potenonline services offered by the company are well tial. A new strategic project to identify opportunities received by customers and are thus being continuentitled “Post2016” was launched in 2013. This ally further developed and improved. These services encompasses various sub-projects aimed at more underline the fact that Austrian Post is already acprecisely recognising potential which can be exploitively shaping its own future. One of the focal points ted. These projects are also designed to once again of its operations is to offer dual solutions which link point out important opportunities arising for Austrian the digital and physical communications world with Post in the light of its four core strategic pillars. each other. The first strategic thrust – defending market leaderBased on the initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY as ship in the core business – sees the expansion and well as its pioneering role in the field of e-mobility, adaptation of Austrian Post’s product portfolio in the Austrian Post stands out as a climate protection Mail & Branch Network Division in accordance with partner and clearly distinguishes itself from its comcustomer requirements as a major opportunity. Popetitors. In this manner it can achieve a significant tential is evaluated on the basis of new and more atcompetitive advantage. tractive delivery models in the parcel segment which could evolve towards ensuring “same day delivery”. Austrian Post transports and delivers letters and parcels everyday to every address and every On the basis of the second strategic pillar – growth doorstep throughout Austria. Naturally this is of in selected markets – opportunities arise with major importance to the population and also offers respect to Austrian Post’s strategic international Austrian Post the opportunity to be closer to its cusshareholdings in the growth markets of Central/ tomers and thus to more directly react to customer Eastern Europe as well as Turkey. In Germany the requirements and wishes. resolute implementation of the Good Distribution Practice (GDP) guideline opens up special business On the basis of its sponsoring and cooperation opportunities. activities, Austrian Post is contributing to a change in societal values, for example on the basis of its With respect to the third cornerstone of Austrian project “Die Post macht Schule”. This project opens Post’s strategy enhancing efficiency and increasing up an opportunity for Austrian Post to once again flexibility of the cost positive deviations from the build awareness of Austrian Post as an institution in company’s medium-term planning can be achieved society to the younger generation and to stimulate and recognised as opportunities based on projects them to write letters. such as “Operating Excellence” and other procurement initiatives. 14 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Opportunities with employees Austrian Post invests extensively in the further education and professional development of its employees, which gives it a competitive edge vis-à-vis its competitors. In addition to a broad range of target-group oriented and competenceoriented further education and professional development programmes, a specially-designed mentoring programme for women targets female “high potentials”. Moreover, in the year 2010, the new mission statement of Austrian Post was developed featuring the three following value categories: • Customer orientation: Everything we do revolves around our customers • Profitability and sustainability: We are future-oriented • Communication and appreciation: We are all part of Austrian Post The services already offered by Austrian Post since 2011 are carried out in a CO2 neutral manner, thus A variety of measures now serve the purpose of giving the company a clear-cut competitive edge implementing and embedding these new corporate compared to other providers. This could lead to adprinciples in the daily work of all employees. The ditional revenue, particularly in the highly competitive objective of the corporate principles can only be parcels business. achieved if they are consciously put into practice i.e. promoting a cultural change in the way employees Moreover, on the job market highly qualified employdeal with each other, customers and partners of Ausees are increasingly focusing on ecological aspects trian Post and the strengthening of employee idenin the selection of their employer. In addition, tification with the company. In order to ensure this existing employees perform more effectively if they transformation in values, Austrian Post developed its do something which fills them with pride. A credible own leadership guidelines in cooperation with execusustainability strategy spearheaded by the initiative tives in the company which are based on four guiding CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY enables the company to values: assume responsibility, provide orientation, more easily find employees. This prevailing ecolopromote cooperation and build confidence. Based on gical trend opens up opportunities which have a these measures, Austrian Post can distinguish itself positive effect on the stakeholder relationships to from its competitors and position itself as an attraccustomers and employees. tive employee for qualified staff. Climate change gives rise to the possibility of the Opportunities relating to legislators imposing additional taxes in order to the environment reduce the consumption of energy by households and by companies. These measures would also The increasingly strong consumer trend towards enaffect Austrian Post, which would in turn face a rise vironmentally-friendly or ecological products opens in prices. However, the measures would also create up a variety of opportunities for Austrian Post, in opportunities for Austrian Post, which has a number the light of the fact that the company is playing a of advantages over its competitors, for example, pioneering role on the basis of its initia-tive CO2 the fact that it features the largest delivery network NEUTRAL DELIVERY. It can be expected that in the in the country. Volumes of letters and parcels are future consumers will attach greater importance to usually delivered via a single, unified system of determining whether or not products and services transport and distribution. Austrian Post’s costs entail ecological aspects as well. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 15 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification comprise a very low share of energy and/or resource-dependent costs per shipment/unit compared to those of other service providers. Any changes in laws causing energy to become more expensive or resources to become scarcer (and thus also generating rises in energy costs) would result in Austrian Post’s experiencing rises in costs per shipment that are less than those of their competitors. This could enable Austrian Post to increase its market shares, since its competitors would be forced to respond to rises in energy costs by increasing their prices. The latter would be greater than those enacted by Austrian Post. Economic opportunities Austrian Post is the undisputed market leader in Austrian Post will only be successful in the longAustria’s letter mail segment as well as in the transterm if it can provide an attractive product and port and delivery of parcels, particularly to private service offering corresponding to the specific needs recipients. In the future Austrian Post will continue to of its customers. For this reason, the company will attach particular importance to defending its leading focus on targeted innovation in its service offering as position. Based on its excellent market position, the well as an attractive and diverse range of services. company has the opportunity to achieve an even A broad-based portfolio of services such as pick-up higher customer penetration by expanding its range stations, automatic franking machines, shipping of services along the value chain, thus generating boxes and online solutions should all contribute to additional revenue. fulfilling customer requirements. The structural transformation in the branch network Furthermore, Austrian Post also offers its business was launched in cooperation with BAWAG P.S.K. in customers tailor-made solutions, for example in the January 2011 by opening the first jointly operated fields of warehousing and fulfilment which encombranch offices, and speedily continued in the course pass the entire logistics value chain, from commisof the year 2013. By the end of 2013 there were sioning of customer orders, additional services such already 476 jointly operated branch offices. The joint as greeting cards or gift packaging as well as the branch office network not only serves as the basis packing, labelling, shipping and delivery. for exploiting synergies and thus enhancing efficiency, but also addressing new customer groups. 16 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 2 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Österreichische Post AG, whose headquarters are Mail & Branch Network Division located in Vienna, address Haidingergasse 1, is The core business of the Mail & Branch Network Austria’s leading logistics and postal services proviDivision ranges from the acceptance, sorting and der, with annual revenue of EUR 1.7 bn in the year delivery of letters, postcards, addressed and un2013 (individual financial statements according to addressed direct mail items and regional media to the Austrian Commercial Code), and a total of about various branch network services. The service portfolio 19,000 employees. Austrian Post reliably carries out is complemented by online services, self-service its business, regardless of whether letters, direct zones, banking and telecommunications services, mail, print media or parcels are transported. For this mobile telephony and retail goods and additional purpose, it operates a branch network consisting digital mail-related services. of 1,894 own or third-party operated postal service points in 2013, making it one of the largest private Each year Austrian Post delivers some 6bn mail customer networks in the country. items, including 1bn letters to 4.3m households and companies. In this regard, Austrian Post guarantees The company makes an important contribution daily nationwide delivery of the highest quality. In to safeguarding the nation’s communications and 2013 95,5% of the domestic letters were delivered logistics infrastructure based on its nationwide and on the next working day after the mail items were reliable supply of high-quality postal services on posted, a higher level than behalf of the Austrian population and economy. the 95% stipulated by the government. A total of Highlights 2013 The Sustainability Report presented here refers 1,894 postal service points • Revenue growth in letter mail exclusively to the parent company Österreichische throughout Austria are now and direct mail driven by the Post AG (“Austrian Post” in this report). The subsidiat the disposal of customega election year 2013 aries of Austrian Post are not included in this report. mers, of which 535 are • Expansion of the service However, if any statements in the report also relate company-operated branch portfolio for mail solutions, and to the entire Group (including all subsidiaries), the offices and 1,359 are posbroad offering of dialogue marketext will clearly use the term “Austrian Post Group”. tal partner offices. Together ting products they comprise the largest • “World Mail Award” bestowed Austrian Post is divided into two operating divisions: private customer network on the new branch office design the Mail & Branch Network Division and the Parcel & in the country. • Further extension of the 24/7 Logistics Division. offering: 185 self-service zones already in operation, including franking machines, drop-off boxes, etc. Mail & Branch parcel & • Modernisation and efficiency Network Division LOGiSTIcs division increases in logistics processes: • Letters further investments in distribution • Parcels • Addressed and unaddressed facilities e.g. flatsorters • Combined freight direct mail items • Logistics optimisation along • Express mail • Newspapers and regional media the entire delivery chain: intro• Temperature-controlled logistics • Online services duction of new working time • Fullfillment • Branch network services models, entire delivery staff • Wertlogistik equipped with new handhelds • Liberalisation of the letter mail markets in CEE, Austrian Post’s stake in the Bulgarian subsidiary M&BM Express raised to 51% GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 17 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Parcel & Logistics Division Locations of the Austrian Post Group The Parcel & Logistics Division of Austrian Post Austrian Post has been successful for many years already offers its services in nine countries. In interbeyond the country’s borders. The company’s subnational markets, this consistently takes place via sidiaries operating primarily in Central and Eastern the company’s own subsidiaries. The main business Europe but also in Germany already account for a of the division is transporting parcels and EMS items considerable share of total Group revenue. Building for private and business customers. The product upon these positive experiences, Austrian Post and service portfolio also includes a broad spectrum took another major expansion step and entered the of special logistics solutions, for example so-called promising Turkish market in the summer of 2013, combined freight (the joint transport of individual acquiring a 25% stake in the parcel service provider parcels and pallets), temperature-controlled logistics Aras Kargo. (transport of temperature-sensitive goods in the range of 2 to 8 and 15 to 25 degrees Celsius), value A lot also happened in the CEE region in 2013. logistics (value transport, cash management and Austrian Post once again expanded its top market self-service machines) as well as various fulfilment position in the parcel business and is the B2B marservices (additional customer-specific logistics serviket leader in Slovakia, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, ces ranging from Webshop logistics to warehousing, Montenegro and Serbia. Austrian Post is also well commissioning and value-added services). under way in the private customer segment. Every On its domestic market Austrian Post delivers fourth B2C/C2C parcel shipment is already handled about 70m parcels and by Austrian Post, in Hungary even every third parcel EMS items annually to all in this segment. In spite of the difficult conditions Highlights 2013 households and companies such as high inflation in some countries accompa• New record volume of about throughout Austria. Accornied by ongoing price pressure, Austrian Post’s 70m parcels delivered in Ausdingly, Austrian Post is the parcel operations are growing at a faster rate than tria, and further expansion of the leading service provider for the region’s economy as a whole. The basis for this company’s market share to 25% the delivery of mail order success story is the excellent transnational quality of in the B2B business and 76% in parcels featuring nationservice, the customer focus and the efficient parcel the B2C/C2C segment wide delivery of the logistics infrastructure. • Expansion of self-service highest quality. offerings to enhance customer Austrian Post is also very active in the CEE mail deliconvenience in parcel delivery: very segment. In 2013 the final remaining eight letter 5,000 Pick-up Boxes and new mail markets in Central and Eastern Europe were collection stations in Austria, completely liberalised. This means that new growth along with 50 parcel machines opportunities are presenting themselves to Austrian (“Balikomat“) in Slovakia Post in addition to its current business operations. • Entry into the Turkish market The company identified business opportunities in based on the acquisition of a CEE early on and actively exploited them. For this 25% interest in the parcel servireason, the region has emerged as an important ces provider Aras Kargo sales market. Similar to its operations on the Slo• Focus on the field of pharmavakian market, Austrian Post has also been offering ceutical logistics and founding cost-efficient and high quality solutions for the of the pharmaceutical wholesaler delivery of conventional mail in Croatia and AEP direct Romania since 2012 through its subsidiaries. • Further growth and positive development of strategic investments in South East and Eastern Europe • EU membership of Croatia in July 2013 results in rising international demand and thus further market growth 18 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST InternatIonal presenCe Country Company/Interest1 FIeld oF aCtIvIty Letter mail, parcel delivery, express mail services (EMS), combined austrIa Österreichische Post AG freight, addressed direct mail, media post, electronic services Österreichische Post AG, feibra GmbH Unaddressed and addressed direct mail Systemlogistik Distribution GmbH Warehousing, fulfillment Post.Wertlogistik GmbH Value logistics Scanpoint GmbH Scanning/archiving of documents D2D GmbH (30%) Printing and mailing of documents BulgarIa M&BM Express OOD (51%) Unaddressed and addressed direct mail, letter mail, hybrid mail BosnIaHerzegovIna 24-VIP d.o.o. Express and parcel service, combined freight Combined freight, warehouse logistics, value added services, germany trans-o-flex Logistics Group GmbH temperature-controlled logistics MEILLERGHP (65%) Direct mail services and production CroatIa Overseas Trade d.o.o. Express and parcel service, combined freight Weber Escal d.o.o. Unaddressed direct mail, hybrid mail, letter mail montenegro City Express Montenegro d.o.o. Express and parcel service, combined freight poland PostMaster PL Unaddressed direct mail romanIa PostMaster RO Unaddressed and addressed direct mail, hybrid mail, letter mail serBIa City Express d.o.o. Express and parcel service, combined freight slovakIa Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o. (SPS), In Time s.r.o. Express and parcel service, combined freight Kolos s.r.o. Unaddressed and addressed direct mail, letter mail, hybrid mail turkey Aras Kargo a.s. Express and parcel service, combined freight Hungary trans-o-flex Hungary Kft. Express and parcel service, combined freight feibra Magyarország Unaddressed and addressed direct mail, letter mail, hybrid mail 1 The precise shareholding is only listed if Austrian Post has less than a 100% stake. 1 The precise shareholding is only listed if Austrian Post has less than a 100% stake. Shareholder structure of Austrian Post and 10.4% in Great Britain (plus 0.1 percentage points). A total of 7% of the shares (minus 0.1 perAs a consequence of the Initial Public Offering in centage points) are currently held by North Amer2006, 49.0% of the shares were placed with invesican investors (USA, Canada), whereas investors tors. The shareholding held by the Austrian state in the rest of the world account for much less than holding company ÖIAG (Österreichische Indus0.2% (unchanged). trieholding AG) in the share capital of Austrian Post thus decreased from a 100% stake to 51.0%, or a total of 35.7m of the outstanding shares. In relation Shareholder Structure of auStrian PoSt to the 67,552,638 shares currently in circulation, by Country, base: 67.6 M stoCks ÖIAG holds a 52.8% stake in the company, and thus 0.2% remains the majority shareholder of Austrian Post. 7.0% ÖIaG A shareholder ID carried out in January 2014 10.4% Private and institutional concluded that in addition to the main shareholder investors in austria ÖIAG, 40% of the shares are held by European 14.2% 52.8% Continental europe uk and Ireland investors (unchanged compared to the previous north america analysis of January 2013). All in all, 15.4% of these rest of the world 15.4% shares are held by private and institutional investors in Austria (plus 0.6 percentage points), 14.2% in Continental Europe (minus 0.4 percentage points) GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 19 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Awards won during their financial reporting, investor relations, strategy, the period under review corporate management and corporate governance. The high quality of Austrian Post’s reporting was From a capital market perspective, the renewed underlined by the recognition granted once again acceptance of Austrian Post for listing on the at the Austrian Annual Reporting Award of the busiAustrian sustainability index VÖNIX of the Vienna ness magazine “trend”. Austrian Post was ranked Stock Exchange for the period 2012/13 underlines first in the category “Best Reporting” in 2013 as it the holistic manner in which Austrian Post operates. was in 2012. The quality of other forms of communiAlso for the subsequent period 2014/15, Austrian cations between the company and its shareholders Post has already been included in this index. and stakeholders was also evaluated due to the fact that communications take place using various On an international level, Austrian Post also scored communications channels and on different levels. top marks in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). For example, the Internet presence and sustainaThis is the world’s largest database for corporate bility reports are becoming increasingly important. environmental and climate change information and Similarly, greater emphasis is being placed on issues is extensively used by capital market participants such as corporate social responsibility, sustainability to evaluate potential investments. In 2013, Austrian and transparency. Taking all these aspects into acPost was listed in the Carbon Performance Leadercount, Austrian Post was given the highest number ship Index for companies in the German-speaking of points of all the Austrian companies listed on the region of Europe, boasting a score of 88A points. Vienna Stock Exchange. This prestigious recognition not only confirms Austrian Post’s transparent environmental reporting but Furthermore, Austrian Post was rated first in the catalso serves as evidence of the quality of the initiated egory “ATX Award” at the Vienna Stock Exchange climate protection measures. Awards in 2013. The ATX Award honours companies which stand out on the capital market due to 20 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 3 REPORT PARAMETERS The current report refers to the 2013 financial year, and presents the performance and achievements of Austrian Post in the field of sustainability. It thus picks up where the Sustainability Report 2012 left off, and shows how Austrian Post integrates the issues of environmental protection, responsibility to its employees and society together with economic criteria in its core business operations. The Sustainability Report of Austrian Post is published on an annual basis. The Sustainability Report 2013 once again encompasses two different but complementary publications this year. This GRI Sustainability Report (Global Reporting Initiative) ensures a high level of transparency to stakeholders and comparability with other companies due to its standardised structure. The complementary Sustainability Magazine 2013/14, Contents and materiality which will be published as a supplement to the AusThe decision on the contents of the report was trian business magazines “Format” and “Profil”, is based on the principle of materiality. The GRI Sustadesigned to inform a broad target group about the inability Report covers all the sustainability aspects activities and projects of Austrian Post in the field of reflecting the significant economic, ecological and sustainability. social influences on the part of the organisation, or which have a considerable influence on the evaluation and decisions of stakeholders. Scope of the report The assessment of the materiality of sustainability The report refers exclusively to the parent company aspects and of individual performance indicators is Österreichische Post AG and does not include its undertaken by the Investor Relations department, of subsidiaries, due to the fact that as things stand which the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) area today, some sustainability-related data still does forms part. Other topics that are not fully depicted by not exist in a consolidated form. The objective of the indicators but which do affect the development Austrian Post is to integrate the subsidiary trans-oof the sustainability of Austrian Post are established flex, which contributes about 20% of total Group by the CSR working groups. A working group has revenue and encompasses about 5% of the group’s been constituted for each topic area – employees, employees, in the sustainability reporting within the society, environment and the economy. The groups next two years. The remaining subsidiaries only are convened on a regular basis. generate about 5% of Group revenue at the present time, although the number of employees comprises In a further move, the strategy for sustainability and a share of about 17%. It is being evaluated whether the corresponding measures are presented once a and to what extent these subsidiaries can be integyear to the CSR board, whose members are from rated into the sustainability reporting. various corporate sectors such as the vehicle fleet management, Group real estate, human resources management, corporate communications, compliance, risk management, controlling, Group purchasing as well as strategy and Group development. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 21 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Members of the working groups and of the CSR The compiling and calculation of data in this report board are in close and regular contact with a broad was the responsibility of Group accounting and contspectrum of stakeholders. This enables them to rolling, as well as the departments responsible for the integrate the input – taking the form of the widevehicle fleet and building management. The scope of ranging demands held by these groups – into the the reporting and the measuring methods which were discussion forming the basis for the reporting of applied are similar to the last Sustainability Report. It sustainability. Such stakeholders were also given an will be noted if there are any deviations from previous opportunity to be directly involved in the sustainabilreporting. ity process and in the reporting. This took the form of the Stakeholder Roundtable held in June 2014. Statement on GRI Sustainability About thirty representatives of a variety of stakeholReporting Guidelines der groups were invited to attend the roundtable, at which topical sustainability-related issues of central The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) develops importance to Austrian Post were discussed. globally applicable quality criteria for sustainability reporting in consultation with a wide range of On the basis of the discussions as well as voting on stakeholders drawn from business, employer and the importance of the individual issues by partiemployee representatives, civil society, academic cipants of the Stakeholder Roundtable 2014, the institutions and other areas. The GRI Sustainability materiality of issues for stakeholders was evaluated Reporting Guidelines are designed to serve as a unionce again. A survey of Austrian Post’s top manageversally valid framework which an organization can ment provided an assessment of the importance of use to report on its economic, environmental, and these issues from the company’s perspective. On social performance. The voluntary adoption of the the basis of these analyses, adjustments were made criteria set out in the Guidelines increases transparto the materiality matrix and more precise definitions ency, credibility, and comparability in sustainability included. This materiality matrix presents the core reporting. issues for Austrian Post and its stakeholders. The performance indicators supply comparable A detailed description of the process can be found information on the economic, ecological and social in the sections for indicators 4.14 to 4.17 focusing performance of the organisation, and are characteron integrating stakeholders. ised using the following abbreviations: EC (Economy), EN (Environment), LA (Labour), HR (Human Rights), SO (Society) und PR (Product). Reporting methodology The GRI Sustainability Report 2013 of Austrian Post Organizations that use GRI guidelines for their was prepared in accordance to the Sustainability Rereporting are obliged to declare the extent to which porting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative the GRI Guidelines have been utilized. Different (GRI G3.1), and corresponds to the A+ Application requirements for reporting exist for each of the three Level. Compliance with the related formal criteria as Application Levels, A, B, and C. A “+” following the well as the information contained in the report was letter of the alphabet indicates that the report was reviewed and certified by an independent third party reviewed by an independent third party. and subject to a limited assurance engagement. The Assurance Statement of Ernst & Young WirtschaftsThe present Sustainability Report 2013 of Austrian prüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. providing independent Post meets the requirements of the A+ Applicacertification can be found at the end of this report. tion Level of the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 22 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 4 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.14.10 Corporate Governance 4.1 Corporate governance and management structure Good corporate governance is a top priority of sustainable business management. Corporate governance not only involves fulfilling legal stipulations. The Management Board and Supervisory Board have the responsibility to ensure that the management and supervision of the company are oriented to national and international principles in order to ensure the long-term creation of value and the continued existence of the company in the long term. Key elements of good corporate governance include respect for the interests of shareholders and employees, transparency in all company decisions and an appropriate risk management system. In accordance with the Austrian Stock Corporation Act, the Management Board has sole responsithe company and the members of the Management bility for managing the company for the benefit of Board. The Presidential Committee deals with issues the enterprise itself and for enhancing enterprise relating to appointing members of the Management value on a sustainable basis. The members of the Board. The Audit Committee carries out the resManagement Board jointly share responsibility for ponsibilities defined in § 92 Para. 4a Austrian Stock overall business management, and decide upon Corporation Act. fundamental issues relating to business policy and corporate strategy. The Supervisory Board as the As the highest governing body of the company, the controlling body has the responsibility to monitor the Supervisory Board performs the tasks assigned to it management of the company and provide support with respect to the economic as well as social and to the Management Board in making decisions of ecological responsibility of the company. The Manmaterial importance to the company. The Manageagement Board bears the responsibility and carries ment Board of Austrian Post consisted of four out the task of presenting sustainability-relevant members in the 2013 financial year. Georg Pölzl facts to the highest decision-making bodies and was reappointed by the Supervisory Board to the processes in order to ensure sustainability-oriented position of Chairman of the Management Board and business development. Major corporate decisions Chief Executive Officer of Austrian Post at its meetrelating to social aspects are made in accordance ing held on November 13, 2013. His term of office with the mission statement of Austrian Post on the expires on September 30, 2019, taking account of basis of relevant legal regulations. the contractual extension option. Details on the composition and mode of operation The Supervisory Board has resolved to establish of the Management Board and Supervisory Board committees consisting of its own members to carry can be found in the Annual Report 2013, Part 2 – out specific functions. The Executive Committee is Financial Report, starting on page 10. responsible for regulating the relationships between GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 23 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification In accordance with the stipulations contained in the 4.4 Employee and shareholder Austrian Corporate Governance Code, the Superparticipation in the decisionvisory Board has defined criteria modelled after making process Appendix 1 of the code. If these criteria are fulfilled the Supervisory Board member is considered to be The Austrian Stock Corporation Act contains independent. All the members of the Supervisory detailed regulations concerning the exercising of Board elected by the Annual General Meeting deshareholder rights at the Annual General Meeting of clared their independence in accordance with these a public limited company. This includes the right to criteria. Moreover, the Supervisory Board consists of pose questions and to vote on resolutions as well as six representatives who can be considered as indethe right to challenge resolutions. At the Annual Gependent from the core shareholder of Austrian Post. neral Meeting 2014, shareholders were once again given the opportunity to cast their votes by absentee Accordingly, the majority of the Supervisory Board ballot. Moreover, within the context of the Annual members do not have any direct relationship to the General Meeting 2014, a series of sustainabilitymajority shareholder of the company. oriented issues were discussed in response to requests on the part of shareholders. The key issues Details on the criteria determining the independence dealt with included the effects of structural changes of Supervisory Board members can be found in the on the employees of the company, ensuring the Annual Report 2013, Part 2 – Financial Report on reliable supply of postal services as well as ecologipage 14. cal issues such as the photovoltaic facility in Vienna/ Inzersdorf and the expansion of the e-vehicle fleet. 4.2 Independence of The staff representative bodies have the task of highest governing body representing and promoting the economic, social, health-related and cultural interests of the employThe Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the highest ees in the company. The staff representative bodies governance body of Austrian Post, does not siof Austrian Post are structured into a Central Works multaneously serve as the Chairman of the MaCouncil based in Vienna, a total of six staff comnagement Board. Rudolf Kemler has served as the mittees and more than 90 employee ombudsman Chairman of the Supervisory Board since November committees. 1, 2012. The incompatibility of a Supervisory Board member serving on the Management Board at the same time is regulated in detail in § 90 Para. 1 Aus4.5 Remuneration system for trian Stock Corporation Act. the Management Board and top executives 4.3 Structure of the The remuneration system is based on the fundamental idea of taking a three-tiered approach (fixed management bodies and variable salary components). The fixed salary is In the 2013 financial year, the Supervisory Board of linked to the salary structure of publicly listed AustriAustrian Post consisted of eleven members – seven an companies, and takes into account the range of shareholder representatives elected by the Annual responsibilities assumed by each of the members of General Meeting and four employee representatives the Management Board. The variable remuneration elected by the Central Works Council of Austrian system is linked to a large extent to measureable, Post. There was one change in the 2013 financial quantitative performance indicators and also encomyear: Edgar Ernst retired from his position on the passes the achievement of qualitative performance Supervisory Board effective June 21, 2013. The targets, in which case both the quantitative as well Annual General Meeting 2014 elected Peter Kruse as the qualitative performance indicators incluto the Supervisory Board, and thus once again inde components of relevance to sustainability. For creased the number of shareholder representatives example, objectives on the issues of ensuring the to eight. The members of the Supervisory Board in reliable provision of postal services and enhancing the 2013 financial year are listed in the Annual Recustomer convenience on the basis of new selfport 2013 of Austrian Post, Part 2, Financial Report, service solutions as well as customer satisfaction are starting on page 11. included in the list of objectives for the 2013 financial year. 24 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Moreover, a Long-Term Incentive Programme has 4.7 Expertise of the Supervibeen established for the Management Board and sory Board on economic, envitop executives, which aims to achieve a remuneraronmental and social issues tion of management in line with sustainable corporate development. Relevant expertise and experience in management positions are of primary importance in the selection More information on the amount and structure of the process for members of the Supervisory Board. In remuneration paid to the Management addition, the composition of the Supervisory Board Board and Supervisory Board is contained in the also pays attention to ensuring sufficient diversity. Remuneration Report (Annual Report 2013 of Austrian Post, Part 2 – Financial Report, pages 16 With this in mind, it should be noted that three of and 17). the twelve members of the Supervisory Board in the 2013 financial year are under the age of 50, and two members are not Austrian nationals. Two women 4.6 Processes in place are members of the Supervisory Board, namely to avoid conflicts of interest Edith Hlawati (Deputy Chairman) and Elisabeth Stadler. Pursuant to § 13 of the internal rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board of Austrian Post, SuperviMembers of the Management Board are appointed sory Board members are required to immediately rein line with the stipulations contained in the Public port any conflicts of interest to the Chairman of the Appointments Act. The focus is on ensuring that the Supervisory Board. If the Chairman is also involved Management Board members have the particular in a conflict of interest, he must immediately notify knowledge and professional skills which should be the Deputy Chairman. expected to enable them to fulfil the tasks assigned to them. In addition, special importance is also atOn the one hand, conflicts of interest are avoided tached to the individual’s leadership competence as by the regulations contained in the Austrian Stock well as his or her organisational and social abilities Corporation Act (for example § 79 non-competition clause, § 80 on the granting of loans). On the other hand, the internal rules of procedure for the Super4.8 Mission statement, visory Board generally require the formal approval of code of conduct and the Executive Committee to any other positions held sustainability principles by members of the Management Board. Austrian Post is committed to complying with the In addition, the internal rules of procedure applying stipulations of the Austrian Corporate Governance to the Management Board of Austrian Post stipuCode in the spirit of ensuring a responsible and lates that a member of the Management Board is transparent management of the company. For this not permitted to vote on a proposed resolution if reason, Austrian Post has successively further exthe Management Board meeting deals with matters panded its compliance management system on the relating to the personal or business interests of this basis of its mission statement. member. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 25 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification EVERYTHING WE WE ARE WE ARE ALL MISSION DO REVOLVES FUTUREPART OF STATEMENT AROUND OUR ORIENTED AUSTRIAN POST CUSTOMERS Transparency on Clear rules; COMPLIANCE Risk-orientated Action-orientated compliance-relevant compliance in STRATEGY prevention strategy advisory services issues; policy business processes recommendations Management Board of Austrian Post COMPLIANCE STRUCTURE Group Auditing, Risk Management Compliance Committee & Compliance Compliance Team Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Mail & Branch Network Division Parcel & Logistics Central Functions The compliance management system In a process which took close to one year, PwC of Austrian Post evaluated the conception, suitability, implementation and effectiveness of the compliance management The aim is to establish a Group-wide compliance system on the basis of IDW PS 980, the standard culture on the basis of our mission statement, and recognised by the Institute of Public Auditors in Gerthus to make a value-added contribution to the many. The assessment showed that the compliance development of the company. management system of Austrian Post is consistent with the stipulations contained in IDW PS 980. In order to achieve this, Austrian Post pursues a risk-oriented prevention strategy, which identifies Code of Conduct and minimises risks at an early stage. This includes developing clearly-defined rules and integrating A further important step towards the Group-wide them in all relevant business processes. Austrian roll-out of the compliance management system Post will continually press ahead with the ongoing took place in 2011 with the publication of Austriintegration of the compliance organization, also at an Post’s Code of Conduct. It is based upon the Group subsidiaries. For this purpose, the number of Group’s mission statement and serves as a guide regional compliance officers supporting the central for all employees of Austrian Post in their everyday Compliance Officer was increased to 25 people in work. The Code of Conduct was translated into all 2013 in order to implement Group-wide compliance national languages represented in the company in activities. The activities of the central and regional 2012 and communicated throughout the Group. It compliance organization should create a sustaincontains the principles underlying ethical and legally able, practiceand action-oriented consulting impeccable behaviour on the part of all employees offering for all employees in all business units, and of the Group. The Code of Conduct is oriented to also ensure transparency in compliance-relevant international agreements as well as ethical stanmatters. In addition, the recommendation of meadards, and reflects the commitment of Austrian Post sures in cases of compliance violations comprises to complying with the principles of the UN Global an important instrument designed to promote the Compact. professionalization and further development of the compliance management system. 26 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST As an additional measure, Austrian Post developed The Austrian Post mission statement a Code of Conduct for suppliers in 2011, which as a guidepost for the future obliges contractors of Austrian Post as well as their subcontractors and suppliers to comply with miniEven if you have a good compass with you, you still mum legal and social standards. need to know how to effectively use it in order to stay on the right path. The same applies to core strategies Guidelines which comprise the guiding compass for Austrian The focal points of the compliance management Post. The question as to how these strategies are system are the “capital market” and “anti-corrupto be implemented is answered by the company’s tion”. For this reason, specific, valid companymission statement. In a way, the three core values wide guidelines were developed and published by serve as a kind of psychological backdrop for every Austrian Post at an early stage. The Capital Market activity in the company and determine in which way Compliance Directive of Austrian Post reflects valid the company will aspire to achieve the specified Austrian capital market regulations as well as the goals. The mission statement is extremely important, Compliance for Issuers Ordinance of the Financial because only when the entire staff has a clear idea of Market Authority, and was issued in order to prevent where we are going and also why this is the case will insider dealings. The Group’s internal directive on everybody really be able to pull in the same direction. the “Acceptance and Granting of Gifts, Invitations and Other Advantages” issued in 2011 had to be This was already developed in a broad-based proadapted in 2012 due to changed legal situation cess back in 2010. Since then, it has impressively arising as a consequence of the Corruption Criminal proven to be effective as a signpost for the future. Code Amendment Act and the relating extension of the term “official”. This Group directive explains The creation of the mission statement relied on relevant legal terms in detail (e.g. “official”, “undue broad-based participation to reach a consensus, advantage” etc.) and provides employees with all involving some 500 employees from all business units the information they need to know about the topic in the Group. Nevertheless, the results were clear and of anticorruption. Moreover, the directive also conprecise. The focus was on three value categories: tains a comprehensive practical handbook including customer orientation, profitability and sustainability a graphic representation, and thus offers assistance as well as appreciation and communication. Susto all employees in dealing with presents and invitatainable business management will be the natural tions in their everyday work. Furthermore, another consequence if the company succeeds in orienting aid to employees is an e-learning tool on the topics its activities to these three values. of “capital market” and “anticorruption”, which was made available throughout the Group starting in the As a result Austrian Post has come full circle. fall of 2013. The department also provides support Management’s top priority is the sustainable success in the conception of guidelines and processes to of the company and thus sustainably securing its more effectively integrate compliance in the relevant profitability. In this respect it should be mentioned areas and processes. that sustainable development not only encompasses economic aspects but also the environment, the social environment and naturally the employees. A SHARED MISSION STATEMENT LEADS TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1. CUSTOMER ORIENTATION EVERYTHING WE DO REVOLVES AROUND OUR CUSTOMERS ECONOMY 2. ECOLOGY PROFITABILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY WE ARE FUTURE-ORIENTED SOCIETY 3. COMMUNICATION AND APPRECIATION WE ARE ALL PART OF AUSTRIAN POST EMPLOYEES GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 27 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Achieving the far-reaching sustainability targets of The risk management system of Austrian Austrian Post and maintaining good relations to all Post is designed to identify, evaluate and control stakeholders will also positively impact the progress significant business risks, In the interest of sustainamade in securing long-term profitability. bility, risk evaluation, management and planning of appropriate measures take account of ecological, social and ethical aspects. 4.9 Procedures to oversee the sustainability performance 4.12 External agreements, At present, no special control and verification meprinciples and initiatives chanism to monitor the sustainability performance of the company has been set up by the Supervisory Austrian Post orients its efforts to implement its Board, the highest governance body. Information goals and activities to the UN Global Compact, pertaining to the ecological and social performance which it joined in 2007. Against this backdrop, Ausof the company is presented to the entire Managetrian Post is committed to complying with the ten ment Board at its meetings. The Management Board principles of the UN Global Compact focusing on and Supervisory Board jointly coordinate the way in human rights, labour rights, environmental protecwhich sustainability-related issues are dealt with. tion and corruption prevention, and reports on its progress in living up to these principles in the year 2013 in this report. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s In addition, Austrian Post continued to take part in own performance with respect international programmes such as the “Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS)” of to sustainability the International Postal Corporation (IPC) in 2013. There is no formal process for this purpose with regards to the Supervisory Board. The variable salary components for Management Board members 4.13 Membership in associadepend on achieving pre-defined economic and sotions and interest groups cietal/social objectives. Determining whether these targets have been reached is the joint responsibility Austrian Post is a member of several national of the Supervisory Board’s Executive Committee associations and interest groups, including the and the Management Board. Vienna Chamber of Commerce, the Federation of Austrian Industries, the Vienna Economic Forum, the Shares Forum, the Cercle Investor Relations Austria (C.I.R.A.), the Public Relations Association of 4.11 4.13 Austria, the Austrian Dialogue Marketing Association Commitments to and the Austrian Logistics Association. External Initiatives On an international level, Austrian Post belongs to the European association of public postal opera4.11 Addressing the tors PostEurop as well as the International Postal precautionary principle Corporation (IPC). Among the objectives of the sustainability approach In order to strengthen its activities in the field of antiof Austrian Post is to prevent or minimise any corruption, Austrian Post joined Transparency Interpotential burden on the environment or dangers to national in the year 2011 as a corporate member. human health on the basis of early and forwardlooking behaviour. This not only includes preventing Moreover, Austrian Post is a member of “respACT potential risks, but also the efforts to minimise the – Austrian business council for sustainable develenvironmental impact of the company. opment“, the leading corporate platform in Austria for corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. 28 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 4.14 4.17 generally interested in or have an influence on Austrian Post. This analysis and clustering of individual Stakeholder stakeholder groups makes it possible to specifically engagement address the demands of the respective interest groups. 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4.16 Approaches to stakeholThe objectives and measures underlying Austrian der engagement Post’s sustainability efforts are always oriented to The objectives and measures underlying Austrian the demands and expectations of the company’s Post’s sustainability efforts are always oriented to stakeholders. Different interest groups perceive the the demands and expectations of the company’s corporate responsibility of Austrian Post in different stakeholders, in which case the different interest ways, and also have different expectations of the groups also have different expectations of the comcompany. pany. For this reason, Austrian Post uses different channels to maintain a dialogue with its stakeholder groups, and invites them to interact and provide 4.15 Basis for the selection feedback. The aim of stakeholder management is to of STAKEHOLDERS with whom identify risks and opportunities at an early stage, as to engage well as to gain specific information about the expectations of stakeholders and to strengthen existing The term “stakeholder” is broadly defined at Ausgood relationships or establish new ones. trian Post, due to the fact that Austrian Post has a very high significance to society as one of the For this reason, key factors include transparent biggest employers in the country and a provider of communications as well as an open dialogue, in universal postal services. Generally speaking, stakeorder to identify potential conflicts among the indiviholder groups are those individuals, organizations dual stakeholder groups at an early stage. Different for groups which have an influence on the company stakeholders have different opinions concerning the or which are affected by the activities of a company. corporate social responsibility of Austrian Post, and thus place different expectations on the company. The stakeholder groups relevant to Austrian Post were once again evaluated in the year 2014, and The employees of Austrian Post are in regular identified in line with ONR 192500, the certification contact with their stakeholder groups. As a result, guideline for ISO 26000. The identification was the CSR working groups as well as the CSR Board carried out on the basis of several criteria such as of Austrian Post include employees from different who precisely could be impacted by the decisions departments, due to the fact that these employees or activities of the company, who would likely voice can contribute to the discussion by integrating the concerns about decisions or activities, to whom wishes and requirements of the respective stakeholthe company has legal obligations, who would be der groups. impacted within the value chain, and who would be Stakeholder groups of Austrian Post SHAREHOLDERS CUSTOMERS MEDIA COMPETITORS NGOS SUPPLIERS PUBLIC AUTHORITIES TRANSPORT SERVICE PROVIDERS GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES MUNICIPALITIES SOCIAL PARTNERS FRIENDS AND FAMILY GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 29 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification The following six topic areas were defined and the main issues relating to each were discussed: Topic area 1: Business environment Main issues: • Observe market development and competition • Take account of up-to-date view of customer benefits in the regulatory environment • Further develop universal postal services • Ensure reliability of postal services • Help shape any potential privatisation steps Topic area 2: Customers Main issues: • Operate in a service-oriented manner • Ensure customer satisfaction • Enable product innovations Moreover, the company also takes advantage • Guarantee data protection and data security of special types of events to address individual stakeholder groups, in order to take a structured apTopic area 3: Economic success proach to respond to their specific requirements. Main issues: • Generate growth and value creation Against this backdrop, the Fourth Stakeholder • Press ahead with cost efficiency and improve Roundtable of Austrian Post was held in June 2014. earnings Some 30 stakeholders held discussions with CEO • Drive modernisation and innovation Georg Pölzl and management representatives on • Pursue a sustainable dividend policy key issues of relevance to the company, with the objective of providing impetus to future sustainability Topic area 4: Employees activities. Within the context of the discussion the stakeholders evaluated different issues according to Main issues: their relevance and identified new challenges, which • Develop a corporate culture were integrated both in defining the company’s • Safeguard occupational safety and health sustainability strategy and corresponding measures protection as well as in this report. • Offer training and further education courses • Enable diversity and equal opportunity • Demand ethical behaviour 4.17 Key stakeholder Topic area 5: Society topics and concerns Main issues: At the Stakeholder Roundtable, the main issues • Regional infrastructure to ensure reliability of relating to the respective topic area were discussed postal services by six groups each assigned to deal with different • Social commitment and sponsoring table topics. The individual issues were prepared in • Strengthen the national economy advance and approved in order to ensure that all key aspects are covered and dealt with. Topic area 6: Environment The objective of the individual discussion groups Main issues: was to identify challenges to Austrian Post and to • Save energy prioritise them from a stakeholder perspective. The • Avoid greenhouse gas emissions and make discussions primarily focused on the defined issues, transport more ecologically sustainable but the participants also had the opportunity to deal • Avoid waste or make use of it with new and relevant issues. • Optimize procurement – green procurement 30 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Following the round of discussions and presenThis is also linked to the strong wish to ensure the tations, all key stakeholders were asked to vote reliable provision of postal services and to take an electronically on the importance of the individual up-to-date view of customer benefits into account issues in the particular topic area. The assessment with respect to the regulatory environment. scale ranged from 1 (less important) to 10 (very important). Stakeholders and the management of Austrian Post agreed on the relevance of the following issues: Following the Stakeholder Roundtable, the top management of Austrian Post was asked about the • Ensure the reliable supply of postal services same topics and a voting process also took place. • Demand ethical behaviour The results of the stakeholder assessment as well • Enable diversity and equal opportunity as the evaluation by Austrian Post itself was integra• Further develop universal postal services ted into the Materiality Matrix 2014 and showed the • Ensure customer satisfaction following picture: The stakeholders attached greater importance to On balance, a total of 25 topics were discussed and the following issues than the management of Ausevaluated for their relevance for stakeholders and trian Post: for Austrian Post. As one can see in the matrix, all the topics are important, but the stakeholders and • Safeguard the existence of a regional infrastrucmanagement of Austrian Post considered some to ture to reliably provide postal services be particularly vital. • Guarantee data protection and data security • Avoid greenhouse gas emissions and make From the company’s point of view, the following are transport more ecologically sustainable the top priorities: • Save energy • Ensure customer satisfaction • Avoid waste or make use of it • Operate in a service-oriented manner • Generate growth and value creation Austrian Post attaches considerable importance to these key issues and already implemented measures in the past in those areas which are of relevance to the company’s stakeholders. Materiality matrix of Austrian Post rt an t po IMPORTANT FROM THE PERSPECTIVE Im OF THE STAKEHOLDERS ve ry 10 Regional infrastructure to ensure reliability of postal services Guarantee data protection and data security Save energy Ensure customer satisfaction 9 Avoid waste or make use of it Operate in a service-oriented manner Safeguard occupational safety and health protection Take account of up-to-date view of customer benefits in the regulatory environment Offer training and further education courses Press ahead with cost efficiency and improve earnings Ensure reliability of postal services Further develop universal postal services 8 Demand ethical behaviour Optimize procurement – green procurement Generate growth and value creation Enable diversity and equal opportunity Enable product innovations Pursue a sustainable dividend policy Observe market development and competition Help shape any potential privatisation steps 7 Drive modernisation and innovation Develop a corporate culture Avoid greenhouse gas emissions and make transport more ecologically sustainable Social commitment and sponsoring Strengthen the national economy 6 5 IMPORTANT FROM THE PERSPECTIVE t 5 6 7 8 9 10 OF THE COMPANY rt an po Im GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 31 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification In 2013 the cooperation between Austrian Post and BAWAG P.S.K. was also intensified. By the end of 2013, a total of 476 branch offices were jointly operated. They offer postal and bank services, retail and telecommunications products under one roof. The strategic advantages of this concept and the combined exploitation of the respective strengths of Austrian Post and BAWAG P.S.K. have consistently proven to be successful, generating extensive synergies. The shared design and expanded offering – like the response to the postal partner concept – have been very well received by customers. 2. Guarantee data protection and data security The issue of data protection is a major concern of An overview of the activities and measures in these Austrian Post. As the stakeholder survey within the five relevant topic areas can be found here: context of the Stakeholder Roundtable concluded, this topic is also extremely important to our stake1. Safeguard regional infrastructure holder groups. to reliably provide postal services Austrian Post makes a decisive contribution towards Austrian Post attaches great importance to data maintaining the communications infrastructure of protection. Business customers provide us with data the country and developing it in a future-oriented to ensure the smooth processing of transport and manner on the basis of providing reliable postal serdelivery services, but also recipients of mail items vices throughout Austria. Austrian Post transports provide Austrian Post with data. For this reason, we and delivers letters and parcels everyday to every strictly adhere to the legal regulations contained in address and every doorstep throughout Austria. the Data Protection Act (DSG 2000) and the TeleAnd the quality of postal services is outstanding: communications Act (TKG 2003) with respect to the 95.5% of all letters are already delivered on the next collection, use and processing of personal data. working day after the mail items are posted, higher than the legally stipulated level of 95%. In addition Data protection is also a priority, as demonstrated to seven modern logistics centres and 265 delivery by the fact that Austrian Post has appointed a Data bases, Austrian Post operates a nationwide network Protection Officer, which is not mandatory according of postal services points encompassing 1,894 locato the Data Protection Act. However, Austrian Post tions at the end of 2013. has filled this position to ensure compliance with all data protection regulations. The Data Protection OfConditions in the postal sector are being subject to ficer in the company guarantees that any questions major changes. For this reason, Austrian Post must relating to data protection will be clarified as quickly continually adapt its services and infrastructure in as possible. a customer-oriented manner. A primary focus of the company’s efforts is the expansion of the very Data security is also an extremely important subject successful postal partner concept. On balance, from an IT point of view. Due to technological devea total of 1,359 postal partners existed as of the lopments as well as the huge volume of data, Austriend of 2013, including food stores, petrol stations, an Post is implementing extensive measures to tobacconists and municipal authorities, ensured ensure the confidentiality and integrity of customer the optimal regional availability and accessibility of data and the IT systems operated by Austrian Post. Austrian Post and the services it offers. To protect its digital data, Austrian Post employs its own IT team which is familiar with all security issues. 32 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 3. Avoid emissions and make transport ecologically sustainable Austrian Post is striving to make its transport operations as environmentally friendly as possible. In the meantime, more than 20% of the delivery areas are covered on foot or on bicycles. Austrian Post is also focusing on sustainably exploiting its inherent potential in serving the motorized delivery areas. For this reason, Austrian Post is continually expanding the share of vehicles operating on the basis of alternative drive systems. At the same time, it is also striving to increase the eco-efficiency of its transport operations. Amongst other measures, this includes the ongoing optimisation of route planning. Empty runs are being avoided, the capacity of deployed vehicles is being consistently improved and the number of 4. Save energy kilometres needed to transport mail items is being As the largest logistics company in the country, reduced. At the same time, a modern vehicle fleet Austrian Post operates in a very energy-intensive and regular maintenance improve the vehicle fleet’s business. It needs about 15m litres of fuel each year eco-efficiency. Driver training courses are also part to operate its approximately 9,000 vehicles, and of the measures designed to promote enhanced an additional 151m kWh of energy for its buildings. eco-efficiency. However, Austrian Post is in the process of further reducing its energy consumption and the resulting Moreover, Austrian Post is increasingly relying on CO2 emissions. This large bundle of energy-saving alternative drive systems in its delivery operations, measures is bundled in the initiative CO2 NEUTRAL and massively expanded its vehicle fleet in the field DELIVERY launched in 2011, and contains a large of e-mobility in 2013. Supported by the funding number of measures relating to the vehicle fleet and program “klima:aktiv mobil“ launched by the Austrian buildings. Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management and the Climate and Within the context of its climate protection strategy Energy Fund of the Austrian Federal Government, Austrian Post is striving to make its transport operAustrian Post operated more than 653 electric ations as environmentally friendly as possible. For powered vehicles in 2013, including 581 single track this reason, Austrian Post is continually expanding e-vehicles, 72 multi track e-vehicles and 71 natural its e-powered vehicle fleet, and is also continually gas-powered vehicles, and plans to expand its enhancing eco-efficiency in its transport operations, e-vehicle fleet to 1,300 electric-powered vehicles by as described in the section on “Avoid emissions and 2016. In addition, all letters and direct mail to private make transport ecologically sustainable.” customers in Vienna will be delivered by Austrian Post in a “green” manner by 2016. This means that The fact that sustainability, environmental and no conventional mopeds and cars will be used any climate protection now rank as key pillars of Auslonger, but deliveries will be carried out on the basis trian Post’s business model is also reflected in the of the delivery staff’s own muscle power or electrical buildings Austrian Post operates. Heating systems energy. Measures to avoid greenhouse gas emisrunning on fossil fuels (oil or gas) are being gradually sions in the company’s buildings are listed in the replaced and converted to district heat if possible. section “Save energy”. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 33 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Moreover, the building infrastructure is subject to continuous optimisation with a focus on reducing the required space, and energy consumption is closely monitored and managed. In addition, in 2012 Austrian Post already converted its entire direct electricity procurement to purchasing electricity generated exclusively by renewable energy sources. In 2013 Austrian Post constructed one of the largest rooftop photovoltaic facilities in the country covering an area of 30,000 m², located on the Vienna Letter Centre in Inzersdorf. Here a photovoltaic facility with an output of 882 kilowatt peak was installed. A second facility was constructed in 2014 on the roof of the new Allhaming Logistics Centre in Upper Austria. Together both facilities will generate enough electricity to provide the entire e-mobility fleet of Austrian Post with clean solar energy. Each month tons of paper, plastic and cardboard waste arise at the delivery bases of Austrian Post. 5. Avoid waste or make use of it The waste is recycled and thus reused in a sensible In the spirit of ensuring sustainable waste managemanner. ment, Austrian Post is working energetically to keep waste at a minimum and thus limit the burden on The waste which arises is transported by Austrian the environment. If waste cannot be avoided, it will Post vehicles on their return trips from the delivery be disposed of in an environmentally compatible bases to the company‘s logistics centres and cenmanner. The separation of waste by category helps trally collected. The major advantage of this is that Austrian Post to make a significant contribution to the respective waste disposal companies can pick reducing residual waste. up large quantities of the materials from a central site. In this way unnecessary mileage and thus the At the same time, this measure enables the compacorrespondingly high level of greenhouse gas emisny to create the conditions underlying an economsions is saved, which in turn has a positive impact ically and ecologically sensible recycling of these on the environment and the climate. Furthermore, valuable waste materials. the waste is not only sorted but condensed by Austrian Post by means of its own press containers, Waste management concepts exist for individual which means the waste requires less volume. This sites with a specified size. Special waste managereduces the number of required trips. ment and recycling concepts ensure that CO2 emissions are reduced and the environment is protected. 34 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Austrian Post pursues the objectives of safeguardAchievement of objectives in 2013 ing and expanding its market leadership and further In the 2013 financial year, Austrian Post once again growing on a long-term basis. The fundamental achieved its objective of a stable or slightly positive goal of successfully managing the company on a revenue development. It even surpassed its rolling long-term and sustainable basis is the top priority economic objective of an EBITDA margin in the for Austrian Post’s management. Only a successtargeted range of 10-12%. Moreover, the attractive ful company can seriously assume its corporate dividend policy was continued for the 2013 financial social responsibility on a long-term basis and make year based on the payment of a dividend totalling an appropriate contribution to fulfilling social and EUR 1.90 per share on May 8, 2014. On balance, ecological needs. Austrian Post thus distributed a total of EUR 128.4m to its shareholders for 2013. The Total Shareholder Current developments on the international postal Return of 17.2% for 2013 shows that the company and logistics market pose major challenges to Ausalso fulfilled shareholder expectations by achieving trian Post’s efforts to achieve its business targets, the objective of a sustainable increase in shareholbut also open up new opportunities. In order to der value. exploit these opportunities, Austrian Post clearly formulated its objectives and strategic measures For the 2014 financial year, Austrian Post is pursuwithin the framework of a broad-based strategic ing the objective of maintaining revenue at a stable development process, and defined the following level, in which the decline in the mail business can strategic approaches: safeguarding and expanding be compensated by increasing parcel revenue. its market leadership in Austria as well as achievMoreover, the company is striving to improve its ing growth in selected markets. The basis for this earnings before interest and tax (EBIT). is ongoing efficiency enhancement as well as the increasing flexibility of the cost structure along with Further details on sustainability targets and the exconsistent customer orientation and innovation in all tent to which they were achieved can also be found its business activities. in the Thematic and Goal Matrix on pages 72-73. Economic objectives • Austrian Post will further develop its services in a customer-oriented manner in order to be sucCorporate cessful in the long-term as well (revenue growth Performance of 1-2% per year as well as solid profitability featuring an EBITDA margin of 10-12%). • Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility along Value Creation the entire value chain and aims to create value for all stakeholders (“shared value”). • Austrian Post wants to provide its shareholders with a sustainable Total Shareholder Return (value enhancement and an appropriate return on economy the capital employed) in order to fulfil shareholder Shareholder expectations and create sustainable value. Value These economic targets apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 35 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Aspect: Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed The income statement of Austrian Post (individual financial statements pursuant to the Austrian Commercial Code) shows the following results for 2013: Income statement (EUR m) 2011 2012 2013 Revenue 1,635.7 1,667.3 1,668.7 Other operating income 77.6 82.5 133.4 Raw materials, consumables and services used –280.1 –306.8 -315.0 Staff costs –935.2 –985.7 -953.9 Other operating expenses –242.6 –229.5 -228.8 Results of investments consolidated at equity –57.5 –4.6 -24.5 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses –72.7 –60.9 -59.4 Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) 125.2 162.5 221.1 Other financial result 5.9 –16.6 -5.5 Earnings before tax 131.1 146.9 215.6 Income tax –38.2 –32.8 -38.7 Profit for the period 92.9 113.2 176.9 Revenue of Austrian Post on an individual company The results of investments consolidated at equity fell level could be increased by 0.1% in the 2013 finanto minus EUR 24.5m due to the impairment losses cial year to EUR 1,668.7m. Growth was achieved reported on Austrian Post’s stakes in the trans-oprimarily in the Parcel & Logistics Division, which flex Group in Germany and MEILLERGHP GmbH, expanded by 6.2%. Revenue distribution among Germany as well as lower proceeds from these the two divisions shows the importance of the Mail investments compared to the previous year. & Branch Network Division, which accounted for 83.7% of total revenue in 2013. The Parcel & LogisDepreciation, amortisation and impairment lostics Division generated 16.3% of total revenue. ses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of Austrian Post fell by 2.5% in the 2013 The increase in other operating income compared financial year to EUR 59.4m, comprising 3.6% of to the previous year is mainly due to the revaluation revenue. of the Postgasse 8 commercial property owned by Austrian Post to its market value in connection Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) of Austrian with its being contributed as an asset in a separate Post rose in 2013 to EUR 221.1m. Earnings before company. The item raw materials, consumables tax (EBT) amounted to EUR 215.6m in the 2013 and services used rose by 2.7% from the prior-year financial year. After deducting the income tax of EUR level to EUR 315m. Other operating expenses were 38.7m, the profit for the period totalled EUR 176.9m. down 0.3% to EUR 228.0m. Staff costs, which Taking account of the reversal of untaxed reserves as account for 57% of revenue, is the largest expense well as the profit carried forward, the balance sheet item of Austrian Post, and declined by 3.2% during profit amounted to EUR 188.8m in 2013. the period under review to EUR 953.9m. The consolidated income statement can be found in the Annual Report 2013, Part 2 – Financial Report. 36 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Value added The resulting value added of Austrian Post to the Austrian Post pursues the goal of generating susamount of EUR 1,204.8m was mainly distributed tainable value added on behalf of its stakeholders to employees directly in the form of wages and and thus for the Republic of Austria. The value salaries and indirectly via social contributions. The generated by the company in 2013 consists of total amount assigned to employees was thus EUR the following and was distributed to the following 953.9m. Shareholders were paid dividends to the stakeholder groups (individual financial statements amount of EUR 128.4m for the 2013 financial year. pursuant to the Austrian Commercial Code): The Republic of Austria owns a 52.8% share, and thus received EUR 67.8m in dividends. In addition, The revenue of EUR 1,802.2m generated by Austrian EUR 44.6m was paid to the Republic of Austria as Post in 2013 (incl. other operating income) was in taxes. contrast to advance outlays of EUR 597.4m. Value creation (EUR m) 2011 2012 2013 Value creation: 1,635.7 1,667.3 1,668.7 Revenue and other operating income 1,713.4 1,749.7 1,802.2 less advance outlays –595.5 –591.3 -597.4 thereof raw materials, consumables and services used –280.1 –306.8 -315.0 thereof depreciation and amortisation –72.7 –60.9 –59.4 thereof other operating expenses –242.6 –223.6 -222.9 Value added 1,117.9 1,158.4 1,204.8 Distribution: to employees (wages, salaries, social contributions) 935.2 985.7 953.9 to shareholders (dividends) 114.8 121.6 128.4 to the Republic of Austria (taxes and duties) 38.2 38.7 44.6 to creditors (interest) 2.2 2.0 2.2 Remaining amount 27.5 10.3 75.8 Value added 1.117,9 1.158,4 1.204,8 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 37 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Aspect: Market presence EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on local suppliers In its Group procurement activities, Austrian Post is aware of its role as one of the leading sector contractors of the Republic of Austria. Of the approximately 7,000 suppliers with which Austrian Post currently works, about 4-6% are large companies (mostly based in Austria, although the value creation may take place abroad), whereas the remaining 94-96% are SMEs, in which case it can be assumed that these suppliers are for the most part located in Austria. In many areas of its business operations Austrian Post is subject to the stipulations contained in the Federal Procurement Aspect: Indirect Act (BVergG). economic impacts A key guiding principle in Austrian Post’s business EC9 practices is to ensure equal treatment of bidders Indirect economic impacts while ensuring the greatest possible level of Austrian Post ensures the provision of nationwide transparency in its procurement activities. postal services on behalf of the Austrian population, and thus contributes to maintaining the infrastrucThe Procurement Excellence Programme of the ture in rural areas. Only Austrian Post brings mail Group, including its sub-projects, implements every day to every household and every doorstep methods and processes designed to ensure the in Austria. Austrian Post is a reliable partner and further professionalisation and Group-wide bundling ensures the provision of basic postal services in outof purchasing. The overriding objective is to reduce standing quality to the Austrian population. Austrian material costs in the Group and ensure compliance Post succeeded in delivering 95.5% of letters to the with the principles of transparency. recipients on the next working day in 2013. Priority is currently given to sustainability aspects Austrian Post is always close to its customers. With with respect on the single procurement, project and 1,894 postal service points at the end of 2013, its initiative levels, and is visibly included in public tenbranch network ranks among the largest private ders. The Procurement Excellence Programme thus customer networks in the country. A large share of structurally and systematically embeds sustainability these postal service points are operated by postal issues in procurement on a long-lasting basis. This partners. These are local businesses in different takes place within the context of the sub-projects on sectors, which offer products and services of supplier and risk management, sourcing practices Austrian Post in addition to their own product line. and governance. The concept is a complete success. It ensures the efficient supply of postal services to the population, promotes economic structures in rural areas and offers longer opening hours. Further information is also available by turning to the indicator SO1 on page 65. 38 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST ECOLOGICAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to the sures in order to stop this development and thus environment. For this reason, it continually strives to preserve the planet for coming generations. identify optimisation potential in order to minimise its ecological footprint. In addition to comprehensive Ecological objectives in 2013 measures implemented on its own, Austrian Post • Reduction of CO2 emissions by 20% in the perialso actively participates in projects such as the “Enod between 2010 and 2015 and annual compenvironmental Measurement and Monitoring System sation for remaining emissions (EMMS)” of the International Post Corporation (IPC), which aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. • Expansion and improvement of a central environmental management system In the past years major successes were achieved by • Sensibilisation of relevant stakeholders to the Austrian Post with respect to reducing the greenneed for environmental and climate protection house gas emissions and energy consumption from its business operations. Austrian Post not only achieved its objective of reducing CO2 emissions Climate by 10% from 2007 to 2012 ahead of schedule, in Protection 2010, but actually defined an even more ambitious target with respect to CO2 emissions. Austrian Post intends to reduce CO2 emissions by a further 20% in the period 2010 to 2015, including the shipping companies which work for it. Environmental Management In addition, the remaining emissions will be compensated each year by Austrian Post’s support for selected climate protection projects. Since 2011, Austrian Post has been delivering all mail items in environment Raising Austria – regardless of whether they are letters, diAwareness rect mail items or parcels – in a CO2 neutral manner. This initiative is communicated under the title CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY. It encompasses broad bundle of measures, from efficiency enhancement and promoting alternative forms of energy to compensating Achievement of objectives in 2013 for the remaining CO2 emissions. This initiative is In the year 2013 the target of ensuring CO2 neutral proof that it is possible to combine business thinking delivery of all mail items in Austria was achieved and environmentally-friendly operations in the logisonce again. Austrian Post succeeded in reducing tics business as well. its CO2 emissions by 17.4% in the period 2010 to 2013. The objective of reducing CO2 emissions by Moreover, the company also believes it should take 20% from 2010 to 2015 is likely to be achieved. In advantage of its position in society as one of the contrast to the previous year (decline of 18.6%), most important service companies in the country CO2 emissions did not decline but rose by 1,065 in order to build awareness of the importance of tonnes of CO2. environmental and climate protection among its stakeholders, such as employees, customers and Due to the increased shipment volumes in the parcel business partners. Recent climate reports show that business and the additional kilometres driven, CO2 climate change is progressing uninterruptedly. That emissions from the company’s own vehicle fleet rose is why every individual as well as every company by 1,132 tonnes. At the same time, greenhouse gas and decision makers are called upon to take meaemissions of partner companies dropped slightly GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 39 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification by 443 tonnes. On balance, CO2 emissions from The company has now defitransport operations rose by 689 tonnes. ned a new e-mobility target: by 2016 the entire delivery of With respect to the buildings it operates, CO2 emisletters and direct mail items to sions also climbed by 376 tonnes. The main reason private customers in Vienna was the increase in natural gas consumption by should be done by foot or with 5.9m kWh. Moreover, the consumption of heating oil electric-powered vehicles. was also up by 0.7 kWh. The increase in natural gas Five districts in Vienna have consumption was related to improved data evalualready completely converted ation. Thermal heat requirements of leased space to “green” delivery. Moreover, without any detailed consumption data (assuming in the previous year Austrian Post already set a goal natural gas as the form of energy used) was adjusted of further professionalizing and expanding its internal to reflect the thermal heat requirements of building environmental management. A company-wide space in which consumption levels are known. waste manager was nominated in 2013. With respect to its e-vehicle fleet, the number of electric-powered vehicles could be more than Further details on sustainability targets and the exdoubled from 2012 to 2013. Austrian Post already tent to which they were achieved are also available operated 653 e-vehicles at the beginning of 2014. in the Thematic and Goal Matrix on pages 72-73. ASPECT: MATERIALs Austrian Post is a logistics company. Therefore its paper consumption is of primary importance, which is EN1 why it is presented in the following table: Materials used by weight or volume On balance, a total of 5,622.5 tonnes of paper were EN2 used by Austrian Post in 2013. Compared to the Percentage of materials used that prior-year level, consumption of copying paper was are recycled input materials reduced by 164.2 tonnes. This decline was mainly due to the elimination of workplace printers. Instead This indicator primarily refers to production companies there is a central printing station on each floor, which i.e. firms which manufacture goods and products. is automatically set to enable double-sided printing. Paper consumption 2011 2012 2013 Total paper consumption (t) 397.4 5.611.72) 5.622.5 Copying paper 294.3 230.7 66.5 thereof recycling paper 62.0 150.0 41.3 Printed materials 1) 103.1 3) 5.381.0 2) 5.556.0 1) The increase in the year 2012 results from the introduction of the collators as of the beginning of 2012. “Collators” are facilities in which unaddressed mail items can be bundled mechanically instead of manually. They are used to pack the new KUVERT, the successful collective advertising envelope introduced throughout the country in 2012 for direct mail items delivered by Austrian Post. This increases efficiency and partially reduces the need for manual sorting. 2) In 2012 the figure for paper consumption for printed materials was retroactively corrected due to optimised calculation methods. Furthermore, direct mail items were retroactively included. 3) The figure for 2011 does not include direct mail items. 40 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Aspect: Energy Since January 1, 2012, all of the electricity consumed by Austrian Post is green electricity i.e. it has EN3 been exclusively produced by renewable energy Direct energy consumption sources. This applies to the electricity consumed by primary energy source in buildings owned by Austrian Post and in leased property, in which electricity deliveries are known EN4 and can be traced. This electricity procurement Indirect energy consumption will continue to be classified as direct electricity by primary energy source purchases. The small share of consumption of grey electricity is consumed by postal partner offices and by electricity supplied to leased properties which is of unknown origin. Environmental indicators Consumption of significant quantities of resources (m kWh)2) 2011 2012 20131) Total 158.0 149.5 151.4 Natural gas 33.0 31.4 37.3 Heating oil 9.7 6.2 6.9 District heat 40.3 40.7 39.7 Total electricity 3) 75.0 71.2 67.5 thereof electricity from renewable energies 32.4 64.1 63.0 thereof grey electricity 42.6 7.1 4.5 Total building space (m ) 2 1,130,165 1,121,801 1,097,377 thereof owned by Austrian Post 695,840 680,144 669,342 thereof leased space 434,325 441,657 428,035 Fuel consumption: petrol, super, diesel, natural gas (litre 14.6 14.3 14.8 million)4) thereof diesel 14.2 13.9 14.4 1) The energy consumption indicators for buildings include all energy use invoices for 2013 which were received by Austrian Post by the deadline July 29, 2014 (about 90%). The remaining share (to 100%) is an estimated value. 2) Consumption figures for 2013 include the mathematically calculated consumption in leased space (without detailed consumption figures). Similarly, the mathematically calculated consumption data in the leased space was taken into account and deducted. 3) Since 2012 electricity from renewable energy sources refers to electricity directly purchased by Austrian Post. Grey electricity (electricity of unknown origin) relates to electricity in leased space and postal partner offices. 4) The figures for the vehicle fleet include the subsidiary Post. Wertlogistik GmbH. EN5 In spite of the further mechanisation of mail item Energy saved due to conservation sorting, electricity consumption was down by 3.7m and efficiency improvements kWh from the previous year. The electricity was almost completely derived from renewable energy Energy consumption in buildings was reduced by sources. Fuel consumption rose by 0.5m litres as a 13.3m kWh since 2010. 83.9m kWh is required for consequence of the increased mileage. space heating and hot water. Close to half of total consumption (39.7m kWh) is covered by environEnergy consumption will decrease further by 2015. mentally-friendly district heat. Compared to the The figures for 2013 still partly include consumption previous year, consumption of this form of energy by the former corporate headquarters in Postgasse was down by 1m kWh. Natural gas consumption and the distribution centre in Linz. In the meantime, rose from the prior-year level by 5.9m kWh due to the historic corporate headquarters have been improved data preparation. Heating oil consumpput up for sale. The distribution centre in Linz is tion was also up by 0.7m kWh from the prior year. being replaced by the newly constructed Allhaming Electricity use totalled 67.5m kWh in 2013. Logistics Centre. Further savings will arise due to the conversion from heating oil and natural gas to GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 41 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification district heat. The increase in the number of eto the previous year, and the number of electric vehicles will lead to higher electricity use but lower powered multi-track vehicles even rose four-fold. fuel consumption. Methods designed to ensure a Supported by the funding program “klima:aktiv fuel-efficient way of driving are being evaluated in mobil“ launched by the Austrian Federal Ministry of order to further reduce fuel consumption. Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management and the Climate and Energy Fund of Greater eco-efficiency and the Austrian Federal Government, Austrian Post e-mobility in the vehicle fleet already operated more than 653 electric powered Within the context of its climate protection strategy, vehicles in 2013, including 581 single track e-vehicAustrian Post is striving to make its transport operles, 72 multi-track vehicles and 71 vehicles powered ations (about 9,000 vehicles incl. bicycles) as enviby natural gas. The related test phases and surveys ronmentally-friendly as possible. In the meantime, of drivers revealed that the new vehicles are well more than 20% of the delivery areas are covered on accepted. Nine out of ten e-drivers are satisfied or foot or on bicycles. In the motorized delivery areas very satisfied with the vehicles. Austrian Post is also focusing on sustainably exploiting the inherent potential. For this reason, Austrian Planned measures in the vehicle fleet Post is continually expanding the share of vehicles Austrian Post will increasingly focus on this futureoperating on the basis of alternative drive systems. oriented technology on the basis of these expeAt the same time, it is also striving to increase the riences and with the knowledge that pioneers of eco-efficiency of its transport operations. e-mobility will rank among the major winners of this climate-neutral mode of transport in the future. The Amongst other measures, this includes the ongoing company plans to considerably expand its e-vehicle optimisation of route planning. Empty runs are being fleet to about 1,300 e-vehicles by 2016. With its avoided, the capacity of deployed vehicles is being model region for e-mobility called “E-Mobility Post“, consistently improved and the number of kilometres Austrian Post is one of eight model e-mobility needed to transport mail items is being reduced. At regions in Austria. Within the context of this initiative, the same time, a modern vehicle fleet and regular the company plans to purchase about 300 electric maintenance enhance the eco-efficiency of the cars, 300 electric mopeds and more than 500 elecvehicle fleet. Furthermore, the number of low emistric bicycles in the period 2012 to 2016 in order to sion vehicles in the emission classes Euro 5, Euro 5 test and research the practical use of these vehicles EEV and Euro 6 has been increased from 2,495 in in the mail delivery process. 2012 to 3,337 in 2013. Training courses for drivers are also part of the measures designed to promote In addition, all letters and direct mail to private cusenhanced eco-efficiency. tomers in Vienna will be delivered by Austrian Post in a “green” manner by 2016. This means that no Moreover, Austrian Post is increasingly relying on conventional mopeds and cars will be used any alternative drive systems in its delivery operations, longer. Deliveries will be carried out on the basis of and massively expanded its vehicle fleet in the field the delivery staff’s own muscle power or electrical of e-mobility in 2013. For example, the number of energy in all 23 districts in Vienna. electric bicycles was almost doubled compared 42 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Vehicles 2011 2012 2013 Vehicles (total)1) 9,650 9,187 8,959 Bicycles 1,049 958 789 thereof electric bicycles 94 164 4392) Mopeds 1,235 1,078 904 thereof electric mopeds 6 80 1422) Vehicles up to 3.5t 7,214 7,005 7,105 thereof natural gas-driven vehicles up to 3.5t 77 74 71 thereof electric-powered vehicles up to 3.5t 18 18 723) Vehicles over 3.5t 152 146 161 Total number of kilometres (km m) 155 159 162 Austrian Post 119 119 123 Shipping companies 36 40 39 Motorised vehicles according to emission class Euro 0 (no Euromotor) 1,232 0 0 Euro 2 16 904 732 Euro 3 1,845 1,038 438 Euro 4 3,811 3,694 3,516 Euro 5 1,673 2,495 3,258 Euro 5 EEV 0 0 74 Euro 6 0 0 5 1) The figures for the vehicle fleet also include the Austrian Post subsidiary Post.Wertlogistik GmbH. 2) The figure includes all existing single track vehicles in 2013 (active and owned by Austrian Post), as well as the single-track e-vehicles being tested (i.e. mopeds and bicycles). Furthermore, the figure for 2013 includes all e-vehicles which were ordered but in part first delivered in January 2014 due to delivery problems. 3) The figure includes all existing multi-track vehicles in 2013 (active and owned by Austrian Post) as well as the multi-track vehicles being tested (i.e. e-cars, Kyburz trikes and Paxster quads). Furthermore, the figure in 2013 includes all e-vehicles which were ordered but in part first delivered in January 2014 due to delivery problems. The specific expansion plans of the e-vehicle fleet Austrian Post depends on public grants due to the up until the year 2016 depends on the suitability of fact that e-mobility is not yet economically feasithese vehicles for postal operations as well as new ble at the present time. Austrian Post has found innovations on the part of the vehicle makers, which partners for the coming years, namely the Austrian are expected to be launched on the marketplace Climate and Energy Fund of the Austrian Federal in the near future. Within the context of the model Government and the klima:aktiv mobil programme regions for e-mobility, the Climate and Energy Fund of the Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture and of the Austrian Federal Government is focusing on Forestry, Environment and Water Management, comprehensive solutions in which the electricity which strongly supports the company’s efforts to for clean passenger car drive systems must be further expand its fleet of e-vehicles by providing exclusively derived from additional renewable energy funding and know-how. sources. For this reason, Austrian Post constructed its own photovoltaic facility in 2013. Another photovoltaic facility will come on stream in the fall of 2014. The two plants enable the entire e-vehicle fleet of Austrian Post to be supplied with clean electricity from solar energy. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 43 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification In addition, greater importance will be attached to ecological aspects in optimising the building infrastructure. Now Austrian Post is going a step further. In the future the company will not only exclusively use “green electricity” but will also produce it itself. The company constructed one of the largest rooftop photovoltaic facilities in Austria at the Vienna-Inzersdorf Letter Centre. The distribution centre features a roof area of about 30,000 square metres. The planned photovoltaic facility will use about two-thirds of the roof area, and boast a maximum output of 882 kilowatt peak. A second photovoltaic plant with an output of 496 kilowatt peak, located on the roof of the Allhaming Logistics Centre, will come on stream in 2014. The energy derived from the plants will be able to supply electricity from clean solar energy for the entire e-vehicle fleet of Austrian Post, which is planned to © Ian Ehm grow to about 1,300 vehicles by 2016. Measures designed to raise awareness Energy efficiency and generation In 2013 Austrian Post employees were continuof renewable energies in buildings ally informed about the initiative CO2 NEUTRAL In 2011 Austrian Post derived about half of its elecDELIVERY and other CSR measures via in-house tricity requirements from renewable energy sources. infoscreens, the employee magazine and the susStarting in 2012 the entire direct procurement of tainability magazine and sensitized about the need electricity was converted to exclusively renewable for climate protection. Another awareness-raising energy sources. This is because “green electricity” campaign is currently in the conception phase. is derived from the Earth’s natural energies, namely from the sun, water, wind, biomass and geothermal With respect to the stakeholder group of large cusenergy. The generation of electricity is environmentomers, awareness on the part of these people can tally compatible and virtually no greenhouse gas be raised by the certificates issued to them each emissions arise in the process. year since the beginning of 2012 confirming the CO2 neutral delivery of all of their mail items. The climate With respect to the consumption of other resources neutral delivery offered by Austrian Post helps for heating the buildings, climate protection and customers to do business in a more sustainable the conservation of natural resources are also top manner, considering that the climate scorecard of priorities. Austrian Post uses 83.9m kWh of natural each individual customer is improved. This reduction gas, heating oil and district heat each year. The is now being confirmed on an annual basis by the bundle of measures ranges from reducing the use of issuing of certificate. oil and gas-fired heating systems and the increased use of district heat to the optimisation of the building infrastructure and a consistent monitoring of energy consumption. In terms of electricity consumption (67.5m kWh), Austrian Post is also striving to exploit potential savings by implementing new efficient lighting concepts. 44 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST ASPECT: WATER Water consumption in the company is of secondary importance due to the fact that Austrian Post is not a production but a service company. Aspect: Biodiversity EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity Compared to manufacturing and processing companies, Austrian Post in its role as a transport and logistics company has a very limited and insignificant impact on biodiversity. Nevertheless, it is also naturally a matter of concern to Austrian Post to preserve various forms of life. This is why the company attaches great importance to reducing the Aspect: Emissions, impact of its operations on the environment. wastewater and waste With respect to biodiversity, the Vienna Letter Mail As the largest logistics company in the country, Centre is the largest logistics hub operated by Austrian Post is involved in a very energy-intensive Austrian Post, and an ecological forerunner. At the business. In order to provide postal services to the Vienna Letter Mail Centre, roof greening designed as population, the delivery staff of Austrian Post travels natural protection against solar radiation supports about 200,000 km every single day by foot, bicycle the air conditioning system of the sorting centre hall and moped as well as using passenger cars and encompassing an area of 30,000 m2. In this way, transport vehicles. The company requires some energy savings can be realized and a contribution 15m litres of fuel annually for its approx. 9,000 made to preserving biodiversity. The combination vehicles, and consumes about 151m kWh of energy of a green roof and photovoltaic facility also led in its buildings. In turn, this leads to CO2 emissions a crested lark couple to nest on the centre. This which have a negative effect on the global climate. extremely rare bird and protected species uses the Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to the panels as protection against birds of prey, and has environment. For this reason, it is continually striving been breeding on the roof of the Vienna Letter Mail to identify optimisation potential in order to minimise Centre since the spring of 2014. There are only 300 its ecological footprint. breeding pairs in all of Austria. The reduction of CO2 emissions by 10% in the However, in the field of biodiversity the effects of the period 2007 to 2012 was one of the environmenclimate protection projects in the developing countal targets which Austrian Post defined within the tries supported by Austrian Post are of much greater context of the “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Prosignificance. For example, reforestation projects in gramme” of the European association of public Malaysia, Columbia, Panama and Kenya not only postal operators PostEurop. In 2011, this target was serve to reduce the CO2 content in the atmosphere already exceeded when Austrian Post had reduced and create jobs for the regional population, but also its CO2 emissions by 15.8%. This was achieved by preserve the natural habitats for unique species of the ongoing optimisation and efficiency enhanceanimals and plants. Ultimately, the flora and fauna in ment in core processes of the company, as well as the rainforests protected and preserved by the reforimprovements in the vehicle fleet and buildings. For estation projects are unique, particularly diverse and this reason, Austrian Post has now defined an even important for ecosystems and the foundations of life. more ambitious target i.e. to reduce CO2 emissions including those of the shipping companies it contracts by 20% from 2010 to 2015. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 45 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environmental indicators 2011 2012 2013 CO2 emissions (scope 1–3) according to the 78,533 70,834 71,899 Greenhouse Gas Protocol (t) thereof scope 1 – road transport (own operations)2) 35,821 35,052 36,184 thereof scope 1 – buildings1) 3) 9,265 7,986 9,353 thereof scope 2 – buildings 1) 3) 14,783 7,402 6,411 davon Scope 3 – Partnerunternehmen 18,664 20,394 19,951 1) The energy consumption indicators for buildings include all energy use invoices for 2013 which were received by Austrian Post by the deadline July 29, 2014 (about 90%). The remaining share (to 100%) is an estimated value. 2) The figures for the vehicle fleet include the subsidiary Post. Wertlogistik GmbH. 3) Consumption figures for 2012 include the mathematically calculated consumption in leased space (without detailed consumption figures). Similarly, the mathematically calculated consumption data in the leased space was taken into account and deducted. Data compilation is carried out on the basis of the EN17 “GHG Inventory Standard for the Postal Sector“, the Other relevant greenhouse gas basis of which is the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol” emissions by waste (GHG). This is the most widely used international No other relevant greenhouse gas emissions arise standard for calculating greenhouse gas emissions. within the context of Austrian Post‘s business operMore information is available at ations. www.ghgprotocol.org. Scope 1 and 2 encompasses reporting on greenEN18 house gas emissions caused by internal company Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions activities (Scope 1) and from the energy supply (Scope 2). All greenhouse gas emissions related to As the largest logistics company in the country, Austrian Post’s operations in Austria are included. Austrian Post is involved in a very energy-intensive Scope 3 emissions arise as a result of outsourced business, which in turn leads to considerable CO2 transport services. emissions. Within the context of its initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY, all letters, parcels and direct On balance, total CO2 emissions generated by the mail items delivered in Austria by Austrian Post are business operations of Austrian Post in 2013 amoundelivered in a CO2 neutral manner. Accordingly, ted to about 71,899 tons. Approximately 15,764 tons Austrian Post ranks among the absolute trailblazwere generated in the operation of buildings and disers in the field of “green logistics” – both in Austria tribution centres, 36,184 tons arose from company’s and internationally. Whereas most companies offer own vehicle fleet, and the remaining 19,951 tons individual climate-neutral products and pass on the from the operations of partner companies. higher costs to its customers, Austrian Post delivers all mail items in a CO2 neutral manner without exception. 46 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST The initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY is being implemented in a three-phase programme: 1 AVOID EMISSIONS AND INCREASE EFFICIENCY 2 ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF ENERGY 3 COMPENSATION BUILDINGS BUILDINGS Monitoring of energy consumption Conversion of entire electricity Efficient lighting concepts procurement to “green electricity“ All emissions which cannot be Conversion of heating from oil/gas Construction and operation of two avoided at the present time are to district heat roof-top photovoltaic systems being voluntarily compensated Optimisation of the building by supporting to certified infrastructure domestic and international VEHICLE FLEET climate protection projects. VEHICLE FLEET Trailblazer in the field of e-mobility Optimised route planning 653 electric powered vehicles in Modern vehicle fleet Austrian Posts fleet Driver trainings 1. The top priority is always to avoid and rethe projects in the light of Austrian Post’s objective duce emissions in the company’s core processes of pursuing a holistically oriented sustainability straton the basis of higher efficiency in the vehicle fleet egy. For example, Austrian Post supports climate and buildings. Measures include the consistent protection projects in the fields of energy efficiency, monitoring of energy consumption in buildings, the reforestation, biomass, geothermal energy as well optimisation of the building infrastructure, optimised as wind power and hydropower in countries such as route planning and the ongoing modernization of the Malaysia, Panama, Kenya, Columbia and India. vehicle fleet. In order to ensure that the targeted positive ecologi2. In the second phase, Austrian Post will rely cal effects are actually achieved, the entire initiative on alternative forms of energy: This is shown, CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY is being monitored and for example, in the conversion of the company’s assessed by independent experts at TÜV AUSTRIA. entire direct electricity procurement to electricity TÜV not only examines the overall calculations of from renewable energy sources in 2012 as well as emissions, but is strongly integrated in the process of the construction of a photovoltaic plant on the roof selecting climate protection projects. Every single asof the Vienna Mail Distribution Centre and on the pect of the initiative is examined down to the very last new Allhaming Logistics Centre to supply its own detail, in order to be able to confirm with reasonable “green electricity.” The main measures impacting the assurance that Austrian Post delivers all mail items in vehicle fleet include the purchase of vehicles with Austria in a CO2 neutral manner. alternative drive systems, which is being supported by the funding programme “klima:aktiv mobil“ of the Not only the climate and thus every one Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Foresof us but also every single customer of try, Environment and Water Management and the Austrian Post benefits from this initiative, Climate and Energy Fund of the Austrian Federal because these savings can be integraGovernment. At the beginning of 2014 Austrian Post ted into the customer’s own ecological already operated 653 electric powered vehicles in its scorecard. Since the beginning of 2012, © Ian Ehm vehicle fleet. large customers of Austrian Post have received a certificate confirming the CO2 3. When the entire existing potential in the company neutral delivery of all their mail items. The has been exploited, all emissions which cannot climate neutral delivery offered by Austribe avoided at the present time will be coman Post thus helps customers to conduct pensated in a third phase by support provided their business in a more sustainable to recognised and certified climate protection manner. This reduction is now confirmed projects. In addition to reducing emissions, partiannually on the basis of issuing the cusAustrian Post confirms cular attention is paid during the selection process tomer certificates. its climate-neutral delivery with a certificate to the ecological and socio-economic aspects of issued to its business customers. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 47 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification only benefits the environment, but also results in considerable cost savings. In the field of waste management, Austrian Post nominated a company-wide waste manager in 2013. In 2014 the company began to introduce a centralized data collection and assessment system. The aim is to develop a data base, in which the individual classes of waste can be recorded along with the respective volumes and the place where the waste was generated. EN24 Total weight of waste deemed hazardous Hazardous wastes, for example grease separators, EN22 fluorescent lamps, refrigerators, waste oil and solTotal weight of waste by type vents as well as spent batteries are disposed of in the and disposal method regions using consignment notes. A centralised data In the spirit of ensuring sustainable waste manageacquisition system for this waste does not yet exist. ment, Austrian Post is working energetically to keep waste at a minimum and thus limit the burden on the environment. If waste cannot be avoided, it will Aspect: Products and services be disposed of in an environmentally compatible EN26 manner. The strict separation of waste by category Initiatives to mitigate the environmental helps Austrian Post to make a significant contribuimpact of products and services tion to reducing residual waste. At the same time, this measure enables the company to create the Austrian Post strives to minimise the environmental conditions underlying an economically and ecoloeffects of its products and services on the basis of gically sensible recycling of these valuable waste the following initiatives (described in detail under EN materials. 5 and EN 18): At Austrian Post, waste mainly arises as a result of • All mail transported by Austrian Post, including all used packaging related to customer deliveries, and letters, parcels and direct mail items, are delivprimarily consists of cardboard, plastic and wood ered in a CO2 neutral manner within the context pallets. Another major type of waste is paper which of the initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY arises from offices and other facilities. launched in the year 2011. Waste management concepts exist for individual • Certificates confirming CO2 neutral delivery will sites with a specified size. Several sorting centres subsequently lead to improved ecological score have gone a step further and developed their own cards on the part of large customers of Austrian waste disposal and recycling concepts for the entire Post. region. For example, in the Brieflogistik Ost (letter mail for the eastern region of Austria), the concept • The core business of transport and logistics beincludes the fact that recycled plastic, paper and came even more environmentally compatible cardboard can be remunerated at the Vienna Letter thanks to the expansion of e-mobility in the vehiMail Centre. However, the disposal of reusable cle fleet in 2013. scrap materials must be paid for at the delivery bases, where smaller quantities of waste are gen• By converting its entire direct electricity procureerated. Thus the reusable materials in the delivery ment in 2012 to electricity exclusively generated bases are separated, but the waste is delivered to by renewable energy sources, Austrian Post also the Vienna Letter Mail Centre for recycling. Unused avoids additional greenhouse gas emissions in its capacities in the delivery vehicles transporting business operations which are harmful to the goods are used for this purpose. This concept not global climate. 48 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Aspect: Compliance with laws EN28 Sanctions and fines due to non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations In the reporting year no fines and sanctions were imposed on Austrian Post for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transport operations Transport comprises the core service of Austrian Post. For this reason, the environmental impacts connected to its transport operations have already been described within the context of the performance indicators EN5, EN16, EN18 and EN26. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 49 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Labour practices and decent work As one of the biggest employers in the country, opinion on different aspects of the company and Austrian Post bears a special responsibility. For evaluate their employer. The results of the survey this reason, it attaches great importance to good presented an objective view of where Austrian Post working conditions for its employees. Occupationis seen to be at the present time. On this basis four al safety, health protection and healthcare play a fields of action were identified to which Austrian key role. This is because motivated and productive Post will pay increasing attention, and which will be employees are the basis for corporate success, used to implement specific improvements. especially in a service company. Austrian Post aims to create reliable future perspectives for employees Employee objectives and promote their individual professional develop• Promoting a corporate and leadership culture ment against the backdrop of a market environment in which change seems to be the only constant. • Creating individual future perspective • Promoting occupational health and safety Austrian Post also places a great emphasis on its corporate and leadership culture. Only clearlydefined and mutually held visions and values enable the company to act in a target-oriented and sustainCorporate and able manner. At the beginning Austrian Post began Leadership culture to focus on developing its new mission statement employeeS featuring three value categories and three main principles. They are being implemented and firmly enshrined in the daily work of all employees through Qualification and Change a variety of measures. All the measures impacting employees and society are derived from these value categories. • Customer orientation: Everything we do revolves around our customers Health and Safety • Profitability and sustainability: We are future-oriented • Communication and appreciation: We are all part of Austrian Post Achievement of objectives in 2013 In the year 2013 all sub-targets were achieved as The value “communication and appreciation” is planned with respect to employees. A total of 693 particularly crucial in the way the company deals executives took part in the Executive Academy with employees. In line with the guiding principle compared to the planned figure of 300 executives. “We are all part of Austrian Post”, every individual The “Career & Family” audit project was launched employee should be committed to actively shaping in 2013 as planned. It consists of various measures the future of Austrian Post. This attitude is taken designed to improve the compatibility of work and seriously in the company and is practised in reality. family life. In June 2013 the first company-wide employee survey entitled “Together we will get even better” The programme “Post employees to the federal was carried out at Austrian Post. The objective was public service” continued in 2013 and was expanto capture the mood of employees as well as to ded to encompass other ministries. The first Groupidentify relevant issues and improvement potential. wide employee survey was carried out in 2013. The The employees had the opportunity to express their 50 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST survey was a success thanks to the response rate Aspect: Employment of 30.8%. Furthermore, the planned roll-out of compliance e-learning tools took place in 2013 as well. LA1 Total workforce by employment type and emNew sub-targets have been defined for upcoming ployment contract periods, for example the expansion of the Executive Austrian Post also employs externally leased staff Academy and the programme “A day visiting cusif needed. These people are not included in the tomers“. In the field of “career & family“, measures employee indicators of Austrian Post. The increase will be implemented to enable employees on leave in the total number of leased full-time equivalents to facilitate access to company-relevant information from 160 FTE in 2011 to 196 FTE in 2012 and 210 and sensibilise executives about this issue. in 2013 was due to the necessity of ensuring increaThe ongoing programme “Post employees to the sing flexibility in peak times. federal public service” will be continued. Moreover, it is planned to provide training to at least 50 emploIf leased employees were actually included in the yees in driver safety in order to reduce damage and employee indicators, the share of leased employees the number of accidents. as a proportion of the total staff would be close to the one percent threshold in 2013. Further details on sustainability targets and the extent to which they were achieved can also be found in the Thematic and Goal Matrix on pages 72-73. Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2011 2012 2013 Total number of employees (FTE)1 19,907 19,534 18,951 thereof women (FTE in %) 29.3% 29.3% 28.9% thereof men (FTE in %) 70.7% 70.7% 71.1% Civil servants (FTE) 10,266 9,738 9,146 Salaried employees (FTE) 9,429 9,558 9,548 Employees pursuant to the Austrian Civil Code (FTE) 2 212 238 256 Full-time employees (total) 17,785 17,724 17,178 thereof women (in %) 23.1% 23.7% 23.4% Part-time employees (total) 3,812 3,422 3,388 thereof women (in %) 83.3% 85.4% 83.5% Average tenure of civil servants at Austrian Post 27 28 29 (years) Average tenure of salaried employees at Austrian 11 11 11 Post (years) Employees with special needs (total as of December 1,187 1,201 1,196 31st) 1 FTE = Full-time equivalents 2 Employees working pursuant to the Austrian Civil Code (ABGB) are not subject to the collective wage agreement due to stipulations contained in the Postal Services Structure Act (Section 19 Para. 5). GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 51 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification LA2 New employee hires and employee turnover by age group and gender Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2011 2012 2013 Employee attrition (nominal)1 1,844 2,109 2,222 thereof women 811 943 842 thereof men 1,033 1,166 1,380 By age group under 30 395 420 404 30–50 years 801 886 904 over 50 648 803 914 Employee attrition (in %)2 8.6% 10.1% 10.9% thereof women 44.0% 44.7% 37.9% thereof men 56.0% 55.3% 62.1% By age group under 30 21.4% 19.9% 18.2% 30–50 years 43.4% 42.0% 40.7% over 50 35.1% 38.1% 41.1% New employee hires1 1,354 1,458 1,801 thereof women 672 643 785 thereof men 682 815 1.016 By age group under 30 271 495 851 30–50 years 695 683 760 over 50 388 280 190 New employee hires (in %) 2 6.3% 6.9% 8.8% thereof women 49.6% 44.1% 43.6% thereof men 50.4% 55.9% 56.4% By age group under 30 20.0% 33.9% 47.3% 30–50 years 51.3% 46.8% 42.2% over 50 28.7% 19.2% 10.5% 1 Permanent staff leaving/joining the company with an employment contract of at least six months 2 Permanent staff leaving/joining the company in relation to the average number of employees The higher rate of employee attrition is partly due to LA3 the increased willingness of employees to change Benefits provided to full-time employees jobs, as well as its being an accompanying measure that are not provided to temporary or supporting the necessary structural changes in the part-time employees company. All employees of Austrian Post are entitled to take advantage of all additional employee benefits, regardless of their age, gender and the extent of their employment. Thus these benefits are also available to part-time employees. 52 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST All employees of Austrian Post receive an annual EBIT bonus (participating in the company’s success). The gross total of EUR 811 was voluntarily paid to each employee for the 2013 financial year (bonus of EUR 761 and a special bonus of EUR 50). Employees receive a pro rata share depending on their annual working time. Other benefits enjoyed by Austrian Post employees are offered via the joint welfare association “post. sozial“. For the most part, the annual funding for the organisation’s activities is provided by the company. post.sozial – customised social services for © BilderBox Austrian Post employees The joint welfare association “post.sozial“ reflects the social responsibility of Austrian Post to its employees based on additional social services above and beyond legally stipulated obligations. The The achievemenTs of posT.sozial in 2013 association operates on a nonpost.sozial Total funding EUR 6.4m profit basis, and was estabfair.reisen Number of overnight stays 58,856 lished to provide social support helfens.wert Food coupons EUR 4.3m to active employees of Austrian Financial assistance EUR 974,000 Post and its subsidiaries as sehens.wert Number of discounted admission tickets offered 19,122 well as to retired employees, Events offered 124 family members and surviving postler.kids Support for children’s holiday camps EUR 10,315 relatives of employees. The services offered range People affected by the Austrian-wide flooding in from financial support to employees faced with the first half of 2013 could be quickly helped thanks unusually high costs arising as a result of illness to the speedy and unbureaucratic financial assisor natural disasters along with discounted tickets tance which the association post.sozial put at their for cultural and sports events and more favourabdisposal. ly priced holiday deals to child care and day care services during vacations. In order to be able to finance all these measures, 1% of the wage bill paid by Austrian Post and its Furthermore, support is provided for health care subsidiaries is devoted to funding the association. measures and recreational activities contributing to Total funding for the benefit of employees amounmaintaining the health of employees. In 2013 special ted to EUR 6.4m in 2013. The association is also attention was paid to burn-our prevention. supported by third-party donations. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 53 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification ASPECT: Employee-employer relationship LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Due to the fact that no new employment contracts have been concluded on the basis of public law since the year 1996, the number of civil servants is continually declining due to their retirement. Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2011 2012 2013 Salaried employees (FTE) 1 9,429 9,558 9,548 thereof salaried employees 7,177 6,747 6,198 thereof salaried employees subject to CBA 2009 2 2,234 2,795 3,333 thereof trainees 17 16 18 Civil servants (FTE) 10,266 9,738 9,146 Salaried employees (FTE in %) 1 47.4% 48.9% 50.4% thereof salaried employees 36.1% 34.5% 32.7% thereof salaried employees subject to CBA 2009 2 11.2% 14.3% 17.6% thereof trainees 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% Civil servants (FTE in %) 51.6% 49.8% 48.3% 1 FTE = Full-time equivalents 2 CBA = Collective bargaining agreement Employees working pursuant to the Austrian Civil Code (ABGB) are not subject to the collective wage agreement due to stipulations contained in the Postal Services Structure Acct (Section 19 Para. 5) and are therefore not included in this chart. LA5 Aspect: Occupational Minimum notice periods regarding safety and health significant operational changes As a service company, motivated and healthy Fundamentally speaking, regulations concerning the employees comprise the decisive success factor right of participation on the part of employee reprefor Austrian Post. In order to maintain the ability sentatives in organisational changes are contained of its employees to work, also until they reach an in the Labour Constitution Act. advanced age, the employer must ensure a safe and motivating working environment. For this reason In addition, Austrian Post is subject to the stipulatiwe are working to design a health-promoting and ons contained in the Post Office Employee Repreergonomic working environment as well as on worksentation Act (PBVG). Pursuant to Section 72 Para. places tailored to the needs of disabled or older 3 Line 7 of this law, the employee representatives employees. are to be informed in a timely manner before the implementation of organisational changes, and Of course the employees themselves are also called negotiations are to be carried out with these repreupon to preserve their own health. In this regard sentatives. Austrian Post supports these efforts by means of a targeted offering of trainings and information As a consequence of these regulations, organisamaterials for its employees with respect to exercise, tional changes are coordinated with the employee nutrition, mental health and abuse prevention, as representatives more than two months on average well as with target group-oriented and thematic before they are actually carried out. occupational health care programmes. 54 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST LA6 Representation in management worker health and safety committee and consulting on occupational health and safety programmes A central health and safety committee has been set up for the parent company Österreichische Post AG as well as some 25 regional health and safety committees at the individual facilities with more than 100 employees and for facilities which pose certain dangers to employees. The relevant regulations are contained in Sections 88 and 88a of the Employee Protection Act (ASchG). Improvement suggestions are developed on individual safety and health-related issues and the implementation of measures is discussed. A written protocol is prepared outlining the results of each meeting, which is filed on a regional basis (for All occupational accidents (including those incurred the health and safety committees) or centrally (for by leased personnel) must be immediately reported the central health and safety committee). to the company as a key pre-requisite for efficient accident prevention and for preparing accident In accordance with legal regulations, the bodies reports in those cases in which there is a legal obresponsible for occupational health and safety at ligation to report the occurrence to the responsible smaller sites play an advisory role. In this way the regulatory bodies. Responsibilities and reporting proentire staff is looked after by those responsible for cesses are regulated in detail by the organisational occupational health and safety (safety experts and directive 2/2007 “Reporting System for Occupational occupational physicians). Accidents”. LA7 Eight accidents occurred at work in 2013 involving Rates of injury, lost days, absenteeism and leased personnel, comprising a 3.8 percent share of work-related fatalities total accidents. In the reporting year 2013, the number of occupational accidents increased from 903 to 980. It is LA8 assumed that this increase can be largely attributed Measures designed to prevent serious diseases to weather conditions (the toughest winter in 100 More than 3,600 inspections of workplaces were years). In the year under review, one deadly accident carried out by security experts or occupational took place while the employee was at work (collision physicians. Many employees and executives of a delivery vehicle with a truck). Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2011 2012 2013 Rate of employees on sick leave (FTE in %) 1 7.4% 7.4% 8.7% Days lost per sick leave (working days) 10.0 10.1 11.2 Number of occupational accidents 2,3 837 903 980 Average number of (calendar) days lost per accident3 22.3 21.6 21.9 Accident rate3,4 4.2 4.6 5.2 Fatalities resulting from occupational accidents 0 1 1 1 FTE = Full-time equivalents 2 Accidents beginning with one working day lost (including accidents commuting to/from/during work) 3 Starting in 2012 subsequently reported occupational accidents are to be assigned to the actual year in which the accident took place, so that annual follow-up corrections of previous years will be necessary. 4 Number of occupational accidents beginning with one working day lost including accidents commuting to/from/during work per 100 FTE GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 55 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification were informed about the ergonomic, safe and health-promoting design of workplaces. Improvement suggestions were made and advisory services were rendered exceeding the legally stipulated level. Employees and executives were also instructed in the correct behaviour in case of emergencies (fire, acute illness, accidents) as well as in the case of accidents, and also provided with general information about safety-conscious and health-conscious behaviour at the workplace within the context of 400 trainings. Furthermore, numerous occupationalpsychological consultations were held by occupational physicians on issues such as mobbing, burnout and stress prevention. In order to prevent employThree such days were held in 2013, attracting 570 ees from coming down with the flu or participants and featuring numerous one-on-one other serious diseases (TBE, tetanus, diphtheria, consultations by occupational physicians. polio and hepatitis), some 3,200 vaccinations were given to employees throughout Austria in 2013 at LA9 very attractive rates. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Since 2011 Austrian Post has been offering a voluntary additional service i.e. personalised back Austrian Post considers occupational safety and exercises including spinal screening and posture accident prevention on behalf of its employees to be analysis. By the end of 2013 about 1,700 employtop priorities. In addition to legal regulations, there ees had already participated. This programme was are internal organisational guidelines designed to launched to complement the previous priority initiaticontribute to the protection of our employees. The ve, “Austrian Post on the move – the right exercises trade union and the Works Council are included in bring something for everybody“. The cornerstone all issues relating to occupational safety and acciof this programme is information events concerning dent prevention. correct posture and exercise at the workplace. Refresher courses are being continually offered by our occupational health care team. Aspect: Training and Education Starting in the fall of 2013 a new health care proCompetition on the postal market is steadily gramme entitled “A Healthy Heart and You” started increasing. At the same time the entire sector has in cooperation with the Austrian Heart Foundation. been subject to a fundamental transformation. All Austrian Post employees had the possibility to The increasingly demanding environment in which have a personalised risk profile developed along Austrian Post operates thus continuously places with individual recommendations by undergoing a new demands on the personnel structure of the “heart risk check”. The first measure implemented company and thus on each individual employee. on the basis of an anonymous overall data evaluaAustrian Post meets these requirements on the tion was an expansion of the previous health counbasis of target group-oriented and competenceselling offering (including measurement of blood oriented training and further education programmes, sugar, cholesterol level and blood pressure) and which are designed to individually promote the skills Austrian Post Health Days planned for 2014. of employees and help them to fully exploit their individual potential. 56 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST LA10 business operations. This presumes that executives Training and education have a good knowledge of the processes and activities taking place every working day “on the front”. Promoting a leadership culture based More than 380 managers were given the opportuon management trainings nity in 2013 to gain an insight into the daily work of Austrian Post is not only intensively working on its their colleagues on the delivery staff, in the branch products and services but also on itself. First and network or in the customer service department. The foremost is its corporate and leadership culture, managers spent a day for example accompanying which has evolved significantly over the last few a mail carrier and helping out with his or her work years and which was put on a new footing. In the in direct contact with customers. Last but not least, initial step, executives are called upon to identify this measure provided an opportunity to get a better employee potential and expand their skills through understanding of the challenges and problems inindividual career development. The foundation for volved in interacting with customers. this is the leadership guidelines of Austrian Post based on four guiding values: assume responsibility, Individualised professional development on the provide orientation, promote cooperation and build basis of target training and education confidence. In addition to these special executive trainings, the target group and competence-oriented training and An Executive Academy was established in May professional development of employees was inten2012 on the basis of the leadership guidelines. sively continued in 2013. These comprise a further The objective of this initiative offering a customized focal point of Austrian Post’s human resources programme is to support executives in their efforts management. The measures implemented consisto implement the leadership guidelines. All top exected of specialized instruction, continuing education utives and managers supervising more than three courses, coaching and training in all business areas employees take part in special trainings tailored to of the company. their specific area of responsibility. Leadership skills are imparted via different modules and with the help Furthermore, numerous skills and potential assessof specially trained coaches. The topics include ments were carried out spanning all divisions. On tocommunication and motivation, management styles tal, 443 people took part, primarily from the branch and instruments or presentation techniques. The network and letter mail segment. so-called “Leadership Workshop” is designed to deepen the knowledge the participants have gained. A trainee programme designed to promote the professional skills of junior staff was launched in SepIn the year 2013 some 700 executives participated tember 2013. On balance, a total of 27 trainees will in the Executive Academy. The four target groupparticipate in a one-year training programme aimed oriented programmes to further develop the skills of at enabling them to acquire a thorough knowledge company executives will be continued in 2014. of the company and to engage in cross-divisional networking. They will be employed in the delivery Austrian Post attaches considerable importance operations, in a branch office and in a logistics cento customer-oriented thinking and behaviour in the tre, among other responsibilities. spirit of embedding the mission statement in its daily Facts and Figures: Training and Education 2011 2012 2013 Number of seminars 836 1,389 1,347 Number of participants 3,240 7,525 6,495 thereof women in % 31.7% 39.4% 32.6% thereof men in % 68.3% 60.6% 67.4% Person hours 18,095 84,580 76,273 Annual average number of person hours for women 0.8 4.2 3.3 Annual average number of person hours for men 0.9 3.9 3.9 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 57 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification In the year 2013, a total of 1,347 seminars were Post, such as repairs and maintenance work, the held for Austrian Post employees. More than 6,000 implementation of various construction measures as employees took part in these events. 67.4% of the well as support carrying out administrative activities. participants were men, and 32.6% were women. Employees belonging to the Internal Labour Market On balance, each male employee spent 3.9 hours are also deployed to carry out these services, if per year being trained, and each female employee possible. Some 400 postal partner offices were thus 3.3 hours. (These figures do not include internal on– supported in implementing Austrian Post’s corpothe-job training, as well as trainings on occupational rate design. Furthermore, employees of PDG as well safety and health.) as the Internal Labour Market were deployed on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Finance to collect During the reporting year, one focal point again was soil samples as a means of estimating the value of on training executives. All in all, 114 events were land throughout Austria. held for this group of employees, with 693 executives participating. Most of the executives taking Success model: transfer of Post employees part in these events were in the fields of distributo the federal public service tion, the branch network and parcel logistics. On In 2013 civil servants at Austrian Post once again balance, employees at Austrian Post participated in transferred to the federal public service, more 76,273 seminar hours. specifically to the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. In addition, a total of 16,198 hours of training were Numerous applications and visits to information held for 899 postal partners. These figures only inevents demonstrate the widespread interest in the clude trainings in training rooms, not trainings which programme. By the end of 2013 close to 400 emwere held locally. ployees had transferred to the federal public service, showing that the competencies acquired at Austrian LA11 Post are very much in demand at the ministries. Programmes for skills management Since the year 2013 the Federal Ministry of Educaand lifelong learning tion and Women‘s Affairs has also offered career opportunities. The positions involved encompass In addition to specific training and educational a broad range of responsibilities, from demanding offering for employees in all business areas and specialist jobs in the ministries to supporting funcage groups, Austrian Post also offers support to tions in schools. employees who are impacted by restructuring measures and who wish to reposition themselves on the The Federal Office for Aliens’ Affairs and Asylum job market in the form of Austrian Post’s “Internal (BFA), the new government body created by the FeLabour Market”. deral Ministry for Internal Affairs, commenced operaIncreasing competition and the liberalisation of the tions at the beginning of 2014 with offices in all the letter mail market require the company to implement federal provinces. It is also a new place to deploy ongoing efficiency improvement measures as well as Austrian Post employees. 18 Austrian Post employadjustments to the personnel structure. In this case, ees have committed themselves to accepting the responsible corporate behaviour means reacting new challenge and will strengthen the BFA’s human to the resulting changes confronting employees, resources. They are undergoing training by expethus actively planning and supporting them on their rienced employees from the Federal Asylum Office career path in a socially acceptable manner. and the Aliens Police. Upon concluding their instrucThe “Internal Labour Market” is a platform designed tion, the new employees will have gained a working to prepare employees for new jobs inside or outside knowledge of basic administrative procedures, the the company. right to asylum and immigration laws. Subsequently they will be directly supported by team leaders at In 2013 the focus was on the cooperation with their workplaces and receive further training. PDG, Post Dienstleistungs Gesellschaft mbH, which offers comprehensive services for Austrian 58 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST LA12 Performance reviews and career development planning Regular performance appraisals (employee reviews) are held regularly between employees and their direct supervisors. The human resources department recommends that this performance review is held at least once annually. These employee reviews comprises a platform for partners to interact on a personal level and an opportunity to change the working relationship. They also represent an investment in the job satisfaction of employees and in creating a trusting working environment. The discussions with employees have two main objectives. On the one hand, to look back at the employee’s past performance and come to a conclusion regarding the success of the employee in carrying out the assigned tasks and the effectiveness of the cooperation. On the other hand, there is a LA13 looking ahead to the future defining a working focus, Diversity of employees and governing bodies formulating goals and support measures. In 2013 Austrian Post employed an average of 18,951 people, of which approximately one-third (28.9%) were women. 2,829 women and 559 men Aspect: Diversity and take advantage of customised part-time work moequal opportunity dels with which Austrian Post promotes the compatibility of family and career. Within the context of its diversity management, Austrian Post explicitly strives to promote social Moreover, Austrian Post’s workforce consists of diversity and constructively seeks to benefit from the employees from 88 different nations. Some 1,302 diversity of its staff. On the one hand, this applies employees are not Austrian citizens. The senior to visible, perceptible differences such as gender, management level at Austrian Post also includes 11 ethnic background, age and disability. On the other individuals who do not have Austrian citizenship. hand, it also applies to subjective differences such as religion and lifestyle. In past years Austrian Post more than fulfilled its employment obligations towards people with disaAustrian Post not only aims to tolerate the individual bilities. In the year 2013 1,196 people with special differences among employees, but particularly highneeds were employed by the company. People light them in the spirit of promoting mutual esteem with disabilities work in a diverse range of positions, and respect. The objectives are to create a producfor example as executives, Central Works Council tive overall atmosphere in the company, prevent representatives, on the delivery staff or post office the social discrimination of minorities and improve employees. equality of opportunity. Austrian Post also strives to ensure diversity in selecThe company attaches considerable importance to ting the members of the Supervisory Board. In this ensuring equal opportunity at work in all business regard, three out of the twelve Supervisory Board areas, and thus decisively opposes any kind of members are under the age of 50, and two memdiscrimination, mobbing and sexual harassment. bers are not Austrian citizens. Two of the Supervisory Board members are women, namely Edith Hlawati (Deputy Chairperson) and Elisabeth Stadler. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 59 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2011 2012 2013 Total number of employees (FTE)1 19,907 19,534 18,951 thereof women (FTE in %) 29.3% 29.3% 28.9% thereof men (FTE in %) 70.7% 70.7% 71.1% Full-time employees (total) 17,785 17,724 17,178 thereof women (in %) 23.1% 23.7% 23.4% Part-time employees (total) 3,812 3,422 3,388 thereof women (in %) 83.3% 85.4% 83.5% Employees with special needs 1,187 1,201 1,196 (total as at December 31) Employees by age group (FTE) Under 30 1,600 1,735 1,837 30–50 years 13,210 12,218 11,131 Over 50 5,098 5,581 5,982 Employees in management positions 2 Number of employees in management positions 147 159 153 thereof women 34 38 39 thereof men 113 121 114 By age group Under 30 2 2 1 30–50 years 109 113 117 Over 50 36 44 35 Employees in management positions (%) 0.7% 0.8% 0.8% thereof women 23.3% 24.1% 25.2% thereof men 76.7% 75.9% 74.8% By age group Under 30 1.3% 1.0% 0.8% 30–50 years 74.5% 71.1% 76.0% Over 50 24.2% 27.9% 23.1% 1 FTE = Full-time equivalents 2 CEO and Chairman of the Management Board, Management Board members, member of a division or business area at corporate headquarters, head of a department or business area in a region Diversity in practice Charter of Diversity Austrian Post puts a great deal of emphasis on Austrian Post signed the Charter of Diversity in 2013 ensuring sufficient diversity in the company. Appreand voluntarily committed itself to promoting greater ciation of, respect for and the promotion of diversity tolerance, fairness and respect within the context of have a positive effect on Austrian Post’s corporate its diversity management efforts. culture and contribute to its business success. Diversity of the staff means different points of view, “Career and Family Certificate“ which in turn leads to new ideas and the promotion The fact that Austrian Post attaches great imporof creative thinking outside the box. Diversity can tance to the compatibility of family and career was also contribute to more effective decision making officially confirmed in 2013, when the company was and problem solving. given the basic “Career and Family“ certificate by the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economy. By participating in the “Career and Family” audit, 60 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST are not the same everywhere. For this reason, it was Five core Dimensions important to focus on one specific area at Austrian oF Diversity management Post at the beginning of the audit. The more one can ensure a level playing field when starting out, the easier it is to agree on targeted measures for age this area. Following the successful implementation of measexual sures, the audit will be gradually expanded to other orientation religion business areas in the company. Business cross mentoring People with gender Austrian Post already boasts a large share of disabilities women in management positions, which reached a level of 25.2% in 2013. A special programme is Diversity attracts new customers. designed to particularly promote the advancement Diversity helps to lure talented employees. of female “high potentials” in the company. The second Business Cross Mentoring programme Diversity promotes creativity and the capacity for innovation. established for this purpose was launched in 2013. Diversity helps to open up international A total of 32 female employees participated. The markets. objective is to further promote equality of opportunity Diversity retains employees in the long term for success-oriented women, but also to strengthen and increases efficiency. the exchange of views and experience between Diversity improves the image of Austrian Post. employees and their personal mentors. LA14 Austrian Post aims to draw attention to its existing Salary differences by gender family-friendly offering and also continually expand, improve and adjust it to employee needs. Both the civil servants employed by Austrian Post, salaried employees subject to the stipulations of the The audit continually promotes the awareness of “old” collective wage agreement and those subject families and their needs in all relevant areas of the to the “new“ collective wage agreement (effective company. Studies have shown that a family-friendly August 1, 2009) are paid in accordance with the working environment increases employee motivation, respective remuneration scheme or pay scale. Each loyalty and commitment. Initially measures were position in the company is assigned to a specified carried out at corporate headquarters and overhead classification within the context of this remuneration functions of the regional offices, due to the fact that schemes or pay scale, which applies to all employemployment structures within Austrian Post are ees regardless of gender. quite complex. There are employees who do shift work and whose working hours constantly change. As a consequence of the remuneration system Some stand behind the counter, whereas others do described above, there are no salary differences not even have a PC at their workplace. The size of between men and women with the same education teams varies immensely, and also local conditions and training who perform the same work. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 61 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Human rights Austrian Post stands up for human rights and resTenders announced by Austrian Post inquire about pects the dignity of each individual. As a company and prioritize the fulfilling of social and ethical stanwhich signed the UN Global Compact, Austrian dards from bidders, based on the extensive criteria Post is committed to the fundamental principles stipulated in the Federal Procurement Act as well contained in this document (www.unglobalcompact. as corresponding declarations which go above and com). Austrian Post rejects any form of child labour beyond these rules. In addition, these values were or forced labour, and does not tolerate any unfair summarized in a Code of Conduct for suppliers in business practices. The company resolutely op2012. This code has been part and parcel of the poses any form of corruption and bribery, and also standardized tender documents since the third expects its business partners to adhere to these quarter of 2012, and thus de facto of all Group proprinciples. curement activities carried out by Austrian Post. Furthermore, the procurement policy of the Group in individual cases is in line with the overall corporate Aspect: Investment and strategy. The most prominent examples are tenders procurement practices for electricity, e-mobility, photovoltaics and constSince 2007 Austrian Post has belonged to the UN ruction investments. Global Compact, an initiative launched by the United Nations. As a consequence, it is committed to comWithin the framework of the Procurement Excellence plying with global principles of ethical, ecological Programmes, Austrian Post intends to formalize and business behaviour. and systematically ensure the close alignment of sustainability issues and Group strategy. This will Moreover, the Code of Conduct, which was pubtake place in phases. Direct steps to achieve this lished and communicated throughout the company include embedding the procurement policies in new in 2011, contains principles designed to promote Group procurement guidelines, the implementation the ethical and legally impeccable behaviour of all of vendor integrity checks and integrating sustainaemployees. The code is oriented to internationbility and innovation as a key aspect in evaluating al agreements as well as ethical standards, and suppliers. reflects the commitment of Austrian Post to comply with the principles contained in the UN Global Compact. Austrian Post expanded its compliance HR3 management system with respect to procurement Employee training on human rights practices. On the one hand, anticorruption clauses At the present time no employee training courses are included in new supply contracts. On the other are held which specifically focus on the issue of hand, a so-called “vendor integrity check” has human rights. In accordance with the company’s been developed, which will check certain business commitment to adhering to the stipulations of the partners in the future with respect to compliance UN Global Compact, Austrian Post developed a and integrity. Code of Conduct for suppliers of Austrian Post which stipulates compliance with human rights by contractors of Austrian Post and their own subconHR2 tractors and suppliers. Suppliers undergoing human rights screening Group procurement practices support the upholding of the values and ethical guidelines developed by Austrian Post, also in the external supplier chain. This applies to contracts awarded both within and outside the jurisdiction of the Federal Procurement Act. 62 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective action taken Principally speaking, every form of discrimination is forbidden by Austrian Post’s Code of Conduct, but this ban already results from the commitment of the company to comply with the principles contained in the UN Global Compact. Austrian Post has also established a working group to deal with issues of equality. As a rule, such equal opportunity cases are solved on the basis of consultations held with the equal treatment officer. In the year 2013 there was not a single case focusing on alleged discrimination which was forwarded to the National Equal Treatment Commission. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 63 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Society As a provider of universal postal services, Austrian Achievement of objectives 2013 Post bears a considerable responsibility to sociDuring the period under review, Austrian Post comety. It makes an important contribution towards pletely achieved its goal of promoting self-service maintaining and safeguarding the communications solutions. The aim was to equip 160 branch offices infrastructure on the basis of providing reliable, with self-service zones. In reality, self-service zones top-quality nationwide postal services in Austria. were installed in 180 branch offices. Austrian Post Austrian Post wants to offer services to meet the also surpassed its target of installing about 2,000 modern needs of society. Its attractive and innovaPick-up Boxes by far. At the end of 2013, there tive services and a comprehensive service offensive were already about 5,000 Pick-up Boxes in order demonstrate that the customer is the focal point of to be able to offer optimal service in the parcel all its business decisions. segment. Austrian Post also makes its contribution to society Austrian Post’s goal of implementing a new partby supporting a series of social projects. In this renership to promote a culture of reading and writing gard, the company strives to be involved in projects was achieved in 2013 thanks to its cooperation with which have a direct connection to the core business libraries. Picture book cinemas for children of kinderof the company i.e. its high logistics competence garten age were organised throughout the country and nationwide network of branch offices. under the project name “Austria reads – meeting in the library”. Social objectives Austrian Post reached its required level of expansion • Expansion of reliable, nationwide postal services with respect to its network of postal service points. • Ongoing further development of solutions to As of December 31, 2013, Austrian Post had a total enhance customer benefits of 1,894 postal service points, and defined a goal of • Promoting business-related and socially relevant stabilizing the number of postal service point at this projects and activities high level. Austrian Post has also met its needs with respect to the number of jointly operated branch offices with its banking partner BAWAG P.S.K., operating a total of 476 at the end of 2013. The new goal is to adjust the number of jointly operated Reliability of Post and BAWAG P.S.K. branch offices to customer Supply requirements. For 2014, Austrian Post has set the goal of expanSociety ding the number of self-service zones to 250 branch offices, and increasing the number of Pick-up Boxes to 8,000. Furthermore, the installation of 100 collection stations by the end of 2014 should further Service Orientation enhance customer comfort. With regard to data security, the company intends to introduce a mobile device management system for the encryption of mobile devices. Social Engagement Further details on sustainability targets and the extent to which they were achieved can also be found in the Thematic and Goal Matrix on pages 72-73. 64 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST postal services as of the end of 2013, including food stores, petrol stations, tobacconists and municipal authorities, ensuring the optimal regional availability and accessibility of Austrian Post and the services it offers. The advantages of the postal partner concept are obvious. By complementing the company’s own branch network, postal partner offices ensure more service, shorter distances and improved opening hours, and also safeguard the sustainable supply of postal services to the population. At the same time, economic structures in rural areas are strengthened. This is due to the fact that a majority of postal partner Aspect: Local community locations are local businesses which offer Austrian Post’s products and services in addition to their own SO1 product line and can thus generate additional inImpact of business activities come. This comprises a “win-win” situation for postal on the local community partners, customers and for Austrian Post. Austrian Post makes a decisive contribution towards maintaining and further developing the communicaIn 2013 the cooperation between Austrian Post tions infrastructure of the country in a future-orienand BAWAG P.S.K. was also intensified. By the end ted manner by reliably providing the entire country of 2013, a total of 476 branch offices were jointly with postal services. Only Austrian Post delivers operated. They offer postal and bank services, retail letters and parcels each day to every address and and telecommunications products under one roof. doorstep throughout Austria, thus ensuring that The strategic advantages of this concept and the basic postal services of outstanding quality are combined exploitation of the respective strengths of provided to the Austrian population. External quality Austrian Post and BAWAG P.S.K. have consistentmeasurements concluded that 95.5% of all letters ly proven to be successful, generating extensive are delivered to recipients on the next working day, synergies. The shared design and expanded offering higher than the legally stipulated level of 95%. – like the response to the postal partner concept – In addition to seven modern logistics centres and have been very well received by customers. 265 delivery bases, Austrian Post operates a nationwide branch network comprising 1,894 postal Austrian Post’s cooperation with postal partners in service points at the end of 2013. the social sector has proven to be particularly successful. For example, the charitable organisation “Die Conditions in the postal sector are being subject to Laube” now runs seven postal service points. “Die major changes. For this reason, Austrian Post must Laube” works with mentally stressed people who continually adapt its services and infrastructure in cannot take part in the normal working world due to a customer-oriented manner. A primary focus of their illness. The organisation offers employment via the company’s efforts is the expansion of the very its facilities in Salzburg and Vienna, and also contrisuccessful postal partner concept. On balance, butes to reintegrating them into the job market. a total of 1,359 postal partners were providing GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 65 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification Aspect: Corruption accompanied by various communication measures including announcements by the Chief Executive Austrian Post attaches great importance to the Officer (“Tone from the top”) at the turn of the year. issues of compliance with valid laws and regulations Subsequently broad-based information about the as well as transparency. Accordingly, as already campaign was conveyed via the company’s Intranet mentioned, the issue of “anticorruption” is a top as well as in the employee magazine. priority of the compliance management system of the Austrian Post Group. In order to increase Austrian Post employees find information on gifts, its activities in the field of anticorruption, Austrian invitations and other advantages compactly summaPost expanded the organisational outreach of its rised in a single folder. The comprehensive comcompliance management system in 2013, and also munications materials were rounded off by special intensified and professionalized the communications give-aways dealing with the issue of compliance of its compliance agenda. with a little smile – thus embedding the messages even more strongly in the employees’ memories. Due to the huge success of the 1st International In addition to the Compliance First Aid Kits, there Compliance Day in 2012, a further event was held in were also specially designed ponchos featuring the 2013 which once again aroused extensive interest slogan “Compliance won’t leave you out in the rain.” on the part of Austrian Post employees. In addition In addition, they were provided with contact details to Peter Umundum, Member of the Management about the Compliance Help Desk, which employees Board, participants included the regional complican contact for additional information or if they have ance representatives, members of the Compliance any inquiries. Committee and employees responsible for the subsidiaries (especially in the CEE/SEE region). External SO2 input was provided by renowned speakers of the Business units analysed for International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA), the risks related to corruption University of Lausanne and international companies. Potential risks of corruption are also taken into In order to strengthen the awareness of compliaccount by Austrian Post’s risk management sysance in the company, Austrian Post also developed tem. No risks related to corruption in Austria were communications campaigns in 2012 designed to reported to the risk management system in the year humorously address the most important issues 2013. In addition, a Group-wide compliance risk which are also included in the Code of Conduct, assessment was carried out, particularly focusing such as corruption, bribery, breach of secrecy and on the issue of anticorruption. The results of the disrespectful behaviour. compliance risk assessment (and the audit by PwC) will be integrated in the compliance programme for The campaigns were rolled out to employees by the year 2014. using specially designed billboards and folders, and @@@ Virus Corruptionis@@@ █ bacillus schimpficus█ @@@ Bacteria Tratschephila@@@ @@@ Bacillus Bestechus@@@ [ˈvi:rʊs kɔrʊˈptsjo:nis] [BƏˈSɪLƏS ʃɪmp͡ fƱs] [bækˈtɪriə ˈtratʃəˌfi:la:] [bəˈsɪləs bəˈʃtɛçʊs] Streckt seine Fühler nach neuesten Gerüchten aus, die er verbreiten kann. Denkt sich nichts dabei, wenn er über andere herzieht. Wäscht seine Hände in Unschuld. Ein unansehnlicher Körper mit einer Besonderheit: kein Rückgrat. Drückt bei Bestechungen ein Auge zu. Haut seinen Kollegen Ein richtiges Großmaul. Großes Schandmaul (mit böser Zunge). das Hackl ins Kreuz. Plappermaul. Die eine Hand wäscht die andere. Kriegt vor lauter Gier den Mund nicht voll. Kein Bauchgefühl. Vier Hände können mehr Unheil anrichten als zwei. Lügner haben kurze Beine. Damit gibt er Fersengeld. Immer noch auf freiem Fuß. Dieser eklige Zeitgenosse gehört definitiv zu den heimtückischsten seiner Art. Diesen Fiesling erkennt man an seinem herausragenden Körperteil: Bei ihm ist kein Geheimnis sicher – er verbreitet es ungeniert unter Kollegen, Dieser flinke Geselle flitzt am liebsten von Einladung zu Einladung, die er entweder Er nützt jede Gelegenheit, um sich persönliche Vorteile zu verschaffen. Moral seiner großen Klappe. Er scheut den fairen und offenen Dialog und verbreitet Geschäftspartnern oder Medien. Das Vertrauen unserer Kunden und Aktionäre im Gegenzug für eine Gefälligkeit einfordert, oder ohne Erlaubnis annimmt. Auch und Verhaltensregeln sind ihm ein Graus – er denkt ausschließlich an sich selbst. ungeniert Gerüchte. Dabei vergisst er, dass dies nicht nur ein schlechtes interessiert ihn dabei nicht. Doch mit unseren internen Informationen spielen wir von Geschenken kriegt er nicht genug. Doch: Bei der Post nehmen wir Geschenke Hat er sich erst einmal eingenistet, ist es ganz schön schwer, ihn wieder loszuwerLicht auf ihn selbst wirft, sondern auch auf seine Kolleginnen und Kollegen. nicht „Stille Post“. Wir behandeln sie vertraulich und informieren uns, ob und an grundsätzlich nur an, wenn wir sie auch verschicken. Um eine Ansteckung zu den. Aber Vorbeugen ist ganz einfach: Bleib sauber. Mehr dazu im Intranet. Wir empfehlen deshalb: Bleib sauber. Mehr dazu im Intranet. wen wir sie weitergeben dürfen. Darum: Bleib sauber. Mehr dazu im Intranet. vermeiden, gibt es ein einfaches Mittel: Bleib sauber. Mehr dazu im Intranet. Erste Hilfe unter bleibsauber@post.at oder Hotline: 0800 20 22 24 Erste Hilfe unter bleibsauber@post.at oder Hotline: 0800 20 22 24 Erste Hilfe unter bleibsauber@post.at oder Hotline: 0800 20 22 24 Erste Hilfe unter bleibsauber@post.at oder Hotline: 0800 20 22 24 @@BLEIB SAUbER.@@ █BLEIB SAUbER.█ @@BLEIB SAUbER.@@ @@BLEIB SAUbER.@@ No chance for corruption bacteria: Austrian Post rolled out a comprehensive awareness campaign on the issue of compliance. 66 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST SO3 SO4 Measures to prevent corruption Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption The issue of anti-corruption is one of the priorities of Austrian Post’s compliance trainings and information In the reporting year no instances of corruption programme. The employees are regularly trained were reported in Austria to the Compliance Office in a risk-oriented and target group-specific manof Austrian Post. In such a situation disciplinary ner on the issues of “compliance awareness” and measures and labour law sanctions would apply. In “anticorruption” in face to face sessions within the 2013 the measures initiated by Austrian Post to precontext of a comprehensive training plan. Due to the vent corruption within the context of its compliance Corruption Criminal Code Amendment Act passed management system were successfully continued in 2012, update trainings were held on the corresthroughout the Group (see S03). ponding changes in the Group directive pertaining to the “Acceptance and Granting of Gifts, Invitations and Other Advantages”. Moreover, an e-learning Aspect: Public policy tool was developed and rolled out throughout the entire Group. SO5 Public policy positions and participation On the occasion of training and information events, in public policy development the employees will also be referred to the central In 2013 Austrian Post once again stated its conCompliance Help Desk, which was set up to serve cerns relating to the business operations of the as a contact point for concerns, questions or indicompany within the framework of its membership cations of potential violations on compliance-related in various trade and professional associations and issues such as bribery or corruption. The complithe relevant decision-making bodies and working ance helpdesk is accessible for all employees via a groups, and will continue to do so in the future. In separate email mailbox and cost-free hotlines. particular, the focus was mainly on the issues of infrastructure and security of supply. The objective of Austrian Post is to provide postal services throughout the country for the benefit of the Austrian population. This must take place in a modern and service-oriented manner. The medium-term goal is to agree on an up-to-date definition of universal GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 67 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification postal services. to ensure flexibility in the selection Aspect: Compliance with laws of an operating model applying to postal service points and to develop a public services law in line SO8 with market requirements. Sanctions and fines for noncompliance with laws During the reporting year no fines or monetary Aspect: Anti-competitive sanctions were imposed against Austrian Post for behaviour violations of legal regulations, with the exception of minor administrative penalties, for example traffic SO7 offences. Legal actions due to anti-competitive behaviour There were no legal actions against Austrian Post on grounds of alleged anti-competitive behaviour, the establishment of monopolies or creation of cartels during the reporting year. 68 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Product responsibility The principle of product responsibility is embedded in the mission statement of Austrian Post. We give our customers a clearly-defined performance commitment and continually fulfil our promise. We design our products and services in a customeroriented, simple and easily comprehensible manner. Austrian Post pursues the target of setting standards for quality and customer orientation. The company takes criticism voiced by customers seriously, and sees it as an incentive for improvement. Aspect: Product and service labelling PR3 Products and services subject to statutory information requirements ratings above 61 points are considered good, 71 All services provided within the context of the and more are viewed as very good, and any score universal service obligation are subject to statutory between 81 and a maximum of 100 points is seen information requirements. as excellent. The average CSI in 2013 reached a level of 67, two index points higher than in the previous year, and was thus in the range rated as good. PR4 Over the four quarters the index only fluctuated Incidents of noncompliance with regulations marginally between 65 and 68. The fourth quarter of and voluntary codes concerning production 2013 even showed the highest value ever measuand service information and labelling red. In this regard, young people in particular were among the most satisfied customers. During the reporting year there were no incidents of noncompliance with valid legal regulations and The postal service points and delivery services were voluntary codes concerning production and service also given very good grades. In particular, overall information and labelling. satisfaction with delivery increased once again in the fourth quarter of 2013, and reached 76 index points for letter mail, a rise of five index points from the PR5 prior-year level, and 77 index points for parcels, up Practices related to customer satisfaction four index points. In the reporting year customer satisfaction was surveyed on a quarterly basis. The market research The perception of the company’s sustainable develpartner for this project is the renowned institute IFES. opment with respect to environmental protection as By means of representative studies with a sample well as its responsibility to society and employees is size of n = 1,000 in each case, the “Customer Saalso taken into account in the customer satisfaction tisfaction Index” (CSI) is compiled, which consists of survey. The results of the fourth quarter of 2013 customer satisfaction and customer loyalty. show that Austrian Post’s activities focusing on the environment and its social commitment are posiMeasuring customer satisfaction by means of CSI tively perceived. considers values of up to 50 as critical, values between 51 and 60 points as satisfactory, whereas GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 69 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification ASPECT: Protection of customer data PR8 Total number of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data With the exception of a few isolated complaints in connection with consent granted to passing on data on forwarding mail forms (redirections) for advertising purposes, there were no complaints with respect to breaches of customer privacy. Austrian Post has been granted authorisation to exercise the trades of address publishing and direct marketing. Within this framework, it is standard policy to request permission to pass on data for adASPECT: Marketing vertising purposes on the forms used for requesting communications mail to be forwarded. PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, Aspect: Compliance with laws standards and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications PR9 Austrian Post puts its core service the secure and Fines for noncompliance with laws and trustworthy delivery of mail items – at the focal point regulations related to products and services of its advertising and also integrates sustainability During the reporting year no fines were levied for issues into these communication activities. noncompliance with laws and regulations related to Austrian Post does not evaluate its advertising only products and services. according to economic criteria, but also includes ethical aspects. Austrian Post strictly rejects any form of advertising but which is immoral and which does not correspond to generally-accepted ethical and cultural standards. PR7 Incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications During the reporting year there were no incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning advertising, promotion and sponsorship. 70 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 71 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification THEMATIC AND GOAL MATRIX Mission Everything we do revolves around our customers We are future-oriented statement CSR priorities SOCIETY Environment 1. Expansion of reliable, nationwide postal services 1. CO2 reduction and annual compensation for remaining 2. Ongoing further development of solutions to enhance emissions customer benefits 2. Expansion and improvement of a central environmental Main objectives 3. Promoting business-related and socially relevant projects management system and activities 3. Sensibilisation of relevant stakeholders for environmental and climate protection Achievement of objectives 2013 Achievement of objectives 2013 Expansion of network to 2,000 postal service 1,894 CO2 neutral delivery since 2011 points by 2013 Expansion of jointly operated branch offices with 476 CO2 reduction by 20% in the period 2010-2015 -17.4% BAWAG P.S.K. to 500 in 2013 Installation of self-service zones in 160 branch Expansion of e-vehicle fleet to more than 1,300 180 653 Sub-targets offices by 2013 vehicles by 2016 „Green Vienna“: delivery of all letters and Installation of more than 2,000 Post Pick-up 5 5,000 direct mail items to private customers by foot Boxes by 2013 districts or e-vehicles by 2016 Conception and implementation of a new partNomination of a company-wide waste manager nership by 2013 to promote a culture of reading by 2013 and writing Required number of postal service points Continuation of the initiative reached, stabilization at a high level. CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY Demand-oriented adjustment of the postal part“Green Vienna“: conversion of another three ner concept. districts by the end of 2014 Demand-oriented adjustment of number of Optimisation of waste management: creation of a jointly-operated Post-BAWAG P.S.K. offices consistent database by the end of 2014 New sub-targets 2014 Expansion of self-service zones to 250 branch offices by the end of 2014 Increase number of Post Pick-up Boxes to 8,000 by the end of 2014 Installation of 100 collection stations by the end of 2014 Data security: introduction of a mobile device management system for the encryption of mobile devices Target period concluded, goal achieved on schedule. Target period concluded, goal changed as needed. Target period concluded, goal was not achieved. Target period underway, level of achievement is provided 72 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST Mission We are future-oriented We are all part of Austrian Post statement Economy Employees CSR priorities 1. Medium-term revenue growth and solid profitability 1. Promoting a corporate and leadership culture 2. Generation of value added for all stakeholders 2. Creating individual future perspectives Main objectives 3. Sustainable increase in enterprise value in line with 3. Promoting occupational health and safety shareholder expectations Achievement of objectives 2013 Achievement of objectives 2013 Participation of more than 300 executives in the Medium-term revenue growth of 1-2% per year) 693 Executive Academy by 2013 EBITDA margin in the targeted range of 10-12%1) Start of the audit ”Career&Family” in 2013 Expansion of the programme “Post employees to Attractive dividend policy with distribution of at the federal public service“ to other ministries or least 75% of the Group net profit1) Sub-targets federal provinces in 2013 Stable or slightly positive revenue development Implementation of a company-wide employee in 2013 survey in 2013 Further earnings improvement (EBIT) in 2013 Roll-out of a compliance e-learning tool by 2013 Expansion of market share in the B2B parcel 25% segment to over 20% by 2013 Expansion of the Executive Academy to 3,000 Medium-term revenue growth of 1-2% per year) person days by the end of 2014 Participation of 250 executives in the programme EBITDA margin in the targeted range of 10-12%1) “A day visiting customers“ by the end of 2014 Audit “Career&Family“: -) 4 executive newsletters by the end of 2014 Stable revenue development in 2014 -) Inclusion of employees on leave in the internal information network by the end of 2014 -) 1 networking event by the end of 2014 New sub-targets Integration of the issue “sustainability“ in the in 2014 Improvement of EBIT in 2014 Welcome Day by the end of 2014 Continuation of the programme “Post employees to the federal public service” At least 50 participants in driver safety trainings to reduce damage and accidents Further sensibilisation of management for the issue of CSR 1) Rolling targets, also apply to subsequent years GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 73 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Declaration on the profile 1. Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior Declaration of 1.1 Page 4 decision-maker in the organisation support Description of key impacts, risks and 1.2 Page 6 opportunities 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the Organisation Page 17 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Page 17 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Page 17 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Page 17 Number of countries where the organization 2.5 Page 18 operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 19 2.7 Markets served Page 19 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Page 17 There were no major changes in Significant changes regarding size, structure 2.9 size, structure or ownership in the or ownership reporting period 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Page 20 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Page 21 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Page 21 3.3 Reporting cycle Page 21 Contact point for questions regarding the 3.4 Page 87 report or its contents 3.5 Process for defining report contents Page 21 3.6 Boundaries of the report Page 21 Limitations on the scope or boundary 3.7 Page 21 of the report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 3.8 Page 21 subsidiaries etc. Data measurement techniques and the 3.9 Page 22 bases of calculations 3.10 Re-statements of information Page 21 Significant changes from previous 3.11 Page 21 reporting periods 3.12 GRI Content Index Page 74 3.13 External assurance for the report Page 84 74 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Corporate governance and governance structure Page 23 4.2 Independence of the highest governance body Page 24 Structure of the highest governance body in 4.3 Page 24 organisations without a Supervisory Board Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction to the Page 24 highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members 4.5 of the highest governance bodies and the Page 24 organisation’s performance Measures to implement principles 4.6 Processes in place to prevent conflicts of interest Page 25 1-10 Expertise of the highest governance body on 4.7 Page 25 economic, environmental and social issues. Internally developed statements of mission or 4.8 values, codes of conduct and principles relevant Page 25 to sustainability Procedures for overseeing sustainability 4.9 Page 28 performance Processes for evaluating the highest governance 4.10 body’s own performance with respect Page 28 to sustainability Extent to which the precautionary approach is Measures to imple4.11 Page 28 addressed by the organisation ment principle 7 External developed charters, principles or other 4.12 Page 28 initiatives Measures to implement principles Memberships in associations and industry 1–10 4.13 Page 28 associations List of the stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14 Page 29 organisation Basis for identification and selection of Progress report 4.15 Page 29 stakeholders with whom to engage conveyed to stakeholders of 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Page 29 the company Key topics and concerns raised through 4.17 Page 30 stakeholder engagement Disclosures on Management Approach Measures to impleDisclosure on Management Approach EC DMA EC Page 35 ment principles 1, (economic performance) 4, 6 and 7 Measures to impleDisclosure on Management Approach EN DMA EN Page 39 ment principles7, (environmental performance) 8 and 9 n.a. Not applicable Fully reported EC1 Core indicators (normal print) Partially reported EC9 Additional indicators (italics) GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 75 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Measures to impleDisclosure on Management Approach LA (labour ment principles 1, DMA LA Page 50 practices and humane working conditions) 3 and 6 Measures to impleDisclosure on Management Approach HR DMA HR Page 62 ment principles1, (human rights) 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Disclosure on Management Approach SO Measures to impleDMA SO Page 64 (society) ment principle 10 Measures to impleDisclosure on Management Approach PR DMA PR Page 69 ment principles (product responsibility) 1 and 8 Economic Performance Indicators Investments for the company are not clearly definable – most investments Direct economic value generated and EC1 Page 36 are made to maintain a reliable supply distributed. of postal services and thus benefit the company. Investments for the company are not clearly definable – most investments Page 11 EC2 Financial implications of climate change. are made to maintain a reliable supply Page 15 of postal services and thus benefit the company. Austrian Post does not offer any comCoverage of organisation’s defined benefit EC3 n.a. pany pension plans but pays contribuplan obligations. tions to the state pension system. For reasons of confidentiality, no deSignificant financial assistance received from EC4 n.a. tails can be disclosed about financial the government. assistance from the government. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage EC5 by gender compared to local minimum wage n.a. Not a significant additional indicator. at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy and practices towards local suppliers. Page 38 Not relevant, due to the fact that the Procedures for local hiring and proportion report only focuses on the parent of senior management hired from the EC7 n.a. company Österreichische Post AG local community at locations of significant based in Austria (foreign subsidiaries operation. not included. Development and impact of infrastructure See indicator SO1. EC8 Page 65 investments and services Understanding and describing significant EC9 Page 38 indirect economic impacts Ecological Performance Indicators Results of impleEN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Page 40 menting principle 8 Results of implePercentage of materials used that are EN2 Page 40 menting principles recycled input materials. 8 and 9 Direct energy consumption by primary Results of impleEN3 Page 41 energy source. menting principle 8 76 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Results of impleEN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Page 41 menting principle 8 The most important initiatives and Results of implemeasures to reduce energy consumpEnergy saved due to conversation and efficiency EN5 Page 41 menting principles tion were described in the report. improvements. 8 and 9. However, the energy saved could not be assigned to the individual activities. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and EN6 reductions in energy requirements as a result n.a. Not a significant additional indicator. of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy EN7 n.a. Not a significant additional indicator. consumption and reductions achieved. Water consumption is not of material significance due to the fact that AusEN8 Total water withdrawal by source. n.a. trian Post is not a production company but a service provider. Water sources significantly affected by EN9 n.a. Not a significant additional indicator. withdrawal of water. Percentage and total volume of water recycled EN10 n.a. Not a significant additional indicator. and reused. Location and size of land owned, leased, Austrian Post does not own or managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas lease any real estate in or adjacent EN11 n.a. and areas of high biodiversity value outside to protected areas or areas of high protected areas. biodiversity value. Description of significant impacts of activities, Austrian Post does not own or products, and services on biodiversity in prolease any real estate in or adjacent EN12 Page 45 tected areas and areas of high biodiversity value to protected areas or areas of high outside protected areas. biodiversity value. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. n.a. Not a significant additional indicator. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EN14 n.a. Not a significant additional indicator. managing impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national EN15 conservation list species with habitats in areas n.a. Not a significant additional indicator. affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Results of impleEN16 Page 46 emissions by weight. menting principle 8 n.a. Not applicable Fully reported EC1 Core indicators (normal print) Partially reported EC9 Additional indicators (italics) GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 77 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Ecological Performance Indicators Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Results of impleEN17 Page 46 emissions by weight. menting principle 8 Similar to EN5, the most important initiatives and measures to reduce Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions were EN18 Page 46 and reductions achieved. Measures and redescribed in the report. However, the sults of implemenemissions saved could not be assigting principles 7, 8 ned to the individual activities. and 9 Due to the fact that Austrian Post is not a production company but a Emissions of ozone-depleting substances EN19 n.a. service provider, there are no signifby weight. icant emissions of ozone-depleting substances. NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Valid data is currently unavailable for EN20 n.a. by type and weight. the entire company. Due to the fact that Austrian Post is not a production company but a EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. n.a. service provider, total water discharge is not of material significance. The most important types of waste arising due to Austrian Post’s busiTotal weight of waste by type and Results of impleness operations were described in the EN22 Page 48 disposal method. menting principle 8 report. The respective quantities and waste disposal methods could not be determined and reported. Due to the fact that Austrian Post is not a production company but a serEN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. n.a. vice provider, there are no significant spills of chemicals, oil or fuels. The most important types of waste arising due to Austrian Post’s busiResults of impleness operations were described in the EN24 Total weight of waste deemed hazardous. Page 48 menting principle 8 report. The respective quantities and waste disposal methods could not be determined and reported. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiNot a significant additional EN25 n.a. ficantly affected by the reporting organization’s indicator. discharges of water and runoff. Measures to impleInitiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of EN26 Page 48 ment principles 7, products and services. 8 and 9 Due to the fact that Austrian Percentage of products sold and their Post is not a production comEN27 packaging materials that are reclaimed n.a. pany but a service provider, by category. no products are sold with packaging materials. Sanctions and fines for noncompliance with Results of impleEN28 Page 49 environmental laws and regulations. menting principle 8 78 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Transport comprises the core service provided by Austrian Post. For this reason, the main transport-related Significant environmental impacts of transporting Results of impleEN29 Page 49 environmental impacts are already products and other goods and materials menting principle 8 included in the performance indicators EN3, EN4, EN5, EN7, EN16, EN18 and EN26. Social performance indicators: labour practices and decent work Region-specific factors are not of Total workforce by employment type, employmaterial importance, due to the fact LA1 Page 51 ment contract and region. that employees in the company are only employed in Austria. Total number and rate of new employee hires Results of impleLA2 and employee turnover by age group, gender Page 52 menting principle 6 and region. Benefits provided depending on employment LA3 Page 52 relationship. Results of implePercentage of employees covered by collective LA4 Page 54 menting principles bargaining agreements. 1 and 3 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in Page 54 collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and LA6 Page 55 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days Results of impleThese indicators are not compiled LA7 and absenteeism, and number of work-related Page 55 menting principle 1 from external shipping companies. fatalities. LA8 Measures designed to prevent serious diseases. Page 55 Measures to impleHealth and safety topics covered in formal ment principle 1 LA9 Page 56 agreements with trade unions. Average hours of training per year per employee LA10 Page 57 and employee category. Programmes that support the continued LA11 employability of employees and assist them in Page 58 managing career endings Records pertaining to the implementaPerformance of employees receiving regular LA12 Page 59 tion of employee appraisal interviews performance and career development reviews. are not centrally recorded. LA13 Diversity of employees and governance bodies Page 59 Results of implementing principles Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of LA14 Page 61 1 and 6 women to men. n.a. Not applicable Fully reported EC1 Core indicators (normal print) Partially reported EC9 Additional indicators (italics) GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 79 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Social performance indicators: human rights Due to the fact that the business Percentage and total number of significant inactivities of the reporting organisation vestment agreements and contracts that include refer exclusively to Austria, it is not HR1 n.a. clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or assumed that there will be any human that have undergone human rights screening. rights violations with respect to this indicator. The roll-out of a code of conduct for Suppliers and contractors that have undergone suppliers took place at the beginning HR2 Page 62 Measures and human rights screening. of 2012 (no concrete data is available results of implemenfor 2013). ting principles 1–6 HR3 Employee training on human rights. Page 62 Total number of incidents of discrimination and There is no centralised data collection HR4 Page 63 corrective actions taken. on incidents of discrimination. Due to the fact that the business Operations and significant suppliers identified in activities of the reporting organisation which the right to exercise freedom of associatirefer exclusively to Austria, it is not HR5 on and collective bargaining may be violated or n.a. assumed that there will be any human at significant risk, and actions taken to support rights violations with respect to this these rights. indicator. Due to the fact that the business Operations and significant suppliers identified activities of the reporting organisation as having significant risk for incidents of child HR6 n.a. refer exclusively to Austria, it is not labour, and measures taken to contribute to the assumed that there will be any risk effective abolition of child labour. involved with respect to this indicator. Operations and significant suppliers identified as Due to the fact that the business having significant risk for incidents of forced or activities of the reporting organisation HR7 compulsory labour, and measures to contribute n.a. refer exclusively to Austria, it is not to the elimination of all forms of forced or comassumed that there will be any risk pulsory labour. involved with respect to this indicator. Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not a significant additional indicator, organization’s policies or procedures concerning due to the fact that the business HR8 n.a. aspects of human rights that are relevant to activities of the reporting organisation operations. are in Austria. Not a significant additional indicator, Total number of incidents of violations involving due to the fact that the business HR9 n.a. rights of indigenous people and actions taken. activities of the reporting organisation are in Austria. Due to the fact that no violation of Percentage and total number of operations that human rights can be assumed in the HR10 have been subject to human rights reviews and/ n.a course of the business activities of the or impact assessments. reporting organisation, no reviews or assessments took place. Due to the fact that no violation of Number of grievances related to human rights human rights can be assumed in the HR11 filed, addressed and resolved through formal n.a course of the business activities of the grievance mechanisms. reporting organization, the number of grievances cannot be presented. Social performance indicators: society Programmes to assess the impacts of SO1 Page 65 operations on communities and society. Results of impleSO2 Analyses of risks related to corruption. Page 66 menting principle 10 80 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Social performance indicators: society Results of impleEmployee training in anti-corruption policies and Specific data is not available at SO3 Page 67 menting principle procedures. the present time. 10 Results of impleActions taken in response to incidents of SO4 Page 67 menting principle corruption. 10 Results of implePublic policy positions and participation in SO5 Page 67 menting principle public policy development and lobbying. 1-10 There are no direct contributions made to political parties or politicians. Within the context of legally permissible and voluntary membership in Total value of financial and in-kind contributions associations, various payments were SO6 to political parties, politicians, and related made for membership in associations institutions by country. such as the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber and the Federation of Austrian Industries. The costs for these membership fees are not published. Legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, SO7 Page 68 anti-trust and monopoly practices. Sanctions and fines for noncompliance with SO8 Page 68 laws and regulations. This is not an indicator of material Operations with significant potential or actual importance, due to the fact that no SO9 n.a. negative impacts on local communities. negative effects on local communities could be identified. This is not an indicator of material Prevention and mitigation measures implemenimportance, due to the fact that no SO10 ted in operations with significant potential or n.a. negative effects on local communities actual negative impacts on local communities. could be identified. Social performance indicators: product responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety Austrian Post does not assume that impacts of products and services are assessed Measures and rethe services it offers will have any PR1 for improvement, and percentage of significant n.a. sults of implemenmajor effects on the health and safety products and services categories subject to ting principle 8 of its customers. such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 n.a. Not a significant additional indicator. health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Measures and reProducts and services subject to statutory PR3 Page 69 sults of implemeninformation requirements. ting principle 8 Total number of incidents of noncompliance Measures and rePR4 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Page 69 sults of implemenproduct and service information and labelling. ting principle 8 n.a. Not applicable Fully reported EC1 Core indicators (normal print) Partially reported EC9 Additional indicators (italics) GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 81 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Social performance indicators: product responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction. Page 69 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards No internal guidelines exist on PR6 and voluntary codes related to marketing comPage 70 complying with behavioural rules munications. with respect to advertising. Total number of incidents of noncompliance PR7 with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Page 70 marketing communications. Total number of substantiated complaints regarResults of implePR8 ding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Page 70 menting principle 1 customer data. Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulatiPR9 Page 70 ons related to products and services. n.a. Not applicable Fully reported EC1 Core indicators (normal print) Partially reported EC9 Additional indicators (italics) The Sustainability Report 2013 of Austrian Post was prepared in line with the guidelines for sustainability reporting of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1), and corresponds to the Application Level A+. Adherence to the formal criteria contained in these guidelines and the information provided in the report are subject to an auditor’s review and confirmed by an independent third party. The independent certification on the part of Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. is provided at the end of this report. 82 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 83 Sustainability Strategy Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagement Economic Performance Indicators Ecological Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Thematic and Goal Matrix GRI Content Index Independent Certification To An the den Management Board of Austrian Vorstand der Österreichischen PostPost Aktiengesellschaft Independent Unabhängiger Certification Bestätigungsbericht (in German) Unabhängige Prüfung des vorliegenden Nachhaltigkeitsberichts 2013 der Österreichischen Post Aktiengesellschaft Auftragsgegenstand ► GRI-Leitfaden zur Nachhaltigkeitsberichterstattung 2 G3.1 , Anwendungsebene A+ Wir wurden von der Österreichischen Post Wir gehen davon aus, dass diese Kriterien für die Aktiengesellschaft mit der Durchführung einer Prüfung zur Durchführung unseres Prüfauftrags angemessen sind. Erlangung einer begrenzten Sicherheit (nachfolgend „Prüfung“) des vorliegenden „Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2013 nach GRI“ (nachfolgend „Bericht”) beauftragt. Die Prüfung umfasste den Nachhaltigkeitsbericht nach der Verantwortung des Managements GRI G3.1. Das Management der Österreichischen Post Unsere Prüfungshandlungen wurden gesetzt, um eine Aktiengesellschaft ist für die Erstellung des Berichts, sowie begrenzte Prüfsicherheit als Grundlage für unsere für die darin enthaltenen Informationen, in Beurteilung zu erlangen. Der Umfang der Übereinstimmung mit den oben genannten Kriterien, Prüfungshandlungen zur Einholung von Prüfungsverantwortlich. Diese Verantwortung beinhaltet die nachweisen ist geringer als jener für hinreichende Entwicklung, Implementierung und Sicherstellung von Prüfsicherheit (wie beispielsweise bei einer internen Kontrollen. Diese sind für die Erstellung der Jahresabschlussprüfung), sodass ein geringerer Grad an Berichterstattung maßgeblich, um wesentliche falsche Prüfsicherheit gegeben ist. Angaben auszuschließen. Gemäß der „Allgemeinen Auftragsbedingungen für 1 Wirtschaftstreuhandberufe“ ist unsere Haftung beschränkt. Demnach haftet der Berufsberechtigte nur für Unsere Verantwortung vorsätzliche und grob fahrlässig verschuldete Verletzungen der übernommenen Verpflichtungen. Im Unsere Verantwortung besteht darin, ein Urteil über die Falle grober Fahrlässigkeit beträgt die maximale Informationen im Bericht auf Basis einer Prüfung zur Haftungssumme gegenüber der Österreichischen Post Erlangung einer begrenzten Sicherheit abzugeben. Aktiengesellschaft und etwaigen Dritten insgesamt EUR 726.730. Wir haben unseren Prüfauftrag unter Beachtung des 3 „International Federation of Accountants’ ISAE3000“ Standards sowie des von der „International Federation of Einschränkungen des Prüfauftrages Accountants“ (IFAC) herausgegebenen „Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants“ worin Regelungen zu unserer ► Zahlen, die aus externen Studien entnommen Unabhängigkeit enthalten sind geplant und durchgeführt. wurden, wurden nicht geprüft. Es wurde lediglich die korrekte Übernahme der relevanten Angaben und Daten in den Berichten überprüft. Unsere Vorgehensweise ► Die im Rahmen der Jahresabschlussprüfung geprüften finanziellen Leistungsindikatoren und Wir haben alle erforderlichen Prüfungshandlungen Aussagen, sowie Informationen aus dem Corporate durchgeführt, um eine ausreichende und geeignete Basis Governance Bericht wurden von uns keiner weiteren für unser Urteil sicherzustellen. Die Prüfung wurde am Prüfung unterzogen. Wir überprüften lediglich die Hauptsitz der Gesellschaft in Wien durchgeführt. GRI-konforme Darstellung dieser Daten im Bericht. Wesentliche Prüfungshandlungen von uns waren: ► Informationen ausländischer sowie inländischer ► Erlangung eines Gesamtüberblicks zur Tochtergesellschaften der Österreichischen Post Unternehmenstätigkeit sowie zur Aufbauund Aktiengesellschaft sind nicht Gegenstand des Ablauforganisation des Unternehmens; Berichts sowie der Prüfung. ► Durchführung von Interviews mit Unternehmens► Die Prüfung zukunftsbezogener Angaben war nicht verantwortlichen, um relevante Systeme, Prozesse Gegenstand unseres Auftrags. und interne Kontrollen, welche die Erhebung der Informationen für den Bericht unterstützen, zu identifizieren und zu verstehen; Kriterien ► Durchsicht der relevanten Dokumente auf Konzern-, Vorstandsund Managementebene, um Bewusstsein Wir beurteilten die Informationen im Bericht auf Basis der und Priorität der Themen im Bericht zu beurteilen und folgenden für das Geschäftsjahr 2013 maßgeblichen um zu verstehen, wie Fortschritte überwacht werden; Kriterien (nachfolgend „die Kriterien“): ► Erhebung der Risikomanagementund GovernanceProzesse in Bezug auf Nachhaltigkeit und kritische Evaluierung der Darstellung im Bericht; 2 https://www.globalreporting.org/reporting/G3andG3-1/g3guidelines/Pages/default.aspx 1 Fassung vom 21. Februar 2011, herausgegeben von der 3 International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard Kammer der Wirtschaftstreuhänder, Kapitel 8, for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or reviews of http://www.kwt.or.at/de/PortalData/2/Resources/downloads/do Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000) effective for wnloadcenter/AAB_2011_de.pdf assurance statements dated after January 1, 2005 84 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST ► Durchführung analytischer Prüfungshandlungen auf ► Beurteilung, ob für die Anwendungsebene A+ die Unternehmensebene; GRI-G3-Richtlinien konform angewendet wurden. ► Stichprobenartige Überprüfung der Daten und Prozesse, um zu erheben, ob diese angemessen übernommen, konsolidiert und berichtet worden sind. Unsere Bestätigung Dies umfasste die Beurteilung, ob die Daten in genauer, verlässlicher und vollständiger Art und Auf Grundlage unserer Prüfung zur Erlangung einer Weise berichtet worden sind; begrenzten Prüfsicherheit sind uns keine Sachverhalte bekannt, die uns zu der Annahme veranlassen, dass die ► Bewertung der Berichterstattung zu wesentlichen Informationen im Bericht nicht in Übereinstimmung mit den Themen hinsichtlich Kernthemen, welche im Rahmen oben definierten Kriterien sind. von Stakeholderdialogen angesprochen worden sind, über welche in externen Medien Bericht erstattet Es sind uns keine Sachverhalte bekannt, die uns zu der worden ist und zu welchen wesentliche Wettbewerber Annahme veranlassen, dass der Bericht der Post nicht der in ihren ökologischen und gesellschaftlichen Anwendungsebene A+ entspricht. Berichten Bezug nehmen; ► Evaluierung der Wesentlichkeitsanalyse unter Wien, 15. September 2014 Einbeziehung von branchenspezifischen Megatrends, sowie Aspekten von GRI; ERNST & YOUNG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. ► Stichprobenartige Überprüfung der Aussagen im Bericht auf Basis der GRI-G3-Berichtsprinzipien und Brigitte Frey e.h. Georg Rogl e.h. GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 85 86 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST CONTACT AND IMPRINT Media owner and publisher Österreichische Post AG Haidingergasse 1, 1030 Vienna, Austria T: +43 (0)577 67-0, E-Mail: info@post.at, I: www.post.at FN: 180219d, Commercial Court of Vienna Organisation/Coordination and contact in case of inquiries Mag. (FH) Julia Kollouch, Österreichische Post AG Sustainability (CSR) Tel.: +43 (0)577 67-21860 E-Mail: julia.kollouch@post.at DI Daniel-Sebastian Mühlbach, Österreichische Post AG Sustainability (CSR) Tel.: +43 (0)577 67-24689 E-Mail: daniel-sebastian.muehlbach@post.at We have prepared this report and checked the figures with the greatest possible care. Nevertheless, rounding, typographical and printing errors cannot be excluded. The aggregation of rounded amounts and percentages may result in rounding differences due to the use of automated computational aids. This report also contains forward-looking statements based on the information currently available to us. These are usually indicated by expressions such “expect“, “anticipate“, “estimate“, “plan“ or “calculate“. We wish to note that a wide variety of factors could cause actual circumstances – and hence actual results – to deviate from the forecasts contained in this report. Statements referring to people are valid for both men and women. This Sustainability Report is also available in German. In case of doubt, the German version takes precedence. Editorial deadline: September 15, 2014 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST 87 IF IT REALLY COUNTS, RELY ON AUSTRIAN POST. 88 GRI Sustainability Report 2013 OF AUSTRIAN POST
