HELPING YOU GROW Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social OUR VISION We create results for our customers by being a sustainable and innovative world-class supplier of a broad range of quality crop protection products. Value creation shall match the best among peer companies to the benefit of all stakeholders. Responsibility Report 2013 Contents Introduction 3 Activities in Indian villages 24 About the report 4 Banana projects meet increasing participation from banana farmers in Brazil 26 Fulfilling CSR objectives for 2013 5 Production 28 CSR targets for 2014 and beyond 7 Supplier management 31 Cheminova’s business activities 8 People 32 Plant protection 9 Action plan 35 Product Stewardship 10 Action plan 36 Handling of used packaging 12 More information 38 Portrait of Cheminova Deutschland 14 Management statement 39 Plant protection products are investigated in a broad range of tests 16 Assurance statement 40 Chemical production in Denmark UN Global Compact 41 75 years with environmental development 18 GRI Reporting 2013 43 Openness and dialogue 20 Special references 48 Chemistry with Care 21 Glossary 49 More plant protection, less chemistry, fewer resources 22 Date of issue: March 6, 2014. The report is a translation of the Danish original edition. Contact: Lars-Erik Kruse Pedersen (lars-erik.pedersen@cheminova.com) 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Introduction ”Our long-term target is more plant protection through better products with less impact on the environment and reduced use of resources.” Jaime Gomez-Arnau Dear reader, A key challenge is resting on farmers all Safety, sustainability and responsibility more detail with the purpose of providing over the world namely to provide enough are prerequisites for our business and a broader impression of our activities. food for the growing human population. daily conduct in our global organization. The demand for the agricultural produce, Corporate social responsibility is about Our employees are well known for their food, feed and fiber will be further increaddressing such questions. technical skills and great commitment asing in the years to come. which is reflected in a continuous imOur CSR strategy is ambitious and points provement culture covering all our acOur mission is to supply plant protection at increased food production through tivities. It is therefore my hope that the products to help farmers improve yields more plant protection with less chemipresent report will illustrate how our acand quality of their crops. Our business stry and fewer resources. In short: Heltivities in CSR have led to progress on a is based on continuous development of ping you Grow – Chemistry with Care. number of challenges and dilemmas in new and improved products to be manu2013. factured and supplied to farmers in more Again in 2013 a dialogue with Cheminothan 100 countries. However, manufacva’s many stakeholders has given valuaJaime Gomez-Arnau ture and use of needed chemical prodble input and inspiration for targets and CEO ucts admittedly have a potential to leave activities. Cheminova A/S an undesired impact on humans as well as the environment. Our business like In addition to specific reporting on fulfillmost other human activities is not withments on targets the report also contains out such challenges and dilemmas. articles that feature selected subjects in Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 3 About the report This report provides a status on Cheminova’s work within the area of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the calendar year 2013 and thereby fulfills the reporting requirements set out in Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årsregnskabsloven) in accordance with the exception in paragraph 8. The present report constitutes in full the communication of progress in relation to the UN Global Compact. The CSR report provides information about Cheminova A/S, all subsidiaries and joint venture companies with an ownership of more than 50%. The target audience of this report is employees, the authorities, shareholders, customers and suppliers as well Members of the CSR committee are Rune Søndergaard, Director, Executive Support & Comas any individuals and organizations who pliance, Søren Nørby Pedersen, Vice President, Safety, Health, Environment & Quality, Niels may have an interest in Cheminova. Morten Hjort, Senior Vice President, Production & Logistics, Jens Thorsen, Senior Vice President, Portfolio Management, Jakob Lyngsø Andersen, Senior Vice President, Human Resources & Communication, Uffe Stephansen, Manager, Safety & Health, and Lars-Erik Pedersen, It is our intention that the report with Vice President, Corporate Communication. its detailed articles on specific activities from 2013 will provide the reader with Focus areas have been selected by the Additional information on Cheminova’s insight and understanding of the scope CSR committee with the purpose of proCSR activities including progress on the of our CSR work, and how these activities viding an informing and systematic repor2013 focus areas and the targets for 2014 are an integrated part of the day to day ting concerning essential points of our is available on our home page www.chebusiness of the company. CSR activities. minova.com. Global Compact and Global Reporting The inspiration for selecting the specific Dilemmas and shared responsibility Initiative (GRI) issues addressed in the present report It is Cheminova’s mission to contribute to Cheminova has supported UN’s Global is based on input and feedback from the world’s food supply. Efficient agriculCompact since 2009, and this report the stakeholders which have shown an ture is one of the prerequisites for achieprovides an update on our progress uninterest in Cheminova’s CSR activities ving the UN Millennium Development der each of the ten principles of Global throughout the year. Goals, which among other things are Compact. GRI indicators are reported at about reducing hunger and poverty and level B and give a systematic overview of Content of the report improving public health. Nevertheless, our activities. Both reportings are indeThe report includes facts and short secCheminova faces a number of dilemmas pendent sections of the CSR report. tions on fulfillment of targets. Furtheras a supplier of products to societies and more, the report contains detailed arcountries with diverse conditions partiOrganization of the CSR work ticles on progress in selected focus areas cularly on safety and correct use of the Organizationally, the CSR work is rooted from 2013 and special initiatives with products. As a company we have a shared in Cheminova’s day-to-day top manageimportance to our business area. The responsibility to improve environmenment, the Global Executive Committee CSR targets and focus areas for 2014 and tal and working conditions, especially in (GEC), that defines the scope of CSR aconwards are presented as an overview connection with our own production in tivities and approves the CSR report. The table and as a detailed action plan for the developing countries, but also through CSR committee undertakes coordination individual focus areas. supplier management and product steof the daily work and reporting with refewardship. The CSR report describes how rence to the GEC. we address such issues. 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Fulfilling CSR targets for 2013 Overview of targets and fulfillment. Fulfillment of the specific areas is described in the paragraphs ’Follow up on targets’ in the individual sections of the report. Target Fulfillment Village projects India: In 2013, further 25 acres will be included in the project Aakash Project extended by 101 acres in the states KarnaGanga – conservation of rain water that otherwise would be lost taka and Andhra Pradesh through run-off India: In the Saheli project on women empowerment on safety, The project Saheli continued and new activities health and livelihood establishment of self-help groups will be supsupported by Cheminova ported India: The effect of the project activity will be evaluated for two vilImpact assessed. Exit strategy established lages and a plan will be made how the project can continue without the participation of Cheminova Brazil: The project among small-scale banana farmers in the state Momentum of the project kept and dialog with of Goias will be continued in 2013 and so will the dialogue with the the ministry continued as required Ministry of Agriculture with the purpose of establishing a closer cooperation Brazil: The project on safe and environmentally friendly control of Momentum kept and area expanded plant diseases will in 2013 be extended to more banana farmers in an environmentally sensitive area in the state of São Paulo Helping you Grow – Chemistry with Care More plant protection: An index illustrating the area of farm land Index implemented where the crops and thus the food production is protected by Cheminova’s products will be implemented in 2013 Less chemistry: An index illustrating the quantity of non-sustainable Index implemented chemicals applied in Cheminova’s plant protection products per area unit will be implemented in 2013 Less resources: An index illustrating the consumption of fossil fuel for Implemented. The index covers the total energy manufacturing products at Cheminova’s production sites in India and consumption Denmark will be implemented in 2013 At least 20 formulations with low content of volatile organic solvents 14 formulations were developed in 2013 (12 forwill be developed in the period 2012-14 mulations in 2012) Lower average toxicity of newly developed formulations measured The formulations developed in 2013 have a lower through the classification of the formulation in the years 2012-14 average toxicity compared to existing formulations Product Stewardship India: Cheminova takes part in a project where the opportunities to Cheminova participated in the project initiative return used packaging are examined with focus on environmentally by CropLife India correct disposal Production India: The energy consumption for the production of two large Energy consumption was reduced by 2.5% comproducts to be reduced by 2% per produced volume in 2013 pared to 2012 India: The content of COD in the treated waste water will be reduced COD emission was reduced by 32% in 2013 comby 3% in 2013 pared to 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 5 Target Fulfillment Production India: The frequency and severity of incidents at work will be reFrequency was reduced from 19.9 to 18.0 acciduced by 2% in 2013 dents per million manhours (9.5%), severity was reduced from 14.13 to 11.10 mandays per million manhours (21%) India: In 2013, the production at the Intermediate Division will be Certification achieved certified in relation to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Denmark: Operation of the biological waste-water treatment plant Two waste-water streams changed in 2013. Prowill be reassessed in 2012-15 so that the potential of the plant is ject runs according to schedule utilized in the best possible way Denmark: The quantity of waste per produced unit and Cheminova’s Quantity of waste per produced unit increased total costs for treatment of hazardous waste will per year in 2012-14 4% target was a decrease of 10%. Costs have debe reduced by 5% and 10% respectively creased by 13% target was 19% Australia: Obtain certification of the company‘s environmental manManagement system prepared and ready for ceragement system according to OHSAS 18001 in 2014 tification in 2014 Australia: In 2013, the waste-water treatment will be improved, and Studies on the waste water are completed. Subrenewed permit for discharge will be applied for mission to authorities planned for 2014 United Kingdom: In 2013, environmental and safety conditions will Work accomplished as planned. Necessary aube reassessed and application for changes will be sent to the authorithority approvals achieved ties Germany: In 2013, a filter to reduce the emission of dust from the Dust filter installed production will be installed Supplier management In 2013, a number of the company’s employees will be trained to 18 employees from the global organization were audit suppliers trained in supplier audit Human Resources In 2013, a global policy and procedure describing how Cheminova Global Recruitment policy and recruitment procan attract the best match for each position will be established cedure are prepared and communicated In 2013-14, a new appraisal system will be developed and impleAppr. 80% of all appraisals globally have been carmented. The system will among others be linked to the KPIs and valried out. Planned activities continue in 2014 ues of the company. All employees will have minimum one appraisal per year In 2013, visible and successful career paths will be established globAll job positions from above a certain level are ally. Also a new title and benefit structure will align role and responclassified and the basis for defining career paths, sibilities of each specific key position bonus programs and benefits has been established and will be rolled out in 2014 During 2013-14, a mapping for establishing a country based clasInitiatives to strengthen anti-corruption accomsification of risk of corruption is carried out. Training activities for plished as planned. Planned activities continue in selected employees are planned 2014 In Denmark the program SAFE will be continued to ensure that all 75% of employees are trained, the target was employees are educated and involved by the end of the year 100% ultimo 2013. The program continues in 2014 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 CSR targets for 2014 and beyond New targets have been established for the years to come. The targets are described in greater detail in the action plan on page 36. Village projects India • Good agricultural practices and the use of low dose chemicals are promoted in 2014. • The Saheli project on women empowerment on safety, health and livelihood will be continued in 2014. • The water conservation project Aakash Ganga will be expanded further in 2014. Brazil Production Supplier management • The project among small-scale banana India • In 2014, a global audit management farmers in the state of Goias and the • The content of COD in the treated system for filing audits and sharing exdialogue with local agronomists will be waste water will be reduced in 2014. perience and knowledge will be estabcontinued in 2014. lished. • The production at the Formulation Di• The project with focus on safe and envision 1 & 2 will be certified according vironmentally friendly control of plant Human Resources to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS diseases among banana farmers will be • In 2014, it is required that at least once 18001 in 2014-15. continued and expanded in 2014. a year all employees and their direct Denmark superior conduct a performance and • In 2014, a project with axil application development review. • Operation of the biological wasteamong banana growers in the state of water treatment plant will be reasses• In 2014, a global Employee EngageSanta Catarina will be initiated. ment Survey will be prepared. sed in 2012-15 so that the potential of the plant is utilized in the best possible • In 2014, a base line for measuring genHelping you grow – Chemistry with care way. der diversity in the general workforce • Index I: More plant protection, to be and managerial positions will be pre• Consumption of steam at a plant for reported as a rolling 12 months index. pared. recovery of an organic solvent will be • Index II: Less chemistry, to be reported reduced. • In Denmark, implementation of the as a rolling 12 months index. program SAFE will be continued in Australia 2014. The purpose of the program is • Index III: Fewer resources, to be re• Obtain certification of the production to foster a positive safety culture and ported as a rolling 12 months index. behavior. according to OHSAS 18001 in 2014. • At least 10 formulations with low con• In 2013-14, mapping will be performed • Reassessment of environmental and tent of volatile organic solvents to be on the basis of which a classification safety performance to meet an up-todeveloped in 2014. of country-based corruption risks can date high standard in 2014. • Lower average toxicity of newly develbe made in order to educate selected United Kingdom employees. oped formulations measured through classification of the formulations du• Continuous improvement of occupatioring 2012-14. nal safety and health. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 7 Cheminova’s business activities Mission: Vision: Values: We help improve quality of We create results for our life for the world’s population customers by being a susby supplying products that tainable and innovative help farmers increase yields world-class supplier of a and quality of crops to satisfy broad range of quality crop the global demand for food, protection products. feed, fiber and energy. Value creation shall match the best among peer companies to the benefit of all stakeholders. Increased yield from the field means more food. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Plant protection Cheminova’s primary activities are development, production, marketing and sale of chemical products for the protection of agricultural crops worldwide. The framework for the company’s busisumption with the growing middle class. of the products is described on Cheminess activities is Cheminova’s Code of One of the consequences of this will be nova’s website. Furthermore, an article Business Principles and Cheminova’s misan increasing need to protect the crops on page 16 offers an insight into the sion, vision and values. These support which falls well within Cheminova’s mismethods used to investigate the properand are consistent with the UN Global sion and business area. For example as ties of the plant protection products with Compact, the European Chemical Induseen in an impartial report from Novemregard to reducing the risk of harmful stry Council’s (CEFIC) Responsible Care ber 2013 published by Humboldt Forum effects on the learning ability. These cirprogram and the FAO Code of Conduct. In for Food and Agriculture e.V. (HFFA). Here cumstances are included in the authoriaddition, Cheminova is a member of variit is shown that productive agriculture in ties’ risk assessment which is the basis of ous global, regional and local professioEurope contributes essentially to food approving the products. nal organizations like for instance Cropsafety, resource-efficiency, financial staLife and resistance management groups bility, improved bio-diversity and reduced In addition to ready-to-use plant protecunder CropLife. CO2 emission (http://hffa.info/index.php/ tion products, Cheminova also supplies resources/download-publications/publiactive ingredients to industrial customers Need for plant protection cations/working-paper-5.html). for further processing to produce plant UN’s Agriculture and Food Organization, protection products. Moreover, we also FAO, estimates that by 2050 70% more Products manufacture and sell a number of fine food than today has to be produced – The company primarily produces herbichemicals for industrial use as well as mion roughly the same agricultural area, cides, insecticides and fungicides. The cronutrients for agriculture. which is already under cultivation. The products are sold mainly as ready-to-use yield per hectare should increase signifiplant protection products under our own Read more about the activities in Auriga’s cantly just to keep pace with the growing brands, own registrations (use permits) Annual Report on www.cheminova.com. population and the increasing food conand labels. The work underlying approval Healthy crops is the visible result of plant protection. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 9 Product Stewardship Information about correct use of the products increases the safety of the users. Reduction of risks are covered by our stewardship activities Overview of which class I ready-to-use The underlying principle for Cheminova’s as an example the herbicide paraquat, products Cheminova sold in 2013 and stewardship of plant protection products which we have already phased out from where they were sold is risk reduction. The cornerstones are usage in backpack sprayers. According Country Product observance of national legislation conto the WHO, paraquat may be very hazardous if the concentrated product is inAustralia Methomyl EC cerning approval, marketing and sale of plant protection products in all countries gested or spread on the skin. By the end Omethoate EC where Cheminova’s products are sold. of 2014 this product will be phased out Spain Fenamiphos EC In addition, export is subject to EU lefrom Argentina and Mexico, and in the EC = Emulsion concentrate gislation and the rules of the Rotterdam future paraquat will only be sold under convention concerning ’prior informed the same restrictions as we have in force consent’ (PIC). Furthermore we comply for the WHO class I products. Brazil with the rules of FAO’s Code of Conduct, In Brazil, Cheminova’s sales of methyl paand we are members of national/regional Similar to previous years, our products rathion in the form of WHO class I prodtrade associations engaged in risk reducare used in more than 100 countries. ucts have stopped and been replaced tion in connection with the use of plant by less toxic insecticides, such as microprotection products. Further, we have For further comments on distribution encapsulated methyl parathion (WHO phased out products belonging to the between product types and geography, class II ‘moderately hazardous’) used in World Health Organization (WHO) Class please refer to Auriga’s Annual Report on the cultivation of soybeans and cotton Ia ”extremely hazardous” and Ib ”highly www.cheminova.com. at professional large-scale farms. Sales hazardous” outside the USA, Canada, EU, of this product exclusively take place in Australia and Japan. Sales of the most toxic products make large packaging which are not attractive up less than 1% of sales to small-scale farmers, and sales are liCheminova’s sales in 2013 After the previous year’s phase-out of mited to states where soybeans and cotIn 2013, training and guidance on correct the most toxic products in developing ton are grown by professional farmers. and safe use of Cheminova’s products countries sales have been replaced by have been an integrated part of the daily less toxic plant protection products. Cheminova’s Brazilian subsidiary is conmarketing activities in developing counnected to a hotline open around the tries. Labels and instructions for use, perIn 2013, the total sales to all countries of clock for reporting and first aid informasonal contact with distributors and users class I products made up less than 1% of tion in case of spillage and accidents. plus participation in campaigns are some total Cheminova sales. The breakdown of of the important tools employed to proproducts by countries can be seen in the In 2013, a series of 199 farmer and customote safety. The quarterly reporting to table below. mer meetings with all together 4,950 parthe CSR committee on Product Stewardticipants were conducted. The meetings ship from countries and regions continhad a.o. focus on safe and correct use of ued in 2013. plant protection products and personal protection equipment. Also the so-called third party products, supplied from other companies and beCheminova’s subsidiary has continued its ing part of Cheminova’s product portfolio, partnership in the national organization 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 for handling of used packaging (inpEV) whose purpose it is to promote proper posters, video shows, demonstrations and hand out of personal protection kits ”The most toxic disposal of used crop protection product and first aid kits. The activities are carried products have containers, see page 12. In addition to these activities projects among banana out in collaboration with local authorities wherever possible. The CSR activities in been phased out farmers have continued, see page 26. the villages are described on page 24. In from developing India addition, the subsidiary takes an active share in a two-year pilot project concercountries.” The extensive safe use program with ning secure disposal of used packagings, training of dealers and farmers has been see the article on page 12. further expanded to include 665,000 persons in 2013. The program also includes Information about correct use of the products is part of our marketing. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 11 Handling of used packaging We participate in programs for organized collection and disposal of used packaging. We support national initiatives for colthe Indian authorities recommend triple In addition to the above, Cheminova also lection and proper management of used rinse and puncture of used containers, participates in Campo Limpio programs in pesticide containers through national but an organized collection and proper Argentina, Colombia and Peru. industry associations all over the world. destruction would provide additional We consider this a very important stewsafety and be a major step forward. The US program for recycling of empty ardship activity. Most important is colleccontainers is managed by the Ag Contaiting the empty containers from the farms An important stewardship activity in ner Recycling Council (ACRC). The ACRC in an organized manner to avoid contamimany countries could celebrate its 20th anniversary in nation. In a number of countries the conOne of the most successful programs for 2012, and since the beginning this retainer management programs have been collection and recycling is the Brazilian cycling program has been extremely taken a step further and the rinsed plaprogram, which has been run by the Insuccessful. The total plastic collected stic containers are shredded and the plassituto Nacional de Processamento de and recycled in these past 20 years extic material can be reutilized for certain Emballagens Vazias (inpEV) since 2002. In ceeds 57,000 tons. The recycled plastic types of products. 2005, the official National Campo Limpo goes into the manufacture of approved (Clean Field) day was introduced to help end-use products such as field drain A pilot project in India set focus on proper disposal of empty pipes. Cheminova’s subsidiary in the USA In collaboration with farmers CropLife containers from the farming commuis a member of ACRC. India is running a 2-years pilot project nities. According to the inpEV website, on safe handling of empty pesticide conalmost 280,000 tons of empty pesticide Among other national programs which tainers in a village in Andra Pradesh. As containers have been collected in the Cheminova supports either directly or a member company we participate in period from 2000 to 2012, and more through national industry associations this important stewardship activity. The than 94% of the plastic containers are reare the drumMUSTER in Australia, Clean empty containers are picked up in an orcycled. Cheminova Brazil is a joint owner FARMs in Canada and the PAMIRA proganized manner and transported safely of inpEV. gram in Germany. for proper destruction. So far approximately 40% of the used containers are Cheminova Mexico supports the ”Campo collected, and although this is a very Limpio” (or Clean Field) program which is good result, there is still potential for coordinated by the business association further improvements. Together with our Amocali C.A. We are sending two trucks industry colleagues in CropLife India we monthly to collect empty containers from are gathering useful experience through the collection centers. The empty pestithe ongoing project, and the results will cide containers are transported to their be evaluated in 2014. final destination where they are processed for recycling or incineration. CheThere have been little tradition for colminova Mexico has collected a total of lecting used pesticide containers in India, about 20 tons of empty containers. The and the ongoing project aims to avoid main objective for the program is elithe unfortunate situations where used mination of empty pesticide containers containers are reutilized in the household from the farming communities in order to for storage of water or food. CropLife and avoid contamination of the environment. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 ”Cheminova Mexico has collected a total of about 20 tons of empty containers.” Removal of empty containers from the farms contributes to safety and a better environment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 13 Portrait of Cheminova Deutschland Looking for new solutions. Cheminova Deutschland in Stade procolleagues in Denmark. care in collaboration with seed breeding vides solutions for plant protection: Prodcompanies. The expertise in the Stade ucts, technology and technical advice. The filling lines in Stade are flexible and formulation development team is highly The company has been focused on solutican handle container volumes from 40 valuable for Cheminova’s global business ons since 1900 when it was founded, and ml to 1,000 liter (IBC), and there is capain this segment. as a member of the Cheminova family city for packing of twin-packs where two since 2008 it is a front runner in seed care different products are packed together in With constant care solutions, manufacture of suspension one cardboard box. Prevention of cross contamination is inconcentrates and innovative packaging. tegrated in the work flow since a wide A broad range of formulation types can variety of formulations are produced in A modern formulation and filling facility be handled but the main focus is on susStade, both Cheminova products and Cheminova Deutschland in Stade is the pension concentrates (SC) and special toll formulation for third parties. Clearhome office for marketing of Chemiproducts for treatment of seeds. Suspenly visible red tags on pipes, valves and nova’s products in Germany, with sales sion concentrates are water based and handles show what is inside and provide representatives located in various parts easy to handle for farmers in the field. documentation for the level of cleaning of Germany. The site in Stade is also the The team in Stade has expertise with on the spot. A color code, where green is location of a modern formulation and filboth scale-up and large-scale production for herbicides and red is for insecticides ling facility, which is supported by its own of SC formulations. and fungicides, is used as an additional quality control unit as well as a developmeasure to prevent cross contamination. ment team and a GLP laboratory, both of Cheminova Deutschland has developed a which work in close cooperation with the range of sophisticated solutions for seed The production in Stade operates under a quality management system which is certified according to ISO 9001:2008. Within the requirements for the ISO certification there is an encouragement for constant improvements of procedures, and an external auditor comes in on a regular basis and challenges the staff on progress and adherence to procedures, e.g. whether written instructions are available and followed, if they correspond to actual practice, and how processes are documented. Staff training is documented as an integrated part of the quality management system. Out of the total of 153 permanent staff employed by Cheminova in Germany 130 are located at the Stade site. An additional 3040 contract workers work at the production site during peak season. The site in Stade has received several awards for education of laboratory technicians. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 The site in Stade has well established procedures for handling of chemical waste where normal procedures for German industry are followed. Waste water is collected in a tank and picked up once or twice a week by an authorized company for incineration. Cheminova Deutschland carries out inspections of the disposal chain in order to be able to present documentation if so requested. Keeping an eye on energy consumption The energy consumption at the Stade site is in the form of natural gas for heating of buildings and electricity for the formulation process, i.e. for stirring and milling and also for melting of emulsifiers and semi-solid active ingredients. Automated gates which open and close quickly have been installed to minimize the loss of heat from the production area and warehouses where trucks are driDevelopment of new products demand a systematic support from the laboratories. ving in and out. This has led to significant energy savings, because gates are not left Seed care solutions open by truck drivers who want to save time. Cheminova Deutschland offers complete seed care solutions with product, technology and technical advice to seed breeding companies. The recipes include stickers About Cheminova Deutschland GmbH and powders to give the perfect seed dressing with no dust and freely flowing Cheminova Deutschland took on the Cheseeds. Tests are conducted to make sure the dressing has no adverse impact on minova name in 2013. The former Stähler germination. group was incorporated into the Cheminova group in the period 2008 to 2012. Timing is an important parameter in seed treatment and is therefore specified in The present facility in Stade was estabthe recipe as well as the ingredients. The formulation chemists work in close colished by Stähler in 1975. operation with the seed breeding companies, so the seed care solution is adjusted to fit the equipment to allow for the best product. The company was originally founded in 1900 by August Schacht who joined Drift of dust from treated seeds into neighboring fields presents a potential hazard forces with Oskar Stähler in 1913 and to crops and environment and is strictly regulated under German law. The seed the company Stähler GmbH was formed. care technology which is offered by Cheminova Deutschland helps seed breeders Stähler became a well-established brand produce seeds that comply with the requirements for dust reduction. in crop protection not only in Germany. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 15 Crop protection products are investigated in a broad range of tests The authorities perform a comprehensive risk assessment before our products can be marketed. When reading headlines in the media or health, agriculture and environment. For A wide range of tests articles in scientific journals one can from example in Europe the evaluations are Crop protection products are tested in time to time get the impression that crop carried out by EFSA (the European Food a range of standardized tests which are protection products are not properly inSafety Authority), whereas the actual apmeant to elucidate the possible health vestigated for possible effects on human proval is the responsibility of the Comeffects of the products – both acute and health. However, if one takes a closer mission Directorate General for Health chronic. Specific examples of chronic eflook at the requirements for approval and Consumers (SANCO) and the indivifects are testing if rats develop cancer if of crop protection products, it becomes dual EU member states. Likewise in the they are exposed to the test substance clear that the possible effects on human USA it is the responsibility of the EPA (Enthrough their food for a period of two health are in fact thoroughly tested bevironmental Protection Agency) in collayears, or if the reproductive ability of fore the products are placed on the marboration with the individual states. the rat is affected if it is exposed to the ket and in connection with periodic retest substance through the food. Specific evaluations. The approval of a crop protection prodexamples of acute effects are testing if uct is based on an assessment of the risk rats show signs of poisoning after inhalaA comprehensive risk assessment associated with use of the product, both tion of the test substance or if there are Crop protection products are used in in terms of impact on the environment clear signs of skin irritation after exposfarming and we can be exposed to the and on human health. In this article we ure to the test substance. products through our work, through want to give a short presentation of the residues in our food or by staying in or diversity of tests that are required as doThe test program is defined in the legisnear areas where the products are used. cumentation for the possible impact on lation and includes approximately 25 Before we as producers of crop protechuman health. In connection with re-asspecific investigations which are typically tion products are allowed to market our sessments or if more knowledge is neeconducted on rats, but can be extended products, they must be approved by the ded in certain respects the requirements to include additional types of tests, if adauthorities in the country, where they are for documentation may be increased. The ditional properties need to be studied. going to be used, and the approval is subresults from the many different tests are The table below provides an overview of ject to periodic re-evaluation typically afused to establish reference values which the tests, which are typically required by ter five or ten years. The approval process are used in the risk assessment. the authorities for approval of crop prowill often involve authorities for human tection products. Acute effects Long term effects Other effects Special studies Acute toxicity by digestion, inhalaToxicity from daily intake Absorption, distribution, metabolism Effect of metabolites tion and through skin over longer period: and elimination in the body 3 months study 2 years study Skin and eye irritation Mutagenicity Endocrine disrupting properties Special impact on off-spring Sensitization Impact on reproduction Impact on immune system Effect on development of the nervous system Absorption through skin Cancer Damages to nervous system 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Our products are thoroughly tested and help farmers grow healthy food crops. We do not conduct these tests ourIn this way the authorities can set limits Crop protection products are thoroughly selves. The investigations are carried out by for how much of a substance one can safeinvestigated specialized laboratories with permission ly digest every day through food from Organophosphate (OP) insecticides have to conduct toxicology testing, and the agricultural produce throughout an enbeen on the market for more than 50 tests are performed according to intertire life without adverse effect on health. years and are among the most carefully nationally recognized guidelines, e.g. the studied substances, i.e. because manuOECD harmonized guidelines for testing Special studies facturers throughout the years have reof chemicals and guidelines for Good LaA test for impact on learning ability is sponded to society’s increasing demand boratory Practice. Interpretation of the among the special studies, which are for solid knowledge about the chemical observations made in such investigations used when there is a need to investigate substances in our surroundings. The OP and tests requires a high level of scientiwhether a given substance may have an insecticides have among other things fic knowledge and experience, e.g. to be impact on development of the central been tested for possible effects on the able to decide if a tumor is malign or benervous system. There are several standnervous system because of the specific nign or if an observed effect is caused by ard tests, one of which is the Morris Wamode of action for these substances. The the test substance or by other factors. ter Maze test where the ability to learn results from this type of testing are therehow to navigate through a water pool by fore included in the reference values Safety factors provide increased means of distal cues is tested. The test has which are used by the authorities, e.g. protection proven useful for assessment of whether the EPA in the USA, when they evaluate if Results from all the different tests are tathe formation of new nervous junctions OP insecticides can still be used in a safe ken into consideration when the authorin the brain is adversely affected, in parmanner or when new uses are approved. ities, e.g. the EFSA and the EU Commisticular in the hippocampus which plays sion, establish the reference values to be a role in memory and the ability to naviSeveral authorities who are involved in used in risk assessments. As a first step gate both in humans and in rats. approval of crop protection products it is established how the substances may make the evaluations on which the apimpact human health, and as a second If rats, which have been dosed with the provals are based publicly available, e.g. step the magnitude of the doses which test substance, demonstrate impaired the USA and the EU. Information about are necessary to bring about the effect is ability to navigate and to learn how to the general requirements for documenderived. A safe dose which does not refind their way, this may be an indication tation as well as evaluations of individual sult in any health effects (the NOEL, No that the test substance have destroyed or crop protection products is available on Observed Effect Level) can also be dedecreased the ability of the rat to develop the EPA and EU Commission websites, rerived from the individual tests. new nervous junctions in hippocampus. spectively. This means that the brain is adversely Literature: CFR Title 40 Part 158 Subpart F Data requirements The reference values are normally set at affected. The regulatory authorities may for pesticides – Toxicology. a level 100 times lower than the lowest require an investigation of whether adCommission Regulation (EU) 283/2013 Setting out data requirements for active substances in acNOEL found in the entire test program. verse effects may be due to exposure cordance with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the This additional safety factor is used to acof the foetus. For this purpose the test European Parliament and the Council concerning the placing of plant protec-tion products on the count for the difference between humans may be conducted in parallel with rat offmarket. and laboratory animals and the fact that spring which has been dosed directly or NIH Morris water maze: Procedures for assessing spatial and related forms of learning and memory. not all humans are completely alike. All indirectly through dosing of the mother http://ec.europa.eu/food/plant/pesticides/intogether it provides a wide safety margin. animal during gestation. dex_en.htm http://www.epa.gov/pesticides/index.htm Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 17 Chemical production in Denmark – 75 years with environmental development Cheminova was founded in 1938 and over the past 75 years the perception of appropriate treatment of waste from chemical production has changed significantly as the general knowledge about the impact on the environment has increased. Our ability to handle chemical waste in an environmentally responsible manner has also changed significantly. Cheminova has had production plants in At that time it was in general accepted for various types of chemical waste, and Denmark for 75 years, and through all the as the appropriate way for disposal of Cheminova was also advised to use it for years we have developed the technology chemical waste and even recommended disposal of chemical waste. The dump for handling the environmental aspects by the authorities. In 1970 after the site was used until 1962. related to chemical production. When was taken over by another company, the Cheminova started chemical production question of a possible ground water conIn the 1980’es the major part of the in Denmark in 1938, it was at a time where tamination was raised. Cheminova ofburied chemicals was moved from the the scientific knowledge about treatment fered to establish a facility which could dump to a mine in Germany. Later on, in of waste emissions, both water, air and purify the ground water, with the inten2006, the regional environmental authosolid waste, was rather limited. It was tion that the local authorities should rities (Region Midtjylland) have encapthought that once emitted to the atmosoperate the facility. Unfortunately, it was sulated the contaminated area to avoid phere, to the sea or buried in the ground, not possible to come to an agreement. leaching to the North Sea. A pilot project any contaminants would be diluted or Today the task of pumping and treatwith in situ clean-up of contaminated simply disappear, e.g. the waste water ment rests with the regional authorities sand has been initiated by the regional from Copenhagen was lead directly into (Region Hovedstaden). authorities with support from the EU the sea at that time. Today we know that (North Pest Clean). Cheminova supports whatever waste we produce it will not Harboøre Tange in Western Jutland and the project by taking care of the extendisappear without proper treatment. Groyne 42 sive sample analysis work which is necesCheminova moved the production facility sary for documentation of the clean-up. The early days of production to Harboøre Tange in 1953. The general Cheminova’s analytical laboratories have (1938 – 1953) recommendation for handling of waste many years of experience analyzing for Cheminova’s production in Denmark has from chemical production was still burythe type of substances which are found taken place at four different locations. ing in the ground or discharge directly in the sand. By making scientific expertise The first site near Gladsaxe was only into the sea. This approach resulted in and laboratory capacity available we conin operation for a few years and in reaa contamination of the area where the tribute significantly to the project, since lity only for laboratory scale productions plant was first located and Cheminova is this work would otherwise represent a with limited generation of waste. The still engaged in remediation measures by significant cost for the project. production was moved to a new location pumping. The water is directed to Cheminear Måløv in 1946, and the new plant nova’s waste-water facility. The general In the 1960’es the manufacturing plant allowed for large-scale production. The recommendation for burying chemical was established at its current location chemical waste from Cheminova’s prowaste also lead to the establishment by at Rønland, in the beginning primarily duction of a wide range of chemical prodthe Danish state of a dump on the west for manufacture of OP insecticides. One ucts at the facility in Måløv was to some coast of Denmark. The dump is known challenge related to this production was extent buried at the manufacturing site. in Denmark as Groyne 42. It was a dump disposal of sulfur containing waste, and 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 The large waste-water treatment plant was put into operation in 1988, The discharge of phosphorus to the North Sea (stated as tons of and it is a prerequisite for operation of the production plant. phosphorus per year) from Cheminova’s production plant decreased dramatically, when the biological waste-water treatment plant was taken into operation. The discharge was 7 tons in 2013 compared to 1,050 tons in 1980. a new deposit facility made of concrete have adapted so they are able to degrade publicly owned facility Nord was establiswas constructed at the plant site. Today, a wider range of organic contaminants hed in 1971 (then under the name Komsulfur is efficiently recovered directly by originating from a more diverse producmuneKemi). All types of chemical waste means of modern technology and retion. The microbiological degradation is could be forwarded for safe disposal used in our production and for industrial combined with chemical pre-treatment against a fee, and Cheminova has since manufacturing of sulfuric acid, among and/or boiling of the process waste water, then made use of this option for safe disothers. The old sulfur deposit at Rønland depending on the nature of the contamiposal of chemical waste which cannot be is no longer in use and the content has nants. The final discharge is carefully moproperly treated at the current environbeen removed (see page 28). nitored to make sure the permitted maximental facilities at Rønland. mum limits for individual compounds are A period with solutions not exceeded when the purified waste Environmental accounts The Danish legislation on protection of water reaches the North Sea, 500 m off In the same way as we publish our finanthe environment went into force in 1974 the coast of Jutland. A dedicated waste cial results with a balance of costs and with a requirement for companies to use water incineration plant was taken into earnings, we have also since 1995 pubthe best available technology. Over the operation in 1994 as a supplement to the lished our environmental results. We acfollowing years, technology evolved and biological treatment plant. count for all emissions and products and Cheminova worked determinedly with match it up with the consumption of raw development of suitable technology and Air incineration materials. with establishment of environmental The process air incineration plant was plants to handle waste water and process also established during the late-eighties. The full environmental approval 25 years air from the production. The total investThe process air is incinerated at high temago was an important milestone for Chement was more than half a billion Danish perature whereby organic contaminants minova, since it was the license to opekroner (appr. 90 million USD). Developare decomposed. After incineration the rate the chemical manufacturing plant at ment of suitable waste-water treatment air is passed through a so-called scrubber Rønland, the backbone in our production procedures have for many years been a where water-soluble contaminants are activities. significant element in the development trapped before final emission of the air of new chemical processes. All emissions to the atmosphere. The content of speare today controlled and must meet fixed cific components in the emission gas is criteria established by the authorities. monitored and held against a set of permitted maximum limits. Cheminova elsewhere Waste water treatment Cheminova has chemical production The first investigations of the possibilities Process air from specific production facilities in Denmark and India. Befor establishment of a biological waste plants contain residues of volatile organic sides, Cheminova has formulation and water treatment plant were initiated in solvents, e.g. hexane, which can be recofilling facilities in Australia, Germany, 1982. The aim was in particular to revered before incineration of the air and Italy and the United Kingdom. Chemmove phosphorus containing compounds re-utilized in the production. ical waste from these facilities are originating from the production of orhandled either by means of external ganophosphate insecticides, and the Solid waste or internal incineration under strictly plant turned out to be very successful in Concurrent with the increasing demands controlled and regulated conditions this respect (see figure at the top). The in the Danish society for safe disposal of or treatment in biological waste-waplant was set into operation in 1988. chemical waste the need for a central ter treatment units according to local Over time, the micro-organisms in the specialized chemical waste treatment standards. biological waste-water treatment plant plant became apparent, and the then Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 19 Openness and dialogue We receive important input to our business and CSR from an open dialogue with Cheminova’s many stakeholders. Cheminova values a continued dialogue job opportunities. We make a point of Customers and suppliers with its neighbors, the local community, good neighbor relations and participaCSR forms part of the dialogue with the authorities, educational institutions, potion in local cultural life and activities. company’s customers, many of whom liticians and others. We observe the limiThe influence on the environment from appreciate to co-operate actively with tations to openness from stock exchange production plants is described elsewhere Cheminova in promoting product stewrules, protection of sensitive personal inin this report. ardship and environmental responsibility formation, general data protection rules among farmers. Information on the safe and regulations as well as competition In 2013, two open house arrangements use of products – as mentioned in the law. We do of course engage in a conwere held at the headquarters in Densection on product stewardship – is an intinued and open dialogue with the relemark and additionally we had several tegrated part of the marketing of produvant authorities in the countries where groups of visitors (politicians, students, cts to end-users in developing countries. we operate. organizations etc.). Altogether more than 2,500 people visited the premises. Suppliers are audited with focus on the A dialogue with the company’s many environment, safety and labor standards stakeholders as well as the general pubAt the production site in India we have in accordance with the company’s Suplic debate on sustainability is a source received more than 500 visitors, among plier Code of Conduct which forms the of inspiration for the CSR work and the others farmers, governmental officials as natural basis for a constructive dialogue. selection of focus areas presented in the well as a group of women engaged in SaCSR report. heli self help activities in a project village Employees in the state of Madhya Pradesh. In 2013 where Cheminova celebrated its The company actively strives to keep 75 years anniversary throughout the glowell-informed within the many fields of In countries where we have manufacbal organization, there has been focus on relevance to its operations as well as curturing facilities we have an on-going company values, strategy, development rent and potential business areas. Via dialogue with environmental and other and global sense of community. In 2013, open literature as well as scientific pubsupervising authorities, for instance the more than 40 newsletters were sent to lications and trade sources, the press, Danish Environmental Protection Agency employees in all subsidiaries. On several specific searches on topics and the interand the Gujarat Pollution Board in India. occasions CSR related issues were adnet, information and expressions of opidressed in these newsletters. nion in respect of CSR related issues are Investors sought. Particularly concerning product Of primary interest to stock market anaCSR is regularly discussed throughout the properties, side effects and applications, lysts and investors, a number of investor global organization in relation to the loand in general, issues linked to dilemmas meetings are held both physically and oncal daily business. At the local level, e.g. and controversies within the company’s line and are thus accessible to all stakecooperative relationships, general wellsphere of interest. holders, including almost 7,500 sharebeing of employees and continued eduholders of the parent company Auriga. cation have been on the agenda. Local engagement Presentations from these meetings incluCheminova is an important part of the ding CSR related issues, among others, local society where we operate facilities are publicly available on Cheminova’s and employ people. We contribute to the website. local economy and offer a wide range of 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Chemistry with Care Following up on targets. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 21 More plant protection, less chemistry, fewer resources Future food security depends on increased agricultural production. Global agriculture needs to increase produce more even without bringing adProducts sold on behalf of other compaduction by 70% (measured in calories) on ditional parts of nature under cultivation nies (so-called third party products) are the present agricultural area in order to with wheat, corn, rice and other agriculnot included in these indexes. The exact feed the world population that in 2050 tural crops. composition of these products is not alwill have passed nine billion people acways known to us; likewise information cording to FAO. ”More with Less” about energy consumption in the proAgriculture needs more efficient plant duction is not available. “Over the next several decades, the protection products that can ensure world faces a grand challenge and opgrowth with minimal impact on nature. More plant protection portunity at the intersection of food Moreover, industrial production in geneLike other suppliers to agriculture Chesecurity, development and the environral is faced with demands to reduce enerminova is not directly involved in the ment,” said Dr. Andrew Steer, President gy consumption. This also applies to the use of our plant protection products, and CEO of World Resources Institute. production of crop protection products since we do not participate in farming. “To meet human needs, we must close which means that Cheminova’s producThereby, our knowledge about the dethe 70 percent gap between the food we tion and products are also part of these tailed product usage does not constitute will need and the food available today. dilemmas. a sufficient basis for this index. Instead, But, we must do so in a way that creates data from specialists in market analysis opportunities for the rural poor, limits More plant protection based on a more that can provide data on the consumpclearing of forests, and reduces greensustainable input is among Cheminova’s tion of specific active ingredient per hechouse gas emissions from agriculture.” long-term objectives. tare in all relevant crops and countries are used. Data from Cheminova’s total Increasing yields Chemistry with Care sales of each individual active substance Since the middle of the 20th century Cheminova will address and illustrate this is weighted against this background, chemical plant protection has become a through indexes, showing the degree to providing the best possible assessment major factor behind the increasing yield, which Cheminova’s products contribute of the acreage of farmland protected farmers can harvest per hectare. to more plant protection while using by each active substance. The index is a less non-sustainable chemistry and consummary of all Cheminova manufactured Input in the form of efficient plant vasuming fewer resources in the manuproducts sold in the relevant period. rieties, fertilizers and pesticides have infacturing process. From now on we will creased food production almost enough develop strategic objectives for this area Less chemistry to keep pace with population growth, aland report on the results obtained. The index shows the amount of non-susthough food waste, unequal distribution tainable chemistry per hectare applied as and other factors still mean that one in Development of three indexes plant protection products. Non-sustaineight human beings are starving. Below is a brief description of the three able chemistry is to be understood as acindexes covering Cheminova’s own protive ingredients no matter origin as well In addition to population growth the exducts. A more detailed description can be as additives that are non-renewable or pected increase of livestock production found in the section on accounting prinare extracted from fossile fuels. as well as use of agricultural land for biociples on www.cheminova.com. fuel put demands on agriculture to pro22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 As an example we aim at reducing the Index II: Less chemistry amount of organic solvents, which freAlso in this area, the lack of data for the quently have been used as solvents in period 2010 to 2012 makes us unable to plant protection products. calculate the index. Fewer resources Index for 2009 to 2013 shows a significant This index indicates the amount of decrease in quantity of non-sustainable purchased energy in the form of electrichemistry used with Cheminova’s prodcity, natural gas, fuel oil, biomass and the ucts per hectare. like required for Cheminova’s own production of plant protection products on Index III: Fewer resources Index I: More plant protection. Hectares protected by Cheminova’s products the synthesis plants in Denmark and InThe index shows the trend in energy con(relative to 2009). dia. Both places undertake chemical synsumption at the plants in India and Denthesis, which is a highly energy consummark. The total energy consumption is ing industrial process. These two sites are relative to the produced quantities proviresponsible for over 90% of Cheminova’s ding baseline figures for energy requiredirect energy consumption. ment per kg product. Based on these key figures and the production it is possible Index for the period 2009-2013 to estimate an energy demand that flucThe year 2009 is used as baseline (index tuates according to the level of activity. 100). As shown the index increases at the beIndex I: More plant protection ginning of the period which is due to a The area of farm land protected with sharp decline in the company’s activity as Index II: Less chemistry. Cheminova’s products has been calcua result of the global crisis, which caused Quantity of non-sustainable chemistry per lated from own sales figures weighted a relatively poor production efficiency. hectare (relative to 2009). against experts’ market analyses for all relevant countries and crops by means of At the end of the period the index is an independently validated method. For below 100, which indicates that a comthe years 2010-2012, we do not have sufbination of increased level of activity and ficiently specific data of sales quantities energy savings resulted in lower energy for all products to be able to calculate consumption for a given activity. the index. The index can be calculated for 2013 and forward. Objectives for 2015 and beyond Based on these baseline data and trends Indexes for 2009 and 2013 show a signifiin 2014 we will establish more precise cant increase in the plant protected area. targets for future development. Index III: Fewer resources. Energy consumption per kg produced product (relative to 2009). Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 23 Activities in Indian villages Agricultural and social development are the key targets of our activities among the local population in nine villages located in several states of India. In 2013 we have kept focus on conper schooling as a valuable asset for the ers, farm women and school education. tinued improvement of agricultural praclocal community. Likewise has the WoTraining programs on pest control and tice including safe use of plant protection men empowerment project Saheli as well wheat diseases have helped the farmers products. Additionally Cheminova has as a medical camp for gynecological and manage their crops. Personal protecsupported several activities on general pediatric problems improved awareness tion equipment has been demonstrated community development. of health and livelihood among the viland kits have been distributed. Further lage women. children’s health and nutrition as well as Follow-up on targets establishing of women Saheli self-help Assessments involving external stakeVillage Narukheri in Haryana groups has been part of the successful holders have been carried out in two The many activities in this village since program in this village. villages in 2013 based on which an exit 2010 were endorsed by the Choudhary strategy has been established. The plan Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural UniFurther external evaluation of exit will be further discussed and iniversity and the Sarpanch. In 2014 the activities in two more villatiated in 2014. The overall intention is ges will be evaluated externally similarly to reduce Cheminova’s direct participaThe village level activities were focused to the impact assessment undertaken by tion in consideration of maintaining the on training in safe and correct use of the Royal Danish Embassy in 2012. achievements obtained in these two vilplant protection products involving farmlages since the projects were initiated in 2010. The relation to the farming communities in the villages will be continued. Village Prabdara in West Bengal Together with representatives from the Directorate of Extension Education as well as the local elected village head (Sarpanch) the impact of Cheminova supported activities in Prabdara was evaluated. Progress was observed on focus areas such as training and demonstrations of safety and better farming practice leading to improved yields, reduced farming costs and increased awareness of safety measures during spray operations. Further, water purification at the local school as well as subsidies to poor Selfhelp groups for women create value in the village community. In this case we support families has improved awareness of prothem with sewing machines. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 A great difference with simple solutions: Plantgrowth is enhanced with Aakash Ganga. Aakash Ganga – an expanding success By knowledge and simple means is has been possible to help farmers grow additional yield. This project on rain water management has been expanded by 101 acres farm land. The project is managed with the assistance of Professor Ayyappa Masagi, who has been an inspiring force to the participating farmers. The message from the Professor is that rain fed agriculture will benefit from subsoil water storage, particularly after a weak monsoon. A simple cost effective method of plowing trenches across the field has proved efficient to keep the soil moist during the growth season. Extra water in the soil means good plant growth and increased yield. The feedback from the participating and safe use of plant protection products chanahali in Karnataka was given the opfarmers confirms an increased yield of as well as health, nutrition, schooling and portunity to visit the Central Food Techpigeon-peas and other crops. wellbeing of the children has continued nology Research Institute in Mysore. The in all Saheli groups. group members took a special interest in Progress for village farm women cereal product technology, food machiWomen in agriculture have involved Additionally new activities supported nery, fruit and vegetable product and the themselves in several entrepreneurship by Cheminova have been taken up, illuprotein specialty division. activities through formation of self help strated by the following two examples. A groups. group of 33 farm women from the village This visit propelled the group to have Ekalduna in Madhya Pradesh was given their own mini-mill for processing ragi Like in the previous years the activities a trip to visit Cheminova’s factory site in millet which is a crop rich in valuable prounder the project umbrella Saheli (Safety Panoli in Gujarat. This trip was very eduteins. Health and Livelihood) has also in 2013 cational among other things in providing been many and of diverse nature. understanding of the nature of plant protection products and their safe handling. The traditional engagement in agriculture A similar group from the village KachmaCorporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 25 Banana projects meet increasing participation from banana farmers in Brazil During 2013 the banana growers in São Paulo state of Brazil have shown an increasing interest in using Cheminova’s reduced impact technology for disease control in environmen-tally sensitive areas. In the near coastal banana growing area forms an environmentally friendly and cal agronomic experts as an efficient and in Vale do Ribeira Cheminova’s team has highly efficient alternative that has prosafe method of disease control. Chemifor two years worked with the banana ven attractive to the farmers. The technova has assisted in introducing a better farmer’s organization ABAVAR as well as nology also has the benefit of avoiding variety of bananas in the area. Due to a individual farmers on a CSR project to reuse of mineral oil as an additive to the relatively weak organization of the local duce the environmental impact of fungifungicide spray fluid. The axil application farming community further progress in cide use in sensitive areas. method is endorsed by local agronomic establishing improved marketing and experts. branding effort of bananas from this area The project addresses the dilemma of has been discontinued. However the axil how to control devastating diseases in At the November 2013 Feibanana fair in application technology has spread to banana plantations along rivers, streams, the area the experience achieved was diother areas of Goias. roads and houses without broadcasting scussed with advisors, dealers and farmfungicides. ers. The method appeared attractive to New project in Santa Catarina small as well as large scale farmers and With the intention of establishing a siIf these areas are left without control the area under the axil application promilar project in the state of Santa Catayield will drop dramatically and the area gram with Flutriafol has increased from rina primarily with small scale farmers will become a bridgehead for infestation 200 to appr. 300 hectares in 2013. tests have been carried out. The initial to spread. On the other hand the tradievaluation of the practical validity of the tional aerial application over these areas Project with small scale farmers in the axil application method with flutriafol has means a high risk of unnecessary pollustate of Goias shown very promising results in 2013. tion of the environment. In the village Bureti Allegre the axil application to control the plant disease Cheminova’s low-tech hand held preciyellow sigatoka has become the method sion technology makes it possible to apof choice among an increasing number ply a few drops of a systemic fungicide of farmers now covering approximately directly to the plant. This axil application 150 ha. The method is endorsed by lo26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 ”More than 3 years of research with the systemic fungicide Impact® applied in the axil of banana plants have shown impressive results in significantly reducing the severity of black sigatoka. The implementation of this new technology is a good tool to help in the management of black sigatoka in banana crop, for small, medium and large producers.” Dr. Wilson da Silva Moraes Agronomist , Researcher From APTA (Agência Paulista de Tecnologia em Agronegócios), Phytopathology. Vale do Ribeira Regional Pole, São Paulo State, Brazil Dr. Wilson (left) explains the effect of our technology on plant diseases. Cheminova’s booth at the banana fair had focus on environment and personal protection equipment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 27 Production In 2013, production activities The Cheminova group owns the following manufacturing plants: have been increased. EnviName Production Country Location ronment, health and safety Chemical synthesis, formulaCheminova A/S Denmark Rønland, Lemvig are first priorities at all protion and packaging Chemical synthesis, formuladuction sites. Cheminova India Ltd. tion and packaging India Panoli north of Mumbai Cheminova DeutschFormulation and packaging Germany Stade west of Hamborg land GmbH & Co. KG Data pertaining to environment, health San Colombano, and safety for these plants are shown Althaller Italia s.r.l. Formulation and packaging Italy south of Milano in the fact box on page 30. The producHeadland United Formulation and packaging Deeside, North Wales tion in Denmark and India constitutes the Agrochemicals Ltd. Kingdom overall majority. All manufacturing plants Cheminova MFG Pty. Formulation and packaging Australia Wyong north of Sydney are included in the statements for 2011, Ltd. 2012 and 2013. Detailed information for the companies, the treatment of dangerous waste. This The area where the Indian company’s which are included in the statement, may concluded a long process where more production plant is located is a large inbe found at www.cheminova.com, where than 19,000 metric tons of sulfur waste dustrial area with many other chemical the applied CSR accounting policy is also was removed. plants. Occasionally, this has resulted in located. problems with air quality and smell. In Environmental improvements and enerthis connection Cheminova has worked Contaminated sulfur depot removed gy savings on reducing smell and problems related For many years an authorized depot for The significant discharges of treated to the work environment, among other chemical waste has been situated at waste water take place from the manuthings by installing new technical faCheminova’s manufacturing site at Rønfacturing sites in Denmark and India, cilities in 2013 such as automated and land in Denmark. The depot has held where the recipients are the North Sea closed packaging systems, closed drying remnants of sulfur, sand and concrete and the Gulf of Chambal, respectively. facilities etc. Cheminova has also been containing low concentrations of orinvolved in a project to establish green ganophosphate chemicals and mercury. During 2013 the plant in India has exzones of trees in the area. More than Back in 2010 Cheminova entered into perienced increased production, with 2,000 new trees are planted on Environan agreement with the Danish Environrecord-breaking amounts of several imment Day each year. mental Protection Agency about removal portant active ingredients. In spite of of the depot over a period of time. The this, waste water treatment has been The majority (> 90%) of the energy conremoval procedure was initiated at the improved by continuous upgrading of the sumption at Cheminova’s manufacturing end of 2012 and continued throughout biological waste water treatment facility plants is related to the sites in Denmark 2013. In December 2013 the excavation and pretreatment of the waste water. For and India, where active substances for was concluded and on December 27 the instance the Chemical Oxygen Demand plant protection products are manufaclast load was shipped from Denmark. The (COD) has been reduced significantly, tured by chemical synthesis. These prosulfur waste has now been deposited in among other things by changing the aercesses are highly energy demanding and a special depot in Norway, more specifiation system and introducing improved the major part of the steam and electriccally on the island of Langøya in the Oslo hypo chlorite treatment of the waste ity consumption is produced with natural fjord. The depot is one of Europe’s most water before it is channeled into the biogas as energy source, the remaining part recognized centers of competence for logical waste water treatment facility. with other types of fuel, primarily oil. 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Generally, we are continuously working duced by 2% per produced volume. are pending with the authorities. The on improvements within the areas of Comments: The energy consumption plan is on schedule. energy and environment at all the prowas reduced by 2.5% compared to • The quantity of waste per produced duction plants. It may be through reduc2012 and the objective achieved. unit and Cheminova’s total costs for tion of various emissions, reduction of treatment of hazardous waste will be • The content of COD in the treated energy consumption or improved recovreduced by 5% and 10% respectively waste water will be reduced by 3%. ery of chemicals as an alternative to inper year in 2012-14. cineration. Comments: The COD in the treated waste water was reduced by 32% from Comments: Waste/product (kg/kg) inREACH EU’s substance regulation 17.8 tons in 2012 to 12.1 tons in 2013 dex in 2013 was 104 (objective 2013 In mid-2013, stage 2 of the EU substance and the objective achieved. index 90). Cost/product (DKK/kg) index regulation REACH was concluded. Stage 2 for 2013 was 87 (objective 2013 index • The frequency and severity of incidents involved the registration of non-crop pro81). The objective is not achieved. The at work will be reduced by 2%. tection substances, which are produced initiated activities for reduction of tonor imported to the EU in volumes of 100Comments: In 2013 there were no acnage and costs have been overtaken 1,000 metric tons per year. cidents with absence of more than 48 by new waste streams and changes in hours. The frequency of non-reportproduct mix to products that generate Back in 2010 the first stage was concludable accident (incidents) was reduced more hazardous waste. This will chaled involving registration of substances from 19.9 per one million man-hours lenge the possibility for achieving the produced or imported in volumes of worked in 2012 to 18.0 in 2013 correobjective also in 2014. more than 1,000 metric tons per year. In sponding to 9.5% improvement. The mid-2018 the last stage awaits involving severity rate was reduced from 14.13 Australia registration of substances produced or lost man-hours per 1,000 man-hours worked in 2012 to 11.10 in 2013 cor• Obtain certification of the company’s imported in volumes of 1-100 metric tons occupational health and safety manper year. responding to 21% improvement. For that reason the objective is achieved. agement according to OHSAS 18001 in 2014. In the first and second stage Cheminova • The production at the Intermediate Dihas obtained 21 registrations with 10 ‘in vision will be certified according to ISO Comments: The management system is situ isolated intermediates’ and 6 ‘trans14001 and OHSAS 18001. prepared and audited internally. Certiported isolated intermediates’ with limfication is expected in 2014 according Comments: The audit of the certifying ited data requirements. Furthermore, to schedule. company was accomplished in May full registration of 5 substances was oband the certificates were received in • The waste water treatment will be imtained, including 3 flotation agents which June. The objective is achieved. proved and renewed permit for disare used in the mining industry for sepacharge will be applied for. ration of metals from the ore. These floDenmark Comments: Studies on the waste water tation agents are manufactured at Chemand the treatment process are com• Operation of the biological waste wainova’s plant in Denmark. The two other pleted. Submission to council for an ter treatment plant will be reassessed substances are micronutrients for fertilupdated approval is to be prepared and in 2012-15 so that the potential of the izing purposes manufactured at our subsubmitted. Objective is partly achieved. plant is utilized in the best possible sidiary Headland in the United Kingdom. way. United Kingdom Follow-up on objectives for 2013 Comments: Two waste water streams were changed in 2013. The operation • Environmental and safety conditions India will be reassessed and applications for of the waste water plant is unaffected • The energy consumption for the prochanges will be sent to the authorities. from the changes. Several applications duction of two large products to be reCorporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 29 Comments: The Major Accident Prevention Policy and COMAH Safety Report Fact box: Environment, health and safety were developed and submitted to the Unit Note 2013 2012 2011 competent authorities in Q2, meeting Water consumption: Cooling Mio. m3 1 28 29 31 the requirements of the regulations. Processes and ord. 2 729 659 682 The permit was granted during Q2 of Thousand m3 consumption 2013 and thereby the target achieved. Energy consumption: Natural gas GWh 2+3 295 309 337 LPG GWh 2 0.67 0.73 0 Germany Electricity GWh 77.9 70.6 67.2 • A filter to reduce the emission of dust Fuel oil GWh 1.90 1.80 2.7 from the production will be installed. Bio fuel GWh 3 29 0 0 Comments: The dust filter was installed Materials: Raw mat. consump. 1000 tonnes 112 108 103 and commissioned in Q3. It operates as expected. Objective is achieved. Discharge of waste COD Tonnes 152 148 206 water: Nitrogen Tonnes 19 22 31 Phosporus Tonnes 4 9 7 9 Comments on the development from Air emissions: Particles Tonnes 5 7.3 5.7 4.5 2012 to 2013 Measured on the consumption of raw CO2 1000 tonnes 76 63 71 materials the overall activity has increOrdinary waste: Recycling 1000 tonnes 6 3.2 3.0 3.7 ased by 4%. Most significant changes are Incineration 1000 tonnes 7 0.3 0.26 0.47 seen as increasing activity in Denmark, Depositing 1000 tonnes 8 18.3 17.9 15.8 India and Italy. The increase in consumpHazardous waste: Recycling 1000 tonnes 9 2.5 1.76 0.58 tion of process water and total energy is Incineration 1000 tonnes 10 13.3 12.3 7.6 due to the increased activities. Depositing 1000 tonnes 11 5.6 4.9 2.28 Spillage and waste: Number 11 10 19 Note 1: In India, the reduction of conAccidents: Number 12 11 18 20 sumption of cooling water is relatively high caused by changes in product mix. Accident frequency: – 1.9 3.3 4.0 In Denmark, a tighter control has reduced Absence from work due to accidents: – 0.1 0.2 1.0 the consumption of cooling water desInformation about accounting policies can be found on Cheminova’s website. pite a higher production. Note 2: Figures for 2012 are corrected. Note 6: The increase is mainly caused by Note 10: The amount of waste is increchanged activities in India and Denmark. ased due to increased activity and chanNote 3: In India the consumption of naIn Germany, the quantity has increased ges in product mix in Denmark. tural gas is decreased due to use of bio because of a tidying-up campaign. fuel for steam generation at one of the Note 11: The increase is mainly caused sites. Note 7: Increase in Denmark where by commissioning of a new production empty packaging from raw materials prein India. As reported on page 28 more Note 4: The emission of phosphorus in viously was classified hazardous waste. than 19,000 metric tons of sulfur waste India decreased because of changes in was removed from a depot in Denmark. product mix. Unintensional emission of Note 8: In the United Kingdom a conBecause the sulfur waste originates from sludge from the biological waste-water siderable change happened because of production in the 1970’es this waste is treatment plant in Denmark caused a changes in the classification of waste that not included in the reported figure. substantial increase. previously was composted (classified recycling). Note 12: In all companies internal reporNote 5: The emission of particles in Inting is made up of both reportable and dia increased from 2012 to 2013 due to Note 9: The increase is caused by channon-reportable accidents. Reportable acincreasing production and an additional ges in India, where the waste is now recidents occurred in Denmark only. steam boiler. processed or used as fuel in the cement industry. 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Supplier management Supplier management has been strengthened through education and training of our employees. Inspection of the production facilities of a supplier. In recent years our focus within supplier an improved administration and filing management has been on development system for documentation generated and implementation of global policies, in connection with CSR audits. During especially concerning procurement of 2013, several tools have been evaluated, raw materials, active ingredients and serall capable of managing and storing data vices such as toll formulation and filling about audits in a global company. We of end user products. Furthermore, focus have opted for utilizing our global ERP syhas been on strengthening the estabstem (SAP) which has an ’Audit Managelished global team of Technical Responment’ module and which also matches sible Persons that carry out the overall Cheminova’s global policies. In addition global supplier management. to being a filing tool the system is also characterized by being able to administer More than 60 times Cheminova staff has planned audits in the global organization. either done a complete supplier audit or We expect the system to be tested in Q1 screened a potential supplier in 2013. Re2014 and to be up and implemented midlevant findings were recorded and critical 2014. issues will be followed up. To ensure a consistent approach to these processes while considering the cultural differences in the countries and regions of Cheminova’s suppliers, one of the tarJoint training in essential aspects of supplier management: gets of 2013 was to conduct common education and training. In august 2013 Topics covered: a number of relevant employees from • introduction to CSR standards, requirements and risk different disciplines/areas in the global • suppliers and the interaction with the business organization and with an interest in sup• supplier management and Cheminova’s policies in this regard plier management participated in a joint • roles, responsibility and contributions in supplier management of purchasers, training session in Denmark with PwC as project managers, people responsible for quality and the CSR organization. facilitator. There were many topics and • how do we obtain advantages from CSR audits globally objectives (cf. box). The objectives were to gain an understanding of how to: Administration of company audits in a • improve relations to suppliers global company • improve product quality With the number of suppliers steadily • secure fulfillment of customer requirements and expectations increasing there is a growing need for • plan, execute and report CSR audits Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 31 People The values set the standard. One of our goals in 2012 was to focus on graphical distribution of employees from degree of job satisfaction and committhe values in the Cheminova group and 2008 to 2013 is: ment, a global employee survey will be we continued our efforts in 2013 to make initiated during the second half of 2014. them the baseline for all employees in 2008 2013 The purpose is to measure the individual their daily work both internally within the Americas 12% 12% departments’ overall employee engageCheminova organization and externally, Asia 27% 34% ment and commitment. The subsequent e.g. when cooperating with our custofollow-up will secure that areas and/or mers and suppliers. Denmark 43% 37% units that are having a need for increased Europe 18% 17% employee satisfaction and commitment The five global Cheminova values are: will receive the support needed. Naturally, it requires knowledge and adherence to the Cheminova values, poThe follow-up will also ensure that our licies and processes in order to secure employees have the opportunity to live the necessary alignment. Considering in accordance with the Cheminova values that more than half of our workforce has in a constructive way and for both emplomore than 5 year’s seniority we consider yees and Cheminova to benefit and deour baseline to be solid. velop professionally and personally. Equal opportunities for everyone are our Survey employee engagement foundation and the survey will highlight To ensure that the global workforce of whether the prerequisites are present in The introduction to our values starts dumore than 2,200 persons has a high our organization. ring the recruitment process and continues during the onboarding phase. Once The split on seniority for Cheminova employees before year-end 2013 is: the employee has joined the Cheminova group, the experienced colleagues and managers secure that all new employees comply with the values. Our organization is growing Also in 2013 the increase in the number of employees continued. Since 2008 the number of employees globally has increased by 18%. The main increase is seen in Asia whereas by and large the numbers for Denmark and the other European countries stay at the same level. The geo32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 We offer a variety of jobs. Diversity both development and qualifications will violations were reported in 2013. Naturally, Cheminova also focuses on dibe discussed. In 2013 80% of the global versity in the organization as well as the workforce has completed appraisals, and Communication associated opportunities and benefits. in 2014 we shall continue focusing on A new global intranet will be launched Considering the mere fact that we have having appraisals and a follow-up on the in 2014. By streamlining the information employees in 23 countries, nationality subsequent feedback and conclusions. flow and access to global policies, procealone increases the level of diversity. We believe that both the employee and dures etc. and securing that all employAs far as distinction of genders is conCheminova will benefit from the appraiees have the same access to communicacerned we have in 2013 set up a goal for sal process. To have visible career paths tion and tools, we hope to see a positive the distinction of genders at board level in the Cheminova group rather than just impact on the implementation of a wide and we expect to continue this work in the management career path, new and range of procedures. the rest of our organization. Initially, we other visible career paths within e.g. speshall start monitoring the distinction of cialist and project leader functions will Anti-bribery genders at the management level. Our be created also making these obvious Both bribery and corruption are identilong-term objective is that the distinction choices for development and career. fied as priority areas for governments of genders will reflect the structure of the and authorities world-wide. Legislative total workforce. The overall gender strucWhistleblower process developments in combination with an ture in the Cheminova group is approx. In 2013 we experienced a need for a new increased understanding of the private 80% male, 20% female, however, with whistleblower set-up as our former supsector’s role in eliminating bribery and substantial regional differences. plier decided to end our cooperation. corruption influence especially the global By the end of the 4th quarter the new companies which are facing challenges In 2013 a global recruitment procedure whistleblower set-up was implemented. and a need for continuously developing was implemented. The recruitment proAll employees have been informed about their policies and procedures. cedure will among others help to secure the new whistleblower function which and reflect diversity, including but not liconsists of an external website where reSimilar to the past years we implemented mited to, focus on the distinction of genports can be placed anonymously through initiatives to retain and strengthen our ders when identifying the field of candia hotline either in writing or by calling a anti-bribery program in 2013. The objecdates during the recruitment process. specific phone number. All reports placed tives in the present report show that we through this external website are forare working systematically with both risk Yearly appraisals warded – anonymously – to the whistleanalysis as well as education of a selected To emphasize the importance of develoblower committee which is responsible number of employees in Denmark and ping the individual employee and thefor investigating the high-lighted violathe group’s subsidiaries world-wide. reby ensuring the qualifications needtions. Every quarter a report is sent to the ed, a yearly appraisal between the audit committee unless special reports The initiatives are firmly entrenched in employee and manager is scheduled require a direct and immediate involveour values with the acknowledgement and completed. During the appraisal ment from the board. No whistleblower that the Cheminova group can contribute Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 33 People, continued positively to the elimination of bribery 2014. The feedback and experiences are In 2013 we carried out 112 safety drills and corruption within the business areas very positive and concrete improvements in India. Three of these took place at the where we are operating. A natural part of have already surfaced in connection with Panoli office. At the production facilities the process is to revise policies and proSAFE walks – also an improvement in the the safety drills included training in fires cedures on a regular basis to secure that employees’ attitude towards SAFE has in chemicals and electrical installations, these are still valid and up-to-date acbeen registered. This ensures the conleakage of toxic chemicals, electrical discording to applicable legislation and stant and necessary focus on health and charges and personal injury when falling identified risks. safety at work. from heights. Health and safety at work Safety drills In the United Kingdom we carried out a Our first priority is to have a safe working One of our global focus areas in 2013 fire drill including emergency call, fireenvironment and therefore Cheminova has been safety drills. The purpose of fighting, evacuation, roll call etc. for all continuously monitor work-related accihaving these safety drills is to prepare the employees including business associates, dents as well as near-miss reporting. The employees in case of fire or gas leakages. contractors and other guests. purpose is, naturally, to avoid accidents The training in firefighting, evacuation or from happening again. In 2013 a specilife-saving is part of the safety program at In 2014, we are planning an extensive fic health and safety program, SAFE, was our production facilities. The plants have safety drill in Germany where also an exintroduced in Denmark in a new and imcontingency plans which are the foundaternal firefighting service will be participroved version. SAFE is a program where tion for these safety drills. Please refer pating. employees are trained in conducting a to the below examples from India and health and safety audit in other departUnited Kingdom where training and drills ments. The SAFE program will continue in are described. As a part of the celebrations of Cheminova’s 75th anniversary Brazilian colleagues won a visit to the Danish factory site. 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Action plan Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 35 Action plan Village projects Focus area Objective/action Timetable Success criteria India: Objective: To promote Good Agricultural Practices 2014 Establish use of Good Agricultural Practices in Village projects Action: This area encompasses all activities concerning village project Improved Agricultural Practices i.e. from land preparation, seed treatment, weed management and promotion of low dose chemicals Objective: Continuation of Saheli Project on Women Em2014 Skill development program for Self Helps powerment Groups Action: This concept is a step to take Good Agricultural Practices (above activity) further to involve all members of farming families i.e. men, women, children and other stakeholders Water conservaObjective: Promote water conservation in Rainfed Agricul2014 Increase adoption of this concept over 250 tion project ture acres in three states i.e. Karnataka, Andhra PraAction: A very large area of Indian Agriculture comes under desh and Tamil Nadu Rainfed Agriculture Brazil: DevelopThe project among small-scale banana farmers in the state 2014 The project keeps momentum ment of village of Goias will be continued and the dialogue with local agrobased environnomists mentally friendly control of baThe project with focus on safe and environmentally friend2014 15 The project keeps momentum and involves an nana diseases ly control of plant diseases among banana farmers in the increasing number of farmers state of São Paulo will be continued Initiate a project with axil application among banana 2014 15 The project is initiated at farm level growers in Santa Catarina Helping you Grow – Chemistry with Care Focus area Objective/action Timetable Success criteria Chemistry with Objective: More plant protection 2014-17 Ongoing reporting of a 12 months rolling index Care Action: Continued improvement in 12 months rolling index with continued improvement compared to the illustrating the area of farm land where crops and thus the previous quarter and base year 2009 food production is protected by Cheminova’s products Objective: Less chemistry 2014-17 Ongoing reporting of a 12 months rolling index Action: Continued improvement in 12 months rolling index with continued improvement compared to the illustrating the quantity of non-sustainable ingredients apprevious quarter and base year 2009 plied in Cheminova’s products per area unit Objective: Less resources 2014-17 Ongoing reporting of a 12 months rolling index Action: An index illustrating the energy consumption for with continued improvement compared to the manufacturing products at Cheminova’s productions sites previous quarter and base year 2009 in India and Denmark will be implemented Development of at least 10 formulations with a low content 2014 Recipes filed at Cheminova A/S or Cheminova of volatile organic solvents India Ltd Lower average toxicity of newly developed formulations 2012-14 By each year the average WHO classification of measured through the classification of the formulation newly developed formulations must be lower than the average classification of Cheminova’s plant protection products. Only plant protection products, where the active ingredient is owned by Cheminova, are included Production Focus area Objective/action Timetable Success criteria India Objective: Reduction of the amount of COD discharged in 2014 COD amount in the treated water reduced by at treated waste water by 3% least 3% compared to 2013 Activity: Segregation of high COD stream and their in-house treatment within manufacturing plants Objective: Certification of the production at the FormulaISO 9001: ISO 9001: Certificates obtained from the certition Division 1 & 2 in relation to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 & 2014 fication company OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001: Prepared and Activity: Implementation of a management system that and OHSAS ready for certification in 2015 meets the requirements of the standards 18001: 2015 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Focus area Objective/action Timetable Success criteria Denmark Revision of the operation of the biological waste-water treat2014 With adherence to the discharge requirements ment plant where the waste water from the individual profor the biological waste-water treatment plant duction plants is treated/optimized so that the potential of approval is achieved annually for supply of two the plant is utilized in the best possible way new waste water streams to the plant after neActivity: It will be examined whether waste-water streams, cessary pre-treatment which are today treated externally, may instead be treated biologically, possibly after a pre-treatment. In case of a positive result we will ask the authorities for permission Objective: To reduce consumption of steam at a plant for 2012-15 Steam consumption per liter recovered solvent recovery of an organic solvent – hexane – through optimiin the period 2010-2011 used as basis. zation of the recovery sequence Steam consumption to be reduced min. 10% Activity: Surveillance of mass balance for the plant through compared to basis continuous measuring of inlet and outlet concentrations and flow is established. Based on the outlined mass balance it is estimated whether the recovery sequence may be optimized based on mass flow of solvents in inlet air and at the same time ensure an acceptable emission. If necessary, the control system of the plant is updated in order to make the mentioned optimization possible Australia Objective: Obtain certification of the production in relation 2014 Certificate obtained from the certification to OHSAS 18001 company Activity: Implementation of a OHSAS 18001 management system Objective: Reassessment of environmental and safety per2014 High standard met on environmental and safeformance to meet the high standard ty performance. MHF report submitted to the Activity: Submission of a MHF report to the competent autauthority hority United Kingdom Objective: Continuous improvement of occupational safety 2014 Total number of reportable and non-reportable and health accidents recorded during 2014 ≤ 25. Total Action: Increase the number of near misses being renumber of near misses reported ≥ 70. Investiported. Complete all safety critical training. Raise awaregation of all near misses documented. Authorness through toolbox talks and poster campaigns ity Reportable Incidents ≤ 1. Lost time accident frequency rate ≤ 10 Supplier management Focus area Objective/action Timetable Success criteria Global Audit Objective: Establishment of a global system for filing audits 2014 Full implementation of the global system Management and share experience and knowledge where SAP is implemented System Activities: Setting up a global data base in SAP. Implementation of the data base and management system by training auditors Human Resources Focus area Objective/action Timetable Success criteria Employee deObjective and activities: At least once a year all employees 2014 Overall number of performance and developvelopment and their direct superior conduct a performance and dement reviews conducted. velopment review – conclusions are documented and imProgress in implementing the agreed concluplemented sions Employee engaObjective and activity: Conduct a global Employee Engage2014 Overall response rate higher than 70%. gement ment Survey Develop action plans by organizational units to either secure or increase engagement level as needed Diversity Objective: Ensure that diversity is taken into consideration 2014 Operational base line created. when positions are vacant Objectives for gender diversity documented Activities: Create base line for measuring gender diversity in the general workforce and managerial positions. Objectives for gender diversity to be defined Denmark Target: Ensure a safe work environment by increasing all 2014 By the end of 2014 all employees have been employees’ involvement and foster a positive safety culeducated and involved in the SAFE program ture and behavior Action: Starting from Cheminova’s values employees are educated and trained in understanding colleagues’ job functions, interactions in the organization and care in time Anti-corruption Mapping from which a classification of country based cor2014 GEC approval of mapping. Educational activities ruption risks can be made. Educational activity for selected for selected employees has been undertaken employees Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 37 More information 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Management statement Jaime Gomez-Arnau Jakob Lyngsø Andersen Anton Bro Rico T. Christensen CEO & Region President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, President, Europe Human Resources & Development & Registration Region North America Communication Niels Morten Hjort Pramod N. Karlekar Cesar Rojas René Schneider Senior Vice President, President, President, Chief Financial Officer, Production & Logistics Region International Region Latin America Finance & Support On February 19, 2014 the company’s day-to-day top management, the Global Executive Committee (GEC), considered and approved the CSR report for 2013. Cheminova’s CSR work is founded on UN’s Global Compact and GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) which are internationally approved codes together with Responsible Care which is the chemical industry’s own code. Internally, the CSR work is rooted in Cheminova’s Code of Business Principles and the CSR Strategy as well as policies and procedures in our Global QC and CSR Manual (http://www.cheminova.com/en/ sustainability/corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_ to_csr_management.htm). Jens Thorsen GEC has the overall responsibility for Cheminova’s global business and activities, inSenior Vice President, cluding CSR. Portfolio Management It is the GEC’s view that the CSR report for 2013 provides an accurate picture of the company’s CSR activities in the areas described. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 39 Assurance statement Independent Assurance Statement for the spect of supporting the UN Global Compact The criteria stated concerning statement of stakeholders of Cheminova A/S principles. environmental and occupational health and We have assessed the Cheminova A/S Corposafety data as well as the indices, as descrirate Social Responsibility Report 2013 for the Our responsibility is, on the basis of our work, bed in the accounting policies, have primapurpose of expressing a conclusion on the deto express a conclusion on the information rily been assessed from inquiries concerning scriptions of target attainment, non-financial contained in the Report regarding target atprocedures for calculation and measurement data and indices regarding ‘more plant protainment, non-financial data and indices as of the concrete data. Furthermore, we have tection’, ‘less chemistry’ and ‘fewer resources’ well as on the Report as a CoP Report. performed technical accounting analyses of contained in the Report as well as its capacity reported data and have reviewed selected doas a Communication on Progress Report (CoP Scope of our work cumentation. Report) occasioned by the Cheminova A/S sigWe planned and performed our work in acnature to the UN Global Compact. cordance with the International Auditing We have reviewed the Report with a view Standard ISAE 3000 (assurance engagements to assessing its informative value in relation Criteria applied other than audits or review of historical finanto expectations for a CoP Report. Through The criteria for CSR-related target attainment cial information) for the purpose of obtaining interviews with Management and selected are stated in the Corporate Social Responmoderate assurance that: key employees, we have gained insight into sibility Report 2012, in which targets as well • the status of attainment of established Management’s commitment and status of as success criteria for the focus areas Village CSR targets for 2013 on pages 5-6 is in acembedding the UN Global Compact and the Projects, ‘Helping you grow – Chemistry with cordance with the listed criteria for CSR values of Cheminova on the basis of implecare’, Product Stewardship, Production, Suptargets, which were published in the Corpomentation of activities. plier Management and Human Resources, are rate Social Responsibility Report 2012; presented. • the environmental and occupational health As agreed with the Management of Chemiand safety data stated on page 30 as well nova A/S, we have not performed any proThe criteria for preparation of non-financial as the indices on page 23 have been recogcedures relating to the reliability of the GRI data and indices contained in the Report nised in accordance with the criteria stated reporting for 2013. are evident from the accounting policies defor preparation of the non-financial data scribed at the website: http://www.chemiand indices of the Report; Conclusion nova.com/download/sustainability/csr_ac• the Report in its entirety is consistent with Based on our review, nothing has come to our counting_principles_2013_en.pdf. These the company’s CSR activities and progress attention that causes us to believe that the contain information concerning which of the with a view to supporting the UN Global descriptions covering the status of the attainCheminova Group’s businesses and activities Compact. ment of CSR targets for 2013 on pages 5-6 are are included in the types of data reported as not accurate. well as Management’s reasons for selecting The assurance obtained is limited as comenvironmental and occupational health and pared to that of an audit. Our work has thereFurthermore, nothing has come to our attensafety data and the indices. fore, based on an assessment of materiality tion that causes us to believe that the environand risk, primarily included inquiries concermental and occupational health and safety Responsibilities ning goal attainment, including on a judgedata stated on page 30 as the indices on page Cheminova A/S Management is responsible mental sample-basis obtaining documented 23 have not been recognised in accordance for preparing the Report, including for setting confirmations regarding goal attainment from with the criteria stated for preparation of the up registration and internal control systems local managements, interviews with selected non-financial data and indices of the Report. with a view to ensuring reliable reporting. key managerial employees responsible for the Company Management is furthermore regoal attainment and review of selected docuWe confirm that the Report serve as the CoP sponsible for specifying acceptable reporting mentation. Report of Cheminova A/S, and based on the criteria as well as selecting data to be coltotal work performed, nothing has come to lected. Moreover, our review of local targets and data our attention that causes us to believe that has included visits to the production compathe Report in its entirety is not based on speMoreover, Cheminova A/S Management is nies in India, Germany and Denmark, and we cific activities and the progress of Cheminova responsible for preparing a CoP Report prepaid visit to the sales company in India. A/S with a view to supporting the UN Global senting the progress of Cheminova A/S in reCompact. Hellerup, March 6, 2014 PricewaterhouseCoopers Brian Christiansen Jens Pultz Pedersen Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab State Authorised Public Accountant MSc (Engineering, Diploma (Business Economics) 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 UN Global Compact Progress report on the implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact. Cheminova has supported the United stems at Cheminova that support the 10 Nations Global Compact since 2009. We principles of the Global Compact and the support the endeavors to make globaresults which were achieved in the period lization more socially and ecologically under review. Information on the Global compatible and to raise standards in the Compact can be found at www.unglobalfields of human rights, labor rights and compact.org. environmental protection and in the fight against corruption. The following table The page numbers refer to relevant secshows the activities and management sytions of this report. Systems Measures 2013 Achievements 2013 Human Rights: Principle 1: Support of human rights Principle 2: Exclusion of human rights violations • Code of Business Principles (p. 48) • In 2013, establishment of visible and successful career paths glo• Executed (p. 6) • Supplier Code of Conduct (p. 48) bally will be initiated • Management approach to • In 2013, a global recruitment policy and recruitment procedure • Executed (p. 6) CSR management (p. 48) will be prepared and communicated • UN Global Compact • The project Saheli on women empowerment on safety, health • Executed (p. 5) and livelihood in India will be continued in 2013 Labour Standards: Principle 3: Observance of the right to freedom of association Principle 4: Abolition of all forms of forced labour Principle 5: Abolition of child labour Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination • Code of Business Principles (p. 48) • In 2013, establishment of visible and successful career paths glo• Executed (p. 6) • Supplier Code of Conduct (p. 48) bally will be initiated • Management approach to • In 2013, a global recruitment policy and recruitment procedure • Executed (p. 6) CSR management (p. 48) will be prepared and communicated • UN Code of Conduct (p. 48) • Production at Cheminova MFG Pty. in Australia will in the period • Implementation plan 2013-14 be certified in relation to OHSAS 18001 followed (p. 6) • UN Global Compact Environment: Principle 7: Precautionary environmental protection Principle 8: Specific commitment to environmental protection Principle 9: Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Code of Business principles (s. 48) • In India, the project Aakash Ganga on water conservation will be • Executed (p. 5) • Responsible Care (p. 48) continued in 2013 and extended with further 25 acres. • Supplier Code of Conduct (p. 48) • The project among small-scale banana farmers in the state of • Executed (p. 5) Goias in Brazil will be continued in 2013 • Management approach to CSR management (p. 48) • A new project on safe and environmentally friendly control of • Executed (p. 5) plant diseases will be launched among banana farmers in the • UN Code of Conduct (p. 48) state of São Paulo in Brazil in 2013 • UN Global Compact Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 41 Systems Measures 2013 Achievements 2013 • The production at the Intermediate Division in India will in 2012• Executed (p. 6) 13 be certified in relation to ISO 14001. • The energy consumption for the production of 2 large products • Executed (p. 5) in India will in 2013 be reduced by 2% per produced volume. • In India, the COD content in waste water will be reduced by 3% • Executed (p. 5) • Revision of the operation of the biological waste-water treat• Implementation plan ment plant in Denmark in the period 2012-15 where waste-wafollowed (p. 6) ter streams will be pretreated/optimized so that the potential of the biological waste water treatment plant is utilized in the best possible way. • In the period 2012-14 at least 20 formulations with low content • Implementation plan of volatile organic solvents will be developed followed (p. 5) Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Measures to fight corruption • Code of Business principles (s. 48) • Mapping for establishing a country based classification of risk • Implementation plan • Management approach to of corruption. Training activities for selected employees in followed (p. 6) CSR management (p. 48) 2013-14 • UN Global Compact 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Reporting 2013 The page numbers refer to the relevant sections of this report, and AR refers to page numbers in Auriga’s Annual Report 2013. F = Fully reported; P = Partially reported. Information about the company Links and comments Page 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the president, CEO and the Global Executive http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reF 3 and 39 Committee ports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf AR 2013 p. 3 1.2 Description of essential impacts, risks and opportunities http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reF 16,22 and ports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf 23 AR 2013 p. 12-13 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organization F 1 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services http://www.cheminova.com/en/products__innovation/produF 8 and 9 cts__innovation.htm 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisihttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F ons, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures structure/organization/organization.htm 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters F 50 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and nahttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F 10 mes of countries with either major operations or that are specistructure/organization/organization.htm fically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report http://www.cheminova.com/en/contact/worldwide/worldwide.htm 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F structure/organization/organization.htm 2.7 Markets served http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reF ports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf AR 2013 p. 10-11 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reF ports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf AR 2013 p. 4 and notes p. 39-62 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reF 4 structure, or ownership ports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf AR 2013 p. 5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period We have received no awards during the reporting period F 3. Report parameters Aspect: Report profile 3.1 Reporting period for information provided http://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/csr_acF 4 counting_principles_2013_en.pdf 3.2 Date of most recent previous report March 15, 2013 F 3.3 Reporting cycle http://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/csr_acF counting_principles_2013_en.pdf 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents F 2 Aspect: Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content F 4 3.6 Boundary of the report F 4 and 28 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. As stated on page 4 the CSR report provides information about F 4 Cheminova A/S, all subsidiaries and joint venture companies with an ownership of more than 50% Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 43 GRI reporting 2013, continued Information about the company Links and comments Page 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, F 4 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, inhttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_soF cluding assumptions and techniques underlying estimations apcial_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ plied to the compilation of the indicators and other information management.htm in the report http://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/csr_accounting_principles_2013_en.pdf 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information proThere are no re-statements in the reporting period F vided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, There are no significant changes F boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the The table will be published as part of the 2013 CSR report. F 43-47 report 3.13 Verification F 40 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Aspect: Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees http://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/csr_acF 39 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, counting_principles_2013_en.pdf such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F an executive officer structure/board_of_directors/board_of_directors.htm http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ structure/board_of_directors/independence.htm 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F number of members of the highest governance body that are instructure/board_of_directors/board_of_directors.htm dependent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recomF 20 mendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest govhttp://www.cheminova.com/download/about_us/policy/vedF ernance body, senior managers, and executives (including deparerlagspolitik_uk.pdf ture arrangements) and the organisation’s performance (includhttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ ing social and environmental performance) structure/corporate_governance/report_on_corporate_governance.htm http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf AR 2013 p. 16-18 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conhttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F flicts of interest are avoided structure/corporate_governance/report_on_corporate_governance.htm 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F members of the highest governance body for guiding the organstructure/corporate_governance/report_on_corporate_goverisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics nance.htm 4.8 Internally developed statements of vision, values, principles etc. http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/mission_vision_valF 32-34 and their implementation ues/mission_vision_values.htm http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/code_of_business_principles/ code_of_business_principles.htm http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/supplier_code_of_conduct.htm 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing the organisation’s ecohttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F nomic, environmental and social management and performance structure/corporate_governance/report_on_corporate_governance.htm http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf AR 2013, p. 16-18 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Information about the company Links and comments Page 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Boards own performance http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F structure/corporate_governance/report_on_corporate_governance.htm http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf AR 2013, p. 16-18 Aspect: Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or F 3, 12, 13, principle is addressed by the organisation 16, 17, 22 and 23 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charF 4, 40 and 48 ters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations F 9 and 48 Aspect: Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organizations F 20 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom F 20 to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of There is a current and open dialogue with our stakeholders F 20 engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholdhttp://www.mst.dk/NR/rdonlyres/DDF068A0-2986-46F6-86C5F 16, 17, 22 er engagement, and how the organisation has responded 096249DAD5B2/0/Cheminova_VVM_udvidelse.pdf and 23 Climate changes and potential harm from plant protection products are focus areas among our stakeholders Indicators of company’s CSR Links Page Economics Management approach http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/management_and_ F structure/corporate_governance/report_on_corporate_governance.htm http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reports/2012/uk/auriga_ar12_uk_nav_1403131_websiteuk.pdf AR 2012, p. 4 Aspect: Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revhttp://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reF enues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and ports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf other community investments, retained earnings, and payments AR 2013 p. 4 and 39-62 to capital providers and governments EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations http://www.cheminova.com/download/investor/financial_reF ports/2013/uk/auriga_ar13_uk_nav_060314_websiteuk.pdf AR 2013 p. 52-53 http://www.cheminova.com/download/about_us/policy/vederlagspolitik_uk.pdf Aspect: Market presence EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management http://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/gri_indiF hired from the local community at locations of significant operacators_labour_practices_en.pdf tion Environment Management approach http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_soF cial_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume F 30 Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Natural gas 294 GWh corresponding to 1059 TJ (Terra joule) F 30 LPG 0.7 GWh corresponding to 2.5 TJ Fuel oil 1.9 GWh corresponding to 6.9 TJ Biofuel 29 GWh corresponding to 104 TJ Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 45 GRI reporting 2013, continued Indicators of company’s CSR Links Page EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Electricity 77.9 GWh corresponding to 280.5 TJ F 30 Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source F 30 Aspect: Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/news_views/biodiF to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside versity.htm protected areas http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/news_views/production_sites_and_natural_resorts.htm EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and serhttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/news_views/biodiF vices on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity.htm versity value outside protected areas http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/news_views/production_sites_and_natural_resorts.htm Aspect: Emissions, effluents and waster EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight http://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/csr_acF 30 counting_principles_2013_en.pdf EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination F 30 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method F 30 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills P 30 Aspect: Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and serhttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/news_views/safety_ F 10-11, 16-19 vices, and extent of impact mitigation and_health.htm and 22-23 Labour practices and decent work Management approach http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_soF 20 and 32-34 cial_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm Aspect:Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeOnly for the manufacturing companies P 30 ism, and number of work-related facilities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control prohttp://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/gri_indiF 24-25 grammes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or cators_labour_practices_en.pdf community members regarding serious diseases Human Rights Management approach http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_soF 34 and 49 cial_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of ashttp://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/gri_indiF sociation and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and cators_labour_practices_en.pdf actions taken to support these rights http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm Aspect: Child labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of http://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/gri_indiF child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination cators_labour_practices_en.pdf of child labour http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm Aspect: Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of http://www.cheminova.com/download/sustainability/gri_indiF forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the cators_labour_practices_en.pdf elimination of forced or compulsory labour http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Indicators of company’s CSR Links Page Society Management approach http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_soF 33 and 48 cial_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm Aspect: Community S01 Impacts of operations on communities, including entering, F 20 operating, and exiting Aspect: Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_soP policies and procedures cial_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm Aspect: Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy developP 20 ment and lobbying Product responsibility Management approach http://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corporate_soF 10-11 and 48 cial_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_ management.htm Aspect: Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/news_views/safety_ F and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of and_health.htm significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Aspedt: Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/news_views/safety_ F and percentage of significant products and services subject to and_health.htm such information requirements Covering all plant protection products Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 47 Special references Reference Explanation Where to find it Ownership and organization An overview of Cheminova’s global organisation, rehttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/mangions, ownership and anchoring of CSR in the organisaagement_and_structure/organization/organization. tion htm Responsible Care The European Chemical Industry Council's (CEFIC) Rehttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/prosponsible Care programme for continuous improveduction/responsible_care/responsible_care.htm ment within safety, health and environment Code of Business Principles A description of the company’s Code of Business Prinhttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/ ciples which must be complied with by all employees corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/code_ and which support responsibility in relation to manageof_business_principles.htm ment, cooperation and society Mission, vision and values A description of the company’s mission, vision and valhttp://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/misues sion_vision_values/mission_vision_values.htm Supplier Code of Conduct The fundamental principles which Cheminova’s supplihttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/ ers have to comply with corporate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/supplier_code_of_conduct.htm CSR Accounting Principles The principles for data collection on environment, safehttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corty and health porate_social_responsibility/csr_documentation/ csr_accounting_principles.htm FAO’s Code of Conduct Voluntary international standards of responsibility and http://www.fao.org/docrep/005/y4544e/ behaviour concerning distribution and use of pesticides y4544e00.htm UN’s Millennium Goals UN’s 8 goals for reduction of poverty before 2015 http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/ Management approach to CSR Management Summary of principles and procedures on CSR managehttp://www.cheminova.com/en/sustainability/corment porate_social_responsibility/csr_policy/management_approach_to_csr_management.htm Principles of good corporate management The statutory report on Corporate Governance 2011 http://www.cheminova.com/en/about_us/man– comments on recommendation on good corporate agement_and_structure/corporate_governance/ management report_on_the_financial_reporting_process_and_ internal_controls.htm 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Glossary Active ingredient: GEC: Omethoate: Active chemical in its pure or technical form. Global Executive Committee. Cheminova’s Insecticide among others used to control Auditing: day-to-day management group. mites. Review of accounts. Global Compact: Pesticides (plant protection products): Chemical synthesis: A UN initiative giving ten general principles Collective name for insecticides, herbicides Process, where chemical compounds react for companies’ work with corporate social reand fungicides. with each other so that new compounds are sponsibility. PIC: formed. GRI: Prior Informed Consent (Prior informed conClass I product: Global Reporting Initiative with guideline for sent that has to be established before a prodA product, which according to WHO’s rereporting on CSR. uct from the PIC list is exported). commended guidelines is classified as highly HPLC: Product stewardship: hazardous or extremely hazardous. High-performance liquid chromatography – Overall description of responsible manageCLP: a very common analysis methos of chemical ment of a company’s products. Classification, Labelling and Packaging. The compounds. Ramsar areas: CLP Regulation ensures that the hazards HSE: Wetlands where wildlife is protected accordpresented by chemicals are clearly commuHealth, Safety & Environment. ing to the convention of wetlands of internanicated to workers and consumers in the ISO 14001: tional importance, particularly as habitats for European Union through classification and International environmental certification birds. labelling of chemicals. covering the surrounding environment. REACH: COD: ISO 9001: Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemical Oxygen Demand measure for the International certification of quality manageChemicals (Common EU regulation on docucontent of organic compounds in water. ment system. mentation requirements concerning chemiCSR: cals). KPI: Corporate Social Responsibility. Social, enKey Performance Indicator. Registration data: vironmental and ethical demands made beTest results and documentation that must be tween companies, customers, interested parLow VOC: submitted to the authorities in order to obtain ties and collaboration partners. Low Volatile Organic Compound, defined as registration certificates for import and sales maximum 20% evaporation at 115°C in 60 permissions. Emulsifiable concentrate: minutes cf. Estimation of Volatile Emission Mixture of a liquid active ingredient, solvents Potential of Pesticides by Thermogravimetry, Responsible Care: and surfactants that enable the product to be California Department of Pesticide Reglation, Objectives concerning responsible conduct, diluted with water to a low concentrate spray February 9, 2005. adhered to by Cheminova. fluid. SAFE: Marketing portal: FAO: An internal website with useful information Safe Attitude (behaviour) For Everybody. The UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation. concerning marketing. Saheli: FAO’s Code of Conduct: Methomyl: Saheli is formed taking the first two letters FAO’s international guidelines concerning the Insecticide, in Mexico mostly used in cotton from each of the three core areas Safety, distribution and use of pesticides. and vegetables. Health and Livelihood. Fenamiphos: Methyl parathion: Suspension concentrate: Insecticide used against soil-living pests (neInsecticide mostly used in cotton. An active ingredient in solid form suspended matodes). in water with surfactants which enables the Microcapsules (microcapsule formulation): product to be diluted with water to a low conFormulation: Fluid product where the active ingredient is Active ingredient to which has been added accentrate spray liquid. encapsulated in microscopic capsules which cessory agents that make the product a readyare dispersed in water. Third-party products: to-use as control agent. Sales products not produced by Cheminova Micronutrients: but bought from other suppliers. Fossil fuel: Mineral fertiliser which the plants need in Coal, oil and gas. small quantities. WHO: GC: World Health Organisation. Nm3: Gas Chromotography: A common type of Normal cubic meter (volume at standard preschromatography used in analytical chemistry sure and temperature). for separating and analysing compounds that can be vaporized without decomposition. OHSAS 18001: International environmental certification coGDP: vering the working environment. Gross Domestic Product. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 49 A HELPING company in YOU GROW Cheminova A/S Headquarters: P.O. Box 9 Thyborønvej 78 Tel. +45 9690 9690 info@cheminova.com DK-7620 Lemvig DK-7673 Harboøre Fax. +45 9690 9691 www.cheminova.com
