The DIC Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Program WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/ The DIC Group launched its corporate social responsibility (CSR) program in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. In line with the DIC WAY, an articulation of its basic management approach, DIC has identified fulfilling its responsibilities as a member of society through its business activities and contributing to the evolution of society as the cornerstones of CSR. The DIC Group strives to ensure a prompt and accurate grasp of evolving social imperatives, including global warming and the depletion of natural resources, and respond with solutions that deliver the value that its stakeholders expect continuously. With the aim of ensuring that the DIC Group remains a trusted corporate citizen with a proud reputation In December 2010, the Group became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The Group also conducts its business activities following to its Business Code of Conduct, also in a manner that is consistent with ISO 26000, which provides businesses and organizations with global guidelines for operating in a socially responsible manner. CSR Framework and Themes To guide its efforts to promote CSR as an integral part of its business activities, DIC formulates annual Groupwide CSR policies. In accordance with these policies, individual sales administrative divisions, product divisions, sites and domestic and overseas subsidiaries are CSR Framework and Themes for charged with pursuing effective CSR programs by formulating their own the Fiscal Year Ending March 31, 2013 CSR policies and ensuring such policies permeate their organizations Business models focused on customer satisfaction and labor forces, as well as by linking their CSR policies to business New technology development and value creation Themes that demonstrate Harmony with the community and contributions to society targets. distinctive capabilities Communication with stakeholders (A) Environment, Safety, Health and Quality As a framework for implementing its CSR program in the fiscal Themes that combine Human resources management elements of (A) Supply chain management year ending March 31, 2013,, DIC has developed 10 CSR themes and and (B) Compliance Basic introduced a system whereby these are categorized as basic themes, themes (B) BCM Information security including compliance and BCM; themes that demonstrate distinctive capabilities, such as business models focused on societal issues; and themes that combine elements of the previous two classifications, to promote with respective annual target of activities. System for Promoting CSR The DIC Group’s system for promoting CSR centers on the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which answers directly to the president and CEO and is tasked with reporting on the status of CSR themes, as well as with proposing policies and programs for advancing CSR and deliberating matters related to CSR as a vital component of corporate management. (The Sun Chemical Group has an independent system for promoting CSR.) As of April 2013 Board of Directors initiatives related to the maintenance and Corporate Social President and CEO Responsibility Committee Administrative divisions ( Sales, Technical, Manufacture) Product divisions R＆D, Back-office sections, improvement of internal control systems Corporate Sites and DIC Group companies Communications Dept CSR Themes ◎ The Details of our CSR activities to be described in “Report on Our CSR Themes” of this report. Outline of the Report CONTENTS This report has been edited with the aim ofenabling readers to easily understand the CSR initiatives of the DIC Group. The The DIC Group’s CSR Program outline firstcovers the corporate data, top message, and special DIC Group, Globally Active and Expanding 2 topics pages, followed by activity reportsby CSR theme. DIC Top Message 4 Linkage with Website Medium-Term Management Plan (2013-2015) 6 The WEB mark ( WEB ) is indicated where detailed information In line with the slogan of DIC 105—“Step Beyond”, or data is available on the website. we describe Basic Policy and Central Strategies DIC website WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/ Special Topics 8 DIC Products Contributing to the society in a variety of scenes through our social living Scope of the Report DIC and domestic/overseas consolidated group companies are the scope Topics 12 of this report. However, please refer to the below link for the scope of the report on the “Environment, Safety, Health, and Quality.” Topics 1 Sun Chemical reports : PantoneLIVE WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/pdf/dic_csr_scope_ja_2013.pdf Supporting the Development of a New Technology Topics 2 DIC Digital Color Guide worldwide Reporting Period For target domestic companies: Targets & Achievement of Major Activities(CSR) 14 April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013(FY 2012) For target overseas companies: Targets & Achievement of Major Activities(RC) 16 January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 (FY 2012) (Some FY 2013 topics are covered here) Corporate Governance 18 Issued September, 2013 (the next repor t will be issued in July, 2014) Report on Our CSR Themes Reference Guidelines Compliance 19 I SO26000 : 2010 / Responsible Care Code BCM(Business Continuity Management) 20 Information Security 21 Environment, Safety, Health, and Quality 22 Human Resource Management 31 Supply Chain Management 34 About the cover design Business Models to Improve Societal Issues 35 The DIC Group hopes to respond New Technology Development and Value Creation 36 to social issues and demands in a global and speedy manner. We have Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society 38 used the illustration to express how the CSR activities, which we have Communication with Stakeholders 41 continually promoted, bloom and spread in the 2013 CSR Report. We will develop the story of colorful flowers (CSR activities), which are ISO26000 Comparison Table 43 carried by the bird (DIC Group), for “colors” and “comfort.” Third Party Opinion 44 *This repor t utilizes a color scheme informed by universal design, which is a Introdudction of communication tools focus of DIC Group efforts, to give it an with our stakeholders 45 easy-to-read design. 1 Network DIC Group, Globally Active and Expanding DIC Corporation, one of the world’s leading diversified chemicals companies, is also the core of the DIC Group, a multinational organization with a network comprising 183 companies in 62 countries and territories worldwide. Europe Sun Chemical Group and other companies Net sale 156.8 billion yen Operating income 5.8 billion yen Asia and Oceania DIC (CHINA), DIC Asia Pacific and other companies Net sale 115.9 billion yen Operating income 8.2 billion yen Corporate Data As of March 31, 2013 Registered name: DIC Corporation Paid-in capital: 91.2 billion yen Corporate WATERRAS TOWER, 101, Kanda Awajicho Number of employees: 3,426(non-consolidated), 20,273 (consolidated) headquarters: 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0063,Japan Domestic operations: 183 [domestic: 35, overseas: 148] Date of foundation: February 15, 1908 Date of incorporation: March 15, 1937 Business Performance Highlights Net Sales (billions of yen) Operating Income (billions of yen) Net Income (billions of yen) Total Assets (billions of yen) 1,000 50 30 1,000 25 800 40 800 20 600 30 600 932.3 15 757.8 779.0 734.3 703.8 37.2 35.0 38.5 738.5 749.9 703.8 675.1 693.0 400 20 400 27.8 10 15.8 18.2 19.1 200 25.4 200 10 5 2.6 2.5 0 0 0 0 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12（Fiscal year） ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12（Fiscal year） ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12（Fiscal year） ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12（Fiscal year） These graphs have been prepared from the accounts maintained in accordance with the provisions set forth in Japan’ s Companies Act and Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. In FY 2012, DIC had 152 consolidated subsidiaries and 31 affiliates. 2 Network Main countries: American countries the United States, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, etc. European countries Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, France, etc. Asian and Oceanian countries China, Thailand, Malaysia, India, Australia, etc. The sum of the operating incomes by region on page 3 below does not correspond to that of the operating incomes of all the companies, as the former includes the canceled amount (¥4.3 billion) Americas Sun Chemical Group and other companies Net sale 107.0 billion yen Operating income 2.2 billion yen Japan DIC, DIC Graphics and other companies Net sale 324.1 billion yen Operating income 26.6 billion yen The DIC Group is a global market leader with printing inks, organic pigments and synthetic Operations resins as its core businesses. The Group currently classifies its businesses into four operations: Printing Inks Polymers Printing inks, printing supplies Synthetic resins for inks and painting, molding, adhesive and fiber processing, modifiers, fluorochemicals Fine chemicals Application Materials Organic pigments,liquid crystal materials, Inkjet inks, PPS compounds, high performance compounds, plastic colorants, alkylphenols, metalcarboxylates, sulphur chemicals coextruded multilayer films, plastic molded products, pressure sensitive adhesive materials, building materials, hollow-fiber membrane products, health foods Breakdown of Sales by Segment Breakdown of Sales by Region Application others Asia/Oceania Materials 0.2% 16.5% 14.6% Total Total 703.8 703.8 Americas Japan Polymers 15.2% 46.0% 21.1% billion yen billion yen Printing Inks Fine Chemicals 50.6% Europe 13.5% 22.3% Network 3 A Message from the The DIC Group, ensuring it remains President an entity capable of responding to evolving social imperatives. Yoshiyuki Nakanishi Representative Director, President and CEO DIC Corporation Achievements Under DIC 102 To ensure the timely development of such advanced products and technologies, we realigned our organization to promote The DIC Group changed significantly under DIC 102. Obvious communication among technical personnel and created a crossexamples of this include the rapid growth of promising new business framework that allows unrestricted access to technical businesses, notably thin-film transistor liquid crystals (TFT LCs), facilities and equipment. pigments for color filters and polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) products. With the aim of creating a solid foundation that will support This is evidence of the superb basic technologies we have sustainable growth, we also focused on rationalizing production and accumulated as a manufacturer of fine chemicals, which enable us improving our financial health. As a consequence, we are seeing to address key challenges faced by society today, including the need a steady increase in awareness of profitability as a yardstick of to curtail energy and resource consumption and reduce costs. performance. 4 A Message from the President Reinforcing Responsible Care Initiatives to conform to the relevant local laws and regulations. In fiscal year 2013, we will revamp and condense The DIC WAY Ensure Social Responsibility Code of Business Conduct, which forms the foundation of our CSR As a manufacturer of fine chemicals, we have a basic duty to program, as well as translate into multiple languages to ensure ensure social responsibility in everything we do. Accordingly, we that it can be accessed and understood by DIC Group employees recognize Responsible Care—which encompasses activities carried around the world. We will also step up efforts to promote Groupwide out by companies to protect the environment, safety and health (ESH) acceptance of the code with the purpose of raising awareness of and enhance product quality—as a basic management precept. compliance. Every year, we conduct Responsible Care inspections of DIC Additionally, having recognized the overhaul of our personnel sites throughout Japan in the form of top management audits, which system as an undertaking crucial to future growth for the DIC Group, include participation by the president of DIC. Group companies in we will shift the focus of our efforts to optimize human resources Japan conduct reciprocal site audits with the purpose of improving from regional to global. To this end, we will clarify all aspects of the safety levels. In fiscal year 2012, we launched a Groupwide handssystem—including individuals, placements and remuneration— on safety training program designed to heighten employees’ ability in line with the concept of mieruka (a Japanese term that means to recognize danger. More than 3,700 DIC Group employees to elucidate something or render it clearly visible). We will also participated in the program, which contributed to a significant establish a unified framework to ensure the fairness and consistency reduction in the number of occupational accidents, both those that of performance evaluations worldwide and establish a multifaceted resulted in work days lost and those that did not, compared with the program aimed at fostering new generations of employees with previous period. I also took part in the program, and reconfirmed my leadership capabilities. belief in its importance. Embarking on DIC105 Promoting CSR on a Global Scale Our new medium-term management plan, DIC105, will guide We recognize that ensuring CSR remains an integral aspect of our efforts from fiscal year 2013 through to fiscal year 2015, the first management requires the promotion related initiatives on a global phase of a longer-term initiative that sets clear, concrete objectives scale. We have developed an effective system in Japan and have for fiscal year 2018. As conveyed by its slogan, “Step Beyond,” the made discernable advances with a variety of themes, from basic to plan’s basic goal is to identify and promote the concentration of those that demonstrate our distinctive capabilities. We, however, are management resources in key business domains. really just beginning to attend to the challenge of creating a global By implementing the strategies outlined in DIC105, we will CSR program that encompasses overseas Group companies. continue working to offer distinctive products that provide core In 2010, we became a participant in the United Nations Global value to our customers, as well as to end users, thereby ensuring Compact (UNGC), underscoring our commitment as a leading we remain a corporate entity capable of responding effectively to international manufacturer of fine chemicals to helping realize evolving social imperatives and contributing to environmental and sustainable global growth. social sustainability. In line with this recognition, in fiscal year 2012 we revised our Basic Policy on Internal Control. We also introduced selfassessment procedures for overseas Group company directors that Top management audit, Chiba Plant (October 2012) Ceremony to celebrate the completion of a new PPS compound production facility in Vienna, Austria (April 2013) A Message from the President 5 Color and Comfort by Chemistry – our Management Vision, shows the direction of the DIC Group’s solutions to the societal issues, which are more and more complicated and diversiﬁed in global market. We will continuously challenge, to offer the best solutions. Medium-Term Management Medium-Term Management Plan Plan Basic Policy and Central Strategies of DIC105 Our new medium-term management plan, DIC 105, will guide our efforts for the three years through to fiscal year 2015—the first phase of a longer-term initiative that sets clear, concrete objectives for fiscal year 2018. In line with the slogan of DIC 105—“Step Beyond”—we will concentrate our allocation of management resources in business domains that will enable us to establish a new course for the future. Growth image Restructure printing inks businesses in North America and Europe Nest-generation businesses Implement decisive rationalization measures, emphasizing the optimization of production capabilities, with the aim of strengthening our printing inks businesses in North America and Europe and Business driving force ensuring their continued viability as core businesses Fine Chemicals operating income (pigments, LC materials) Expand businesses that will drive growth Application Materials Focus management resources in three key forward-looking (PPS etc) Businesses with stable earnings basis businesses: TFT LCs, pigments for color filters and PPS products Printing Ink(package ink) Create next-generation businesses hing ink) Printing Ink(publia Combine our renowned organic chemical technologies and Polymers inorganic materials to create new value (key concept: HYBRID CHEMICALS) 2012 2015 2018 6 Medium-Term Management Plan Concentrate Management Resources in Key Business Domains DIC’s key business domains Combination of “Target markets”, “Core products”, and “Basic technologies” Target markets** Core products*** Basic technologies Markets with sustained growth potential in which Products that provide “core value” Technologies that impart value-creating DIC can maintain a competitive advantage advantages Displays Core value Advanced technologies Electronics (Color development, brightness, adhesion, lighter weight) Energy Liquid inks Optics and color Optronics materials Organic molecular design Living environments Adhesive materials Polymer design Life and living Coating Surface protection materials Dispersion Infrastructure building High-performance composites Applicability assessment(Coating/printing/molding) Packaging materials Packaging and Packaging graphics Sensory materials Digital printing * Core Value: Value that appeals to consumers and brand owners. ** Target Markets: See Supplementary Information (page 28). WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/ir/pdf/dic_ir_plan.pdf *** Core Products: Differ from DIC’s segment breakdown and based on Core Value delivered to users. For more information, see Supplementary Information (page 30). WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/ir/pdf/dic_ir_plan.pdf Three businesses that will drive growth by enabling DIC to offer distinctive products that provide core value Expand businesses that will drive growth TFT-LCs Pigments for Color Filters PPS Products (Engineering Plastic) TFT-LCs are used in TFT LCDs, the dominant The picture quality of an LCD television W ith making automobiles lighter is format for LCDs today. Production of TFT LCs is influenced by the properties of the essential to improving fuel efficiency, demands sophisticated expertise in molecular pigments used in the color filter. Given engineering plastics offer an attractive design, synthesis and mixing, as well as in the significant improvements in the energy alternative to metal materials. Valued removal of minute impurities. Since entering the efficiency, slimness and resolution of for its superior heat, shock and impact TFT LC market in 2007, DIC has taken active steps LCD televisions, manufacturers demand resistance, shock, which ensure a superb to achieve performance improvements, enabling pigments that deliver higher brightness performance under extreme conditions, it to develop a steady stream of new products and clarity with less light. Leveraging its PPS polymer manufactured by DIC is used that satisfy its customers’ needs for higher advanced organic pigment synthesizing extensively in components for automotive brightness, faster response times and greater technologies, DIC developed a green engines. Thanks to the unique properties long-term reliability. DIC supplies TFT LCs to p i g m e n t t h a t a c h i ev e s a d r a m a t i c of PPS, applications are also expanding to television manufacturers around the world seeking increase in contrast, thus reducing energy include drive, fuel and cooling systems. to offer devices that deliver both lower energy consumption and achieving excellent requirements and outstanding picture quality. brightness and clarity. Medium-Term Management Plan 7 Special Topics DIC Products Contributing to the society in a variety of scenes through our social living Shipping, information, housing, food products—there are number of problems that need solving in the industrial fields that support our daily lifestyles. Through creative development of new products, the DIC Group is contributing to solutions for such problems while generating new value. We must save and efficiently utilize energy in order to utilize the limited resources for a long time. Reduction of greenhouse gas (mainly CO 2) emissions is urgently needed in order to prevent Establishment of a ‘Reduce’, ‘Re-use’, and global warming, which is the main cause for ‘Recycling’ society is required in order to reduce climate change the issues of resource outage and wastes. Energy conservation CO 2 3R Management and reduction of toxic reduction There are many obstacles that should chemical substances that may affect be removed in order to prevent human health and ecologies are socially vulnerable people from duties of a company Aging Society feeling inconvenience. Resource Conservation Social issues There are a number of materials around us that we would like to further improve High level safety is required in materials in order for more people to have surrounding accessible tools and food in comfortable lives Comfort Safety/ order to use them with reliability. Life reliability Highly informed Human Rights Countermeasure to digital divide, or requirement Society Respect for Human Rights is strictly requested in our of high-speed products development due to the business activities globally. tendency of shortening product life cycle, are requested in our business scene 8 Special Topics Inks/adhesives for food packaging We want to use them with security because we need them in our lives. Social issue: Achieving both safety and printing quality in food packaging “Laminate processing,” in which we bond plastic film/aluminum foil/ Reducing the amount of solvent and solvent-less process are being paper, etc., protects food from shock/humidity/oxygen/light/pollution etc. promoted, while strictly conformed with laws and regulations *1. to keep it safe and healthy while enables long-term storage. In order Furthermore, reduction of volatile organic compounds (VOC), has also to enhance the functionality, films are made in multi layers depending become an issue to improve the operation environment. on the characteristics, such as snacks, beverages, or retort pouch The solvent residue is also highly recommended to reduce, as food. Meanwhile, packaging inks play the role of conveying necessary finished product. information and enhancing product values with beautiful images. *1: Food Sanitation Act/voluntary standards in the industry (Japan), regulations in Europe(Swiss For the packaging material, the method to dilute inks and Ordinance), Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations, and China national standards adhesives with solvent is the main method in the processing step. GB9685, etc. DIC‘s Development of next generation inks/adhesives with initiative less solvent residue, and reducing VOC and CO 2 Resource Safety/reliability CO 2 Conservation reduction DIC focuses on the development of inks/adhesives. The newly developed gravure ink “FINART,” toluene-free and methyl ethylketone (MEK) *2 free type ink, especially responds to the food packaging regulations in Europe (Swiss Ordinance). Furthermore, it also secures high printing quality with small amount of solvent, enabling VOC and CO2 reduction in the printing process. DIC also focuses on the development of “super high solid type,” adhesives with which solvent is reduced by 70% Solvent residue by increasing the solid content in laminating process, and “solvent-free type” adhesives. Those activities enable DIC to 68.2% promote the promising products with the best balance of performance and cost. VOC emissions We assure that DIC Group has established internal development systems in all aspects of pigments, and synthetic Printing -24% CO2 emissions resins (including adhesives). Therefore, we are in a position to fully respond to various market needs, such as Laminate -71% -20.6% environment friendly and high performance, etc., in various regions, including Japan, Asia, Europe, and the U.S. Impact reduction with the next generation ink FINART *2: Organic solvents that may cause symptoms of poisoning when inhaled over a long period or a large amount. + high solid type adhesive (LE-S1000) Global standard of gravure inks VOICE Laws and regulations worldwide for food Proposing highly performance laminate adhesives packaging and inks has become strict more and Laminate adhesives are roughly categorized more in recent years, shifting from “negative list into; organic solvent type (conventional type/high regulations”(NL) to “positive list regulations”(PL). DIC solid type), solvent-free type, and water-based type. quickly responded to such movements, reviewed DIC focuses on super high solid type and solventproduct designing from raw material source, and free type of adhesives as we prioritize the reduction took on the challenge of developing toluene-free and methyl ethylketone-free of solvent, VOC and waste liquid, with our basic performance of adhesives. We products. “FINART,” is a product that provide the beautiful package and high also take initiatives of simplifying package composition by replacing the films ink performance with safety. with adhesives having gas barrier function, etc. We will be eagerly working on highly composite products, based on our elemental technologies on a global scale, to contribute to the sustainable growth in the market. Dispersion Technical Group 1 Dispersion Technical Department 1 Manager Dispersion Technical Group 2 Dispersion Technical Department 1 Manager Yoshihisa Shirasaki Shigekazu Takahashi Special Topics 9 FRP sheet pile for construction Faster and safer sewer construction that supports our living environment Social issue: Reduction of construction period and improvement of safety for city tunnels Sewers are an important infrastructure that supports our comfortable seeping through, (2) Improvement of the ground by injecting cement milk living environment. However, in cities where buildings are built closely in order to stabilize the surrounding together with a lot of traffic, it is difficult to construct tunnels (sewer pipes ground, and (3) “Ground breaking and public utility conduit) by opening and cutting streets. Therefore, “shield process”, with which they cut the construction method”, with excavators (shield machines) by shafting and steel sheet pile with a burner to run excavating underground to create tunnels, rapidly becomes popular in the shield machine. Such method recent years. takes time and efforts, and the Newly developed “carbon FRP sheet pile” However, shafting requires (1) Pressure insertion of sheet pile (steel) ground breaking process involves (longth 6m, thickness2.3cm) around the tunnel to prevent soil from collapsing and groundwater safety-related risks. DIC’s Reduction of ground improvement and ground breaking initiative work with the newly developed “carbon FRP sheet pile” Safety/reliability Energy conservation 3R DIC has been providing FRP (Fiber Reinforced Plastics) bathtubs and Under artificial marble kitchen counters, which utilize sophisticated resin processing construction technologies. We also have manufacturing experience of construction material, Destination shaft Shafting Jack such as FRP sheet pile for temporary construction, etc. In 2012, in cooperation with the Zenitaka Corporation, DIC succeeded in developing “carbon FRP sheet pile” with the same level of strength as steel sheet pile by layering carbon fibers Shield machine Segment and glass fibers and impregnating/curing resin. Concept image of the shield construction method By incorporating such sheet pile into shafting, we no longer need the improvement of the ground by injecting cement milk or the process to manually cut sheet pile. Shield machines can excavate tunnels by directly cutting through FRP sheet pile. It improves work safety, significant reduction of both construction period and resource conservation. from DIC staff VOICE Traditional method FRP sheet pile construction method Unique molding method was established after trial and error Steel sheet pile Steel sheet pile FRP sheet pile DIC used to manufacture FRP sheet pile for shallow ground constructions, but the sheet pile Entrance Ground improvement that support the shafting in the shield construction Shield method require a whole different size, shape and machine Shield machine level of the strength/durability. After repeated experiments, we finally developed a molded product that satisfies the performance requirements by layering fabric-like carbon fibers and glass fibers within an mold using Resin Transfer Method. I think that this development is the result of full utilization of DIC’s comprehensive knowledge and technologies from designing to resin processing/manufacturing. Polymer Processing Technical Group 6 Polymer Processing Technical Department Manager Traditional construction method and FRP sheet pile construction method Michinari Kanemoto 10 Special Topics Epoxy resins/curing agents for electronic substrate Even convenient tools that support the information society must be considerate to the environment. Social issue: Electronic materials that produce less environmental impact in the disposal process Smar tphones or PCs, are composed of many electronic been used for the substrate materials in order to prevent fire from components, and most of them are recycled. However, inappropriately heating in high density circuits, etc. However, dioxin production burying or incinerating sometimes produce harmful substances. is a concern when halogen is burnt in disposal, and, halogen-free Regulations have been stipulated for contained substances. substrate materials Recently, semiconductor packages manufacturers are replacing which can secure Electronic circuit Encapsulant Lead-free solder “solder,” used to fix electronic components on substrate, with “leadthe flame retardant (welded at high Epoxy resin temperature) Printed free.” However, lead-free solder is installed at a higher temperature, p r o p e r t y, a r e substrate which means high heat resistance is required in the substrate required recently. Motherboard materials (epoxy resins). Required properties High heat Flame retardancy resistance (halogen-free) On the other hand, as flame retardant, halogen composites had DIC’s Development of environmentally-conscious high-functioning epoxy resins and initiative curing agents that achieve high heat resistance and ﬂame retardancy Highly informed Society Resource Conservation Epoxy resins are thermoset synthetic resins that are highly reactive. They cure when mixed with curing Synthetically make the raw material agents. Combining resins and curing agents achieves properties, such as exceptional molding property, heat phenol resin react to create resins with OH CH 2 R various properties resistance, and electrical insulating property, etc. DIC provides a wide variety of products in the electronic Epoxy acrylate CH 2 resin material field as Japan’s largest epoxy resin manufacturer. OH ・Resist ink The “high heat resistance,” for lead-free solder, and “high flame retardancy,” for halogen-free materials, Epoxy resin ・Ultraviolet curing resin CH 2 are opposite characteristics; therefore, simultaneously achieving both was not easy. DIC resolved this issue ・Epoxy resin Phenol resin ・Epoxy derivative raw material by their vertical integration system in which the process from the molecular designing of raw material until ・Epoxy resin raw material manufacturing of epoxy resin, within the same plant. Furthermore, we also achieved controlling of the thermal ・Curing agents (encapsulant/laminate) expansion rate and the property of preventing “warpage of substrate,” which can cause insulation failure. DIC’s vertical integration system epoxy resin business from DIC staff VOICE Development for the optimal organic materials required in Creating new substances without being entrenched with thermal management existing concepts/methods DIC’s knowledge/technologies gained in the course of DIC was able to realize original high–performance developing the resins/curing agents that simultaneously epoxy resins and curing agents as we have never achieve high heat resistance and flame retardation property, stopped taking on challenges with the aim of can be applied also to “thermoplastic resins (PPS, ABS resins, achieving new properties. For example, we spent over etc.). They are used in, such as chassis of PCs, and TVs, or 10 years developing/cultivating the “phosphorus-unit components installed in automobiles, etc. Power semiconductors introduction technology”*1 and the “active ester curing are especially starting to lean toward high output in components system,”* 2 etc. in order to commercialize materials installed in automobiles, and further heat resistance and flame retardation property are required with dielectric properties, with which electricity is not easily accumulated. While in peripheral components. We will provide the optimal organic materials for thermal management the explosive growth of smartphones has been unimaginable at the time, epoxy area and take a part of the automobile society with less environmental impact. resins with great dielectric properties are absolute necessity now. Polymer Technical Group 5 Polymer Technical Div. 1 Manager Kazuro Arita Polymer Technical Group 5 Polymer Technical Div. 1 Koji Hayashi *1 Phosphorus-unit introduction technology: Technology that incorporates phosphorous compound with a great flame retardation property into resin chemical structure via chemical synthesis *2 Active ester curing system: Active ester is the general name for special epoxy resin curing agent, which prevents hydroxyl from forming by using the transfer reaction of ester group in the curing behavior with epoxy resin. Cured product will have a dielectric property, which prevents electricity from accumulating. This technology was proposed by Tadatomi Nishikubo in the 1990s, and DIC has provided the durability that can withstand the use as electrical insulating materials with its original technology. Special Topics 11 Topics 1 Supporting the Development of a New Technology to Facilitate Precise Brand Color Reproduction and Management Worldwide Sun Chemical Corporation has played a crucial role in a project aimed at ensuring a consistent global image for one of Heinz’s main brands. Sun Chemical is the preferred partner of PantoneLIVE, a cloud based digital color management platform. It is designed to remove key brand color variation and utilizes Sun Chemical patented technology for harmonizing brand color. Brand color variations arising from regional disparities and packaging differences The team began by scientifically quantifying color variations to set color standards and color tolerances for Heinz Beanz Blue. The next step was to produce proofs and physical samples for each type of packaging. Exclusive Brand color variations arising from regional disparities and packaging digital standards for reproducing the color on each type of packaging were differences H.J. Heinz Company, a leading global manufacturer of food then created based on paper, film and ink data sourced directly from the products, had a problem with the brand color for Heinz Beanz tinned PantoneLIVE. Sun Branding Solutions verified results at all stages using visual baked beans. Perception disparities in different countries and territories and spectrophotometer readings. and the diversification of packaging formats had led to significant variation. Factors contributing to this problem include a type of packaging and a Sharing and maintaining global digital standards in the cloud broad range of printing methods. Additionally, different printing companies in each territory, making it both time-consuming and costly for Heinz staff In August 2011, the digital standards were uploaded into PantoneLIVE, to manage colors. Heinz recognized that needed to be resolved swiftly. making it possible for printing companies and other vendors worldwide Heinz tasked its brand lifecycle management partner, Sun Branding to access relevant specifications from this cloud-based platform, thereby Solutions Ltd, UK to set up a project team to develop a practical solution. realizing a technology that ensures the consistent reproduction of Heinz The team’s brief was to ensure color consistency for Heinz Beanz Blue Beanz Blue across all substrates and printing methods. across all packaging substrates and printing methods by creating a A Sun Chemical sur vey revealed that color variation across solution that would: the different types of packaging used for Heinz Beanz had fallen to approximately 1/6, which means these variations are imperceptible to the 1 facilitate color consistency, anywhere in the world, human eye. The need for Heinz staff to check packaging has decreased 2 reduce costs by facilitating web distribution and ensuring accurate digital standards, and significantly, yielding cost and time savings. 3 shortening of development times for new packaging. Color variation across Heinz Beans Blue packaging formats has been greatly reduced Sharing and maintaining global digital standards in the cloud Sun Branding Solutions was able to trial an early beta release of PantoneLIVE, with support from Sun Chemical. The team ensured color control over the entire design, artwork and prepress process, as well as with stress Can labels Shrinkwrap (Film) Snap Pots (paper) (Paperboard) testing the new PantoneLIVE digital brand color management technology. Digital Brand Color Management Technology 1 2 3 4 5 Set standards for Produce physical Create digital Upload standards Implement standards designated samples standards to color service Verification at all stages from Sun Chemical staff VOICE We are proud to have assisted Heinz in finding a solution to this problem. We played a critical role in the project team and accomplished the challenge set by Heinz, utilizing PantoneLIVE. The members of the Sun Chemical contingent rallied their collective scientific and specialized technological expertise to analyze vast amounts of data and to verify results at every stage. This experience served as a reminder of how difficult it is for global corporations to manage a consistent global brand Patrice Aurenty image. I have no doubt there are many firms facing similar problems that we can help. With Sun Chemical’s Business Leader PantoneLIVE Preferred Partner status, we can reinforce our capabilities, broaden our network and look Color Management Sun Chemical Corporation forward to assisting more companies in the development of solutions for ensuring brand color consistency. 12 TOPICS Topics 2 Downloaded worldwide for the convenience of digital guide (As of May 31, 2013) DIC digitalized the COLOR GUIDE in October, 2010, and started releasing it as a free application for smartphones (iPhone by Apple). Since then, we have been expanding the users while enhancing compatible OS and contents. Digital tool that excels in portability and search function COMMENT Digital devices have become popular Customer’s voice more and more, and DIC released the Digital COLOR GUIDE application for smartphones, Unlimited colors at hand with the established method to freely search from 2,230 colors on LC screens. “DIC Digital COLOR GUIDE”, provided Colors and materials are important elements in product as a “free application” since October, 2010, designing. I am in charge of the development to highlight their DIC Digital COLOR GUIDE surprised people, since anyone can freely attractions and introduction to products. I often research shows and download despite the fact that it came with the search function and an abundance of markets, and in such cases I need to accurately record the colors database fully utilizing digital technologies. Behind this was DIC’s wish to “enable more or textures confirmed in the field. The “Digital COLOR GUIDE” people to casually use this as a convenient platform to accurately communicate colors enables me to quickly and conveniently record close colors on my to experience the richness and joy of colors.” smartphone and to confirm them on the screen. While the traditional paper chips may be more effective in view of color accuracy, this Main basic functions application enabled me to research more conveniently. In addition, 1) Displays in ink compositions (CMYK), 3 primary color ratio (RGB) of I have the sense of security and joy, with an abundance of colors at light to reproduce colors on computers, and “Munsell values,” which hand. One of the advantages is that it also enables me to learn the is a color standard utilized in Europe, the U.S., and the Japanese background, history, and name of colors. Though there are some Industrial Standards (JIS) 2) Japanese/English/Chinese switchable display issues still, I really anticipate future development of this application. 3) Simulates characteristics of and difference in colors depending on the printed material (poster board/PET sheet/metal/film, etc.) in images “DIC Digital COLOR GUIDE” was downloaded worldwide, starting Sony Corporation immediately after its release, and received high acclaim in a wide UX & Product Strategy Group Creative Center variety of areas. In order to respond to more varied OS environments, Product Design Managing Group CMF Design Team we released the iPad version in May, 2011, and the Android version in Senior Producer November for tablet terminals. Furthermore, we began releasing the Mr. Hajime Ogura Macintosh version, in which color accuracy and simulation functions were enhanced, for designers etc., in July, 2013. *1 iPhone (iPod touch), iPad, and Macintosh are product names by Apple. DIC Digital COLOR GUIDE *2 Android is a platform for mobile terminals released by Google in 2007. WEB http://www.dic-graphics.co.jp/products/dcguide/ipad.html from DIC staff VOICE Unlimited uses! This is an “entrance to browse color database.” The use of the “Digital COLOR GUIDE” truly differs for each person. In order to reproduce colors on LC screens, it is necessary to fine tune color conversion software to match the characteristics of each model by different manufacturers, whether it’s a smartphone or a PC monitor. This requires a massive amount of work. However, knowing that the COLOR Dispersion Technical GUIDE is being utilized in countries and places where we can’t even imagine makes us forget the troubles. Department 1 Dispersion Technical What is important is the positioning that the COLOR GUIDE is an entrance to browse the color database. We hope Group 1 Manager to continue enhancing the quality and volume of the infrastructure so-called database by fully utilizing the technologies Yasuhiro Morihara that are unique to our company, which has extensive knowledge about colors. TOPICS 13 Targets and Achievements of Major CSR Activities * The “Evaluation” column is based on self-evaluations of current progress. Evaluation marks: ★★★ …Excellent ★★…Satisfactory ★ …Needs Work CSR Theme /Objective Objective/Task Reference Page FY 2012 Goals Revise the contents of the “2008 edition of the DIC Raise awareness of compliance P19 WAY Code of Business Conduct” and finalize the Compliance / fair contents of the 2013 edition and transparent corporate activities Complete easy-to-understand e-learning materials Conduct business fairly P19 and provide e-learning education for employees involved in subcontracting deals ・Continue examining substitutability of main product BCP ・Complete establishment of BCP at domestic and overseas subsidiaries Business continuity management Ensure DIC Group business Conduct Task Force training to prepare for disasters continuity P20 and consider measures to improve effectiveness (BCM) / limit further disaster risk Work together to organize the management system and implement measures to respond to various risks Measures toward ・Introduce an internal auditing system to strengthen the information security framework further achieving and Establish a global information P21 ・Firmly establish a security management framework in domestic and overseas Group companies ensuring information security framework ・Introduce a new system that is compatible with smartphones and other new devices security Concerning organization of national staff HR Train and appoint national staff to P31 systems led by DIC Asia Pacific at overseas advance global management subsidiaries, reorganize two Indonesian companies Human resource Support staff diversity and diversity (1) Increase the number of female employees hired management / in working styles through working P31 and (2) continue to increase roles for women in the striving to improve women promotion activities workplace (sales and manufacturing positions) job satisfaction Support staff diversity and diversity Further promote employment of disabled persons in in working styles by promoting P32 response to the increase in the legally stipulated employment of disabled persons disabled employment rate from FY 2013 onward (1.8%→2.0%) Create base for fair purchasing Provide explanations of CSR procurement at P34 practices subsidiaries in the Southeast Asia region Supply chain management / global expansion of CSR procurement Update the DIC Group Supply-Chain CSR Promote CSR procurement P34 Promotion Guidebook ・Creation of solutions businesses Select specific themes from within next-generation Business growing fields and strive to improve customer development of Promote solutions businesses satisfaction by creating appealing solutions businesses social issues / P35 adapted to changes in social ・Improve customer satisfaction levels by utilizing DIC establishing imperatives improvement tools consisting of product guidebooks, “solutions businesses” exhibitions and technology exchanges to achieve penetration and enhancement of the DIC brand New technology Improvement of development Strengthen collaboration and combining of development capability of new products/technology P36 technologies among Group companies (including and value creation / contributing to sustainable society overseas companies) proposing solutions that leverage ・Promote research themes related to the Promote development of environment component environmentally-conscious products P37 ・Speedy launch of new environmentally-conscious technologies and services products into markets 14 Targets and Achievements of Major CSR Activities FY2012 Results Evaluation FY2013 Goals Complete and distribute the Code of Business Conduct Completed the integrated Code of Business Conduct proposal ★★ (Japanese, English, and other languages) on draft on compliance for DIC and Sun Chemical globally-applicable compliance ★★ Complete and distribute the subsidiary director checklist Finalized the e-learning material contents based on the legal system of each country Further cultivate BCP for our main products, including Reconsidered main products due to the corporate reorganization ★★ domestic and overseas subsidiaries Conducted Task Force training to prepare for earthquakes and Take measures for issues that we have recognized from tsunamis based on the emergency response manual (earthquake ★★★ the training result in 2012, revise the manual, and conduct edition) training Conducted safety confirmation system training to confirm the Prepare Task Force manuals responding to each specific safety of employees, who are the foundation of the management ★★ risk that can be expected system in case of disaster ・Conducted internal seminars to establish the Confidential Information Management Regulations and Guidelines ・Promote the maintenance of the information security ・Established management regulations according to DIC for domestic group companies ★★ system and appropriate response to internal audit results ・In terms of overseas group companies, we have developed the IT governance rules in companies in the China ・Establish the security management system in domestic and region overseas group companies Although we have switched from overseas subsidiaries in ・Complete various HR systems for national staff in 2 overseas Indonesia to 2 companies in Thailand and the Philippines to ★ subsidiaries in Thailand and the Philippines and start working with introduce the system within this year and promoting the effort, we the overseas subsidiary in Malaysia were not able to complete it within FY2012. ・Promote the establishment of global HR database by department ・Conduct reviews and consider future policies for assigning female employees as manufacturing staff in order to thoroughly promote the (1) Female employment ratio of graduates over technical college: 27.8% ★★ expansion of female employees’ work opportunities. (2) Female manufacturing employees: 6, female external sales staff: 25 ・ Appropriately operate systems that support the balance between work, childcare, and nursing care, etc. Continue promoting employment of handicapped persons in response to the increase in the legally stipulated As of March 31, 2013: 2.20% ★★★ handicapped employment rate from April, 2013 onward (1.8%→2.0%) in a stable manner ・Conducted CSR procurement seminars for subsidiaries in the Collect the “CSR promotion reply sheet” from suppliers in Southeast Asia region ★★★ China and Southeast Asia, confirm the CSR promotion ・Distributed the “DIC Group Supply-Chain CSR Promotion Guidebook” status, and provide feedback to local suppliers and promoted the establishment of CSR procurement ・Reconsidered the entire contents of the guidebook, added new items, and enhanced the contents Partially revise the “DIC Group CSR Procurement ★★★ Guidelines.” Issue the revised edition of the “DIC Group ・Reviewed and revised the “CSR promotion reply sheet” so that suppliers can reply more easily Supply-Chain CSR Promotion Guidebook” in July Extracted social needs that are rooted in global-scale issues, such as ・Research social needs CO2 reduction and replacement for fossil fuel, etc. Promoted business ★★ Widely extract social needs and technical themes that are rooted in plans, such as sophistication/downsizing of rechargeable batteries social issues by anticipating global-scale mega-trends and emerging and power devices as solutions businesses. of new markets connected to them. Issued the Chinese version, Korean version, and Taiwanese ・Provision of solutions versions of “product guidebooks” and held “technology exchanges” Plan new businesses that clarify the values that the DIC ★★ with promising domestic and international customers in response Group can offer in order to provide solutions that satisfy to this in order to promote the establishment of the DIC brand such social needs ・Strengthen collaboration among Group companies Established the research support system for China, Southeast ★★ (including overseas companies) Asia, and various areas in Europe and U.S.A. ・Promotion of development of products by combining technologies ・Promote research themes related to the environment Business volume of environmentally-conscious products as a ★★★ ・Speedy launch of new environmentally-conscious percent of all products: 57% products into markets Targets and Achievements of Major CSR Activities 15 Major Targets and Achievements of Responsible Care (RC) Activities * The “Evaluation” column is based on self-evaluations of current progress. Evaluation marks ★ ★ ★…Excellent ★ ★…Satisfactory ★…Needs Work CSR Theme /Objective Objective/Task Reference Page FY 2012 Goals DIC Group (domestic): Prevention of global warming and P25 Reduce energy consumption per unit production by 1% compared with the previous year’s level promotion of energy saving Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% compared with the previous year’s levels Volume of industrial waste sent to landfills Reduction of industrial waste (zero emissions) DIC: 53 t (-49% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 104 t (-34% compared with previous year) Reduction of volume of landfilled solid waste P27 Volume of industrial waste produced by production plants Environmental Reduction of volume of industrial waste discharged from production plants DIC: 17,006 t (+1% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 65,309 t (0% change compared with previous year) safeguards （ ） reduction of Continue to promote recycling at DIC Group (domestic) and Promotion of recycling WEB environmental improve resource recycling impact via business activities Emission control of chemical substances PRTR 1st-designated chemicals (462) DIC: 328 t (+2% compared with previous year) P26 DIC Group (domestic): 662 t (-11% compared with previous year) + Substances targeted for study by JCIA*1 (105) + 1 substance group Reduction of VOC emissions into the DIC: 314 t (+3% compared with previous year) P26 DIC Group (domestic): 648 t (-12% compared with previous year) atmosphere ・Provide guidance on risk assessments connected with Preservation of safety Ensuring occupational safety and health equipment investment. P22 Promotion of hands-on safety training ・Be timely in provision of information and analysis of the and accident or disaster. accident prevention Promotion of sharing of information about ・Continue with safe corporate climate cultivation working groups and / occupational safety safeenvironment between DIC and Group P24 summarize proposals of the current fiscal year. and health companies (both domestic and overseas) ・Hold the working groups and share safety information. Reduction of GHG emissions caused by Continue to promote modal shift and reduce energy consumed WEB transportation during transport per unit production of 1% annually. Distribution / safety Organize yellow cards and have general freight vehicles Management of safety of chemicals during P26 including container trucks, lorries, and vehicles carrying mixed transportation freight carry them Have incoming raw material information collected and centrally Promotion of green procurement P30 managed by CIRIUS in accordance with the DIC Group's Green Procurement Guidelines ・Continue to create SDS for all chemical products and distribute them through the website. Measures to cope with GHS ・Introduce a system for creating SDS for each country outside of Japan based on that Safety of chemical (measures to disclose information on chemical P30 country’s laws and regulations and in that country’s language(s), and prepare an operating substances / products substances contained in products) environment enabling introduction of this system starting in FY 2013. Provide SDS based on Regulations on Safe Management of Hazardous Chemicals in Measures to cope with overseas regulations China and ensure that labels are properly affixed. Carry out additional registrations of (e.g., the European REACH regulation) P30 existing chemicals in Taiwan. Complete registration within the current fiscal year of substances that will reach their EU REACH registration period expiration in May 2013. Make the information on our Responsible Care activities public Communications Report on RC activities and site reports of WEB through the CSR report and DIC website. In addition, promote with community each plant risk communications between DIC’s offices and local communities through site reports. Interpret QMS such as ISO 9001 and others as tools to ensure P30 efficient work and promote to improve customer satisfaction by Quality management use of QMS. Securing of quality (customer satisfaction) Confirm and organize QMS tasks at the new business systems, P30 support improvement activities and improve quality management activities Hold a meeting for personnel in charge of safety in China region, conduct Support for Promotion of the environmental protection & P23 training in such as safety basic actions and provide support for points that safety management activities at affiliated environmental P28 need improvement at each company (Hold a meeting for personnel in charge companies in the China and Asia/Oceania regions of safety in Asia/Oceania regions and China region in alternating years). protection & safety ・Provide support for points about the target of environmental protection & safety management activities P23 management that need improvement at overseas DIC Group companies. Environmental/safety data for overseas affiliates P28 ・Select offices that are in need of special safety-related support, and provide such support in cooperation with head companies in the regions. *1 Japan Chemical Industry Association (General Incorporated Association): As one of the Japan’s major industry organizations, JCIA is a member of the ICCA and pursues the healthy development of the chemical industry with other chemical-industrial organizations around the world. 16 (RC) Major Targets and Achievements of Responsible Care (RC) Activities Note 1: Numbers listed under “FY 2013 Targets” are totals from the 9-month period from April to December 2013. Note 2: The formula used for calculating percentages in comparison with previous years of the target value in FY 2013 is the target value × 100 / (previous year’s achievement value × 3/4). *2 A slight increase occurred due to changes in processing equipment at two plants. FY 2012 Results Evaluation FY 2013 Goals (refer to Note 1, Note 2) DIC Group (domestic): Reduce energy consumption per unit production by 1% compared with Reduced energy consumption per unit production by 4.5% compared with the previous year’s level ★★★ the previous year’s level Reduced CO2 emissions by 10.3% compared with the previous year’s level Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% compared with the previous year’s level Volume of industrial waste sent to landfills Volume of industrial waste sent to landfills*2 DIC: 48 t (-54% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 106 t (-33% compared with previous year) ★★ DIC: 36 t (+1% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 81 t (+1% compared with previous year) Volume of industrial waste produced by production plants Volume of industrial waste produced by production plants*2 DIC: 15,710 t (-6.7% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 65,874 t (+0.9% compared with previous year) DIC: 11,983 t (+2% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 48,952 t (-1% compared with previous year) Resource recycling rate Continue to promote recycling at DIC Group (domestic) and strive to DIC: 74% (2-point reduction from previous year) ★★★ improve resource recycling rate DIC Group (domestic): 93% (5-point reduction from previous year) DIC: 296 t (-8.6% compared with previous year) ★★★ DIC: 222 t (0% change compared with previous year) DIC Group (domestic): 567 t (-25% compared with previous year) DIC Group (domestic): 419 t (-2% compared with previous year) DIC: 283 t (-8.7% compared with previous year) DIC: 211 t (-1% compared with previous year) ★★★ DIC Group (domestic): 554 t (-26% compared with previous year) DIC Group (domestic): 408 t (-2% compared with previous year) ・Risk assessment guidance was provided at affiliated companies. ・Provide guidance on risk assessments connected with equipment investment. ・Information on accidents and disasters in the DIC Group was distributed to and ★★★ ・Be timely in provision of information and analysis of the accident and disaster. shared with Group companies. ・Expand and continue current hands-on safety training measures. ・Hands-on safety training was conducted at 19 locations (3,714 participants). ・Safe corporate climate cultivation working groups provided proposals, ・Continue with safe corporate climate cultivation working groups and which were reflected in FY 2013 activity planning. ★★★ summarize proposals of the current fiscal year. ・Precautionary stickers were created by safe corporate climate cultivation ・Hold the working groups and share safety information. working groups. Promoted modal shift and improved transport efficiency Energy consumption (DIC): 4,802 kℓ (-10.5% compared with previous year) ★★ Continue to promote modal shift and improve transport efficiency Unit energy consumption (DIC): 7.96 Kℓ/the amount of transport (1,000t) (+0.9% compared with previous year) ・Provide information enabling identification of yellow card numbers on Organized yellow cards and had general freight vehicles including container delivery slips. ★★★ trucks, lorries, and vehicles carrying mixed freight carry them ・Continue providing training on potential problems that may occur during transporting and apply safety management for transport of chemical products. In accordance with the DIC Group's Green Procurement Guidelines, incoming ★★★ File updated information in CIRIUS as necessary for new raw materials information was collected and centrally managed using CIRIUS materials as well as conventionally procured materials ・Continue to create and distribute SDS for all chemical products through the website. ・SDS were created for all chemical products and made available on the website. ・Utilize WERCS to create SDS and labels. Introduce WERCS also at ・A system (WERCS) for creating SDS based on other countries’ laws and ★★★ overseas Group companies and prepare an operating environment regulations and in those countries’ language(s) was introduced domestically. enabling overseas utilization of the system starting in FY 2014. ・Continue with measures to meet Regulations on Safe Management of ・Provided SDS based on Regulations on Safe Management of Hazardous Chemicals in China and affixed labels. ★★★ Hazardous Chemicals in China. ・Carried out additional registrations of existing chemicals in Taiwan. ・Keep close watch on developments related to Korean chemical substance regulations ・Completed registrations of substances that reached their EU REACH registration period expiration in May 2013. (K-REACH) and take measures toward compliance once they have been officially established. Make DIC domestic Group company and overseas Group company Communicated with local residents and visitors to our plants through the CSR report, DIC ★★ occupational safety and health performance data and environmental website and site reports for each plant as part of risk communication promotion efforts performance data publicly available. ★★ Utilize ISO 9001 and other QMS as tools for increasing quality of work In accordance with our “matrix-type organizational system”, which positions the in order to improve customer satisfaction Product Division on the vertical axis and Sales, Technical and Production Administrative Divisions on the horizontal axis, we introduced and organized a QMS in the Product Divisions in order to facilitate smooth inter-division Identify and organize QMS issues within “the matrix-type collaboration ★★ organizational system” while supporting improvement activities, and enhance quality management activities ・Hold a meeting for personnel in charge of safety in the Asia/Oceania region and provide ・Held meetings for personnel in charge of safety in China region. ★★★ support for points that need improvement at each company (hold meetings in alternating ・Held environmental and safety audits in the China and Asia/Oceania regions. years in the Asia/Oceania and China regions; next meeting scheduled for February 2014). ・Conduct environmental and safety audits. ・Collected and processed data from companies in the DIC Group (overseas affiliates) and reported it. ・Collect and analyze safety and environmental data from overseas DIC ・Selected DIC Compounds Malaysia (Asia/Oceania region) and Nantong DIC Group companies and provide support for points of the target management. ★★★ Color Co., Ltd. (China) as locations to receive special safety-related support. ・Select offices that are in need of special safety-related support, and ・Installed hands-on safety training equipment and worked to raise safety awareness among employees. provide such support in cooperation with head companies in the regions. Major Targets and Achievements of Responsible Care (RC) Activities 17 Corporate Governance WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/about/governance.html Basic Concept of Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Initiatives The DIC Group considers corporate governance as “the In addition to appointing two external attorneys as outside system in which decisions are made on the management policy auditors, DIC also appoints two outside directors to further strengthen and corporate executives’ business conduct is appropriately corporate governance. We also have, “Nomination Committee” and, monitored, evaluated, and motivated in order to conduct healthier, “Remuneration Committee”, with outside directors as members, as more efficient, and better management with the aim of sustainable the advisory committees for the board of directors in order to enhance corporate growth and development.” DIC promotes various the objectivity of decision-making for appointment of candidates for policies to strengthen the management system and enhance DIC directors and executive officers, etc. and remuneration for them. the monitoring function with the aim of pursuing corporate value DIC works on the establishment and operation of the internal improvement that would further grow the trust of stakeholders, control system, such as the establishment and notification of the Code such as stockholders and customers. of Business Conduct on compliance, monitoring by the Internal Audit Division, establishment of the whistle-blowing system, establishment of various internal rules, establishment of CSR policy based on risk evaluation, establishment of the BCM system, and securing of group company control, etc. based on the “Basic Policy for Internal Controls,” which was resolved by the DIC board of directors Corporate Governance Structure Meeting of stockholders Appointment Appointment Audit Board of directors Board of auditors Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee President & CEO Accounting audit Accounting auditors CSR Committee Executive Committee Sales Administrative Division, Product Division, Production Administrative Division, Group Internal Control Dept. Technical Administrative Division, R&D Division, Administrative Department, Office companies Internal audit Supporting the UN Global Compact as a global chemicals manufacturer WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/gc.html In order to fulfill its social responsibilities in the international community in a more proactive manner, the DIC Group pledged its support and was registered as a participating company in December 2010 for the 10 Principles and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) which are advanced by the United Nations. The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary action principle for companies, which was proposed in 1999 in order to achieve worldwide sustainable development. More than 8,000 companies and organizations have pledged their support based on the idea that worldwide sustainable development can be achieved if companies comply with international rules for human rights, labor, and the environment in the course of conducting business and fulfill social responsibilities. 18 Corporate Governance Compliance Core theme Towards Fair and Transparent Corporate Activities WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/compliance.html Basic Concept of Compliance System to maintain compliance Compliance in the DIC Group is to not only comply with laws The DIC Group has established a global compliance promotion system but also respond to and meet social norms and requirements by led by DIC Corporation (Japan), Sun Chemical Corporation (Europe stakeholders, such as customers, communities, and society. and U.S.A.), DIC (China) Co., Ltd. (China), and DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. We consider that the compliance and adherence to the (Asia/Oceania) as the core members. In addition, the DIC Group utilizes “DIC Way Code of Business Conduct,” which is the unified set the whistle-blowing system. In case of issues or questions regarding of guidelines, is the basis of compliance in order to achieve compliance, one can directly report the matter to the DIC president and sustainable growth of fair and transparent businesses. We pursue auditors, etc. We are also preparing to establish external whistle-blowing actions that comply with this Code in the business activities by contact windows that respond to languages of over 160 countries. In case DIC Group employees. of such reports, we swiftly and appropriately respond to such reports according to the law while incorporating internal and external opinions with Program to Promote Compliance the aim of finding and correcting wrongful conduct, etc. of an early stage. The “DIC Way Code of Business Conduct” embodies the principles Main contents of the DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct of action based not only on compliance with laws in every country and (1) Standards of Conduct Regarding Human Rights and Working international rules but also on social norms of each country/region Environment (2) Standards of Conduct Regarding the Environment, Safety and Health worldwide and expectations and requirements of stakeholders. The DIC (3) Standards of Conduct Regarding Quality Group promotes the understanding and establishment of the “DIC Way (4) Standards of Conduct Regarding Market Competition and International Code of Business Conduct” not only by holding explanatory seminars Business Transactions (including compliance with Anti-Monopoly Act and prohibition of unfair competition) but also through e-learning. In addition, we also hold legal seminars (5) Standards of Conduct Regarding Customers/Suppliers, Public Officials for employees who are newly employed, promoted and transferred and Shareholders (6) Standards of Conduct Regarding the Accuracy of Financial Information overseas with the aim of enhancing their awareness of compliance. (7) Standards of Conduct Regarding the Prohibition against Insider The DIC Group will continue to never violate the principles set forth Trading in the DIC Way Code of Business Conduct, even if such a violation (8) Standards of Conduct Regarding Information Security, Intellectual Property Right and Properties Possessed by the Company would appear to be profitable for the DIC Group. We also respect social (9) Standards of Conduct Regarding Contributions to Society norms and act with social wisdom as a corporate citizen. (10) Standards of Conduct Regarding Conflicts of Interest VOICE Employee’s voice Enhancement of legal services in DIC (China) I am in charge of legal issues in the DIC Group, including Sun Chemical, in China. I especially cooperate closely with the DIC Legal Department to promote projects within China with the aim of reducing risks. Companies worldwide, including China, are heightening their awareness of legal issues and compliance now. It is necessary to enhance the cooperative system between DIC and DIC (China) Co., Ltd. as well as DIC (China) Co., Ltd. and its operating subsidiaries in order to manage/reduce risks for the overall DIC Group. I am happy to be a part of the establishment Michelle Ding work of a global network, in which DIC and its group companies can receive the same legal services. DIC (CHINA) Co., Ltd. Report on Our CSR Themes <Compliance> 19 (Business Continuity Management) BCM Seeking to Reduce Disaster Risks WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/bcm.html BCP Promotion by the DIC Group extracted points to improve in order to utilize the training results. We h av e r e f l e c t e d t h o s e p o i n t s a n d r ev i s e d i t t o DIC has been promoting the BCP (Business Continuity Plan) the “ Headquar ters Task Force Response Manual upon in order to respond to risks, such as major earthquakes, . We have Earthquakes”We will continue to repeat training and improvement checked the main products based on the degree of social impact, based on the more practical manual. and revised them in the new organization, started in April, 2012. We will continue checking the main products according to market Enhancement of the overall risk management changes system In addition, the Purchasing Department and Technology Department have been taking the lead to promote efforts, to On March 11, 2013, 2 years after the Great East Japan respond to concerns also in view of raw material I We will further Earthquake, we conducted training for safety confirmation system enhance the coordination with domestic and overseas group for employees,. This is a training in which we transmit safety companies in order to promote specific preparation of the BCP,. confirmation email to employees who are registered in the system and theyto correctly reply it As a result, 96% of the recipients of the safety confirmation email correctly replied. We will strive BCP (Business Continuity Plan) Initiatives to increase the number of registered employees in group companies, while, encourage each plant to utilize the system on Based on the contents of the emergency response manual, their own, and promote the system that enables us to thoroughly which was prepared in 2012, we conducted training to evaluate comprehend the safety of employees. At the same time, we will the actions according to the scenario of DIC Yokkaichi Plant prepare manuals that individually respond to various disasters, being affected by the Earthquake. We were able to discover some such as accidents or pandemic, etc., based on the prepared points to improve, such as issues in local information collection “Headquarters Task Force Response Manual upon Earthquakes.” of the disaster task force., and recognize responses that should be taken in the future. We have analyzed the training results and * Pandemic: Nation-wide/worldwide outbreak of infectious diseases VOICE Employee’s voice Striving for risk management that is recognized by each employee I am in charge of the office for the Risk Management Conference. This conference formulates measures against various risks that may seriously affect the business activities of the DIC group and plays the role of the office to execute the measures. We prioritize a wide variety of risks, prepare task force response manuals for each risk, and evaluate the manuals while coordinating with various departments for each risk. We will revise the manuals based on the evaluation results and promote the PDCA cycle. We will strive for risk management in which each employee can General Affairs and HR Department Manager recognize risks more Shigeki Takeda 20 Report on Our CSR Themes <BCM (Business Continuity Management)> Information Security Initiatives to Ensure Information Security WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/security.html Basic Concept of Information Security by the Information Management Regulations and the guidelines to DIC Group overseas group companies and further enhance information security response. The DIC Group has positioned information security as one In the Asian/Pacific region, we will not only promote the of the top priorities of management and stipulated the “Basic standardization of work flows that are common for the region Policy for Information Security” It is based on the recognition that and promote further utilization of global management data by protection of information asset that belongs to or is managed introducing the integrated new enterprise system. In order to by the DIC Group is important in promoting business activities. support the internal control environment for this system, we have Based on this “Basic Policy on Information Security,” we have established a system administrated by the DIC headquarters for stipulated the “Confidential Information Management Regulations,” components that require sufficient security and reliability, such Information Management Guidelines,” and “ Individual as access authority control, safety of data communication, and Guidelines.” These are prepared in order for each director and stable operation of server systems, etc. employee, to fully recognize the importance of information asset, appropriately manage it in a responsible manner and utilize them Responding to a New Device effectively. In addition, we will strive for further improvement by We started introducing smartphones in 2012 as new devices conducting internal audit and confirming the current issues. to utilize the internal system from the outside. In order to secure Promotion and Enhancement of Information Security Response the convenience and safety of smartphones, we have introduced a number of information security measures, such as remote lock In 2012, we promoted initiatives in preparation for the in case of loss and prohibition of download of internal information, establishment of information security systems in each overseas etc. With the aim of further enhancing work efficiency and group company with the cooperation of regional administrative customer satisfaction, we will not only introduce tablet terminals companies. In 2013, we will aim to deploy the Confidential but also take initiatives in ensuring information security in the future with the focus on safe and effective utilization. VOICE Employee’s voice The entire group will make efforts in promoting and enhancing information security as one DIC has been deploying the new enterprise system (SAP), which is utilized in each DIC group company not only in Japan but also in Asia/Oceania, since 2012. Through this initiative, we have been establishing the information foundation, which will be necessary for the DIC Group to demonstrate the combined power in the future. Upon this system introduction, subsidiaries in India and Southeast Asian countries, in which they have already started operating the system, were first perplexed by the required information security level improvement and unprecedented strict operation rules to comply with system utilization rules, which are globally common, such as user IDs and access authority setting, etc. However, they proactively took initiatives and realized the introduction. As global coordination becomes more and more necessary, we will strive to further establish the importance of Information System Department (Stationed in DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd) ensuring information security as the whole group through continuous education. Keiichiro Ito Report on Our CSR Themes <Information Security> 21 Safety, Environment, Main and Categorized Themes Toward the Achievement of Health and Quality a Sustainable Society WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/environment/ Basic Approaches to and Initiatives in Environment, Safety, and Quality Basic Stance and Main Initiatives In FY 2013, we established the five initiatives shown in the Policy for the Environment, policy for Responsible Care activities in the poster on the right Safety, and Health Policy for Responsible Care Activities 2013 As a responsible corporate citizen, DIC and implemented them throughout the DIC Group. Corporation recognizes that care for the Promote Responsible Care activities environment, safety, and health (ESH) is across the global network of DIC In addition, DIC created the slogan “promotion of Responsible fundamental to the management of the Company. DIC is committed to the conGroup cept of sustainable development, and Establish a safety culture oriented towards “zero accidents” Care activities by each employee and contribution toward the contributes to society through our continuous business harmonized with global Set targets to reduce environmental environment, including biodiversity, and impact through business activities building of a sustainable society.” Based on this ideal, and with providing environmentally sound prodand openly report performance and ucts and technology. achievements Manage chemical substance infortop priority given to ensuring safety in environment and production mation in an appropriate manner and Quality Policy inform customers of their safe use operations, we have pledged to pursue corporate activities while Enhance the efficiency of activities while striving to further invigorate Contribute to the prosperity of customers the organization promoting continuing preservation of and growth in society and and society by consistently providing reliable products. environment. We establish these initiatives annually and translate April 1, 2013 DIC Corporation Yoshiyuki Nakanishi, President & CEO them into English and Chinese in order to disseminate them “FY 2013 Policy for Responsible Care Activities” poster throughout the entire DIC Group and promote relevant activities. Occupational Safety and Health Initiatives Basic Approach to Ensuring Occupational Safety and Health FY 2011), with an accident frequency rate of 0.63 (rate of 0.91 in As an active member of society, the DIC Group recognizes that FY 2011) and a severity rate of 0.025 (rate of 0.048 in FY 2011). ensuring proper consideration of safety, the environment and health The numbers of accidents at both DIC and domestic affiliates form the foundation of our operations, and we make every effort to have been decreasing with the proportions to FY 2010 and to incorporate this into all business activities in the following ways: FY 2011 each, and the DIC Group will continue to strengthen its • Undertaking Responsible Care activities as part of overall Group safety management measures. activities In an effort to bolster our safety activities further, the DART • Striving to firmly establish a safe corporate environment with the Rate*, which is a common indicator among various countries, has goal of “zero accidents” been newly introduced within the DIC Group. We analyze accidents and communicate relevant information In FY 2012, the DART Rate was 9.0 at DIC, 8.6 within the based on this fundamental approach, and undertake risk domestic DIC Group, and 7.7 for the entire DIC Group including assessment in order to ensure occupational safety and health. overseas affiliates. * DART Rate: an indicator of the number of days regularly working employees could not attend Status of Occupational accidents work as usual per 200,000 working hours There were 3 cases of occupational accident with lost work days in FY 2012 at DIC (3 cases in FY 2011), with a frequency rate of 0.68 Results of Hands-on Safety Training in FY 2012 and Plans for FY 2013 (rate of 0.67 in FY 2011) and a severity rate of 0.03 (rate of 0.05 in In FY 2012, hands-on safety training was conducted at 19 locations FY 2011). Within the domestic DIC Group, there were 7 cases of (for 51 workplaces within the domestic DIC Group). A total of 3,714 occupational accident with lost work days in FY 2012 (12 cases in people took part in the training and 134 instructors were cultivated. 22 Report on Our CSR Themes <Safety, Environment, Health and Quality> Labor Standards Inspection Office chiefs, labor standards DIC is also planning to implement “safe procedure inspections” in association directors and occupational safety and health specialists order to complement and further enhance hands-on safety training. from both inside and outside of the Company attended training Among case examples at DIC, a few accidents occurred as a sessions and praised them highly. result of unsafe activity; we speculate that human factor is related Employee responses when asked about their impressions of these to the causes of these accidents. By utilizing safe procedure training efforts included “I hope you will continue to hold training sessions inspections to explore “how workers see themselves subjectively” as on a regular basis” and “hands-on training enabled me to gain knowledge well as “how they actually appear that videos, written materials and case examples alone could not have objectively”, we can show them provided, which increased my awareness regarding potential dangers.” the areas in which they need Five types of hands-on training using three different types of training to take greater precaution and equipment were added to hands-on training activities in FY 2013. This help them maintain high levels of equipment is being utilized at various locations to “decrease the amount knowledge and sensitivity. Senior Managing Executive Officer Saito of risk workers” are willing to accept, which is the primary training goal. participating in hands-on safety training Meeting for Personnel in Charge of Safety at DIC Production Sites in China Meetings for local personnel in charge of safety at DIC’s affiliated effectiveness of safety training and education, measures to save energy and manufacturers in China are held once every two years as part of safety reduce CO2 emissions, and countermeasures to prevent static electricity support measures. accidents. Members from the DIC headquarters lead role-playing exercises A meeting was conducted in February 2013 at Nantong DIC Color Co., as an easy-to-understand form of education for risk assessment training. Ltd., and 32 representatives from 18 companies took part. FY 2012 DIC Furthermore, safety-related personnel from each company tried out Group accident case examples, the results of audits conducted in China and hands-on safety training equipment that had been installed at Nantong DIC other such information was reported at the meeting, and participants held Color Co., Ltd. in February 2013. Moving forward, implementation of handsdiscussions in pursuit of effective countermeasures at plants in China. Local on training will be expanded to each company as part of training activities. safety-related personnel introduced information on and recent developments in Chinese legal regulations, and all participants took part in mutual patrols of photogravure ink, lithographic ink and pigment productions sites at Nantong DIC Color Co., Ltd. Case examples were introduced via poster sessions in order to explain safety efforts at each company, and lively exchanges of ideas were carried out on topics including methods of increasing the Risk assessment training A group meeting Topics Topics DIC Employee Receives the JISHA Green Cross Award Group Leader (GL) Keiichi Kajioka of the Kashima Plant Environment/Safety/Quality Group was chosen to receive the Green Cross Award from the Japan Industrial Safety & Health Association (JISHA), which was presented to him at the National Industrial Safety and Health Convention on October 24, 2012. JISHA provides support for corporate safety and health activities, and every year this organization presents the Green Cross Award for outstanding achievements to individuals, occupation-specific groups and others who have devoted numerous years of effort toward maintenance of and improvement in industrial safety, occupational health, etc. For 21 years, GL Kajioka has established static electricity countermeasures necessary for the chemical manufacturing field, provided training on and disseminated risk assessment methods, and conducted other types of safetyand health-related work. Furthermore, he has energetically undertaken environmental safety audits at domestic Group companies and provided guidance to ensure safe and reliable operations at manufacturing locations. In recognition of these efforts, Kajioka received the Green GL Kajioka at the awards ceremony Cross Award following a recommendation from the General Incorporated Association, Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA). Report on Our CSR Themes <Safety, Environment, Health and Quality> 23 The Effort of Safe Corporate Climate Cultivation Working Groups Introduction of the “ETSITE” RC Data Management System Safe corporate climate cultivation working groups are made up of The Responsible Care (RC) data management system personnel in charge of safety at DIC and DIC Graphics plants. These groups “ETSITE” was introduced in the domestic DIC Group with the have been active since FY 2010, and their members hold discussions and goal of achieving rational management and effective utilization of exchange proposals regarding safety policies and measures. industrial waste management data. In FY 2012, the working groups exchanged suggestions regarding ETSITE is an Excel-based data management system enabling safety policies and created precautionary stickers. Employee-created creation and management of each kind of master data files as well sticker designs offering clear explanations of dangers at a glance were as uploading of required data for easy retrieval when necessary. gathered in an effort to provide visual warnings for potential hazards in In addition, reports to prefectural organizations, industrial waste the workplace. DIC plans to continue these activities within the domestic disposal companies, disposal route and process flow data, and Group while also expanding efforts to overseas plants. other such information can now be understood easily at a glance, Moving forward, these working groups will continue to propose various and any changes made by persons involved are clearly and safety-related measures. precisely expressed. Currently, ETSITE is being implemented in industrial waste disposal and energy management activities. In the future, we plan to expand its usage further to manage environmental expenditures, safety-related expenses, accident-related statistics and other such areas. Topics Utilizing the Safety Assessment System to Enhance Safety The Safety Assessment System is a tool enabling companies to independently Center and has been providing support ever since. A project office was set up in understand and assess safety levels at their offices with the goal of continually November 2012 and employees of 18 major chemical companies were selected achieving safety improvements. This system was designed with consideration for as members of the Safety Assessment Promotion Committee. These members corporate safety culture by the nonprofit organization Japan Society for Safety participated in training related to areas including safety culture and disaster Engineering (JSSE) under assignment from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and prevention while continuing with development of the Safety Assessment System. Industry (METI). The Safety Enhancement Center was established in April 1, 2013 Starting in April 2013, these 18 supporter companies began implementing the in order to promote widespread utilization of the Safety assessment System and system throughout their organizations and utilizing it for self-assessments. DIC improve the overall level of safety in Japan’s chemical industry. makes active use of the Safety Assessment System to assess safety at each plant In FY 2012, DIC agreed to the plan for establishing the Safety Enhancement while striving for continuing improvements. Advisory Board JSSE Experienced directors, corporate representatives, safety specialists Safety Enhancement Center Independent Administrative Corporation National Institute of Advanced Industrial ● Business Group Science and Technology (AIST) Data analysis Dissemination Group Collaboration (assessments, training, information gathering, provision, etc.) Universities Personnel exchanges, etc. ● Standing Committees Steering Committee: proposals and advice regarding operation Planning Committee: operational management Corporations (18 Major Chemical Companies) The Chemical Daily Supply of human resources, funding support, etc. Co., Ltd. Evaluation Committee: evaluation criteria, instruction manual revisions, evaluation trials Organization of the Safety Enhancement Center Logos of the Safety Enhancement Center supporter companies Organization of the Safety Enhancement Center 24 Report on Our CSR Themes <Safety, Environment, Health and Quality> DIC Group Performance Overview of Environmental Impact Generated by Our Business Activities The following is a broad overview of the environmental impact generated by the DIC Group’s business activities in FY 2012. DIC Group (Domestic) Energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) Total water consumption INPUT Production volume 117,284 ㎘ ※ Year-on-year -10% 14,362,000 m 3 Year-on-year +5% * Renewable energy is not included in the above figures Emissions into the air Emissions into water Emissions into soil CO2 emissions NOx emissions Total emissions Industrial waste disposed of 11,461,000 m 928,000 Year-on-year 3 -3% as landfill 235,000 t Year-on-year -10% 205 t Year-on-year +3% 106 t Year-on-year t OUTPUT COD emissions into waste water Year-on-year -33% Amount of atmospheric emissions of the 567 substances SOx emissions 473 t -2% Amount of soil-related emissions of (and 1 substance group) targeted substance the 567 substances (and 1 substance group) Amount of aquatic emissions of the 567 substances targeted substance 554 t 64 t 13 (and 1 substance group) Year-on-year t 0t Year-on-year Year-on-year -25% -22% targeted substance -7% DIC Group (Overseas) Production volume Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) INPUT 190,154 ㎘ 1,422,000 Emissions into the air Emissions into soil t CO2 emissions 419,000 t Industrial waste disposed of as landfill 31,882 t OUTPUT * See the following page for more information about the scope of the report: WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/pdf/dic_csr_scope_ja_2013.pdf * Overseas data includes that from January 2012 to December 2012 CO 2 Emission Reduction Measures Initiatives Related to the Climate Change Problem (1) Aggressive energy-saving 3,000-ton emission reduction measures at individual (providing approx. 1% nationwide Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions plants (341 measures) emissions reduction) Thanks to stabilization of biomass boiler operations at the (2) Reduced heavy oil usage Approx. 27,000-ton reduction in CO2 emissions compared to previous year Kashima Plant and other measures (shown on the right), CO 2 through stable operation of the (providing approx. 10% nationwide Kashima Plant biomass boiler emissions reduction) emissions for FY 2012 dropped by 40,000 tons from the previous year. Although operational stoppages at nuclear power plants (3) Operation of private-use power generators (cogeneration) Approx. 10,000-ton reduction in CO2 resulted in an increased CO 2 emission factor in electric power installed at 4 plants, which emissions compared to previous year (providing approx. 5% nationwide for a 25,000 ton increase, we utilized these measures shown to contributed toward reduced emissions reduction) utilization of thermal power plants reduce total CO2 emissions by 10% compared with the previous (4) Other measures: year. ● Heavy oils → low-CO2 -emission ・Fuel conversion at the Kashima Plant LNG ・Installation of solar power generation equipment ●80KW/h on the roof of the technological research building Report on Our CSR Themes <Safety, Environment, Health and Quality> 25 Energy-Saving Activities Changes in CO2 Emissions and Energy Consumption Index per Unit Production FY 2012 energy-saving measures at DIC included (1) (Thousands of tons) 100 105 113 104 (Energy consumption index per unit production) 94 99 400 100 efforts by energy-saving promotion committees (confirmation of 300 75 progress, discussions, patrols, etc.), DIC energy-saving working 200 50 211 191 234 192 196 170 groups (information exchange, research studies on new items, 100 283 270 260 258 235 25 0 0 etc.), and others; (2) introduction of systems for visualizing energy '90 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 (FY) (Base year) consumption (Chiba, Kashima, General Research Center); and DIC CO2 emissions : left axis Domestic DIC Group CO2 emissions : left axis DIC energy consumption index per unit production : right axis (3) implementation of internal audits on energy management conditions at individual plants (Saitama, Kashima, Chiba). Changes in Energy Consumption (Crude Oil Equivalent) and Energy Consumption Index per Unit Production (Energy consumption index per In addition, we began objective-based management for (Thousands of kiloliters ) 100 93 96 104 110 101 100 unit production ) 200 100 energy-saving activities at overseas affiliates (China and Asia/ 160 Target for 75 2013 Oceania) 120 50 138 132 132 130 80 114 102 99 93 92 117 25 80 0 0 Energy-Saving Measures in Distribution '90 (Base year) '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 (FY) DIC energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) : left axis In distribution, we performed examinations of distribution Domestic DIC Group energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) : left axis DIC energy consumption index per unit production : right axis Target energy consumption index per unit production : right axis bases in FY 2011 in order to reveal low-efficiency locations while reevaluating local delivery operations conducted over relatively short distances. We also pursued a modal shift (marine, rail and air transport). Energy consumption in distribution was reduced by 10.5% compared with the previous year. Reducing Emissions of Chemicals into the Environment Environmental Emissions of Substances Targeted for Study Initiatives to Reduce Emissions into the Environment of (567 substances including PRTR-designated substances and 1 substance group) Substances Targeted for Study* DIC A decrease of 9% Emissions into the air: 283t (28 tons) 296t as compared with In FY 2012, the domestic DIC Group was able to meet its Emissions into water: 13t Emissions into soil: 0t FY 2011 targets for volumes of emissions into the environment by applying Domestic DIC Group A decrease of 25% thorough management at VOC combustion facilities, etc. Emissions into the air: 554t (192 tons) 567t as compared with Emissions into water: 13t * For details on substances targeted for study, see the following page: FY 2011 Emissions into soil: 0t WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/environment/ Reducing Environmental Impact on the Air, Water and Soil Changes in Atmospheric Emissions of Substances Targeted for Study (VOCs) (567 substances including PRTR-designated substances and (1 substance group)) （t） Addressing VOC Regulations 2,000 The domestic DIC Group succeeded in its policy, initiated in 1,500 Target for 977 2013 FY 2007, of “reduction of atmospheric VOC emissions by 30% 1,000 655 646 736 561 554 222 by FY 2010 using FY 2000 as the base year” as a voluntary 500 298 304 309 310 283 419 emissions reduction target to limit the emission of VOCs. We will 0 '00 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 (FY) (Base year) continue to set new targets and promote activities to reduce VOC DIC Domestic DIC Group * Values for FY 2013 are totals from the 9-month period from April to December 2013 emissions. 26 Report on Our CSR Themes <Safety, Environment, Health and Quality> Soil and Groundwater Pollution Studies COD Emission Volumes The domestic DIC Group str ictly obser ves the Soil （t） 800 745 Contamination Countermeasures Act, Water Pollution Control Act and other relevant laws. We implement soil and groundwater 600 419 483 473 406 surveys and countermeasures as necessary and thoroughly 400 394 480 469 assess environmental and safety-related risk in advance. 415 403 390 0 '90 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 (FY) Reducing SOx, NOx and COD (Base year) DIC Domestic DIC Group Taking FY 1990 as the base year, the domestic DIC Group is SOx and NOx Emission Volumes working to reduce SOx and NOx, which can cause acid rain and harm to people’s health, as well as COD, which serves as an indicator （t） 300 216 212 of water quality deterioration, in boiler equipment and wastewater 204 202 232 228 203 199 205 200 156 157 164 processing facilities. We are achieving definite results in these areas. 57 82 53 100 72 68 60 63 69 45 64 Compliance with Regulations for Dioxin Emissions 0 '90 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 (FY) The domestic DIC Group currently has incinerators and other (Base year) SOx emission volume: DIC Domestic DIC Group such equipment at six of our facilities. We have achieved results NOx emission volume: DIC Domestic DIC Group that greatly surpass the standards specified in the Act on Special Measures against Dioxins. Changes in Industrial Waste Disposed of as Landfill Reduction of Industrial Waste （t） 9,000 7,981 7,552 DIC Group Initiatives to Reduce Industrial Waste 6,000 5,581 DIC began zero-emission activities in FY 2001, and the 4,190 4,326 domestic DIC Group are taking measures to reduce industrial 3,000 2,296 Target for 537 312 1,288 2013 waste disposed of as landfill. These efforts have produced steady 991 3,426 128 537 125 320 89 232 1,560 90 207 104 158 results. 48 106 36 0 81 '99 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 (FY) (Base year) DIC Domestic DIC Group * Values for FY 2013 are totals from the 9-month period from April to December 2013. Topics Construction Completed for the Experimental Pigment Facility Incorporating Energy-saving Measures at the Kashima Plant On April 30, 2013, DIC completed the construction of the Experimental Pigment Facility on the site of the former Kashima Plant technical facility that was damaged during the Great East Japan Earthquake, with the goal of consolidating scattered technical personnel and facilities at the Kashima Plant. The new facility features various energy-saving measures, including (1) solar power generation equipment, (2) LED lighting throughout the facility and (3) VAV-type (variable air volume) draft chamber* facilities. (1) Solar power generation equipment: 80 kW polycrystalline silicon modules were installed on the roof of the Experimental Pigment Facility to generate power while reducing heat transmission through the roof in order to reduce air conditioning costs. (2) LED lighting: Approximately 300 LED lights were installed throughout the facility to provide lighting, resulting in reduced electricity consumption when compared with fluorescent light usage. Furthermore, provision of bright interior lighting contributes to the achievement of a working environment that employees can comfortably work in. (3) VAV: when the draft sash is closed, exhaust airflow is automatically reduced in order to lessen electricity consumption. By utilizing these approaches, we expect to reduce annual CO2 emissions by 60 tons. In addition, the red accent coloring on the front of the building is provided by DIC200 panels (construction material products) using environment-conscious quinacridone pigment produced at the Kashima Plant, and the purpose of this coloring is to raise environmental consciousness. At this experimental facility equipped with a full range of energy-saving features, we will continue with our efforts to develop environment-conscious products. * VAV-type draft chamber: VAV stands for “Variable Air Volume.” This type of draft chamber suppresses exhaust airflow and maintains stable Solar modules installed on Laboratory with LED lighting and face velocity regardless of the degree to which the sash is open. It is extremely safe, facilitates more comfortable experiment operations and the roof VAV-type draft facilities achieves excellent energy-saving results. Report on Our CSR Themes <Safety, Environment, Health and Quality> 27 Offices Business Activities at Responsible Care Activities Program at DIC Group Ofﬁces The DIC Group is conducting Responsible Care activities programs globally. Various efforts such as ensuring production safety, energy conservation and CO2 reductions are promoted at each plant in the DIC Group. Safety Management at the Malaysia Plant DIC Compounds (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) In 2011, a major accident occurred at DIC Compounds (Malaysia) By utilizing six types of hands-on safety training equipment designed in which a worker’s finger was cut off by a rotating component. After in 2013 together with local staff, employees simulate accidents using their a detailed analysis of the accident’s cause, it was concluded that the own bodies or dummies, including falling from high places, entanglement effectiveness of group education sessions, risk assessment training and in a rotation component, receiving a cutting wound and so forth. For other such safety training had been insufficient. Malaysia is a multiethnic example, by actually experiencing (1) how one becomes entangled, (2) country in which Malay, Chinese and Indian people work, and differences the degree of pain it causes and (3) what happens afterward in the case between these various cultures (and ways of thinking) resulted in differing of entanglement in a rotating component, it is possible for employees to individual interpretations of the same explanations, resulting in significant cultivate their own safety awareness. disparities among workers’ levels of safety awareness. In order to Moving forward, we will have employees read out the “DIC safety raise safety awareness among employees, hands-on safety training in basic actions” (English and Malay translations) in turn during morning collaboration with the Responsible Care Department was introduced. briefing sessions while working to rebuild a DIC-style culture of safety. Promoting Hands-on Safety Training Nantong DIC Color Co., Ltd. (China) Nantong DIC Color Co., Ltd. manufactures organic pigments, lithographic Because regular participation in hands-on safety training has produced inks and other such products. Following the May 2013 completion of the great results in eliminating workers’ willingness to accept risk, we are new photogravure ink plant and subsequent introduction of new equipment cultivating new hands-on safety training instructors as part of efforts to and materials, hands-on safety training utilized at DIC Group companies in expand and firmly establish educational opportunities so that all employees Japan was implemented here for the first time at a Group company in China. can continue to receive this training. Choosing from hands-on safety training equipment utilized in Japan, DIC DIC will continue with these efforts in order to realize our policy of built equipment for the following types of accidents: (1) entanglement in a prioritizing safety above all else. chain, (2) entanglement in a v-belt, (3) ignition of an organic solvent volatized by static electricity from pellets*, (4) scattering of a liquid that has not been depressurized and (5) chemical burn caused by an alkaline solution. DIC installed this equipment in the hands-on safety training area at the plant in China and initiated safety training for all employees. Participants who utilized the training equipment told us that they had come to understand the necessity of protective covers for rotating components, the mechanism of static electricity generation, the importance of connecting the ground wire and ground wire clip connection procedures, Static electricity causes a solvent to catch fire Entanglement in a v-belt etc. Their level of safety awareness regarding workplace safety management <Hands-on safety training at Nantong DIC Color Co., Ltd.> and adherence to work procedures is higher now than ever before. *Pellets: small particle plastic objects 3–5 mm in length 28 Report on Our CSR Themes <Safety, Environment, Health and Quality> Chemical Substance Initiatives DIC is undertaking in-house training on lawful manufacturing, importing and handling of chemical substances. Through these specialized education measures, we teach a representative in charge of chemical product exports about the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act (Export Trade Control Order, Foreign Exchange Order), while we teach a representative in charge of import operations about the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.; Industrial Safety and Health Act; Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act; and so forth. Employees must take part in designated educational activities and then pass an in-house examination to receive a license—only those employees holding a license are permitted to engage in exportand import-related operations. These licenses expire after two or three years, at which point the training course must be retaken and the examination passed again. As of the end of March 2013, 967 employees have received the exporting license and 225 have received the importing license. Product Information Provision System DIC provides customers with SDS, MSDSplus*1 and AIS*2 International Conference documentation created using our proprietary chemical substance on Chemical Policy information comprehensive management system (CIRIUS). We (I CCP) 2012 seminar create an SDS for each of our products, and the domestic DIC in Korea, making a Group has a total of about 250,000 different SDS stored in the significant impact both system. Customers can view and download the SDS for a product within Japan and abroad. Senior Manager Yamaguchi of the Responsible Care they have purchased at any time via the Company’s website. Department making a presentation at ICCP 2012 DIC directors and employees gave presentations to the *1 MSDSplus: Provides information on chemical substances contained within products that are subject to management under domestic and international legal regulations as well as industry Chemo Bio Integrated Management Societ y and at the standards. This supplementary document provides information that is not covered in the SDS. *2 AIS: Provides information on chemical substances contained in molded products. Topics DIC Receives Achievement Award from ChemoBio Integrated Management Society DIC announced that it had received an achievement award from the ChemoBio Integrated Management Society (CBIMS)1, a Japanese non-profit organization (NPO), in recognition of its system for the integrated management of chemical substances in both the raw materials it uses and the products it supplies. In 1995, DIC adopted Responsible Care (RC) as a key management precept. In the years since, the Company has taken decisive steps to address issues related to occupational safety, the environment, health and the stewardship of chemical substances, as well as to improve related initiatives. Of particular note, DIC uses CIRIUS, a comprehensive management system for information on chemical substances developed in-house that not only ensures an accurate, uniform grasp of information on chemical substances in raw materials and products, but also automatically flags chemical substances covered by laws in Japan, thereby helping to facilitate the manufacture and supply of safe products and the provision of accurate chemical substance-related information to customers. In addition to monitoring the volume of chemical substance emissions into the atmosphere, bodies of water and the soil production facilities from DIC Group production facilities, DIC works continuously to reduce its use of substances that exert a negative impact on the environment. In making the award, CBIMS applauded DIC's establishment of a system for the meticulous management of chemical substances in both the extensive range of raw materials it uses and its vast lineup of products, as well as its efforts to ensure unwavering compliance with legal requirements in North honorable certificate America, Europe and elsewhere in Asia, as well as in Japan. CBIMS noted that DIC currently scores more than 80 points out of 100 in all areas—hazard assessment, exposure assessment, risk assessment and risk management—when assessed according to indicators in the Survey Regarding the Integrated Management of Chemical Substances2, used by the organization to evaluate corporate performance, underscoring of a well-balanced approach, and that its achievement rates have risen steadily in recent years. The organization praised DIC's initiatives for driving progress in the industry, as well as for contributing to debate on approaches to the integrated management of chemical substances both in Japan and overseas. Going forward, DIC will continue working to reduce the impact of its business activities on the environment, provide appropriate information on pertinent chemical substances and further enhance the accuracy of its risk assessment practices, thereby helping to minimizes risks related to chemical substances for society as a whole. DIC Receives Achievement Award from ChemoBio Integrated Management Society 1 Established in 2004, the ChemoBio Integrated Management Society (CBIMS) is a Japanese NPO. CBIMS provides a forum for individuals and groups concerned with the assessment and management of risk associated with chemical (including technology-related) and biological substances and/or involved in actual assessment and management, or in related R&D, to exchange views on a wide range of issues, drawing on scientific knowledge and logic, with the aim of enhancing capabilities. The organization also publishes information for general consumption. 2 The Survey Regarding the Integrated Management of Chemical Substances is an annual survey implemented since 2003 by the Life–World Watch Center, established at Ochanomizu Women's University in Tokyo to promote development, research and investigation—and to provide education and training—related to the safety and security of human life, as well as to the environment. Report on Our CSR Themes <Safety, Environment, Health and Quality> 29 Regarding Implementation of WERCS (DIC Global SDS / create SDS and labels for all exported products starting in April 2014. Label Creation System) Moving forward, DIC plans to expand the use of WERCS to GHS*1 (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and domestic affiliates. Labeling of Chemicals) is increasingly being introduced in *1 GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals): In accordance with globally uniform rules, this system is utilized to classify chemicals by type countries throughout Asia, and GHS-compatible SDS (safety and degree of hazards, display that information through labels so that it is understandable at a data sheets) and labels*2 are in increasing demand in domestic glance, share safety data sheets, etc. *2 SDS (safety data sheet): A sheet used for sharing information on the characteristics, handling distribution operations as well as for export products. instructions and other details of chemical substances upon delivery or provision to another company. Information contained therein covers hazards; emergency measures; precautions regarding CIRIUS (Chemical Substance Information Comprehensive handling, storage and disposal; etc. These sheets were formerly known as MSDS (Material Safety Management System) is a specialized system specifically developed Data Sheet), but their name was changed to SDS in accordance with JIS Z7253:2012 standards. by DIC for domestic use within Japan; it has not been utilized as a Overseas Legal Regulations Company-wide, integrated SDS/label creation and management system for export products. That is why DIC has decided to DIC constantly gathers information on chemical substances introduce the WERCS system for Company exports based on laws through overseas consultants, experts at overseas affiliated and regulations in destination countries that is capable of creating companies, news distribution services, industry associations and SDS and labels in the target country’s language(s). other such sources, and adapts as quickly as possible to revisions By utilizing know-how cultivated through the development of to and other changes in overseas legal regulations. CIRIUS and knowledge on regulations in countries throughout As a company that exports numerous products, we create Asia, we have built a WERCS system tailored to DIC specifications SDS and labels based on the recipient country’s laws and based on nine months of actual in-system implementation. In this regulations and in that country’s language(s). way, DIC has been able to significantly enhance Asia-oriented Green Procurement SDS and label creation functionality in WERCS. When adopting new chemical materials, we obtain SDS, DIC began operation of WERCS within Japan in April 2013, and MSDSplus and material questionnaire documentation and we plan to progressively adapt it for SDS and label creation in Korea, organize it in CIRIUS to achieve integrated information Europe, North America, China, and Taiwan. We will use WERCS to management. Quality Management Initiatives DIC Quality Management In April 2012, DIC established a matrix-type organizational system that positions the Product Division on the vertical axis and Sales, Production and Technical Administrative Divisions on the horizontal axis in order to make use of mobility as well as comprehensive, overall strength. In accordance with this organizational style, we introduced a quality management system (QMS) based on ISO 9001 in the Product Division to facilitate smooth inter-division collaboration. We have achieved ISO 9001 certification at our plants and established a QMS for the Product Division, and DIC utilizes these two systems in close conjunction to share customer feedback and other information within the matrixtype organization in an effort to achieve customer satisfaction. Changes in Numbers of Product Returns (% Compared to Previous Year) FY 2012 Primary Quality Initiatives and Review 0 1. Number of complaints: 10% reduction compared with FY 2011. ー10 ー10 ー22 2. Number of product returns: 10% reduction compared with FY 2011. ー20 ー40 ー30 3. The following seven locations sustained their certification under Sony Green Partner ー40 Standards: Komaki Plant, Yokkaichi Plant, Saitama Plant, Tatebayashi Plant, Chiba Plant, ー50 '10 '11 '12 (FY) Hokuriku Plant and DIC Epoxy (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Changes in Numbers of Complaints (% Compared to Previous Year) 4. As part of efforts to take precise countermeasures and prevent reoccurrence of problems, 20 the DIC group promoted application of “Naze-Naze Bunseki (‘Why-Why’ Analysis)”*3 to 10 15 logically uncover the causes of those problems. 0 ー10 ー10 ー22 5. With the aim of enhancing the effectiveness of ISO 9001, DIC and DIC Graphics provided ー20 training to its internal auditors in order to strengthen internal auditing efforts, which serve as ー30 '10 '11 '12 (FY) the foundation of ISO 9001. *3 “Naze-Naze Bunseki (‘Why-Why’ Analysis)”: A method of repeatedly asking “why” to avoid jumping to conclusions about the factors of a problem and to ensure the logical and complete identification of factors in order to prevent problem recurrence. 30 Report on Our CSR Themes <Safety, Environment, Health and Quality> Human Resources Striving to Improve Management Job Satisfaction WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/staff.html Goal of the DIC Group Human Resources Globalization of employment Management DIC not only promotes global human resources development for Japanese employees but also DIC proactively makes efforts to respect the work life balance of promotes employment of foreign each and every employee and create a workplace that can provide job nationals among domestic college satisfaction with the aim of becoming a company in which all employees graduates and career employment can exercise their full potential in jobs suited to their abilities. as candidates for human Respect for Human Rights resources to become globally active. (2012 result: 4 employees) Providing More Opportunities for Female Employees The DIC Group clearly states to remove all human rights infringement in corporate activities and to respect diversity in the DIS is working on women's working opportunities promotion “DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct” and promotes business activities so that all employees with motivation can exercise their activities based on this philosophy. full potential. In addition to our achievement of being one of the first companies in the chemical industry to introduce the Childcare Leave Pursuing Deeper Trust between Labor and Management Program in 1986, we have been striving to enhance our systems to support work and childcare balance, including flexible work systems, We make efforts in cultivating trust based on dialogues, such as etc., since 2007. As a result, the average lengths of service between labor-management councils and casual management conferences, male and female employees have become very close. Furthermore, etc. with the aim of maintaining/improving healthy relationship we have also been continuing to provide management training for with labor unions. Furthermore, we make efforts in sharing management positions and provide individual support to help female management information and visions in the labor-management employees expand their work opportunities. councils and exchange honest opinions with labor unions. Through these efforts, the number of female employees who become qualified as candidates for management positions has Diversity certainly been increasing. DIC will continue promoting female Development and Employment of Global Human Resources employees’ working opportunities with the focus on increasing The DIC Group has been establishing a system that enables the number in the future. We have also been employing female us to develop staff in local affiliates of various countries, who are new graduates, who are the sources of such human resources, required to promote the new medium-term management plan, constantly while focusing on their talent. Shift in the average length of service for employees* and employ human resources according to the business contents regardless of their nationalities. Specifically, we have been (Years) promoting it in group companies in Southeast Asia in steps, followed 25 20 by group companies in China. These steps include the deployment 15 10 Male 19.5 years of the human resources system for local employees and provision FY2012 Female 18.1 years 5 Total 19.3 years of management training to develop the next generation of top 0 ‘94 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 (FY) management, etc. We have also been making efforts in creating Male Female Total a database for national staff human resources and establishing *Average length of service for employees who are employed as of this point systematic training programs, etc. Report on Our CSR Themes <Human Resources Management> 31 Promotion of Employment of Persons with disabilities Number of employees utilizing the Childcare Leave Program The employment rate for persons with disabilities at the end (Number of utilizing employees) 40 of 2012 was 2.2%, which is over the 1.8% of the legally required 30 employment rate in Japan. We will make further efforts to enhance 20 40 27 28 30 31 30 31 24 the retention rate by streamlining the workplace environment and 10 0 promote the enhancement of the workplace in which persons with ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 (Year) disabilities can work even after the increase of the legally required employment rate (2.0%) in 2013. Work and Childcare Balance Support Program Promotion of Re-employment after Retirement Childcare Leave The maximum length of leaves is “until the child becomes 2 years According to the Law Concerning Stabilization of Employment Program and 6 months old,” which is 1 year more than the legal requirement. of Older Person, DIC has not only established the system that There are flexible work systems available, such as the short working hour Childcare While system for childcare that allows employees to shorten the working hours enables us to re-employ those up to 65 years old but also up to 3 hours until the child finishes the third grade as well as the system Working Program been making efforts to secure re-employment opportunities by that allows employees to choose staggered work shifts for childcare. also utilizing work sharing. With this system, re-employment Rules concerning returning to one’s The rule specifies that the person will return to her employees have been utilizing their previous experiences and previous (or equivalent) position original (or equivalent) position after leave. exercising great skills and expertise that they have cultivated. The system allows an employee on childcare leave Establishment of the without pay to borrow part of her bonus. Economic Support There is an internal loan system to resolve financial Initiatives to Achieve Work-Life Balance System concerns in case of large expenses for infertility treatment or childcare facility, etc. DIC’s “Work and Childcare Balance Support Program” Information sharing The website in which DIC’s concept on work and stipulates a number of systems that more than satisfy legal childcare balance support and the summary and to promote program usage of various systems are clearly explained can be requirements. We continue to make various improvements in the participation found on our intranet. operation so that they can be easily utilized according to each employee’s situation. In addition, we have been operating the Acquisition of the “Kurumin” Mark system, in which an employee can select the course depending on relocation in the human resources system for general DIC is acknowledged as ”FY 2008 employees, since 2002. We have newly established the “relocation A c c r e dite d Employer s” by t he Ministr y of Health, Labour and limiting system for management positions” in 2012 for people Welfare, as a company that actively drives the Measures to Support the in management positions, for whom relocation is difficult due to Development of the Next Generation. childbirth, childcare, and nursing care, etc., so that they can also achieve work and life balance. VOICE Employee’s voice Creation of employment opportunities for persons with handicaps promoted in the DIC Central Research Laboratory There are a number of people with various job types in addition to research and development working in the DIC Central Research Laboratory with the aim of achieving stable operation. We commission the management of the massive garden and cleaning of the inside and outside of the building to an external company. Since the average age of workers has been growing, we have started an initiative of employing persons with handicaps in cooperation with the local HelloWork, special needs schools, centers for employment of persons with disabilities, and external contractors as a new measure to secure human resources. We continue supparting their employment by sincerely responding to each and every person in order to help them work in DIC in a stable manner even after their employment. Thanks to their efforts, the beautification of the laboratory has been further DIC Central Research improved, receiving many words of appreciation by many customers who visit the premises. We have also been certified with and awarded a “friendly Laboratory General Affairs GL office” by Chiba prefecture as a company that promotes employment of persons with disabilities in recognition of these efforts. Yasuo Kido 32 Report on Our CSR Themes <Human Resources Management> Training system Establishing Comprehensive Mental Health Measures DIC training is based on practical curricula with the aim of Mental Health Measures “enhancing field capabilities,” which are required in promoting The DIC Group has appointed a specialist as the industrial businesses, and business strategy-based “acceleration of changes.” doctor in charge of mental health in 2012 with the aim of enhancing With training by department, we promote the re-establishment the mental healthcare promotion system. Furthermore, we have of the training system required for each department/job type. We been conducting line care training and self-management training in systematically established human resources development programs order to prevent mental illness through stress control improvement. in the Production Department and Technology Department in 2012 680 employees participated in the line care training and 376 and have been conducting training. employees participated in the self-management training in 2012. The “Global Challenge Program,” which is global human resource development training, targets younger employees and includes not Employment/development of Human Resources only languages but also various curricula, such as cultivation of global minds, understanding of different cultures, and mental toughness, etc. Performance-Based Employee Qualification System and Fair Treatment We have not only increased the number of overseas trainees from Japan In order to enable all employees to exercise their full potential to overseas group but also introduced the Reverse Trainee System, in in jobs suited to their abilities and to fairly reflect this on their which overseas group company staff come to Japan, in order to develop treatment, DIC has completely unified the qualification system practical global human resources through human resource exchanges. regardless of the job type or education. For promotion selection Overall image of the HR evaluation system for employee qualification, fair selection opportunities are Feedback given to all employees with motivation and skills by conducting Semiannual evaluation Annual evaluation Superior Results Bonus selection tests based on objective standards. We also consider evaluation Setting of individual targets it important for skills and performance exercised by each person Execution of duties Setting Interview of division Salary to be appropriately evaluated and reflected in a timely manner for Process targets evaluation Promotion their job satisfaction. The HR evaluation system has introduced a system based on “management by objective (MBO).” When Individual Carrier Skills development we give the feedback of evaluation result for the employee, we development sheet Appropriate appointment disclose all the contents including reason of evaluation to them, → parts are implemented on the intranet so that we reflect the transparent and legitimate evaluation for Target setting, evaluation, feedback, and preparation of the career their treatment. development sheet are implemented on the intranet. VOICE Employee’s voice I really feel the joy of working After graduating from college, I started job hunting with the focus on companies that would enable me to work in a global environment, hoping to utilize my language skills and experience of studying abroad. I was attracted by DIC’s sophisticated technologies, the number of overseas group companies, and the great scale of their worldwide share in a specific area and decided to join the company. After the employment, I was assigned to the Finance Department and have been mainly in charge of confirming the balance of foreign currency deposits, money transfer procedures to overseas, and calculation/analysis of financial reports submitted by group companies in the China region. With my work, I need not only acquire accounting knowledge but also understand financial knowledge, such as foreign currency exchange and risk hedging, etc. I was having trouble just studying the special terminology at first. However, now that I have gained a certain level of knowledge, work is exciting and fulfilling every day. I will make efforts to become part of the company’s force as Finance Department soon as possible by conducting my work as well as having awareness and responsibility as a member of society. Xin Zhoo Report on Our CSR Themes <Human Resources Management> 33 Supply Chain Management Globally Expanding CSR Procurement WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/partner.html Basic Concept of Supply Chain Management included responses to the biodiversity conservation and conflict by the DIC Group minerals, etc. to enhance the contents. We have also changed the answer sheet of self-evaluation questionnaire from the existing 3 The DIC Group has stipulated the “ DIC Group CSR levels to 5 levels to enable suppliers to reply to questions more Procurement Guidelines” in order to fulfill its social responsibility easily. in the overall supply chain and considers that its deployment CSR Procurement Promoted by the Overall is promoted throughout the supply chain with each supplier Supply Chain understanding these guidelines. We will revise part of the said guidelines and conduct In 2012, we also started proactively promoting efforts overseas questionnaire studies for guideline achievement status by visit to in order to widely promote “the DIC Group CSR Procurement deepen the mutual understanding. Guidelines” among suppliers. We visited suppliers in China, and investigated their status t based on the self-check sheet we Promotion of CSR Procurement conducted with them We also held CSR procurement seminars with DIC subsidiaries in Southeast Asia. We also started Based on the “DIC Group Supply-chain CSR Deployment distributing the said guidebooks to suppliers there through each Guidebook” and the “DIC Group CSR Deployment Self-check subsidiaryThis year, the actions is more advanced to investigate Sheet” for self-evaluation, we have investigated the CSR the status and providing feedback to the suppliers in overseas. procurement promotion status in over 400 suppliers and provided Through these efforts, we will globally establish the DIC feedback since 2010. We visit some of the suppliers, deepen the CSR Procurement Guidelines through the supply chain of DIC mutual understanding while confirming the CSR activity status, overseas subsidiaries and propose or further development. Through this successive – overseas suppliers actions, we also gained valuable information on the direction of and continue striving to CSR promotion. improve the CSR level This year, We have thoroughly revised the said guidebook and with suppliers. CSR procurement seminar in Bangkok COMMENT Stakeholder’s remark We work on CSR along with the community We are a UV monomer manufacturing/selling company, which is a joint company with DIC and with a 60% investment by TOAGOSEI CO., LTD. We also supply ink resin raw materials to the DIC Group. Since the CSR introduction in 2011, we had faced troubles following it to the Chinese regulations etc (including compliance with Chinese laws, converting energy into CO2 according to the Chinese system, and so on.). However, the internal CSR awareness has improved now. We have also been implementing social contribution activities, such as visiting to welfare schools and cleaning of public facilities, etc. and enhancing the ties with the local community. TOA-DIC Zhangjiagang Thanks to DIC explaining the CSR global procurement policy for the DIC Group in 2012, we re-acknowledged the width of DIC’s scope that conducts Chemical Co., Ltd. Director, General Manager business worldwide. We will continue to comply with the explained guideline policy and work on maintaining quality and stable supply in the future. Mr. Ichiro Igarashi 34 Report on Our CSR Themes <Supply Chain Management> Business Models to Theme to Display Originality Establishing a Solutions Business Improve Societal Issues WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/customer/satisfaction.html Capturing Changes in Social Needs being created, such as sophistication of batteries and weight reduction of automobile bodies, etc. in response to the trend It is the cornerstone of DIC business that we propose of electric vehicles, etc. Start researching the technical issues individual solutions by combining multiple products and is our keynote. Based on the research, we promote technical technologies when customers face problems. We also consider development in order to propose specific solutions, such as that it is important to group individual customers’ problems and materials to increase the battery capacity, technology to enhance capture the changes in social needs in the background. We the CFRP strength, and hard coating material for plastic, etc. respond to changes in social needs based on the current market. Development of nano-pattern materials and printed electronics On the other hand, we also focus on activities through which we materials in the information/communication area are based on extract social issues based on mega-trends being developed on a social needs for reduced size, thin, and/or flexible electronic global level in order to anticipate future social needs. devices due to the sophistication of information network society. We will also proactively promote business proposals that are Promotion of Social Needs-oriented Business unique to DIC in the package & graphics area and life & living Activities area in the same manner. We are facing a number of evolving issues on a global level, In Order to Expand Solution Proposal such as global warming, fossil fuel resources running dry, and Possibilities exploding population, etc. Accordingly, responding to these issues, CO 2 reduction, development of clean energy, and The nature of such social needs changes with time. There is enhancement of environmental conservation regulations, etc. are a limit for DIC alone to follow and supplement these changes. raised nowadays. A number of measures from all perspectives Therefore, we also proactively promote technology exchanges in order to solve these issues are requested. As a chemical with companies that exist closely to one another in the value chain manufacturer, what kind of contributions we can make to help with us to promote our technologies. The scope and possibilities solving these issues? We focus on marketing activities to of solutions that the DIC Group can propose to society will further answer this simple question. For example, there are new needs expand through cooperation with promising companies. VOICE Employee’s voice Capturing social issues and requests of customers in an accurate and speedy manner DIC has utilized a wide variety of technologies in various products to respond to social needs. In 2012, we shifted into a matrix-like organization, in order to making further efforts in the optimization of both market and product perspective. By accurately capturing the changes and new trends in the global market and always be sensitive to solve the emerging social issues with the potential of chemicals, we will raise our marketing capabilities further. We will continuously promoting activities based on market and consumer-oriented needs in speedier manner, by supplying the best suited solutions, with our comrades who are active throughout the world, with the aim of achieving Life & Living Marketing Department “color” and “comfort” in our lives , Senior Manager Kazuya Ideta Report on Our CSR Themes <Business Models to Improve Societal Issues> 35 New Technology Development Proposing Solutions Utilizing Basic Technologies and Value Creation WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/technology_development.html New Technology Development and Value Creation The DIC Group proactively promoted the development of next generation products/new technologies that lead to sustainable growth and promotes the development of high-value added products by utilizing basic technologies, such as organic molecular design, polymer design, and dispersion, etc., and various component technologies, such as synthesis, composition, and surface treatment, etc. We focus on various domains, such as displays, electronics, digital printing, and packaging, etc., by integrating technical resources of the entire group with the aim of developing original new products/new technologies with competitive advantage. DIC Group’s core technologies/basic technologies and “target markets” Digital Target markets printing Packaging Core products Optronics materials Packaging materials Basic Coatings Electronics Organic synthesis technologies Polymer synthesis Crystallization Organic molecular Polymer Resin curing design design Coloring Liquid/liquid dispersion High-performance Core technologies Liquid inks composites Adhesion Optics and Dispersion Solid/liquid dispersion color Applicability Surface treatment assessment Compounding formulation Coating/printing /molding Displays Film formation Rheology Infrastructure Molding building Adhesive materials Surface protection materials Sensory materials Living Energy environments Specific efforts The DIC Group is making efforts in developing water-based and solventless materials as well as various environmentally-conscious products which can be utilized to create products with consideration for the environment in various fields, such as printing, electronic/electric products, and automobiles, etc. that use our products. Various inks and adhesives been focusing on deploying adhesives for food packaging in India With gravure inks, we promoted the development of and Russia, etc. with hybrid and solventless environmentallyenvironmentally-conscious reverse printing lamination ink without conscious products. We have also developed low migration resin toluene and MEK by considering not only the performance and that corresponds with European laws and regulations and have cost but also reduction of raw material supply risks. We have been promoting its deployment in the European region. 36 Report on Our CSR Themes <New Technology Development and Value Creation> In Sun Chemical (U.S.) they are shifting to non-cobalt dryer for and less waste, etc. Furthermore, we will continue to conduct sheet-feed printing inks, focusing on the improvement of printing environmental assessments and observe the trends for legal performance. requirements and environmental measures throughout the world in order to continue designing products that comply with chemical Electronic/electric and automobile electric components substance regulations in each country. The business volume of environmentally-conscious products With organic pigments, we have not only been focusing on further as a percent of all products in 2012 was 57%. performance improvement of green pigments, for which we have been highly acclaimed in the use of color filters for LC panels, but Consideration for Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) also developed a new blue pigment product. With fluorine chemical products used as additives for optical materials, we have focused on In recent years, we have been required to quantitatively the development of products without PFOA, which is concerned to have comprehend the consumption volume of exhaustible resources impact on people and the environment, and completed a product lineup. and exhaust volume of substances that impact the environment in With industrial adhesive tape, the glass protection film for smartphones product and service life cycles. DIC has also been considering LCA and the water-resistant tape were utilized in many models, expanding initiatives to comprehend the environmental aspect of our products. the results. With polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) compounds, we have As part of the first step, we conducted the LCA investigation in developed a high-fluidity and high-toughness type and insulated type with 2012 by focusing on polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) resin, which is a high thermal conductivity for electric components in hybrid vehicles, etc. material for electric components for automobiles. We calculated the fossil fuel resource consumption volume and the greenhouse Promotion of Environmentally-conscious Products effect gas volume in each process from harvesting of raw materials, manufacturing of PPS resin, processing of the resin into We will strive to develop new products and technologies that components, and installation on automobiles to disposal/recycling. contribute to society and increase the ratios of environmentallyWe will consider the response while paying close attention to social conscious products with a great awareness for environmental movements, such as GHG Protocol Scope 3, etc., in the future. consideration. We will reduce the usage of toxic substances, promote the usage of products with less toxicity, and promote the *1 GHG Protocol: Standard for the calculation and reporting of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions development of recyclable products and production processes *2 Scope 3: GHG emissions indirectly made by a company throughout its supply chain in manufacturing, transportation, business trips, and commuting, etc. with considerations for energy conservation with enhanced safety VOICE Employee’s voice Upon developing a blue pigment for color filters Color filters are necessary components to display colors in LC displays and use pigments as color materials. We have developed and commercialized a blue pigment for color filters that simultaneously achieves brightness and contrast at a high level by utilizing DIC’s unique pigment processing technology. Brightening helps reduce electricity consumption of LC displays, and high contrast helps improve the image quality of LC displays. The pigment has been well-received by customers. We will continue integrating the potentials of the DIC Group and strive to develop “only Fine Synthesis Technical Division Color Materials R&D Group one” pigment for color filters. Ikuro Kiyoto Report on Our CSR Themes <New Technology Development and Value Creation> 37 Harmony with the Community For Colorful and Comfortable Lifestyles and Contribution to Society WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/society/ Concept of Social Contribution by the DIC Group Based on the Guidelines for Social Contribution Actiivities, which was stipulated in 2009. The DIC Group promotes activities with the focus on establishing a healthy relationship with the society Guidelines for Social Contribution Activities The DIC Group, based on its Management Vision: Color & Comfort by Chemistry will engage in social contribution activities in the three areas of business activities, culture and education, and communities and society WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/society/guideline.html Highlights of Social Contribution Activities Color Universal Design in interiors and innovations in colors in the interior and signs, etc. that enable signs in a sports club the Renaissance facility users to enjoy sports with a sense of Based on the management vision: “Color & Comfort by security. Considerations for colors are given in a number of Chemistry,” the DIC Group takes initiatives in Color Universal places, including steps in stairs and rails using colors that are Design (UD). DIC Color Design Inc. provided color supervision upon the redesigning of the “Sports Club Renaissance, Makuhari,” which is the original branch of RENAISSANCE INC. that runs sports clubs throughout Japan. DIC Color Design Inc. utilized the color investigation that was conducted in existing branches prior to the redesigning from the perspective of UD. You can see Exterior of Renaissance, Makuhari Passage within the facility COMMENT Stakeholder’s remark Facility development with the aim of achieving security and safety of users The Makuhari branch is the first branch of Renaissance and is a facility that we have special feeling toward this branch. Upon the redesigning, we strived for a facility that can be a model case in all perspectives, such as contributions to society and environmental considerations, etc., in addition to enhancing equipment and items. Especially, the Makuhari branch is rooted in the community, and many elderly people also utilize our facility. Through this effort, we have learned that there were actually people who would have difficulties with the colors that we would otherwise have not paid attention to. In addition, we have truly learned the importance of not only producing a unified image in color design but also using color schemes that correctly communicate necessary information by considering the functionality of the RENAISSANCE INC. Facility Development Department facility and safety of users. We hope to widely spread this experience in the company and utilize it in the future facility development. Ms. Itsuwa Hosaka 38 Report on Our CSR Themes <Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society> Science teaching in elementary schools easy to recognize, signs for toilets using colors that are easy to classes are closely connected to life.” These lessons with the title of differentiate, and signs using color schemes that stand out, etc. “Making Life Colorful through Science” utilize the characteristics of DIC’s businesses by including experiments involving planography and simple Career Education Activities pigment synthesis. This year, we held lab lessons targeting approximately In recent years, the educational field is strongly required to 400 sixth grade students from 5 schools, including Matsudo municipal participate in corporate career education activities. DIC focuses on Kurigasawa Elementary School, Samukazedai Elementary School, and career education in a wide scope, including accepting interns from Matsuhidaidaini Elementary School, as well as Hasune Elementary colleges of technology in plants throughout Japan, accepting workplace School and Hasunedaini Elementary School in Itabashi Ward. We will experience, practical training, and tours from nearby schools in the continue holding these lab Chiba Plant, Hokuriku Plant, Kashima Plant, Komaki Plant, and Saitama lessons by positioning them Plant, etc. providing lab lessons in municipal elementary schools in the as part of important activities Itabashi Ward and Matsudo by Tokyo plant and headquarters, providing for “ Har mony with the educational support classes to Chiba Prefectural Sakura High School Community and Contribution and Sakurahigashi High School close to the DIC Central Research to Society,” which is one of Laboratory, and visits by Chairman Sugie throughout Japan to give the CSR themes. Lab lesson classes as part of Japan Association of Corporate Executives activities, Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art etc. Children learn the significance of working and the fact that their studies lead to social lives by learning various ways of living and a DIC operates Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art in sense of values by communicating with many different adults. DIC will Sakura, Chiba as part of the CSR activities. continue to provide career education opportunities to children who will This museum, which opened in 1990, celebrated its 23rd lead the future. anniversary in 2013. The museum displays/stores artworks from a wide variety of genres, including impressionist art, such as Lab Lesson Activities Rembrandt, Monet, and Renoir, etc., Western modern art, such as In response to children moving away from science, which has Picasso and Chagall, etc., American art from the late 20th Century, become a social issue, DIC provides lab lessons to public elementary and Japanese folding screen paintings, etc. The museum also schools with the aim of enabling them to experience that “science hosts special exhibitions based on its collections. COMMENT Stakeholder’s remark Promoting career education that arouses intellectual curiosity and inquisitive minds The DIC Central Research Laboratory has raised educational support in the CSR policy and has also been supporting “Sakura Academia,” which is a cultural class that started in 2011 in our school. In this class, students visit laboratories to hear lectures by leading researchers with the aim of not only arousing students’ intellectual curiosity and inquisitive minds but also encouraging them to strive to realize themselves and have career awareness. In 2013, our school was specified as a super science school (SSH) by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology with the aim of developing human resources in the scientific technology field. Upon this, DIC dispatched an operational mentor as a representative of a local company. We are always deeply Chiba Prefectural Sakura High School Vice-Principal appreciative of DIC’s stance to proactively contribute to the local educational industry through the scientific technology field. Mr. Kazuomi Koshiba Report on Our CSR Themes <Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society> 39 Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art In addition, its garden, which is almost 25 acres where visitors can years old (at the time of measurement start) and measured the effect enjoy seasonal plants and flowers, is open to public free of charge. until February, 2013. As a result of the analysis, we were able to We strive to not only conserve woodlands but also enlighten visitors confirm that Spirulina is effective in the growth of height of children with the importance of conservation by establishing a satellite for the who took Spirulina. This shows that Spirulina is effective in the Chiba Biodiversity Center, chronic nutrition deficiency due to lack of micronutrient. etc. We provide the field in On the other hand, we also confirmed the decrease in the malaria the garden as the venue onset rate among children who took Spirulina. In addition, we also and provide support for received reports on the effect on children’s skin and hair, resistance local events (Sakura Auto against common cold, and increased energy, etc. through interviews History Forum in May and with their mothers. Needs for continuous Spirulina distribution is Niwanowa Arts & Crafts Nature walking path increasing in the area. Fair, Chiba in June, etc.). Support for Reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake Harmony with Society through Spirulina DIC is participating in the IPPO IPPO NIPPON Project, a The DIC Group is the world’s largest provider of the cyanobacteria project launched by the Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association of called “Spirulina,” which includes over 50 types of nutrients, such Corporate Executives) to aid reconstruction in areas devastated as vitamins, minerals, and amino acids. DIC concluded a support by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Over the course of this agreement with the Alliance Forum Foundation with “Spirulina five-year endeavor, the Association will continue to appeal for Project” in 2009 to eradicate hunger and improve nutrition promoted corporate and individual donations, which will be used to provide in Africa/the Republic of Zambia by the foundation. support, including to schools, with the aim of fostering human We started the project to measure the impact of the Spirulina resources and revitalizing local economies. DIC has resolved to supplies in the village of Kanakantapa in the Republic of Zambia, in donate ¥5 million annually to the project beginning in 2012. which most of the population depends on income from agriculture, in DIC will continue to take an active role in efforts aimed at order to promote the understanding of the effectiveness of Spirulina rehabilitating quake-ravaged regions. with the Ministry of Health to support people’s health in June, 2012. We targeted children with the average age of 1.5 years old to 3 Keizai Doyukai:IPPO IPPO NIPPON Project Children in Zambia having lunch 40 Report on Our CSR Themes <Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society> Communication with Promoting Communication and Stakeholders Information Disclosure WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/customer/satisfaction.html Basic Concept ofCommunication Promotion The DIC Group considers communication with stakeholders is really impor t ant and makes ef for ts through var ious opportunities,such as dialogues, exhibitions, website, and event, etc. We strive to gain sufficient understanding of stakeholders’ expectations in order to reflect it to our actual business. In Tokyo Plant tour by Benesse Corporation addition, we will also enhance our awareness on the concept of stakeholder engagement, in a manner that is consistent with ISO 26000. Ties with Customers With the aim of enhancing ties with customers, the DIC Group established a number of communication opportunities in 2012. In October, we displayed our maijor products and just CSR study session with Artron (China) developed products in the package field in the “Tokyo Pack 2012,” and made proposals to many visitors. Ties with Shareholders and Investors Furthermore, in terms of communication through the website, we provided solutions to over 3,500 inquiries within and outside of The DIC Group strives to make fair, appropriate and timely disclosure Japan by introducing the optimal DIC products and technologies. of inf or mat i on, c lo s ely communicate with shareholders and investors, and take their remarks and requests into consideration on Promoting Understanding through CSR our business management. November, 2012: Operating results briefings DIC offered study session on DIC’s CSR initiatives upon For institutional request by our customers when they have plant tours. We investors in Japan, we not have strived to further lead to the improvement of customer only held two operating trust through the opportunities to help them understand DIC results briefings per year Group’s activities for the environment and quality assurance with but als o par t ic ipate d compliance and efforts throughout the supply chain. in IR conferences and small meetings and held February, 2013: Tokyo Stock Exchange IR Festa Report on Our CSR Themes <Communication with Stakeholders> 41 plant tours, etc. in order to proactively enhance communication. For Color Seminar at the Takamatsu City Office overseas institutional investors, we held IR meetings,. in Hong Kong In June, 2013, DIC held a Color Universal Design Seminar and Singapore in Asia and New York, Boston, and San Francisco in for employees of Takamatsu City Office in Kagawa Prefecture. North America in order to enhance communication. Takamatsu established the Universal Design (UD) Promotion In addition, for individual investors, we participated in the “Tokyo Office in April, 2012 with their basic principle of “highly respecting, Stock Exchange IR Festa” (event aimed for communication with supporting minds with hospitaility “At the seminar, DIC employees individual investors) as well as company introductory sessions for introduced UD color proposals , regardless of handicaps, to live individual investors. We have also been making efforts in enhancing comfortably, and UD examples now available in Takamatsu in front our information provision initiatives through our website in order to of 130 participants. Later the introduction of the brand “DIC200” that promote understanding for DIC Group’s business activities. have been approved by the Color Universal Design Organization has Remarks from shareholders/investors gained through such been done, and offered communication are provided to the management as necessary. simulation experiences using filters simulating par tial color blindness, attracting par ticipants’ interests. Scene from the simulation experience Communication with Society Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art Welcomes ASEAN Ties with Employees Ambassadors, Embassy Employees and their Families On November, 2012, members of the ASEAN Committee in With the aim of further rejuvenating communication with Tokyo （ACT）, comprising the ambassadors to Japan of the 10 employees, the DIC Group also promoted various efforts in 2012. Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) member states*, We held two operating results briefings for employees within the as well as embassy employees and their families, were invited year in order to promote their understanding of the current status for to participate in ACT FAMILY DAY 2012, which was held on the the DIC Group and management policy. We also held seminars for multipurpose athletic field of the Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum employees on “Spirulina Project,” and establishing communicating of Art, in Sakura, Chiba. opportunities through two seminars by employees of the Kawamura Under bright sunshine, the approximately 350 guests took part in Memorial DIC Museum of Art Furthermore, we also promoted group a variety games and workshops. Other events organized to promote work with the theme of social issues in new employee training as international interaction included a lunch featuring dishes from part of CSR enlightenment efforts and established opportunities for each country, which were laid out on tables in tents set up for each employees to learn the ties between business activities and social embassy group. issues. The Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art’s curator gave Concerning Conflict Minerals three guided tours, enabling approximately 100 of the attending ambassadors, their spouses and embassy employees to fully enjoy DIC Group is working on Conflict Minerals issue seriously, and the facility’s extensive shows the following “Basic Policy concerning Conflict Minerals” as exhibits. follows. DIC Group will be engaged in this issue jointly with the * The 10 member states of ASEAN suppliers, through our supply chain. are, in alphabetical order, are ; Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Basic Policy concerning Conflict Minerals Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. The association’s The DIC Group refrains from using gold, tantalum, tungsten and tin that are classified as headquar ters are in Jakar ta, conflict minerals, that is, minerals mined in conditions of armed conflict and abuse in Indonesia. the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DPR) and its neighboring countries. Moreover, should any raw materials purchased from third-party suppliers be found to contain The curator gives a guided tour of the museum conflict minerals, the DIC Group will immediately terminate procurement thereof. 42 Report on Our CSR Themes <Communication with Stakeholders> with DIC CSR Report 2013 ISO26000 Comparison Table Core subjects No. Subjects Reference page Related efforts 6.2 Organizational Governance Table 2 The DIC Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Program Table 2 CSR themes (2012) P04-05 Top message P06-07 Medium-term management plan, P14-15 The DIC Group’s CSR Activities Organizational P16-17 RC Targets and Achievements of Major RC Activities Governance P18 Corporate Governance P19 Towards Fair and Transparent Corporate Activities P20 Seeking to Reduce Disaster Risks P35 Establishing a Solutions Business P41-42 Promoting Communication and Information Disclosure 6.3.3 1. Due diligence P31 Respect for Human Rights P34 Globally Expanding CSR Procurement 6.3.4 2. Human rights risk situations P42 Conflict minerals 6.3.5 3. Avoidance of complicity Table 2 To continue being a “proud corporate citizen which is trusted globally” P18 Supporting the UN Global Compact as a global chemicals manufacturer P34 Globally Expanding CSR Procurement Human Rights P42 Conflict minerals 6.3.6 4. Resolving grievances ― ― 6.3.7 5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups P31 Diversity 6.3.8 6. Civil and political rights ― ― 6.3.9 7. Economic, social and cultural rights P40 Harmony with Society through Spirulina 6.3.10 8. Fundamental principles and Table 2 To continue being a “proud corporate citizen which is trusted globally” rights at work P18 Supporting the UN Global Compact as a global chemicals manufacturer 9.4.3 1. Employment and employment relationship P31-33 Striving to Improve Job Satisfaction 6.4.4 2. Conditions of work and social protection P32 Initiatives to Achieve Work-Life Balance 6.4.5 3. Social dialogue P31 Pursuing Deeper Trust between Labor and Management 6.4.6 4. Health and safety at work P10 Special Topics: Yaita Labour P22-24 Basic Approaches to and Initiatives in Environment, Safety, and Quality Practices Occupational Safety and Health Initiatives Held a meeting for personnel in charge of safety in production plants in the DIC China region P28 Responsible care initiatives in each DIC plant 6.4.7 5. Human development and training in the workplace P33 Employment/development of Human Resources 6.5.3 1. Prevention of pollution P09 Special Topics: Ink/adhesive for food packaging P11 Special Topics: Epoxy resin/curing agent for electronic substrate P25-27 DIC Group Performance Reducing Emissions of Chemicals into the Environment Reducing Environmental Impact on the Air, Water and Soil The Reduction of Industrial Waste Environment P28 Responsible care initiatives in each DIC plant P29 Initiatives with chemicals 6.5.4 2. Sustainable resource use P36-37 Proposing Solutions Utilizing Elemental Technologies 6.5.5 3. Climate change mitigation and adaptation P25 Initiatives Related to the Climate Change Problem 6.5.6 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats P39-40 Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art 6.6.3 1. Anti-corruption P19 Program to Promote Compliance System to maintain compliance Fair Operating 6.6.4 2. Responsible political involvement ― ― Practices 6.6.5 3. Fair competition P19 Main contents of the DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct 6.6.6 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain P34 Globally Expanding CSR Procurement 6.6.7 5. Respect for property rights P19 Main contents of the DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct 6.7.3 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased P29-30 Initiatives with chemicals information and fair contractual practices P09 Special Topics: Ink/adhesive for food packaging 6.7.4 2. Protecting consumers' health and safety P22-24 Basic Approaches to and Initiatives in Environment, Safety, and Quality Occupational Safety and Health Initiatives Held a meeting for personnel in charge of safety in production plants in the DIC China region P38 Color Universal Design in interiors and signs in a sports club Consumer 6.7.5 3. Sustainable consumption P36-37 Proposing Solutions Utilizing Elemental Technologies Issues 6.7.6 4. Consumer service, support, and P29 System for Provision of Information for Products complaint and dispute resolution P30 “WERCS” Operation Quality Management Initiatives 6.7.7 5. Consumer data protection and privacy P21 Initiatives to Ensure Information Security 6.7.8 6. Access to essential services ― ― 6.7.9 7. Education an awareness ― 6.8.3 1. Community involvement P38 Basic Concept of Social Contribution P40 Harmony with Society through Spirulina 6.8.4 2. Education and culture P39 Career Education Activities Community Lab Lesson Activities Involvement Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art and 6.8.5 3. Employment creation and skills ― Development 6.8.6 4. Technology development and access P42 Color Seminar at the Takamatsu City Office 6.8.7 5. Wealth and income creation ― 6.8.8 6. Health P40 Harmony with Society through Spirulina 6.8.9 7. Social investment P40 Support for the Great East Japan Earthquake ISO26000 Comparison Table 43 Third-Party Opinion for CSR Report 2013 The Japan Research Institute, Ltd. Counselor, Head of ESG Research Center Eiichiro Adachi Conducts industrial surveys and corporate evaluations in connection with corporate social responsibility focused on measures to address environmental issues. Provides financial institutions with corporate information to be used for socially responsible investment (SRI) and environment-focused financing. Involved in the publishing of The 15th Corporate White Paper-Market Evolution and CSR Management as a member of the Market Evolution and Corporations in the 21st Century working group organized for the KEIZAI DOYUKAI (Japan Association of Corporate Executives). He was Japan expert for the ISO 26000 working group from March, 2005 until May, 2009. Author of such books as An Introductory Guide to Environmental Management and Environmental Problems Illustrated for Businesses. I think that the changes of the DIC Group in the last several the examples in the future. I was interested in the mention of their years can be summarized into 3 points: proprietary Chemical Substance Information Comprehensive (1) Overseas ratio in business is further increasing Management System (CIRIUS). Furthermore, I also focused on (2) Aggressively increase the business categorized in fine the initiative in which they are starting to establish a system to chemicals and application materials attach SDS to respond to GHS. I hope that DIC will disclose the (3) Profit-oriented awareness has been established within progress of chemical substance replacement in products from the the group perspective of hazard assessment. (1) The Top Message states that the awareness is “still at the (3) I felt that it would be nice for DIC to discuss their selfinitial stage of CSR promotion in the global perspective, including awareness on what kind of steps CSR promotion follows to lead overseas subsidiaries.” In addition to “Basic Policy for Internal to the improvement of corporate values. Although I was able to Controls” and “Code of Business Conduct” (to be revised in comprehend the steps in which they will respond to customer 2013 in order to make it easier for multinational employees to demands of energy conservation, resource conservation, and cost understand), I hope that they also would significantly expand the saving with environmentally-conscious products and services, I information disclosure of overseas examples in the CSR report on think chronological target setting and information disclosure would the “policies/systems,” “initiatives,” and “results/achievements.” be desired for the business volume of environmentally-conscious (2) It is expected that the domain of the issue to alleviate products as a percent of all products. In terms of the working environmental impact as well as the domains that contribute to women promotion activities, they have set the difference between social issue solutions will also change. One example would be the average lengths of service for male and female employees as that with LC and PPS, I expect that considerations upon product the KPI. I think that their achievement in recent years is notable, disposal will be necessary due to the environmental impact, while however, I also hoped that DIC would further expand this issue and conventional type of printing ink places a weight on its printing analyze what kind of effects this achievement is creating. process. Finally, seeing article that “they offer study session on DIC’s I liked the style in which they raised “social issues” in the special CSR initiatives upon customers’ plant tours,” I felt as if I have topics, stated “what kind of issues there are” in a straightforward witnessed how DIC is promoting CSR with confidence. I look manner, and introduced “DIC’s initiatives.” However, only 3 forward to DIC’s developing initiatives and information disclosure examples are introduced here. I would like to ask DIC to expand again next year. I have provided this third-party opinion for the ways of CSR activities and information disclosure by the DIC Group which I have understood through this report from the perspective as one who provides corporate information to financial institutions for the sake of socially responsible investment. This opinion is not intended to provide judgment concerning whether or not this report has been accurately measured and calculated in accordance with the preparation criteria for environmental reports, etc. that are generally regarded appropriate or whether or not this report covers important items without omission. 44 Third-Party Opinion Introduction of Communication Tools that connect DIC and stakeholders The DIC Group strives to transmit information through various communication tools in order to promote communication with stakeholders and encourage them to deepen their understanding toward our corporate activities. We also introduce more detailed information and data on CSR information on the website. Booklets/PDF Report on each activity Comprehensive information transmission CSR activity report Financial information report Company information transmission DIC Annual Report 2013 Year ended March 31, 2013 DIC 会社概要 DIC 株式会社 DIC Corporate Profile 会社概要 DIC Corporation Corporate Profile CSR report Annual report Company information Issued once a year Issued once a year Website Comprehensive information transmission Company information transmission DIC global website updated as necessary WEB http://www.dic-global.com/ 45
