Annual Report 2013 Contents 1 How we meet our customers 2 Offer 4 President & CEO statement 10 How we create business advantage 12 Market and driving forces 15 Strategy and targets 24 Brands 26 New organization 28 Business operations 29 Mail 34 Logistics 39 Strålfors 41 Acquisitions Sustainability 43 Governance model 44 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis 48 Values 49 Owners 50 Society 52 Capital market 53 Customers 55 External partners 56 Employees 59 Environment 62 Suppliers 63 Sustainability in numbers 66 Accounting principles 69 Attestation Report Corporate governance 71 Governance of PostNord 75 Annual General Meeting 76 Board of Directors 80 Group Executive Team 83 Internal governance 85 Universal service obligations Financial development and risks 88 Financial development 94 The share and corporate bonds 95 Risks and risk management Financial reports 100 Consolidated financial statements 104 Notes to consolidated financial statements 133 Parent Company financial statements 135 Notes to Parent Company financial statements 138 The Board of Directors’ and CEO’s certification 139 Auditor’s report 140 Multi-year review Contact information The Board of Directors and the CEO hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for PostNord AB (publ) for financial year 2013. The company’s corporate identity number is 556771-2640. The group’s consolidated financial review comprises all information through page 4, pages 8–41, the section on environmentally licensed operations on page 60, and pages 70–98, 138 and 140. Financial data prior to July 2009 is pro forma. Every care has been taken in the translation of this annual report. In the event of discrepancies, however, the Swedish original will supersede the English translation. This is PostNord PostNord offers communication and logistics In 2013 PostNord delivered 5.9 billion solutions to, from and within the Nordic region. We are the regional industry leader and meet our customers under the Posten, Post Danmark, PostNord Logistics and letters and other mail items ­Strålfors brands. PostNord AB was formed in 2009 through the merger of Post Danmark A/S and Posten AB. The parent company, PostNord AB, is a 110 million parcels ­Swedish public company headquartered in Solna, Sweden. PostNord is owned 40% by the Danish State and 60% by the Swedish State. Votes are allocated 50/50 between the owners. 2.5 billion kilos of goods Operations are run in three areas: Mail (business areas Mail Denmark and Mail Sweden), to the Nordic region’s 25 million residents Logistics and Strålfors. and 2 million businesses. In 2013 PostNord had 39,000 employees and net sales of approximately SEK 40 billion. www.postnord.com Business area Brands Services Core customers Markets MAIL DENMARK Postal services Businesses Denmark MAIL Communication Individual Sweden services customers MAIL SWEDEN Businesses Logistics LOGISTICS Individual Nordic region solutions customers Communication Nordic region services for Poland STRÅLFORS businesses with Businesses Great Britain large customer bases France PostNord in numbers Net sales 2013, Net sales Operating margin by business area1) SEKm % 50,000 4 40,000 3 30,000 2 20,000 1 10,000 Mail Denmark, 23% 0 0 Mail Sweden, 38% 09* 10 11 12 13 09* 10 11 12 13 Logistics, 33% Net sales Operating margin (EBIT) *pro forma * pro forma Strålfors, 6% 1) Share of external net sales. Average number of Net sales 2013, private Revenue 2013, by country employees 2013, by country and corporate customers Sweden, 59% Sweden, 60% Corporate customers, 94% Denmark, 24% Denmark, 33% Private customers, 6% Norway, 11% Norway, 4% Finland, 2% Finland, 1% Other countries, 4% Other countries, 2% Total letter and parcel volumes CO2 emissions3) Million letters Million parcels kton 4,000 120 500 400 3,000 90 300 2,000 60 200 1,000 30 100 0 0 0 09* 10 11 122) 13 09 10 11 12 13 Letters Parcels Carbon dioxide emissions * pro forma 2) Previously reported values have been adjusted. 3) Emissions data includes completed acquisitions. Previously reported values have been adjusted. How we meet our customers BRANDS AND SERVICES Services for business and Services for business and Logistics solutions for Communication solutions for marketing communication, marketing communication, deliveries to, from and businesses with large customer newspaper distribution, newspaper distribution, within the Nordic region. bases that create stronger, goods distribution and home parcel and goods distribuFocus on the distribution of more personal relationships. deliveries. Postal service for tion and home deliveries. parcels, palletized goods and individual customers. Postal service for individual outsourcing of logistics flows customers. (third-party logistics). MARKET PRESENCE Corporate customers Individual customers Sweden Denmark Norway Finland Other countries For more information on PostNord’s new brand structure, see pages 24–25. PostNord Annual Report 2013 1 We keep the Nordic economy moving PostNord is the Nordic region’s leading communication and logistics company. The group is young, but the business is run based on nearly 400 years of operational experience in the region. PostNord literally keeps the Nordic economy moving. Every day we enable millions of businesses, government authorities and private individuals to do business, shop and communicate with each other. Offer Unique capacity to meet customer needs Rapid changes People want to be able to send and receive their mail Demand for PostNord’s services is based on the funsafely and securely. They want their goods and proddamental needs of society and the business sector ucts to be delivered to their home, or as close to their for transport and communication. But, due to the curhome as possible. They want their newspapers to be rent and extremely rapid change in customer needs, delivered to their mailboxes every morning, and they the contents of mailbags and postal trucks are changwant to choose how companies and government ing. Increasing e-commerce is driving demand for authorities communicate with them. goods distribution and logistics services. New ways of To be able to compete, companies are dependent communicating have reduced demand for letters as on efficient logistics. Stock-keeping, logistics managea mode of communication. ment and supply of goods are increasingly being out5,300 sourced. Many companies are also looking for ways to improve the efficiency of their communication with customers. PostNord is well-established in the region and distribution points in the Nordic region delivers mail, newspapers, products and goods every day – even to the most remote areas. In recent years PostNord has made extensive The group’s capacity is based on a robust strucchanges to the business to meet customer demands, ture of thousands of mail carriers and drivers as well develop competitiveness and reduce environmental as logistics and mail terminals throughout the region impact. This includes significant investments to – over 5,300 distribution points and the largest improve production capacity, making it more adapt­vehicle fleet in the Nordic region. able and better equipped to meet customer needs. The sweeping changes have been implemented “Partner to without any contribution from the owners and while maintaining a high quality service level. ­businesses An explicit commitment in multiple PostNord is preparing for the future. Continued investments are being made in the business. The industries” group is becoming increasingly efficient. We have made an explicit promise for the future to the Nordic business sector and society. You will be PostNord also has industry-leading experience and able to reach your recipients on time, securely and solutions for ways in which companies can optimize cost-effectively. PostNord is your reliable, accessible their logistics or communicate more effectively with and sustainable business partner for communication their customers. and logistics. This gives us a unique capacity to meet customers’ service requirements in the region. PostNord Annual Report 2013 3 President & CEO­ ­statement Improved earnings and clearer direction going forward PostNord reported improved year-on-year results for 2013. This development follows extensive changes to the business to capitalize on growth opportunities within logistics and to develop in line with demand for communication services. PostNord’s net sales increased 2 percent in 2013, due tions, including the acquisition of a mixed cargo, conchiefly to acquisitions and organic growth within the signment goods and thermal transport business in logistics business following the continued strong northern Sweden. We also expanded our capacity e-commerce trend. Group operating profit improved within parcel and pallet handling. A new state-of-theand the operating margin rose to 1.7 percent due to art logistics terminal was put into operation in Sweincreased net sales, continued streamlining efforts den during the year. and lower restructuring costs. Demand for outsourcing services is on the rise, as In view of the development in our markets – with a more companies are choosing to outsource their supdramatic structural transition in the communication ply lines. We won several attractive third-party logismarket and a weak macroeconomic trend in the Nortics contracts in 2013, thanks not least to the acquisidic countries – this is good performance. Neverthetions made by the group in 2012. less, it is not a satisfactory result. Profitability is low or During the year we initiated the migration of our negative in all business areas, and earnings are insuffimultiple logistics brands to the new PostNord Logistics cient. We need to step up the pace of implementing brand. The launch will be done gradually and our goal our streamlining efforts and service development is to develop and establish PostNord Logistics over throughout the entire group. Additional structural time as the Nordic region’s leading logistics brand. changes need to be made to enable PostNord to meet the challenging market trend and create greater Continued strong e-commerce growth financial value. E-commerce continued its strong growth, with ­double-digit growth in the Nordic region. One distinct Growing logistics business trend is that large retail companies are increasing The logistics business continues to grow, both organitheir investments in e-commerce. And due to alwayscally and through acquisitions, and accounts for over on Internet access, consumers are increasingly able one-third of the group’s external net sales. In 2013 we to look at products in physical stores before comparcontinued the implementation of our strategy to creing prices and making their purchases online. ate end-to-end solutions and cross-border capacity in Both mail and logistics volumes benefit from this the Nordic region. We made complementary acquisitrend. Our B2C parcel volumes, which are closely Net sales Operating profit SEKm SEKm % 50,000 1,800 6 40,000 1,200 4 30,000 20,000 600 2 10,000 0 0 0 09* 10 11 12 13 09* 10 11 12 13 Net sales Operating profit1) Operating margin1) *pro forma * pro forma 1) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 4 PostNord Annual Report 2013 2013 highlights • Improved group operating profit. • Start-up of operations in new terminals • Strong e-commerce growth in Nordic region – in ­Sweden. increased parcel volumes. • Carbon dioxide emissions decreased ­ • Continued organic and acquisition-driven 6 percent during the year. growth within Logistics. • Development of group strategy – ­prioritization • Continued streamlining efforts within Mail. of e-commerce. • New organization and new brand structure as of 2014. President & CEO­ ­statement linked to e-commerce, rose 12 percent during the PostNord wants to be able to continue offering an year. E-commerce services are one of our most ­efficient, self-financed postal service. One prerequisite important development areas in coming years. for this is the evolution of the regulatory framework in line with changes in the market. Significant steps have Investments in Nordic capacity been taken in many European countries, including Demand for mail distribution services continued to Denmark, in recent years to adapt the scope and decline due to sustained digitization and a weak macalignment of the universal postal service to market roeconomic trend. Although the volume trend is drachanges. We welcome the Danish Parliament’s enactmatic, particularly in Denmark, it is thus far within the ment of a new Danish Postal Services Act. It will allow scope of our expectations. further market adaptation of our Danish mail business. Similar changes will also need to be made in “Improved Sweden. We are investing in the Nordic region. In recent ­operating years we have made major investments in production capacity, primarily within Mail. The investments profit” are a crucial component of our conversion strategy and are aimed at meeting the negative mail volume trend by improving scalability and at reducing our Our assessment is that the volume trend will be suscarbon dioxide emissions. We are investing in vehitained over the next few years. Physical letters will cles and equipment as well as new, highly efficient tercontinue to play an important role in the business minals. In 2013 we started operations at a new postal sector and society – although the actual content of terminal in Hallsberg, Sweden and next year we will envelopes and the terms and conditions for mail are open a new terminal outside Stockholm. changing. Financial development SEKm, unless otherwise specified Jan–Dec, 2013 Jan–Dec, 2012 Change, % Income statement Net sales 39,533 38,920 2 Other income 233 253 –8 Income 39,766 39,173 2 Operating expenses –37,452 –36,7701) –2 Participations in the earnings of associated companies 10 7 43 Operating profit (EBITDA) 2,324 2,4101) –4 Depreciation and impairments –1,648 –1,899 13 Operating profit (EBIT) 676 5111) 32 Net financial items –208 –1441) –44 Profit before tax 468 3671) 28 Tax –146 –1201) –22 Net profit 322 2471) 30 Cash flows Cash flows from operating activities 1,662 1,8251) Financial position Cash and cash equivalents 1,973 3,046 –35 Equity 9,063 7,5331) 20 Net debt 2,991 4,2991) 30 Key ratios Operating margin (EBIT), % 1.7 1.31) Operating margin (EBITDA), % 5.8 6.21) Return on equity, rolling 12-month, % 3.9 2.6 Return on operating capital, rolling 12-month, % 5.7 4.7 Earnings per share, SEK 0.16 0.121) Net debt/EBITDA, rolling 12-month, times 1.3 1.8 Financial preparedness 3,973 5,046 Equity-Assets ratio, end of period, % 35 271) Average number of employees 39,305 39,713 1) Restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 6 PostNord Annual Report 2013 President & CEO­ ­statement Key societal function New brand structure PostNord is one of the largest companies in the NorPostNord is becoming increasingly distinguished as a dic region. We play a key role in the region’s business Nordic company. More and more of our customers sector and society. We make it possible for busidemand comparable services across the region. A nesses and Nordic residents to do business and comkey component in the development of our position is municate with each other, each and every day. This the establishment of a more uniform profile. During carries with it great responsibility. the coming three-year period, we will therefore gradually be integrating our commercial brand symbols 12% with PostNord’s logo and give the PostNord brand greater scope in communication with our customers. PostNord’s B2C parcel volumes Improved profitability and competitiveness increased 12 percent in 2013 Efficiency improvement is an integral part of our agenda. The group has succeeded in reducing its The quality of our services is central for customers costs by several billion kronor in recent years through and recipients alike, and is based on the sender reachvarious streamlining and rationalization programs. ing the right recipient on time. We will sustain the high These changes have strengthened PostNord’s comquality level of our services in the future. petitiveness. We work actively to reduce the inevitable environBut much work remains to be done, especially mental impact of our operations, particularly our considering the continued decline in mail volumes. transports. Our goal is to dramatically reduce our carOne challenge is our relatively high share of fixed bon dioxide emissions, and we know that this is also costs – a situation normally associated with the delivdemanded by our customers. We have reduced our ery of universal postal services. With the initiatives we emissions by 16 percent since 2009. are taking to generate growth and reduce and We support and run our operations in accordance change the cost base, we count on being able to genwith the corporate responsibility principles of the UN erate gradual margin improvement in coming years. Global Compact and OECD guidelines for multinaSuccess with these efforts requires that we have tional companies. the right organizational environment in place. We are now implementing a new organization that will Strategy development focused enable us to provide greater uniformity for our cuson e-commerce services tomers and create potential for greater synergies – as During late 2013/early 2014, we further developed an example, through increased integration of producthe group’s strategy and clarified our direction going tion. The new organization also includes the establishforward. ment of a strategic unit for e-commerce services. We continue with implementation of key conversion efforts with production development, streamlinOne group ing and increased coordination of our communicaThe group has undergone major changes since the tion solutions offer for our Mail customers, to create merger of Posten and Post Danmark five years ago. sustainable profitability in this area despite declining The synergies that were anticipated back then have mail volumes. long since been realized. We are constantly identifyThe logistics business will continue to grow, ing new opportunities to coordinate, develop and mainly organically, and will strengthen profitability streamline the business. These efforts will continue through efficiency improvements. Our goal is to take for many years to come. Compared to five years ago, the position as the leading logistics partner in the what’s different now is that the work is being done Nordic region. within one group, with one corporate culture and one PostNord holds a strong position as the leading strategic direction. e-commerce partner in the Nordic region, and we will increase our focus on developing our service offer in this area. We can capitalize more on our unique strucSolna, February 2014 ture and regional scope. This structure also enables us to further develop attractive offers for different types of home deliveries and other service logistics. Strålfors is focusing on the three growth divisions Data Management, Marketing Communication and Service Fulfillment and continuing with further optiHåkan Ericsson mization of the printing-related operations. President & Group CEO PostNord Annual Report 2013 7 Perfect e-commerce fit – no blisters Nordic e-commerce had sales of approximately The Internet and mobile solutions have been cruSEK 100 billion in 2012, a 14 percent year-on-year cial driving forces in shifting the shopping experiincrease. The sharp increase continued in 2013, ence from stores to wherever you happen to be. with nearly one in three Nordic residents shopping But this development would not have been possionline each month. And all indications are that this ble without well-fitting logistics solutions. Today’s trend will continue. prompt deliveries and efficient returns management are key reasons for this success. The reason is simple: shopping online offers major advantages for you as a consumer. It’s more convePostNord is the strongest e-commerce partner in nient. It’s often less expensive. You decide where the Nordic region. With our coordinated distribuand when to shop. You save time. And you have an tion network and our solutions for logistics outincreasingly broad range to choose from. The most sourcing and customer communication, we can popular product categories are home electronics, decrease the distance between e-retailers and end clothes, shoes, books and cosmetics. consumers. This looks to be a model that suits modern consumers to a tee. How we create business advantage How we create business advantage PostNord strives to improve its customers’ competitiveness by solving their communication and logistics needs on time, securely and cost-effectively. Our offer spans the entire commercial chain – from business generation to fulfillment and follow-up. on ni c a ti Ma rke mu ti n r co m 1 ga nd me sa to le C us s 6 2 Outgo D i s t ri b u t i o n i n g o r i n co m i n g l o g i sti c s 5 3 in g Ou e ss tb ou r oc nd n dp log i st in ga ic s 4 ep c kke St o 10 PostNord Annual Report 2013 How we create business advantage 2. Outgoing or 3. Stock-keeping 1. Marketing and sales incoming logistics and processing The commercial chain starts The company orders goods from PostNord warehouses, repackwith a company doing marketing a supplier. PostNord picks up or ages or configures the goods to and creating a sales opportunity. receives the goods from the mansuit the company’s end consumer. ­PostNord offers solutions for effecufacturer. The goods are delivered The letter or parcel is sorted at tive physical and digital marketing directly to the end consumer or one of PostNord’s many terminals to small or large target groups. transported to one of PostNord’s for further distribution to the PostNord also maintains and warehouses for processing. addresses. develops information databases. Alternatively, a letter or parcel is sent directly from the company and collected by PostNord (e-­letters are printed and en­veloped by PostNord). 4. Outbound logistics 5. Distribution 6. Customer communication The goods are distributed by Mail is distributed by one of Naturally, a good business trans­PostNord directly to the end con­PostNord’s thousands of mail action ends with a completed sumer. The letter or parcel leaves ­carriers – directly to the end delivery. PostNord assists its cusPostNord’s terminal and is trans­consumer. Parcels are delivered tomers with invoice management ported to the end consumer’s directly to the recipient of via one and follow-up communication. area where it is sorted for of PostNord’s more than 5,300 The transaction may require ­distribution. distribution points located printed material and the distribuPostNord provides solutions throughout the Nordic region, for tion of codes, SIM cards, user manthat allow the company and recipiconvenient pick-up as suits the uals or similar – which PostNord ent to track the status of the mail recipient. PostNord also facilitates can assist with. The customer may item in the distribution chain. efficient return management. want to include their end consumer in a loyalty program or send them advertisements. ­PostNord also offers services to take care of these needs. PostNord Annual Report 2013 11 Markets and driving forces Market in structural change The development of Internet-based communication solutions creates new patterns in terms of how we conduct business and how we communicate with one another. For PostNord, this entails rapid structural changes. Global growth and increasing trade Driving demand for logistics solutions Globalization, population growth and technological development are driving the growth of trade and creating increasing demand for transport and logistics solutions. The Nordic logistics market is driven by global growth and the increase in international trade and is highly correlated with GNP. It is marked by rising demand for more, and increasingly advanced, services. Outsourcing and logistics solutions are on the rise as more and more companies elect to outsource all or parts of their supply lines. The Nordic logistics market is also characterized by consolidation, tough competition and cost focus. Customers demand international end-to-end solutions that are professional and cost-efficient. Scale and regional strength are critical success factors in terms of meeting this trend. “omni-channels” or “multi-channel strategies”), which imposes new demands for logistics operators and their flexibility. Another trend is the increase in e-commerce across national borders. Competition between e-retailers has also become tougher. In this environment, e-commerce logistics has become more and more of a competitive advantage. In what way, at what time and at what price goods are delivered have become more important issues for Digitization drives e-commerce consumers at the time of purchase. Increasingly effiIncreasing demand for goods distribution solutions cient logistics solutions have also helped drive the Trade in the Nordic region is undergoing structural growth of e-commerce. Without fast deliveries and change, with an expanding amount of business volreturn options, e-commerce is impossible. umes within e-commerce. This in turn drives demand PostNord is the largest e-commerce service profor goods transport and distribution services. E-comvider in the Nordic region and has strengthened its merce often offers simplified distribution and lower market position in this area in recent years. One comprices, as well as greater flexibility for customers petitive advantage for a national postal operator like through Internet access. PostNord’s estimation is that PostNord is its unique distribution platform. The come-commerce in physical goods in the Nordic region bination of mail delivery and thousands of distribution increased around 14% in 2012. Growth was also in the points enables prompt, eco-efficient delivery all the double digits in 2013. way to the end consumer. For many national postal A growing number of large, traditional retailers operators, goods distribution and various forms of have set up e-commerce solutions in recent years. home delivery have the potential to generate more And more and more channels are being used by revenue than the distribution of mail. This change in retailers to reach consumers and drive sales (called the revenue mix is already a fact for some operators. 12 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Markets and driving forces country’s public and business sectors aimed at establishing digital infrastructures and new e-services for communication. Denmark leads Europe in this societal development, an example of which is the requirement for digital communication in the public sector. The Danish economy has also been weak in recent years, which has further hastened substitution. Demand for letters as a form of communication has been somewhat more stable in Sweden, although mail volumes have declined significantly in recent years. Various initiatives have been taken in the SwedDigitization of communication ish market to increase the digitization of business and Reduces demand for letters as a form of government authority communication. So far, these ­communication initiatives have not been implemented with the same The Internet has fundamentally altered the prospects degree of coordination and thoroughness as has for physical letters as a communication channel. New occurred in the Danish market. technological solutions and behavior patterns have led The decline in mail volumes is expected to conto a decline in demand for communicating via letter. tinue in both Sweden and Denmark in coming years. PostNord operates in markets where this trend is Volumes will most likely eventually stabilize at a lower, most evident. Mail volumes have fallen dramatically in more permanent level – a level that reflects the conDenmark in recent years, a reflection of the coorditinued need for physical communication in the businated and far-reaching initiatives adopted by the ness sector and society. Growing climate awareness the use of many different means of transport. Imposes demands for energy-efficient transports ­PostNord is pursuing an ambitious, target-oriented Climate change is a pervasive societal problem, one environmental agenda aimed at reducing carbon that has serious consequences that are difficult to dioxide emissions by 40% between 2009 and 2020. comprehend. Nations and companies alike are setting targets and making efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Eco-efficiency is commercially important for PostNord. Many corporate customers have ambitious environmental goals and look beyond their own businesses to impose requirements on their suppliers. This applies particularly to the purchase of logistics services. PostNord’s operations involve various types of transport, and a high level of delivery quality requires Average annual mail volume development 2009–2012, Total parcel growth for sector companies total volumes per postal operator 2009–20121) % % 1 6 –1 4 –3 –5 2 –7 0 –9 –11 –2 09 10 11 12 Itella Corporation Deutsche Post DHL An Post Total parcel growth Österreichische Post AG PTT-Turkish Post PostNord 1) Canada Post, CTT-Correios de Portugal, Deutsche Post DHL, Magyar Posta Le Groupe La Poste United States Postal Service FedEx, Hellenic Post-ELTA, Itella Corporation, Korea Post, Le Cyprus Post Posten Norge PostNL Groupe La Poste, Magyar Posta, New Zealand Post, Posten Norge, Österreichische Post AG, Post Luxembourg, Poste Italiane Group, Korea Post New Zealand Post Correos PTT-Turkish Post, Swiss Post, United States Postal Service, UPS. Royal Mail Group Canada Post Poste Italiane Group Post Luxembourg CTT-Correios de Portugal Hellenic Post-ELTA PostNord Annual Report 2013 13 Markets and driving forces This happened in Denmark in 2011. Sweden opened its postal market to competition back in 1993. Many EU member states have reviewed their postal legislation and provisions delineating universal postal services. These reviews resulted in regulatory changes in several countries, including Finland, Belgium, Great Britain and Denmark. The legislative changes include more flexible pricing, adaptation of delivery obligations, reducing the scope of services covered by the universal postal service, and requirements for the degree of market penetration for competing postal operators. What many of the European regulatory changes have in common is that they improved opportunities Deregulation for national operators to run profitable businesses and Opens markets and changes the rules of the game improved the prospect for long-term universal postal The rules of the game for postal operations are reguservices in each market. lated chiefly by international agreements and in Posten Norge, the government-subsidized postal national postal legislation. Legislation in the EU is operator in EEA member state Norway, competes with based on, among other things, the EU’s Third Postal PostNord in Sweden (through Bring Citymail). Norway Directive, the purpose of which is to ensure good has not yet liberalized its postal market in compliance postal service in member states. One of the effects of with the EU directive and, consequently, the Norwethe Third Postal Directive is that previously regulated gian postal market remains closed to competition. EU postal markets have been opened to competition. Tougher competition for attention Physical communication is in many cases a powerful Increases the need for effective communication tool in the ever-increasing noise, especially when Technological developments and the way we use combined with digital communication. new technology have led to an information overload. People seem to find that too much information is distracting and has a negative effect on productivity and decision-making. The result is that, consciously or unconsciously, we distance ourselves from the information flow. Not unexpectedly, many businesses are finding it harder to penetrate the noise. Despite the growing array of communication alternatives, it is increasingly challenging to reach customers. Effective communication needs to take place on the recipient’s terms – when and where they are receptive. Messages also need to be relevant and individualized. Percentage of population that buys products online at least once per month1) % 40 30 20 10 0 Finland Sweden Norway Denmark 1) People with Internet access. Data from January 2013. 14 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Strategy and targets PostNord’s strategy and targets PostNord is the leading communication and logistics company in the Nordic region. The group’s strategy focuses on creating long-term value for its owners and other stakeholders and ensuing the provision of universal postal services. Structural market changes challenge PostNord’s abilThe merger is completed, but PostNord is continuing ity to run a profitable mail business. Meanwhile, the to develop the business in line with the rationale for logistics market is growing and holds potential for a the merger. strong regional operator like PostNord to further PostNord will generate financial value for its ownexpand its Nordic presence and become the region’s ers by creating growth, improving profitability and utistrongest operator. lizing the group’s capital resources more effectively. PostNord’s strategy is based on the group’s misPostNord will be an attractive investment and be sion, vision and values. It aims at developing the busirun as a listed company focused on returns and staness and repositioning the group in line with market bility. This is crucial to PostNord’s development, changes to secure profitability for Mail and develop regardless of form of ownership, and entails focusing the group’s position in the Nordic logistics market. on growth for Logistics, profitability for Mail, further The Group’s current strategy is based on the stratdevelopment of position within e-commerce and egy adopted in 2011. It was developed at year-end ­service logistics, optimizing our capital structure 2013/2014 with respect to the group’s prioritized and generating dividends for our owners. areas. PostNord will continue to improve coordination and efficiency within the group. PostNord will be a Overall target picture more cohesive and strategically run group with a Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S merged in 2009 in strong delivery culture and sustainability focus. order to secure a position as the leading operator on the Nordic logistics market and to maintain good postal service in all of Sweden and all of Denmark, in view of the market’s ongoing structural changes. Mission, vision and values Mission Vision Values PostNord connects people PostNord delivers worldReliable and businesses reliably, class communication and PostNord keeps its promises and delivers mail everywhere securely, on time efficiently and on time. logistic solutions to satisfied and to the right place. customers. Accessible PostNord is always close to its customers, listens to their views and helps them meet their challenges. Business partner PostNord is a professional business partner to its customers, helping them meet their communication and logistics challenges. Sustainable PostNord creates value for its customers and owners, is a socially responsible company and works actively to reduce its environmental impact. PostNord Annual Report 2013 15 Strategy and targets “Develop our regional structure and capacity. PostNord is increasing its focus on developing its service offer in the area position as for both customers and recipients. the leading 4. Development within service logistics PostNord is seeing a rise in demand for various types e-commerce of service logistics services, such as home deliveries and other home services. The group continues to partner” develop attractive and profitable offers in this area. 5. Increased competitiveness Strategy and priorities PostNord will develop the group’s competitiveness by 1. Secure profitability for Mail continuing to streamline operations to reduce PostNord is making structural changes within Mail expenses and increase the share of variable costs. aimed at securing profitability for the business given Among other things, this involves focusing on the declining demand for physical mail. Measures improving integration of the group’s production operinclude streamlining within production and adminisations and efforts to generate additional synergies tration to further reduce the cost base and increase within the group. Another prioritized area that is key the share of variable costs, investing to optimize the to competitiveness is ensuring that IT operations production structure, improving scalability, and remain stable and that the IT platform supports the reducing carbon dioxide emissions. We are also needs of the business. improving the coordination of the group’s communication offer and increasing focus on value creation 6. Winning culture within Strålfors. PostNord intends to strengthen the group’s goal-oriented delivery culture in order to increase our capac2. Nordic region’s leading logistics operator ity for strategy implementation. The group will remain PostNord is developing the logistics business by strongly focused on sustainability efforts to ensure an broadening the service offer and market presence to environmentally sound and gender-equal business. win market share and take the position as the leading logistics operator in the Nordic region. The business Financial strategy will continue to grow under profitability, mainly Strategic financial control through upselling and possibly through strategic PostNord’s strategic financial control is aimed at partnerships. Growth may also be accomplished ensuring financing of the group’s strategy in the through key acquisitions. long term. PostNord is governed based on a number of 3. Leading e-commerce operator financial targets set by its owners. These include tarPostNord will develop its position as the leading gets for capital structure, returns and dividends. In e-commerce partner to, from and within the Nordic addition to these targets, PostNord is governed based region. The group can capitalize more on its unique on several internal financial key ratios and associated 2. Nordic 1. region’s leadSecure profitability for ing logistics Mail & Communication operator 3. g din Lea erce mm e-co rator ope 4. 6. 5. Development Winning Increased within service culture competitiveness logistics 16 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Strategy and targets targets, including liquidity readiness, cash flows and In parallel with the investments, the businesses will internal funds provided as well as, particularly, key be streamlined through measures including further ratios concerning financial position. significant personnel reductions. A new governance model was introduced in 2013 to improve the efficiency of resource and capital alloFinancing cation and value creation as well as the effectiveness Financing is secured through improvements to operof the group’s target management. ative cash flows and the maintenance of an effective capital structure that includes the utilization of exterFinancial policy nal financing. PostNord’s financial policy includes a provision that Improvements to cash flows from operating activithe group shall have payment readiness of at least ties will be achieved through the gradual improveSEK 1.5 billion. As of December 31, 2013, PostNord’s ment of the businesses’ operating profit and by financial preparedness was SEK 3,973m. See also the releasing capital through improved capital efficiency. section on Financial Development and Risks. During 2013 PostNord identified additional potential for capital efficiency. “A comprehen2014 outlook Continued strong growth for e-commerce in the sive investment ­Nordic countries is projected for 2014, with positive effects for parcel and goods distribution volumes program” within Mail and Logistics. PostNord anticipates sharp volume reductions for mail in Denmark and Sweden due to competition Dividend policy from digital alternatives. PostNord predicts a 4–5% PostNord’s intention is to distribute 40% of net profit drop in mail volumes in Sweden and a 9–11% decline to the owners, taking into account the implementain Denmark in 2014. tion of group strategy and the group’s financial posiPostNord’s group strategy includes the repositiontion and targets. ing of group operations in relation to market changes, securing profitability within Mail & Communication Investments and streamlining efforts and developing the group’s position in the Nordic PostNord is implementing a comprehensive investlogistics market. This also involves focusing on cost ment program aimed chiefly at adapting the Mail reductions, the effective use of capital and continued businesses to the demand trend. financial stability. During the 2014–2016 period PostNord’s total During the 2014–2016 period, PostNord’s total investments are expected to amount to 3–5% of investments are expected to amount to 3–5% of group revenues, representing a somewhat lower group revenues. investment level as compared with recent years. The continued development of the business is Around half of the investments made in 2014– expected to generate improved profitability and cash 2016 will be replacement investments, mostly reinflows in coming years. PostNord’s ambition is to mainvestments in vehicles and machinery, and around tain its standing as an investment grade company. half will be new investments in Mail production structures. A small portion of total investments will concern investments in intangibles such as new IT platforms. PostNord Annual Report 2013 17 Salmon migration Salmon farming started in Norway back in the Norway’s geography provides optimal conditions 1970s. This initiative was founded on high quality for the fishing industry. The length of the country’s and safety standards as well as a goal-oriented coastline is more than long enough to circle the focus on research and development … all to create Earth. And Norway has protected waters where the a distinct brand for Norwegian “laks”. cold Arctic Ocean meets the warm Gulf Stream. Today, Norway is the world’s second largest But the country’s geography also presents chalexporter of fish and shellfish, and perhaps the most lenges. How are logistics to be managed once the environmentally-oriented producer. The industry fish are caught? Food transports – particularly fish represents a significant portion of Norway’s GNP, and shellfish – require unbroken refrigerated and with products sold to over 150 countries. Norwefrozen supply chains and reliable, efficient transgians themselves eat a lot of seafood – an annual ports. The complicated journey from fjord to table average of 36 kilos of fish and shellfish per person, requires top-quality logistics solutions. nearly twice the amount consumed by Swedes. Every day, PostNord transports thousands of tons of fish and perishable foods in Norway. This makes us a leading supplier of logistics solutions to the Norwegian fishing industry. Seafood delicacies flow from our terminals in Norway to Norwegian grocery stores or are exported to other parts of the world. Talk about salmon migration! Strategy and targets Targets and target fulfillment PostNord’s business is governed based on financial targets set by and employee aspects – areas of crucial importance its owners, as well as by non-financial targets set by the Board of for ­PostNord’s sustainable long-term development. Directors. Target management includes quality, environmental FINANCIAL TARGETS NON-FINANCIAL TARGETS CAPITAL RETURN CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENT STRUCTURE World-class communication and Reduce the group’s climate impact logistics solutions for satisfied customers Customer value Corporate image CO2 emissions2) Equity-Assets Return on equity Reduce CO2 emissions by Improve Improve 40% ratio of at least exceeding TARGET 35% 10% over a business customer value index (KVI). corporate image (TRIM). 2009–2020. cycle. 2013 35 4 71 37 396 377 RESULTS (2012) (27)% (3)% (71) (35) (423 262) tons A decrease by 16% since 2009. % % kton 50 25 80 500 40 20 400 60 30 15 300 40 20 10 200 HISTORY1) 20 10 5 100 0 0 0 0 09* 104) 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Equity-Assets ratio3) ROCE3) KVI TRIM Total CO2 emissions, 2009–2013 * pro forma 1) Includes available historical data with comparable methods of measurement. 2) Figures include Nordic countries and Strålfors’ non-Nordic operations. Historical figures have been adjusted for purposes of comparison. 3) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 4) Includes capital gain of SEK 2,002m on the sale of Post Danmark A/S’ share in Belgian bpost (formerly De Post-La Poste) in July 2009. 20 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Strategy and targets QUALITY EMPLOYEES High-quality communication An attractive and stimulating workplace with committed, and logistics solutions motivated and healthy employees and managers Delivery quality, Delivery quality, Employee commitment Workplace equality Sick leave Sweden Denmark and leadership Meet Swedish Meet Danish State’s State’s requirement 93% quality requithat at least 85% of rement for all servi1st-class letters are ces falling under delivered on follothe delivery obligawing business day and 97% within tion. Improve employee index (MIX) and 40% female managers by 2015. Reduce sick leave levels. three days. Internal 2013 ­targets: ­leadership index (LIX). Internal 2013 Delivery quality for ­targets: 1st-class letters Delivery quality (overnight): for 1st-class letters 95.0%5). (overnight): Delivery quality for 95.0%5). parcels: 97.7%. Delivery quality for parcels: 97.7%. 94.9 (95.4)% of 1st93.2 (93.5)% of 1stclass letters deliveclass letters delivered within one day. red within one day. MIX: 99.9 (99.9)% of 1st class letters deliveDelivery quality for 64 (63) 29 5,0 (29)% (4,9)% red within three parcels was 97.4 days. (96.7)%. LIX: Delivery quality for parcels was 97.0 66 (65) (96.8)%. % % % 100 70 30 6 60 95 50 20 4 40 90 30 10 2 85 20 10 80 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 Sweden Denmark MIX LIX Women in managerial positions Sick leave 5) PostNord is internally governed by a total quality target for 1st-class letters. In 2013, 94.6 (95.0)% of the group’s 1st-class letters were delivered on time to the intended recipient. The target for 2013 was 95.0%. National regulations stipulate 85% in Sweden and 93% in Denmark. PostNord Annual Report 2013 21 The prescription for secure logistics The health care sector in the Nordic region is tion partner in a “telemedicine” home care proundergoing rapid change. The sector’s various gram. We deliver and install the equipment and players are always looking for new ways to create make sure patients receive instructions for use. better, more effective service for patients without lowering quality and security standards. In Sweden, the number of pharmacies increased 35 percent following deregulation in 2009, with many New ways of communicating, combined with new players entering the market – including large enhanced technology habits, now make it possible and small chains, private entrepreneurs, small to provide remote medical care. The health care business groups, and private and public owners. system seeks out the patient, rather than vice PostNord serves as logistics partner to companies versa. This often means greater security for the in the pharmacy sector, ensuring that customers patient, and saves public resources. In Denmark, can always receive their medications on time and PostNord services include logistics and distribuwith the required level of service. Brands New brand structure PostNord is the group’s brand. The group meets its customers primarily under four commercial brands: Posten, Post Danmark, PostNord Logistics and Strålfors. In 2014 PostNord will introduce a new brand structure that consolidates the PostNord brand with the commercial brands. A strong brand builds a company’s customer loyalty. PostNord This is essential for attracting talent to the company and promotes product development by broadening the brand, among other things. A strong brand also provides robustness and makes it easier to manage and overcome setbacks. One Nordic business The development of PostNord’s position in the various Nordic markets requires the continued development of the group’s brand structure as well as the substance and emotional charge of the individual brands. The Posten and Post Danmark national postal brands are highly familiar and well-trusted assets. They are associated with accessibility and reliability by companies and individuals in Sweden and Denmark. Group brand – the leading communication and logistics company in the Nordic region. The main brand for business and marketing communication, newspaper distribution, parcel and goods distribution, home deliveries and postal service in Denmark. 24 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Brands PostNord’s brand for logistics solutions to, from and within the Nordic region, focused on parcel distribution, palletized goods and outsourcing of logistics flows. PostNord is becoming increasingly distinguished as New logistics brand a Nordic company. More and more of our customers The migration of PostNord’s multiple smaller logistics demand comparable services across the region. brands to the new PostNord Logistics brand was initiPostNord has commercial potential in more distinctly ated in 2013. The objective is to, over time, develop connecting the different parts of the group under and establish PostNord Logistics as the Nordic the PostNord brand. region’s leading logistics brand in competition with other market players. New brand symbols The launch of the PostNord Logistics brand will Starting in 2014, PostNord Group’s commercial brand continue during 2014. symbol will be integrated with the PostNord logo in order to capitalize on the strengths of the existing commercial brands and improve clarity and uniformity by giving the PostNord brand greater scope in the group’s marketing communication. Implementation of the new commercial brands will be done on an ongoing basis over a three-year period. The main brand for business and marketing comPostNord’s brand for communication solutions for munication, newspaper distribution, goods distribusinesses with large customer bases. bution, home deliveries and other postal services in Sweden. PostNord Annual Report 2013 25 New organization New organization with sharper focus on e-commerce PostNord is implementing a new organization in 2014. The change will further integrate the group and make it easier for us to offer Nordic end-to-end solutions within Mail & Communication, logistics and e-commerce. It also expands potential synergies within production. Demand for mail distribution services continues to uniformity for customers and the establishment decline due to digitization and a weak macroecoof integrated production models. nomic trend. Meanwhile, e-commerce is developing The country units (Sweden, Denmark and strongly and demand for Nordic logistics solutions is Norway/Finland) are responsible for optimizing on the rise. marketing and sales activities, production structure At year-end 2013/2014, PostNord’s strategy was and organization across all business areas. further developed with respect to the group’s prioritized areas to counter the market trend and improve Strategic e-commerce unit financial value. This includes development of the The second layer of the matrix is comprised of two group’s organization. business areas, Strålfors and a new strategic e-commerce unit. Introduction of country units The two business areas – Mail & Communication The organizational change involves, among other and Logistics – are responsible for marketing and serthings, the introduction of a matrix organization. vice development in their respective areas and across One layer of the matrix is comprised of three the country units. newly formed country units, to allow for greater New organization and new commercial brands President & CEO Group functions Deputy CEO Sweden Denmark Norway/Finland Business area Mail & Communication Business area Logistics Strålfors E-commerce & Corporate Clients 26 PostNord Annual Report 2013 New organization Strålfors will continue to be operated as a subsidiary and will be strongly aligned with business area Mail & “ We are improving our Communication. A corporate strategic unit for e-commerce is being capacity to integrate formed, responsible for market and service developour production operament in each Nordic area. tions, which in turn Changes to management The new organization will be introduced as of March creates favorable con31, 2014. A new Group Executive Team was appointed ditions for increasing on February 1, 2014 to lead this effort. Additional information on Group Executive Team members is availgrowth and improving able in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 80–82. profitability for Financial reporting will mainly be done on the PostNord” / Håkan Ericsson, basis of the business areas and Strålfors. President & CEO PostNord Annual Report 2013 27 Business operations MAIL LOGISTICS STRÅLFORS PostNord offers communication serPostNord offers end-to-end logistics Strålfors develops and offers comvices for businesses and consumers solutions to, from and within the Normunication solutions that create in Denmark and Sweden. dic region under the PostNord Logisstronger, more personal customer Operations are run and reported tics brand. relationships for companies with in two business areas: Mail Denmark Operations are run and reported large customer bases. and Mail Sweden. in business area Logistics. Share of external sales 2013 Average number of employees 2013 Mail Denmark, 23% Mail Denmark, 31% Mail Sweden, 38% Mail Sweden, 44% Logistics, 33% Logistics, 19% Strålfors, 6% Strålfors, 4% Other, 2% Business operations Mail PostNord offers postal and communication services for businesses and consumers in Denmark and Sweden under the PostNord Denmark and PostNord Sweden brands, and holds a leading position in both countries. Focus is on distribution solutions and services for business and marketing communication. Mail operations are run and reported in two business The Swedish and Danish markets also differ in terms areas: of structural development for mail communication, • Mail Denmark – Each business day, the business with stronger substitution of digital alternatives at area handles around 158,000 parcels and 6 million present in the Danish market. mail items sent to and from households and businesses in Denmark. Market development • Mail Sweden – Every business day, the business Increased competition in Denmark area handles around 19 million mail items sent to The Danish economy remained weak in 2013. Mail and from households and businesses in Sweden. Denmark’s market situation is characterized primarily by the ongoing structural transition caused by substiThe business areas run similar operations in their tution, which had a stong negative impact on busirespective countries (the exception being that Mail ness area mail volumes. Denmark runs the group’s parcel operations in DenDenmark is at the international forefront when it mark), although market conditions differ between the comes to the digitization of society. The digitization of countries. Both business areas fulfill key societal funcpublic and corporate communication in Denmark is tions, while the postal markets are regulated in different proactively promoted by Danish companies and public ways – despite EU initiatives to improve harmonization. authorities. New infrastructure and new e-services, MAIL Services Market position Postal and communication services for businesses and consuMarket leader within mail distribution and a leading market mers, with a focus on business communication, marketing complayer within marketing communication. munication, distribution of goods and newspapers and other communication services. Distribution of parcels in Denmark. Sales channels Sales force, partner outlets, own service points, own Internet Geographic presence channels, customer e-commerce sites. Denmark and Sweden. Competitors Core customers Digital mail substitution. State-owned Norway Post through Businesses and organizations with large information or Bring Citymail in Sweden. KMD and Bladkompagniet in goods flows. Private consumers. Denmark. Smaller operators within marketing communication. Middlemen such as 21 grams, GLS, etc. within parcel services Average number of employees 2013 in Denmark. 229,478 (30,416), of which 12,311 (12,730) in business area Mail Denmark and 17,167 (17,686) in business area Mail Sweden. Main products • Business communication • Home deliveries Mail distribution and other services for physical or digital Home deliveries of goods, food and beverages to consumers. communication with large customer groups. • Facility services • Marketing communication Tailored service solutions for management of mail items Advisory services and distribution of physical and digital for e.g. e-commerce, city logistics, municipality distribution, marketing communication. medical logistics. • Postal services, private • Newspaper distribution Postal service for private markets in Denmark and Sweden. Distribution of newspapers and periodicals. • Goods distribution • Parcel distribution Distribution services for materials supply, supplier control, Distribution of parcels in Denmark. inventory management and customer deliveries. PostNord Annual Report 2013 29 Business operations which foster this development, have been set up. The newspaper market is shrinking, while PostNord’s PostNord is active in this change process and offers, volumes for free newspapers are growing. PostNord among other things, a digital post office box service in strengthened its position within newspaper distribuseveral geographic markets through the company tion in 2012 and 2013. eBoks. The e-commerce market is also growing strongly Mail volumes have fallen 52% over the past ten in Sweden. This trend has resulted in increased conyears and fell 10% in 2013, chiefly due to substitution. signment flows of goods for Mail Sweden, both Post Danmark is one of Denmark’s largest operanationally and internationally. tors within marketing communication. Danish advertising market remained weak in 2013. Regulatory frameworks The strong growth of the e-commerce market The regulation of universal postal services in Denresulted in increased flows of mail and parcels for mark and Sweden sets standards for minimum serbusiness area Mail Denmark. Competition within parvice levels and pricing. For PostNord, it is crucial that cel distribution in Denmark increased in 2013, with national regulations are harmonized with communiresults including new delivery concepts in the market cation market trends so that there is capacity to and greater focus on price. deliver services on a commercial basis. Postal markets in Sweden and Denmark have Structural change in Sweden been liberalized but remain regulated, albeit to differDuring 2013, demand for Mail Sweden’s services was ing degrees. The postal legislation of both countries is characterized mainly by structural changes in the based on the EU’s Third Postal Directive which is communication market. Demand for mail as a form of aimed at ensuring good postal service in member business and marketing communication was more states. One of the effects of the Third Postal Directive robust in Sweden in 2013 than it was in Denmark. This is that previously regulated EU postal markets have is due partly to differences between the countries in been opened to competition. The directive took terms of economic trends, customer structure, digital effect at a time when mail volumes were still on the infrastructure and, especially, the scope of decisions rise in many countries. In light of the recent years’ digon digitization taken by public authorities and compaitization trend, many of the conditions on which the nies. The Swedish government clarified its intention directive was based are no longer valid. during the year to increase the pace of digitization of public authority communication, which will have a Legislation and supervision negative impact on PostNord’s volumes. Competition A new Danish Postal Act came into effect on January increased from middleman consolidation of cus1, 2011. The new law contains provisions for market libtomer mail items as an attempt to reduce costs. eralization and the securing of universal postal obligaThe business area’s mail volumes have fallen 23% tions by Post Danmark A/S. The Danish Parliament over the past ten years and fell 3% in 2013, chiefly due approved a new Postal Act on February 18, 2014 that to the substitution of digital alternatives. will improve Post Danmark’s capacity to adapt and Posten is one of Sweden’s largest operators within change its operations based on demand and conmarketing communication. The Swedish advertising tinue to run the business on a commercial basis. market weakened in 2013. Demand for direct marketing services increased, as did competition. Net sales and operating margin Net sales 2013 SEKm % 30,000 6 Mail, 53% 25,000 5 Advertisements and newspapers, 25% 20,000 4 Parcels, Denmark, 8% 15,000 3 Other, 14% 10,000 2 5,000 1 0 0 09* 10 11 12 13 1) 1) Net sales Operating margin * pro forma 1) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated due to reorganization of the group’s parcel business in Denmark. 30 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Business operations The new legislation means new license terms for sal postal service and requirements for the size of Post Danmark A/S from March 1, 2014. competing postal operators’ market penetration. The Swedish postal market was liberalized back in The changes often improve both the ability of 1993 and a new Swedish Postal Act was enacted in national operators to run profitable businesses and 2010. Posten AB was appointed by the Post and Telethe long-term sustainability of universal service oblicom Agency (PTS) as the sole provider of universal gations in each national market. postal services in Sweden. Read more about the universal service obligations The Swedish postal market is currently over-reguand regulatory frameworks in Denmark and Sweden lated in relation to the market trend. Consumer surin the universal Service Obligations section of the veys indicate that the service level for mail distribuCorporate Governance Report. tion and other services exceeds demand. Current legislation and regulations need to be reviewed to 2013 results ensure the future provision of efficient, self-financed Net sales for Mail fell 4% in 2013, chiefly due to reveuniversal postal services. nue declines in Mail Denmark. Mail volumes fell a total of 5%. Letter pricing and quality requirements Operating expenses fell 3%, mainly due to personIn Denmark, Post Danmark A/S sets letter prices. nel cutbacks. However, prices for domestic non-priority letters Operating profit totaled SEK 494m (616) and the weighing up to 50 grams and sent as single mail operating margin was 2.0 (2.4)%. items must be approved by the Transport Authority. Since enactment of the 2011 Postal Act, Post Danmark Mail Denmark has introduced several pricing changes that increase Net sales for business area Mail Denmark fell 8%, prithe price/cost correlation for different types of marily due to the continued decline of mail volumes. stamped letters. The price for a stamped priority letExcluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, net ter weighing up to 50 grams for domestic delivery sales fell 7%. Net sales were impacted by continued was raised as of January 1, 2014 to 9.00 (8.00) DKK. extensive digitization in the Danish market and the Letter pricing in Sweden is regulated by postal weak economic development in the country during statutes and the Postal Act. Pricing of the universal the year. Mail volumes fell a total of 10% during 2013. postal service must be transparent, non-discriminaThe impact on net sales was partially countered by tory and cost-oriented. The postal operator that proprice changes for letters. Revenues from Advertisevides universal postal service may not raise the price ments and Newspapers fell due to the weak advertison priority mail weighing up to 500 grams by more ing market and heavier competition. Parcel volumes than the consumer price index. The price of stamped increased during the year, though revenues were postage for single 20-gram letters was last changed somewhat lower due to price pressure in the market. on January 1, 2009, from SEK 5.50 to SEK 6.00. PostNord’s quality levels are regulated in both Sweden and Denmark. In Denmark, the delivery requirement for both letters and parcels is 93% rela2013 results tive to the delivery terms of each service. Under Swedish postal statutes, at least 85% of 1st-class mail SEKm 2013 2012 must be delivered on the following business day Net sales 24,103 25,0221) (overnight delivery). At least 97% of all mail in Sweden of which, Mail Denmark 9,364 10,1651) must be delivered within three business days. of which, Mail Sweden 15,050 15,137 Operating profit (EBIT) 494 6161) Regulatory events outside Sweden and Denmark of which, Mail Denmark –89 –1771) of which, Mail Sweden 583 793 Several EU member states have now enacted the Operating margin, % 2.0 2.41) Third Postal Directive as national legislation. However, Volumes and quality, interpretation of the EU directive varies between millions of units produced and % national markets. Services provided under USOs (uniMail Denmark, priority mail 278 320 versal service obligations) are essentially defined in a Mail Denmark, non-priority and business mail 337 365 similar way, but provisions for carrying out these serMail Denmark, parcels 39 39 vices vary. Mail Sweden, priority mail 912 925 The EU directive and the reviews conducted by Mail Sweden, non-priority mail 1,144 1,198 many EU member states have resulted in regulatory Delivery quality, 1st-class mail, Denmark, % 93.2 93.5 changes in several countries, including Denmark, FinDelivery quality, land, Belgium and Great Britain. Changes include 1st-class mail, Sweden, % 94.9 95.4 more flexible pricing, adaptation of delivery obligaDelivery quality, parcels, Denmark, % 97.4 96.7 tions, reduced scope of what is covered by the univer1) Restated due to reorganization of the group’s parcel operations in Denmark. PostNord Annual Report 2013 31 Business operations Expenses fell 8%. Excluding acquisitions and Operating profit fell to SEK 583m (793) and exchange rate effects, expenses fell 7%. The decrease the operating margin to 3.7 (5.0)%. was attributable to streamlining efforts within producDelivery quality for 1st-class mail fell to 94.9 tion and administration, primarily through personnel (95.4)%. cutbacks. The average number of employees was reduced to 12,311 (12,730). Restructuring costs totaled Activities during 2013 SEK 42m (296). Streamlining Operating profit totaled SEK –89m (–177). In 2013 the Mail business areas focused on converDelivery quality for 1st-class mail fell to 93.2 (93.5)%. sion efforts to adapt each business and reduce costs within production and administration, in order to Mail Sweden meet the negative mail volume trend. Because perNet sales for business area Mail Sweden fell 1%, both sonnel expenses constitute the single largest cost before and after acquisitions and exchange rate item, this has involved a reduction in the number of effects. Mail volumes fell 3% during 2013 due to conemployees in both the Danish and Swedish operatinued digitization. The volume development was tions. The average number of employees was positively impacted by the strong development of reduced by 938 during the year. e-commerce-related services, as evidenced by an increase in light parcel volumes and the number of Investments and business development mail items distributed at partner outlets. International PostNord made significant investments in 2013 within e-commerce volumes also increased. Direct mail revthe scope of the production strategy that was enues developed negatively due to the continued adopted in 2010. Investments in production capacity weakness of the advertising market. Newspaper reveare a crucial element of the group’s conversion stratnues increased in 2013 due to volume growth for free egy to meet volume trends with improved scalability newspapers and the takeover of Svensk Morgondiswithin the Mail business areas. The strategy includes tribution operations in June 2012. reinvestments in equipment and buildings and in Expenses increased 1%. Restructuring costs eco-efficient vehicles. It also includes the establishincreased to SEK 434m (419) due to personnel cutment of a new terminal structure in Sweden with backs. Expenses for the comparative period were associated investments in equipment. positively impacted by pension effects. Adjusted for The business areas also focused this year on these items and for the takeover of Svensk Mordeveloping large and shared corporate customers by gondistribution operations, personnel expenses fell providing advisory services on communication 2% as a result of rationalizations and adjustments to opportunities. Work was also done in 2013 to develop reduced mail volumes. The average number of operations within newspaper distribution, goods disemployees was reduced to 17,167 (17,686). Increased tribution and home deliveries, including signing an international e-commerce volumes resulted in agreement for newspaper distribution in Sweden. increased expenses. Mail volumes Millions of units produced 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,000 500 500 0 0 09* 10 11 12 13 09* 10 11 12 13 Mail Denmark Mail Sweden Priority mail Non-priority and business mail (DK) * pro forma 32 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Business operations In 2013 the business areas acquired two leading marEnvironmental initiatives and certification ket players within document scanning in Denmark Initiatives were mainly focused on reducing fuel and and Sweden as well as a business specialized in the energy consumption in transports and buildings. Mail packaging and management of unaddressed mail. Denmark was included in the group’s quality and environmental certification in 2013. Read more about PostNord’s environmental operations on page 59 and “Crucial certification on page 54. that national 2014 strategic priorities regulations • Implementation of the new organization and new commercial brands. are harmonized • Continue streamlining and cost reduction within production and administration to meet mail volwith communiume trend and improve competitiveness and cash flows. Increase share of variable costs. cation market • Continue making investments in new production structure to meet declining volumes with more effitrends” cient processes, increased scalability and reduced environmental impact. • Dialogue with society and legislators on the formuPostNord’s parcel operations in Denmark were lation and regulation of future universal service restructured early in the year. Business area Mail obligation. Denmark took over parcel operations in Denmark • Service development within parcel distribution in from business area Logistics during 2013 as a further Denmark, service logistics and increased focus on streamlining measure to increase competitiveness coordination of offer for various communication within parcel distribution in the Danish market and solutions. concentrate efforts under the Post Danmark brand. • Continue environmental improvements, chiefly PostNord’s parcel operations in other countries are through adaptations to vehicle fleet, property portorganized within business area Logistics. folio and fuel and energy consumption in producPost Danmark and Coop signed an agreement tion. during the year on a new parcel concept that entails setting up around 300 automatic parcel machines in Coop stores in Denmark. PostNord Annual Report 2013 33 Business operations Logistics PostNord is one of the leading logistics operators in the Nordic region, with thousands of service points, over 100 terminals and a network on international strategic partners. Every business day, PostNord delivers hundreds of thousands of parcels and pallets of goods to customers throughout the entire Nordic region. PostNord is a leading logistics company for parcel to acquisitions and organic growth as well as declinflows, pallet freight and other consolidated shipments ing mail volumes. Logistics accounted for 33% of the within the Nordic region, and provides complex logisgroup’s external net sales in 2013. tics solutions including outsourcing services for The parcel business in Denmark was reorganized wholesalers, e-commerce, and retail and industrial in early 2013, with business area Mail Denmark taking companies. over parcel operations in Denmark from business PostNord offers personalized solutions to its corarea Logistics. porate customers for their ordering and delivery supPostNord’s model for developing the logistics ply chains, with services for parcel distribution, mixed business is based on strengthening the group’s struccargo, consignment cargo, air & ocean, express and ture in the Nordic region to enable us to offer cohedelivery, thermal and third-party logistics. Parcel solusive, standardized services for B2C and B2B flows tions account for half of the business area’s sales. based on a widespread regional presence, thereby PostNord’s logistics business offers the Nordic improving our attractiveness and business volumes. region’s largest and most coordinated distribution With standardization, streamlining efforts and econonetwork. Logistics also has a franchise partnership mies of scale made possible with increased volumes, with the international DPD parcel network. we maximize our capacity to reduce unit costs and Over the past two years, the logistics business has further strengthen competitiveness. become an increasingly large part of the group due LOGISTICS Services Market size Logistics services for flows to, from and within the Nordic region The portion of the market serviced by PostNord is estimated at – parcels, groupage/pallet, third-party logistics and other logistics approx. SEK 150 bn (2012). solutions. Market position Geographic presence One of the Nordic region’s largest logistics operators, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland. with approx. 10% of the market. Core customers Sales channels Businesses with large logistics flows to, from and within the Sales force, partner outlets, own service points, Nordic region. customer e-commerce sites. Average number of employees 2013 Competitors 7,373 (6,509). Global logistics companies such as DB Schenker, DHL, DSV. Smaller operators holding major or minor positions within various service areas. National postal operators in Norway and Finland. Main products • Parcel distribution • Solutions Solutions for the management of parcel flows between busi– Third-party logistics/Outsourcing – management of all or nesses and between businesses and consumers. Distribution parts of a company’s logistics flows, stock-keeping and logisof parcels between consumers. tics administration. – Express, delivery and InNight services. • Groupage/pallet – Consignment cargo – solutions for cargo flows larger than Mixed cargo solutions for grouped consignment of parcels pallet loads. and pallets. – Air & ocean – logistics solutions for sending goods between continents. 34 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Business operations Growing logistics market and Finland also reported growth. Demand for thirdThe Nordic logistics market is driven by factors such party logistics services developed positively during as global growth, with rising international trade and the year, with organic growth of 12% attributable to growing e-commerce. The market trend is highly cornew and existing customers. related with GNP. Customers are placing higher Expenses were up 13% due chiefly to acquisitions. demands for end-to-end solutions, which makes Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, scale and regional strength key competitive advanexpenses rose 3% due to volume increases. Restructages. turing costs totaled SEK 20m (137). Operating profit In 2013, the market situation for parts of the logistotaled SEK 197m (272) and the operating margin fell tics business was impacted by the growth of e-comto 1.3 (2.1)%. Activities were initiated in Norway and merce and increased demand for outsourcing serSweden to ensure a long-term sustainable cost level. vices. The market situation was more challenging for During the year the company refinanced Bulk other parts of the business due to a weak economic Langhus 1, which owns a property in Norway where a trend and competition. new logistics terminal is being constructed. The comCommerce in the Nordic region is undergoing pany will take possession during the year. structural change, with greater and greater businesses volumes within e-commerce. This is driving Activities during 2013 demand for parcel distribution and other logistics serGrowth under profitability vices. When it comes to e-commerce, the key comPostNord currently offers a broad spectrum of logispetitive advantages are scope of the distribution nettics services, and the group holds a particularly work to end consumers, flexibility, security and effistrong position in parcel, pallet/groupage and 3PL in ciency. the Nordic region. During 2013 PostNord continued The outsourcing of logistics services is on the rise with the implementation of the strategy to create as more and more companies elect to outsource all end-to-end solutions and offer cross-border logistics or parts of their supply lines to improve competitivesolutions for B2B and B2C flows. By broadening and ness. Demand for outsourcing services has historistandardizing the logistics offer, enhancing strength cally been lower in the Nordic region than in other in selected submarkets and expanding geographic parts of the EU, coverage, PostNord can better meet customer The Nordic logistics market is characterized by demand for services and end-to-end solutions and heavy competition. Overcapacity, price pressure and can generate additional growth. distinct economies of scope and scale are driving The business grew organically and through acquiconsolidation of the industry. sitions in 2013. Organic growth was driven chiefly by the developments in Norway and Sweden. Growth 2013 results occurred under continued profitability. Net sales for the Logistics business area were up 14%, In 2013 PostNord acquired additional logistics due primarily to the acquisitions concluded during businesses. Bilfrakt Bothnia AB subsidiaries (Nordisk the year (Byrknes Auto AS, Nordisk Kyl Logistik AB Kyl Logistik AB and Transbothnia AB, with operations and Transbothnia AB). Excluding acquisitions and in northern Sweden) were acquired, broadening exchange rate effects, the business area’s net sales PostNord’s logistics business in Sweden within mixed were up 3%. The expansion of e-commerce genercargo, consignment cargo and thermal transports ated a considerable increase in B2C parcel services. and expanding the group’s platform for growth within Organic sales growth was somewhat weaker during grocery and industrial logistics. An asset acquisition the second half of the year. This was due mainly to of Byrknes Auto A/S was also completed during the developments in Norway, with a market characteryear. Byrknes Auto A/S is one of Norway’s largest therized by heavy price pressure from competitors and mal carriers, specialized in services for fish and perishsharp declines in demand. The business in Sweden ables transport. The acquisition further strengthened reported continued growth but was also exposed to PostNord’s position as logistic operator in the Nordic heavy price pressure. The business in Germany region. The operational integration of previously conreported strong growth due primarily to growth in cluded acquisitions proceeded largely according to e-commerce volumes. The businesses in Denmark plan during the year. PostNord Annual Report 2013 35 Vital communication The Nordic countries are among the most wellinsured and robust in the world. Our comprehensive national insurance system creates a solid foundation for social security. Nordic citizens also invest in complementary private insurance. Nine in ten Danes save for their own pensions through their workplace. Over 500,000 Swedes have private health insurance. The insurance industry serves a vital function in our national economy, creating economic stability for both individuals and businesses. But involving people in their own futures presents a distinct challenge. Competition for attention is fierce. The winners are those who are best able to communicate on the recipients’ own terms. For an insurance company with millions of customers, this means constantly searching for smarter solutions. It boils down to successfully conveying relevant – and preferably personal – messages. PostNord facilitates the effective delivery of this communication. We delivery tailored business and marketing communication solutions – ensuring the smooth flow of information between insurers and insureds. Business operations Streamlining efforts and capacity expansion a leading logistics operator in the Nordic region. A Efforts continued during the year to streamline procentral element of these efforts is the adjustment of duction and invest in creating capacity for further volfuel and energy consumption in the production of ume growth, reduced unit costs and improved comour services. As a major industry player, PostNord’s petitiveness. A key element of this work is the termilogistics business takes active part in the developnal change being carried out in Sweden. Among ment of alternative fuels and new vehicle technoloother things, this entails the establishment of a new gies. Read more about our environmental initiatives combined parcel and pallet terminal in northern on page 59. Stockholm in Sweden. Investments were also made in vehicles and other equipment. A significant portion of 2014 strategic priorities the investments were made in Norway to increase • Implementation of new organization. capacity in the growing Norwegian market. • Further development of pan-Nordic service offer and delivery platform. “Customers are • Continue establishment of PostNord Logistics as the group’s logistics brand. placing higher • Continue operational integration of completed acquisitions. Possible key acquisitions to further demands for broaden and strengthen our geographic position. • Ongoing rationalizations and cost reductions. end-to-end • Continue environmental efforts, primarily through adjustments of fuel and energy consumption in solutions” production. Establishment of the PostNord Logistics brand 2013 results The migration of PostNord’s multiple smaller logistics brands to the new PostNord Logistics brand was initiSEKm 2013 2012 ated in 2013. The launch will be done gradually during Net sales 13,432 11,7621) 2013 and 2014. The objective is to, over time, develop Operating profit (EBIT) 197 2721) Operating margin, % 1.3 2.11) and establish PostNord Logistics as the Nordic region’s leading logistics brand. Read more about our Volumes and quality, millions of units produced, % brand development on page 24. Parcels 79 731) Delivery quality parcels, Sweden2) 97.0 96.8 Environmental initiatives Delivery quality parcels, Norway2) 97.3 96.4 Targeted, methodical environmental efforts are absoDelivery quality parcels, Finland2) 95.8 95.7 1) lute prerequisites for any company that aspires to be Restated due to reorganization of group’s parcel business in Denmark. 2) On-time delivery for selected services. Net sales and operating margin3) Net sales 2013 SEKm % 15,000 3 Parcels, 36% Solutions (heavy freight and 10,000 2 integrated solutions), 39% Other logistics services (mixed cargo, etc.), 25% 5,000 1 0 0 –1 09* 10 11 12 13 Net sales Operating margin * pro forma 3) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated due to reorganization of the group’s parcel operations in Denmark. 38 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Business operations Strålfors Strålfors develops and offers communication solutions that create stronger, more personal customer relationships for companies that have large customer bases. Strålfors is a Nordic leader in its field and has operations in several other European countries. Strålfors’ business is organized in four divisions: • Marketing Communication – solutions for effective, • Business Communication – communication solupersonalized physical and digital marketing comtions for efficient, individualized communication munication. with large customer groups. Exposed to increasing • Service Fulfillment – supply chain solutions for level of digitization. delivery fulfillment of personalized products or • Data Management – maintenance and developinformation to end consumers. ment of information databases (e.g., coordination of administrative systems) to facilitate personalized Strålfors is a Nordic leader in its field and also opermessages to selected target groups. ates businesses in Poland, Great Britain and France. STRÅLFORS Services Average number of employees 2013 Communication solutions that create stronger and more 1,492 (1,509). personal customer relationships for companies with large customer bases. Sales channels Sales force. Geographic presence Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Poland, Great Britain Competitors and France. Digital substitution, Itella, KMD, CGI and others. Core customers Companies with large customer bases, large information flows and the need to individualize their messages. Main products • Business Communication • Marketing Communication Solutions for efficient, individualized communication with Solutions for personalized physical and digital marketing large customer groups. communication. • Data Management • Service Fulfillment Maintenance and development of information databases. Supply chain solutions for delivery fulfillment of personalized products or information to end consumers. Net sales and operating margin 2013 results SEKm % SEKm 2013 2012 4,000 20 Net sales 2,612 2,665 3,000 15 Operating profit (EBIT) 16 –25 2,000 10 Operating margin, % 0.6 –0.9 1,000 5 0 0 –5 –10 09* 10 11 12 13 Net sales Operating margin (EBIT) * pro forma PostNord Annual Report 2013 39 Business operations From information to communication Strålfors thereby increased its ownership interest in The market for customer communication is changthe company from 19.2% to 48%. ing. With an increasing number of communication options and more “noise”, the recipient’s perspective Activities during 2013 is gaining importance in companies’ efforts to reach Business development and focus customers with their messages. For companies and on growth businesses organizations with large customer bases, the ability to During 2013 Strålfors continued to work on strengthcommunicate on the recipient’s terms is therefore ening and enhancing the market offer and organizabecoming more important. There is an ongoing shift tion in the Data Management, Marketing Communifrom “information disclosure” to communication. cation and Service Fulfillment growth areas. New For suppliers of customer communication solutions, solutions were introduced to customers and new this also means that a shift is underway from transaccontracts were established. New key partnerships tion-driven communication to multi-channel customer include the Marketing Communication division’s interaction that creates opportunities in the borderland acquisition of 30% of the shares of the Friends & Tacbetween physical and digital communication, but also tics AB advertising and relationship marketing firm. imposes more requirements for capacity in terms of The market for Business Communication is a data management and processing. It is increasingly mature market in which Stralfors holds a strong posiimportant to be able to process large quantities of infortion. Investments were made in 2013 to strengthen mation in an intelligent way in order to identify new technical capacity within production, allowing for furpaths of communication with customers. ther consolidation of the business. An asset acquisiThe growth of e-commerce and outsourcing is tion of competitor Itella’s printing and inserting busidriving the need for services to fulfill the dialogue with ness in Poland was also concluded during the year. customer bases. One example is telecom companies, The acquisition strengthens PostNord’s position in the with customer relationships that involve large inforPolish market. mation flows as well as hardware flows. For Strålfors, the market trend of increased comStreamlining petition from digital alternatives entails reduced Strålfors has initiated efforts to reduce the cost base demand for services within Business Communication. within the Business Communication division to meet Meanwhile, there is increasing demand for serthe negative volume trend caused by substitution. vices that focus on stronger, more personal customer The production business in Sweden was consolidated relationships. This benefits Strålfors’ Data Managein Ljungby, Sweden. Efforts were made to manage the ment, Marketing Communication and Service Fulfillweakening trend in the businesses in France and ment businesses. Great Britain. Strålfors also implemented initiatives to reduce administrative costs. 2013 results Net sales for Strålfors fell 2% year-on-year. Excluding Environmental initiatives acquisitions and exchange rate effects, net sales fell Strålfors strives to reduce its energy consumption 1%. An asset acquisition of Itella’s printing and insertand carbon dioxide emissions. In the graphic areas of ing business in Poland was concluded during the the business, Strålfors works to reduce the use of year. Net sales were up in growth divisions Data Manchemicals and solvents. Read more about environagement, Marketing Communication and Service Fulmental operations on page 59. fillment. The Business Communication division developed weakly and had reduced revenues. Business 2014 strategic priorities Communication is the division with the most expo• Continued development of market offers within sure to competition from digital alternatives. growth divisions Data Management, Marketing Expenses fell 3%. Excluding acquisitions and Communication and Service Fulfillment. Initiatives exchange rate effects, expenses fell 2% due primarily to strengthen market positions for these divisions to lower restructuring costs, which totaled SEK 36m within Strålfors’ geographic areas of operation. (102). • Continue streamlining efforts in Business CommuOperating profit improved to SEK 16m (–25) and nication division aimed at countering volume develthe operating margin to 0.6 (–0.9)%. opment and safeguarding profitability. During the year, a loan was converted to shares in • Continue efforts to manage weak development in EsonPac AB for the purpose of securing an adequate businesses in France and Great Britain. asset base for the company’s business development. 40 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Business operations Acquisitions During 2013 PostNord initiated or completed several busilogistics market and with its goal to make strategic acquisitions ness acquisitions. These acquisitions were done in line with in other prioritized areas. PostNord’s strategy to develop its position in the Nordic COMPANY BUSINESS AREA OPERATION MOTIVE Mail Denmark (Mail) Packaging and manageSynergy-driven acquisition. ment of unaddressed Enables improved efficiency in mail items. production of unaddressed Distribution mail items. Acquisition finalized Services, January 1, 2013. Denmark Logistics One of Norway’s largest Complementary/synergythermal carriers. Pridriven acquisition of assets. mary services are transStrengthens position within port of fish and perishafish and perishables transport. Byrknes bles. Acquisition finalized on FebruAuto ary 1, 2013. Mail Denmark and Market leaders in DenSynergy-driven acquisition of Mail Sweden (Mail) mark and Sweden assets. Strengthens the group’s within digitization serviintegrated offer and position in ISS Document ces and document the Nordic scanning market. and Aditro management. Creates synergy opportunities Document with existing communication Automation business. Logistics Operations for mixed Complementary acquisition. cargo, consignment Broadens logistics business in cargo and thermal Sweden within mixed cargo, Nordisk Kyl transports. Leading consignment cargo and therLogistik and position in northern mal transports to further Transbothnia Sweden. Aggregate net strengthen platform for growth sales in 2013: SEK 731m. within grocery and industry logistics. Part of business area Logistics as of June 1, 2013. Strålfors Printing and inserting Complementary/synergybusiness with volume driven acquisition of assets. of approximately 60 Strengthens Strålfors’ presence Printing million mailings per and creates growth opportunibusiness year. ties in the Polish market. in Poland See Note 31 for additional information on acquisitions and divestments. PostNord Annual Report 2013 41 Sustainability 43 Governance model 44 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis 48 Values 49 Owners 50 Society 52 Capital market 53 Customers 55 External partners 56 Employees 59 Environment 62 Suppliers 63 Sustainability in numbers 66 Accounting principles 69 Auditor’s Review Report ABOUT THE REPORT: PostNord has published sustainability reports according to Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3.0, Application GRI since the group was formed in 2009. The 2013 SustainLevel C+. The Sustainability Report comprises pages 42–69 ability Report is the group’s fifth sustainability report. It is and the GRI cross-reference table available on the group’s directed to those who want to get an idea of our sustainabilwebsite, www.postnord.com ity work during the past year and our ambitions for the The Sustainability Report was adopted by PostNord’s future. Sustainability Report content was based on GRI Board of Directors on February 20, 2014. KPMG has principles for definition of content: materiality, stakeholder reviewed PostNord’s 2013 Sustainability Report. The Attesinclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness. tation Report is found on page 69. KPMG also confirms that The report includes, if not otherwise indicated, the Nordic PostNord’s Sustainability Report was prepared in accoroperations, since most of the group’s net sales and employdance with Global Reporting Initiative’s Application Level C+. ees are in this region. The last report was published on During the fall of 2013 PostNord conducted a GAP analysis March 20, 2013. Information on the accounting principles of the PostNord Sustainability Report and Annual Report as applied and their scope are detailed in the Accounting to GRI guidelines, version 4.0 (GRI G4). A materiality analysis Principles. The Sustainability Report has been prepared will be conducted during the spring of 2014. in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Governance model Sustainability in the governance model PostNord will create financial value and at the same time ensure implementation of universal postal services in Sweden and Denmark. Sustainability is part of PostNord’s governance model and many group targets are associated with sustainability. Group repositioning strategy key stakeholders. The model has a holistic perspecPostNord’s strategy, Roadmap PostNord 2015, tive in terms of the management and development involves the repositioning of PostNord’s operations of the business. Read more on page 73. to counter changes in the market. Read more about PostNord’s strategic objectives on pages 15–21. The Defined sustainability goals group strategy includes a continued focus on sustainPostNord’s group targets include targets in the areas ability initiatives to ensure an environmentally sound of quality, the environment and employees. These and gender-equal operation. areas are central to PostNord’s continued developPostNord’s management model is described in ment. The group targets defined for quality, the envithe Corporate Governance Report found on pages ronment and employees are those deemed by the 70–86. PostNord uses the EFQM (European FoundaGroup Executive Team and Board of Directors as havtion of Quality Management) model to evaluate and ing the greatest potential impact from a sustainability monitor the operational management system. This perspective. Read more about group targets on model is based and focused on value creation for all pages 20–21. Environment Suppliers Owners Society Read more on pages 59–61, 63 Read more on page 62 Read more on page 49 Read more on pages 50–52 PostNord External partners Employees Customers Capital market Read more on page 55 Read more on pages Read more on pages 53–54 Read more on page 52 56–58, 64–65 PostNord Annual Report 2013 43 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis Development through dialogue By understanding and acting on the issues that our stakeholders perceive as important, we can develop the group in the right direction. Continuous stakeholder dialogue is particularly important in light of the rapid changes taking place within the industry. STAKEHOLDERS GROUP TARGETS1) DIALOGUE Owners An equity-assets ratio of at least 35%. AGM, discussions, meetings. PostNord is owned to 40% by the Danish ROE of at least 10% over a business State and to 60% by the Swedish State. The cycle. overall mission from the owners is to create value and ensure execution of a universal service obligation. Society Improve the Corporate Image index Discussions, meetings, and corresponPostNord plays a key role in the Nordic busi(TRIM). dence with regulatory authorities, politiness sector and society. With a long-term, cians, and opinion leaders. Dialogue and stable and profitable business, opportunities collaboration with organizations in the are created to meet and exceed demands sector, interest groups (e.g., rural), sports for environmental compatibility and social and culture organizations, organizations responsibility. Similarly, acting in an environfor sustainable development and social mentally sound and socially responsible responsibility. manner strengthens our competitiveness. Capital market The ambition is to be an investment Telephone conferences, meetings and PostNord finances its operations partly grade company. other correspondence with analysts through bond loans. Capital market confiand investors. dence is therefore important to PostNord. Customers Improve the Corporate Image index Communication through the sales orgaPostNord is the Nordic region’s leading (TRIM). nization, customer service, customer communication and logistics company. ombudsman/appellate authority, drivOur customers need be able to reach their Improve the Customer Value Index (KVI). ers and mail carriers and through recipients on time, securely, and effectively. PostNord’s service network. Meet Swedish State’s requirement that at least 85% of 1st-class letters are delivered on following business day and 97% within three days. Meet Danish State’s 93% quality requirement for all services falling under the delivery obligation. External partners Continuous, ongoing dialogue with PostNord’s partners play an important role external partners through various in our meetings with customers. The channels. group currently has a total of 5,341 distribution points. Employees Improve employee index (MIX) and Performance reviews, workplace meetWith approx. 39,000 employees, PostNord management index (LIX). ings, employee dialogues, communicais one of the largest employers in the Nortion via internal channels, dialogue with dic region. Part of the group’s vision is to be At least 40% female managers by 2015. trade unions, Management Planning an attractive and stimulating workplace. Process, Senior Management Meetings. Reduce sick leave levels. Suppliers Procurements, purchasing negotiations, Every year, PostNord procures goods and other dialogue in connection with purservices for amounts in the billions. The chases and quality assurance meetings. development of supplier monitoring processes is important for the group. Environment Reduce carbon dioxide emissions by Customer and supplier meetings, exterPostNord’s operations are based on trans40% from 2009 to 2020. nal conferences, dialogue with students port. Environmental requirements are interested in the environment. increasing and reduction of carbon dioxide emission is a prioritized matter. 1) Read more on page 20–21. 44 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis Important issues dialogues are conducted in various formats and with varyPostNord conducts dialogues with a number of internal ing frequency. Dialogue responsibility is allocated to variand external stakeholders. In combination with the informaous parts of PostNord’s operations, depending on the tion PostNord receives from various surveys, these diastakeholder and the nature of the issues. Below is a sumlogues allow us to better understand and manage the mary of PostNord’s stakeholder dialogues, divided by trends, opportunities and risks that affect us. Stakeholder stakeholder group, type of dialogue and issues in focus. REGULAR MEASUREMENT OTHER MONITORING IMPORTANT ISSUES READ MORE Interim financial statements, annual Value creation and financial stability, page 49 report including corporate governance sustainable business practices, perforreport, sustainability report, presentamance of universal service obligation tions, other reporting. stipulated by law and license conditions. Corporate image surveys in which Quality, security, simplicity, reliability, pages approx. 400 individual customers per accessibility, consideration of customer 50–52 week answer questions on how they needs, value of products and services, perceive Posten or Post Denmark. good management of the company. Price of PostNord’s outstanding bonds. Interim financial statements, annual Financial stability, cash flows, ownership page 52 report including corporate governance structure, sustainable business, transreport, sustainability report, presentaparency. tions. Measurement (twice yearly) of cusMeasurements of delivery quality for letAccessibility through good geographic pages tomer satisfaction and private and ters and parcels, measurements of envicoverage and scope, high sales compe53–54 corporate customers’ perceptions of ronmental impact of operations. tence and good customer service, reliPostNord and PostNord’s operations. ability, security, environment, focus on Customer perceptions PostNord's extersolutions for customers. nal partners are included in the survey. Annual measurements of Swedish and Mystery shopper measurements. The function of cooperation with conpage 55 Danish partners’ perceptions of their tacts at PostNord’s external partners, collaboration with PostNord. delivery reliability, information from PostNord in support of customer service. Annual employee survey (FOCUS). Monitoring of leadership quality, Customer focus, clear information on pages employee commitment, sick leave and group’s development and direction, 56–58, gender equality. good working conditions. 64–65 Measurement of supplier loyalty and Transparency in procurement propage 62 compliance with the supplier code. cesses, ability to pay, quality of delivery. Specific environment-related questions Annual and Sustainability Report. Reduced dependence on fossil fuels. pages in group’s customer and employee 59–61, 63 surveys. PostNord Annual Report 2013 45 You beautiful new (digital) world! Norway, Sweden and Denmark are all in the top-10 PostNord often does the practical, behind-thelist of countries with highest ratio of Smartphones scenes work of successful telecom operators. We per resident. The Internet is now in most Nordic keep the hardware (e.g., telephones) in stock. We pockets (or purses), and this has altered our purensure that the products are correctly configured chasing behavior and our social lives. and we deliver them promptly and securely to the customer. We print and distribute SIM cards. We Telecom companies are investing large sums in generate and send out invoices and manage varitechnological development. But ever faster netous types of loyalty programs. Everything with a works and streams of new services are no guaransingle goal in mind: the smoothest possible custee of success. Competitors are constantly on the tomer-supplier relationship. attack, and technological advantages are often quickly surpassed. The battle for market share is This is our digital world. fought on a different battleground – with the real and lasting competitive advantages gained primarily through the consistent cultivation, attraction and retention of profitable customers. Values A compass for employees PostNord’s values – reliable, accessible, business partner, and sustainable – are fundamental to the group’s work with sustainability. Our values serve as a compass for each and every PostNord employee. Taken together, our culture, values and business ethics play a major role in the implementation of PostNord’s group strategy. Activities to increase commitment Guidelines for avoiding bribery During the year the group continued its work with Salespeople from the Swedish business and centrallystructured employee dialogues, training and guideplaced PostNord buyers received training in Swedish lines to provide PostNord employees with a more anti-bribery legislation during the year. New Swedish solid, shared foundation to stand on. anti-bribery legislation entered into force on July 1, An employee dialogue was launched in January 2012, and PostNord updated its guidelines for avoid2013 regarding the group’s values. The dialogue ing bribery in 2012. The guidelines incorporate the aimed at stimulating discussion on the group’s develnew Swedish Business Code developed by the Instiopment, creating commitment to the group’s values tute Against Bribes. and creating opportunities to discuss the way our values impact each employee and our daily work. New whistle-blower procedure The group uses employee dialogue as a method During 2013 PostNord introduced a reporting proceof implementing and uniting the group on various dure for whistle-blowers. The procedure is followed to issues. Using methodological support and produced report suspicion of serious criminal activity commitmaterial, managers are responsible for leading a ted, sanctioned or consciously ignored by people in structured discussion. Regular dialogues help managerial positions or other key persons. Reporting PostNord managers to become better communicacan be done anonymously. The procedure was develtive leaders who create commitment, provide oped in conformity with laws and regulations in Sweand seek feedback and involve employees in den, Denmark, Norway and Finland. decision-making processes. The reporting procedure can be followed by According to employee dialogue evaluations, that employees of PostNord’s Nordic companies. Customemployees feel that participation levels have ers, suppliers and other stakeholders associated with improved and managers value the dialogue format as these companies are also able to utilize the procea method of communicating with their colleagues. dure. The procedure is available in Swedish, Danish and Group-wide Code of Conduct in progress English on the web. It is also possible to report by teleDuring the year PostNord reviewed the Code of Conphone or letter. duct and other similar governance documents used Reports are handled by PostNord’s Internal Audit by the group’s various legal units. The outcome of this in collaboration with external law firms. The Internal project will be a new, group-wide Code of Conduct for Audit reports directly to PostNord’s Board of Directhe group that replaces previous documents. The tors (Auditing Committee) or Group Executive Team new Code of Conduct will be introduced during the (CEO), depending on degree of seriousness and first six months of 2014 and will serve as a guideline where suspicion is directed. for all stakeholders as regards the group’s actions and Information has been published in various internal requirements. channels to ensure that employees are aware of the procedure and how to use it. Information has also been published on the group’s external website and communicated to major suppliers via the procurement function. 48 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Owners Sustainability an integral part of governance The overarching goal of PostNord’s owners is for the company to create financial value and ensure the provision of universal postal services in Sweden and Denmark. The owners are of the view that strategic sustainability work promotes long-term growth. Sustainability in corporate governance Climate plans for Sweden and Denmark The Swedish government has communicated that Swedish climate and energy policies have a threefold companies should have a business model charactertarget for the period through 2020 (comparison year ized by profitability, long-term thinking and sustain1990): ability in order to develop in a favorable manner. The 1. At least half of the energy supply comes from government is incorporating sustainability into the renewable sources. management of state-owned companies in order to 2. Energy efficiency increased by 20%. ensure long-term value creation. Human rights, work3. Greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 40%. ing conditions, the environment, anti-corruption, business ethics, equality and diversity are included in the This year the Danish government presented a plan to government’s definition of sustainability. In 2012 the reduce the country’s greenhouse emissions by 40% government turned to the boards of state-owned during the period 2009–2020. Various sectors, companies and imposed sustainability target manincluding transportation, are included in the climate agement requirements. The targets must be compreplan. hensive and few in number, relevant to the business, The national climate plans affect state-owned long-term and challenging, and clear and easy to businesses, which are expected to contribute if their communicate. During 2014 the Ministry of Finance operations have an impact on the climate. PostNord’s will follow up sustainability initiatives with the board of operations are transport intensive, meaning that a each company. reduction of carbon dioxide emissions is relevant to The Swedish government set forth its view on the the group. Read more about PostNord’s environment sustainability issue in “Sustainable Businesses”, puband climate initiatives and targets on pages 59–61 and lished in the fall of 2013. page 63. The Danish government has stated that a commercial view of social responsibility helps improve a Dialogues during the year company’s competitiveness and growth while also PostNord’s AGMs offer opportunities for dialogue with achieving social and environmental effects. the owners. The 2013 AGM resolved to elect Jens In March 2012 the Danish government published Moberg as Chairman of the Board and to reelect and “Responsible Growth,” an action plan for corporate newly elect other board members. The AGM also social responsibility for the 2012–2015 period. “Busiresolved to distribute a dividend totaling SEK 103m ness-driven Social Responsibility”, published in June (368) to shareholders and elected KPMG AB as the 2012, included examples of companies that combine group’s new accounting firm. During the 2013 AGM business advantage with sustainability. The Danish question and answer period, the issues of delivery Parliament passed a new law in 2013 on workplace quality, work environment and workplace equality equality in the country’s largest companies. In cases were addressed by the group’s highest officials. Read where one gender is underrepresented (less than 40 more on how PostNord works with these issues with percent) on the board or in management, the comregard to customers (pages 53–54) and to employees pany must set targets and adopt action plans for ful(pages 56–58). Read more about the AGM on page 75. filling the requirement. During 2013 the board dealt with issues related to Read more about PostNord’s corporate goverthe group’s sustainability initiatives and targets. Board nance on pages 70–86 and targets on pages 20–21. members participated in seminars on sustainability with the Swedish owners. Read more about board’s work on pages 76–77. PostNord Annual Report 2013 49 Society An important role in society During 2013 PostNord delivered 5.9 billion letters and other mail items, 110 million parcels and 2.5 billion kilos of goods to the 25 million inhabitants and two million companies in Nordic region. With nearly 400 years of distribution experience in Sweden and Denmark, we are continuing to strengthen our position as the Nordic region’s leading communication and logistics company. PostNord creates competitiveness. Cooperation regarding security With over 5,300 distribution points, over 18,000 mail PostNord cooperates with the police and customs carriers and a fleet of more than 20,000 vehicles authorities to combat crimes such as smuggling, theft PostNord’s distribution network plays a major role in and fraud. The group’s employees are instructed to key social functions in the Nordic region. The group contact their nearest supervisor and to notify the focuses on strengthening its customers’ competitivepolice if they suspect, for example, that a consignness by solving their communication and logistics ment contains drugs. Only the police or customs offineeds. Read more about PostNord’s operations on cers may open shipments when there is suspicion of pages 28–41. a crime. PostNord actively works to improve security for Strong local presence the group’s customers and employees. Barring funcPostNord’s business is dependent on a well-functiontions for certain transported electronic goods, pering dialogue with politicians and other decision maksonal alarms, special locks on vehicles and security ers and opinion leaders. When major changes occur training for employees are examples of preventive that affect key stakeholders, PostNord strives to conmeasures taken to prevent theft and fraud. duct an open dialogue with all those affected. One example of this is the investments in terminals being Community involvement and cooperation made in Sweden – investments that involve new PostNord is actively involved in the communities in establishments in some areas and closures in other. which it operates. Efforts are concentrated on a few larger projects, preferably in the areas of sports and PostNord is developing with society. culture and the support of children and young peoThe group plays an important role in rural areas. ple. In this way, the group obtains long-term continuPostNord’s wide-spread presence in the Nordic ity and mutual benefit from our collaborations. Some region enables trade between companies and priof PostNord’s current collaborations: vate individuals, regardless of where they are. Those served by rural mail carriers can, for example, have Cycling parcels delivered without charge. This benefits, Many PostNord employees use bicycles in their daily among other, e-retailers in thinly settled areas and work. In Denmark, for example, up to 70% of letters improves accessibility to distance selling. are delivered by mail carriers on bicycles. It is thereIn Sweden, a sparsely populated country, the fore natural for PostNord to promote cycling through group’s 2,000 rural mail carrier routes provide sercooperation with the Danish Cycling Union and the vice to around 800,000 households and companies. Swedish Cycling Association. Through this collaboraWhen forms of distribution are changed, the group is tion, the group promotes the expansion of cycling eager to engage in dialogue with those affected. and supports a popular sport that is growing in popuToday, mail in rural areas is normally distributed to larity, a sport that also benefits overall health and the mailbox clusters along the main roads. environment. In Demark the group continues to develop offerings in care and welfare distribution. In 2012 Post DenSoccer mark won one of Denmark’s first procurements in the Soccer is widely popular. Hundreds of thousands of area and became responsible for a complete distribupeople – participants and spectators alike – are pastion solution for implementation of telemedical1) sionate about the sport. PostNord is a proud sponsor home equipment. Additional telemedicine commisof the Swedish Soccer Association. sions were received in 2013, and the group is continuing to develop services in that area. 1) Telemedicine refers to the remote provision of medical services. 50 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Society The Hallsberg terminal – one of PostNord’s new terminals The mail terminal in Hallsberg was officially inaugurated in the fall of 2013 and has been fully operational since February 2014. Hallsberg replaces the terminals in Karlstad and in Västerås. The terminal building, including the railroad track area, is around 26,800 square meters in size and is the workplace for around 300 employees. The terminal is situated near the main rail line and two railway spurs run directly into the building. The terminals are geothermally heated and have a computer-monitored control system for low energy consumption. To create an open business culture that includes employees with different backgrounds and experience, Posten initiated a training program in 2013 in cooperation with the Public Employment Service and the Language & Future adult education program in Örebro and other municipalities involved. The cooperation is a targeted, long-term training and recruiting process for people who have not yet established themselves in the labor market. The training is designed based on the idea that participants should be qualified to work at PostNord as well as at other companies. A total of 49 people participated in the first two training sessions, of which 29 were offered employment at the group’s Hallsberg terminal. Ten additional people were also hired to work during the three busiest Christmas weeks, when the group significantly increases its staff. Corporate image Distributed value 40 Suppliers, 52.1% 30 Employees, 47.2% Credit providers, 0.3% 20 Society, 0.4% 10 0 11 12 13 TRIM-index PostNord Annual Report 2013 51 Capital market The August prize Read more about PostNord’s community involveThe written word is becoming increasingly important ment at www.postnord.com. in the digital world. PostNord wants to inspire everyone to read and write more. Considering the clear link Investments for the future between the written letter and the group’s operaIn recent years PostNord has invested billions in new tions, Posten has partnered with the August Prize, terminals for mail, pallet and parcel management in Sweden’s biggest literature prize after the Nobel Prize. Sweden. These investments are important for creating a production structure that helps the group to Charity stamps develop customers’ competitiveness. The terminals Every year Post Denmark and Posten issue special increase capacity and flexibility while also reducing stamps, where part of the price goes to selected nonunit costs. New terminals have or will be put into operprofit organizations that are selected for one year at a ation in Hallsberg, Veddesta and Rosersberg. time. The selected organizations are highly reputed PostNord has also invested in making the new terand work in the areas of aid, health or the environment. minals environmentally compatible. The terminals are The money collected in 2013 went to SOS Children’s constructed to meet Green Building certification Villages in Sweden and Save the Children in Denmark. requirements, signifying 25% less energy consumption that the levels required by the Swedish National Julemærkefonden and Mentor Housing Board. The terminals’ geographic locations PostNord is committed to helping children and young result in shorter driving distances and provide options people in need of support. In Denmark the group supfor increasing rail transport and improving transport ports the Julemærkefonden in its work to help vulnerintegration. able children achieve good self-esteem. In Sweden the Employee work environment is another of our group works with the Mentor Foundation, which focus areas. The new “singulation technology” introworks closely with the business community to encourduced at our terminals is an example of how technolage young people to reject violence and drugs. ogy is used to reduce the amount of heavy lifting In addition to these efforts, PostNord has particirequired – the machine automatically divides parcels pated in various regional, national and international into piles and scans bar codes from multiple angles initiatives for sustainable development, climate issues simultaneously. and service and accessibility issues. Capital market confidence PostNord is a Swedish public company owned 40% by the Danish State and 60% by the Swedish State. Votes are allocated 50/50 between the owners. Operations are financed via external loans in addition to internally generated funds. PostNord’s operations are funded in part by external For investors and analysts that are monitoring borrowing. PostNord established a commercial paper PostNord’s creditworthiness due to the group’s program and a bond program in 2012. Additional external borrowing, it is important that disclosure is loans were raised through these programs in 2013. accurate, relevant and timely. Investor confidence External financing in the form of interest-bearing debt and assessment of PostNord’s credit rating are pretotaled SEK 4,589m (4,312) at turn of the year 2013/14. requisites for PostNord’s future access to external Most investors in PostNord’s bond program are insticapital to implement planned changes. tutional investors such as pension funds and insurance companies. The bonds are listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. 52 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Customers Quality-oriented customers Every business day, PostNord delivers a huge amount of mail items, parcels and palletized goods to the Nordic region’s 25 million residents and 2 million businesses. We strive to execute each task in a timely, secure and efficient manner. Delivery quality is crucial the group, also have daily contact with customers. Delivery quality is one of the key factors in the satisfacRead more about external partners on page 55. tion of the group’s corporate and private customers1). The group’s sales units and account managers To ensure our capacity to fulfill each individual task, maintain regular dialogue with corporate customers. quality work is conducted on a continuous basis Corporate customers have communicated that they in all group operations. These efforts are crucial for expect PostNord to be a proactive supplier, offer qualPostNord’s credibility and ability to do business. Our ified advice and have a high level of expertise. To a business operations generally maintain a high delivery large extent they demand a complete partner able to quality, and we work hard to maintain and improve it. respond to many different needs, which means that Effective production processes and employee all contact points and functions within PostNord need commitment are prerequisites for a high quality level. to act as a well-integrated unit. Interruptions and delays can be caused by many facPostNord’s customer service functions meet thoutors – such as impassable roads, broken sorting sands of private and corporate customers every day machines or IT-related problems. PostNord introvia the Internet, telephone and e-mail. If a customer is duced new guidelines for continuity management in not completely satisfied with a meeting or decision, 2011. The guidelines stipulate that all business areas they have the option of contacting a customer agent and group functions must be capable of restoring in Sweden and an appellate authority in Denmark. and maintaining important deliveries regardless of Feedback from all of these channels is instrumental in the cause of the interruption. Continuity work is part PostNord’s development. of PostNord’s risk management. The group expends much effort on exchanging information within the group in order to predict, Many arenas for meeting with customers understand and solve various customer needs. PutMail carriers and drivers meet private and corporate ting customer service in contact with sellers means customers on a daily basis. PostNord’s external that PostNord can develop offers to customers and partners, who in many cases are the external face of create new business opportunities. 1) According to PostNord’s customer survey that forms the basis of the Customer Value Index (KVI). Delivery quality, 1st-class letters Customer Value Index % 100 80 95 60 90 40 85 20 80 0 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 Sweden Denmark Customer value Index (KVI) PostNord Annual Report 2013 53 Customers Complementary systematic measurements Denmark, where Posten and Post Denmark are In addition to its daily contact with customers, responsible for universal postal services. PostNord regularly conducts various types of Corporate image surveys are conducted on a customer surveys. The goal of all customer dialogue weekly basis, with around 200 Swedes and 200 is to continue to develop, to create new solutions Danes responding to questions about how they perfor customers and to be aware of and manage ceive Posten and Post Danmark. The Corporate challenges that arise. Image Index for 2013 was 37 (35). Measurements for the year show a positive trend and a generally better Customer satisfaction opinion of Posten in Sweden, particularly in terms of PostNord has been measuring customer satisfaction personal impressions and the overall reputation. The and private and corporate customers’ perceptions of development in Denmark did not show the same posthe group and its operations since 2008. These meaitive trend during the year, which is explained by perisurements result in a KVI (Customer Value Index). The odic shortcomings in parcel deliveries. Post Denmark group’s overall KVI for the year was 71 (71). As previand Posten in Sweden essentially have the same ously, the year’s measurement shows that corporate basic strengths: dependability and reliability. Areas for customers appreciate the competence of PostNord’s improvement in Sweden have mostly to do with pubsales staff and its geographic coverage. On the other lic perception of the group’s responsiveness and how hand, corporate customers want quicker developto contact the company. In Denmark it is a matter of ment of custom-made solutions. Private customers creating trust regarding Post Denmark’s future prosappreciate the group’s delivery quality and geopects. graphic coverage but believe that areas such as claims management and customer orientation can Change in mail habits be improved. Never before have there been so many channels of communication to choose from. Increasing Corporate image digitization has increased the power of the recipient. Approximately 94% of PostNord’s revenues come PostNord conducted surveys in Sweden and Denmark from corporate customers. But it also has a very large on individuals’ habits and attitudes regarding physical number of private customers, and corporate customand electronic communication. An important finding ers’ own customers and employees are in many is that most people want to choose how to receive cases also private customers. Since private custominformation. PostNord fulfills an important function in ers are also important recipients of PostNord’s society by providing information about and services services, their perceptions of PostNord are of great for physical and electronic communication. significance. This is particularly true in Sweden and Studies of the Nordic e-commerce market For several years, PostNord has conducted studies of PostNord’s promise for the future to the the Nordic e-commerce market. This year’s report, Nordic business sec“E-commerce in the Nordic region 2013” shows that tor and society: you fast delivery and flexible customer service are highly will be able to your recipients on time, prioritized. securely and costeffectively. Certification in demand2) Many customers require certification in connection with procurement of communication and logistics services. PostNord has worked since 2010 to achieve group-wide quality, environment and work environment certification. Mail Denmark was included this year in PostNord’s quality and environment certification, which now covers the Swedish and Danish operations in their entireties. The Swedish operation’s work environment will be certified during 2014. This certification is already complete for business area Mail Denmark. Plans have been developed for integrating nonNordic operations and newly acquired businesses into the group-wide certification. 2) PostNord’s operational management system is certified in accordance with the ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environment) standards. Work is in progress to include OHSAS 18001 (work environment) in the group-wide certification. 54 PostNord Annual Report 2013 External partners Partners enhance accessibility PostNord has 5,341 distribution points, of which 215 are run by the company, 4,697 by external partners and 429 are unmanned automatic parcel points. Our partners are mainly well established retail chains with national coverage. An important customer channel We monitor Swedish and Danish customers’ perPostNord’s cooperation with external partners is ception of PostNord’s external distribution points strategically important– our partners are part of in the group’s KVI customer survey. Read more PostNord’s interaction with customers. The structure on page 54. of the operators’ drop-of and distribution networks PostNord conducts continuous dialogue with is a competitive advantage because accessibility is partners to ensure the development of services and appreciated by customers and influences their peroffers. Mystery shopper surveys are conducted annuception of the group. We therefore set high standards ally with multiple Swedish, Danish and Finnish partfor our own service points as well as those of our ners. The aim is to identify areas for improvement and external partners. During the year, PostNord to adapt the training they receive. PostNord discusses expanded the number of distribution points the results of these metrics with partners, both cenby 462, from 4,879 to 5,341. trally and with local merchants. The group’s partner in Finland conducts monthly Dialogue develops cooperation with partners monitoring of its partners (store chains). In Norway, a In Sweden, PostNord conducts annual certification of daily quality-control report is distributed to each partall external partners to ensure that they have the right ner. At least twice annually there is also a quality-conskills for addressing customers. In 2013, 93% of Swedtrol meeting with each store manager. Annual surish partner outlets completed the certification. In veys of partners’ perception of the cooperation with cases where partner outlets do not have certified PostNord are conducted for the Swedish and Danish staff, the group draws up an action plan so that each distribution points. outlet obtains the necessary skills for certification. A total of 5,341 Nordic distribution points... ...of which 5,126 are operated by external partners 20132) 20121) Sweden Own management 0 288 External partners 1,830 1,544 Denmark3) Own management 215 228 External partners 993 723 1,053 Norway External partners 1,250 1,041 1,250 Finland External partners 1,053 1,055 Total 5,341 4,879 1) Number of distribution points in Sweden per January 14, 2013; Denmark per December 31, 2012; Norway per January 9, 2013; and Finland per December 21, 2012. 1,830 2) Number of delivery points in Sweden per December 27, 2013; Denmark per December 19, 2012; Norway per December 20, 2013; and Finland per December 16, 2012. 3) Including 429 unstaffed automatic parcel machines. 1,208 PostNord Annual Report 2013 55 Employees Committed employees The capacity of PostNord managers to lead during change, in combination with employee commitment, is crucial to the success of the structural changes that are underway – and for PostNord’s long-term success. Production-intensive business PostNord offers a number of leadership training The total average number of PostNord employees in opportunities and developmental initiatives to man13 countries is 39,305, of which 98.4% are in the Noragers, employees and various types of specialists. dic countries. The majority work as mail carriers, drivSome of these training initiatives are oriented towards ers or at a mail or logistics terminal. Every day, these a particular profession, such as drivers. employees ensure that millions of letters, parcels and Skills development is more than just formal trainother mail items reach the right recipient on time. ing or coursework. Learning is done to a great extent There are also specialist functions within the group during day-to-day work activities, through new worksuch as IT, sales and other administrative functions. ing methods or work assignments and through feedback from managers and colleagues. Management skill is a prerequisite for success Like many other national postal operators, PostNord is Diversity and equality carrying out extensive operational changes – changes PostNord employees represent many different that are crucial in term of meeting the market trend. nationalities, come from diverse religious backGood management is vital for the structural changes grounds and speak many different languages. that are underway and for PostNord’s continued PostNord enriches its workforce through local inidevelopment and long-term success. Managerial tiatives that welcome people who are not yet estabexpertise in guiding change is a critical factor. Several lished in the labor market. important training initiatives were carried out during PostNord has zero tolerance for discrimination, the year to increase awareness among managers and and managers are responsible establishing the zero support staff in terms of how people react to change. tolerance policy among all employees. Management also affects employee participation Revised guidelines for the group’s diversity initiaand commitment levels. PostNord focuses on teamtives will be launched in 2014. based working practices to increase commitment and broaden skills. The group’s managers and leadLong-term workplace equality target ers are responsible for creating favorable conditions PostNord’s employees are 34% women and 66% for teamwork. men. Wage mapping is conducted on a regular basis and produces data on gender-based wage differenSystematic leadership development tials. This year’s mapping showed that PostNord’s In order to develop and secure long-term leadership male employees earn an average of 3.2 (3.3)% more for PostNord there is a group-wide process for leaderthan women in corresponding positions. Read more ship planning, the Management Planning Process, for on page 64. the evaluation and development of managers. In order to accelerate gender equality, PostNord Through this process the group has defined behavestablished a target in 2010 to have 40% female maniors that should characterize all managers’ day-to-day agers and leaders within the group 2015. At year end, leadership. Managers should be clear, should involve the share of female managers was unchanged at others, take responsibility and deliver value. These cri29 (29)%. teria form the basis for managers’ evaluations and In all countries, where it is allowed by law, the continued development initiatives. group in recruiting must select a representative for the sex that is underrepresented in a unit when two Skills development candidates have equal qualifications. At least 50% Part of PostNord’s vision is to be an attractive and stimmust be women among participants in a talent proulating workplace. Employee skills development is an gram for supervisors and specialists. important factor in ensuring the business’s long-term When authorized by law, selections made in all needs. Managers and employees agree on an individcountries under the group’s recruitment processes ual development plan during annual career developmust be made in favor of the underrepresented genment discussions. In this year’s employee survey, 82 der when candidate qualifications are otherwise (79)% of respondents answered that they had had a equal. The group’s development program for managcareer development discussion. 78% indicated that ers and specialists includes a minimum target of 50% they had formulated a development plan. female participants. 56 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Employees To accelerate target achievement, it was determined local clubs and 1,500 members. Strålfors has a Recrein December 2013 that all managerial, supervisory and ation Association that involves many employees. project director jobs will be advertised both internally In 2013, sick leave at PostNord was 5.0 (4.9)%. The and externally. It was also determined that the final group’s goal is to decrease sick leave to below this candidates for each recruitment must include both level. A one percent reduction in sick leave in the women and men. Recruiting process compliance group, all else being equal, would yield a positive must be reported and monitored by the management effect on profit of SEK 115m. group and reported to the group’s HR function. As of 2014, every manager’s individual goal contract must Responsible conversion include targets for the number of women in managePostNord is converting its operations to make them rial positions within their area of responsibility. more efficient and profitable. The conditions in the The Marianne Niverts scholarship was established industry are changing at a rapid pace. The conversion in 2009 to encourage female leadership and bring of the group affects its staffing needs, and sales peomore women into leadership positions. The prize ple and IT specialists are examples of the expertise we money must be used for “individual development require. We will also need more truck drivers to handle efforts.” The scholarship will be awarded through 2014. increased numbers of parcels. At the same time fewer letters are being sent, which means that we are Health and work environment reviewing the number of personnel in mail carrying. Many professional roles in PostNord are physically PostNord intends to act both efficiently and demanding, such as jobs in the group’s terminals. responsibly in all conversion of operations. The conStress is a further challenge for many employees, version program that the group is offering in conjuncespecially in a time when the group is undergoing tion with redundancy, or for employees who leave the extensive structural changes. PostNord has worked actively for many years to improve the health and wellbeing of its employees. In Employee commitment and leadership 2013 the group focused on further developing methods, work routines and tools for early and proactive 70 prevention. One example of proactive work is the 60 new parcel and pallet terminal in Swedish Veddesta, 50 where new technology reduces manual lifting. 40 The Posten Fritid staff fund in Sweden is included in PostNord’s employment benefits and promotes 30 health, improved satisfaction levels and a sense of 20 community. Activities supported by Posten Fritid 10 include the Sports Association, with 94 local sports 0 clubs and over 13,000 members. In Denmark, a 11 12 13 Sports and Recreation Association has around 40 MIX LIX PostNord’s leadership criteria I DELIVER VALUE through I AM CLEAR in s Understanding and acting s My expectations upon customer requirements s My feedback s Prioritizing s My communication s Taking responsibility for the big picture LEADERSHIP CRITERIA I TAKE RESPONSIBILITY by I INVOLVE PEOPLE by s Developing the business s Demonstrating trust s Taking full ownership s Delegating s Implementing continuous improvement s Creating the right conditions PostNord Annual Report 2013 57 Employees company for medical reasons, includes training, among group employees was unchanged from the courses, relocation support and coaching. previous year at 87%. The result is expressed as the Compared with the previous year, the average employee index (MIX) and the leadership index (LIX). number of employees in the Nordic region decreased This year’s survey showed a slight positive increase by 475. The number of employees in the Nordic region in MIX and LIX. The MIX increased from 63% to 64% at year-end decreased by 1,337. There have been large and the LIX from 65% to 66%. All supervisors and leadstaff reductions in existing operations, while the group ers in the group must discuss the survey with their has acquired several businesses. Of the employees employees and present activity plans based on the who ended their employment during the year, 1,006 outcome. In the survey 64 (61)% of employees indiwere made redundant, 3,067 left of their own volition, cated that they worked using the activity plans. and 2,736 employees were recruited or acquired. For The survey shows that employees’ confidence in more information on the average numbers and the their line managers increased during the year. At the number of employees, see pages 64–65. same time, confidence in PostNord’s top management decreased. Confidence in the future, and in their Union cooperation own personal development within the company, PostNord’s management and the unions that repreremained at a low level. 44 (44)% of employees sent our employees realize the importance of close responded that they have good opportunities for and trusting cooperation. Employee participation development within the group. As one consequence rights are based on each country’s labor law legislaof the survey results, PostNord will focus more tion and are regulated at the national level. PostNord’s intensely during 2014 on communicating and anchoremployers in all business areas and at the group level ing its group strategy and goals as well as on what is cooperate and negotiate with the unions. All employhappening within the company. The group will also ees in the Nordic region are included in collective make clear the professional development and career agreements that are signed at the national level. opportunities that exist within the group. The Collaboration and Employee Participation agreement specifies that the unions should receive Dialogue with employees yields results early information and have the opportunity to influence During 2013, employee dialogue continued as part of negotiations and collaboration in order to increase PostNord’s program of internal mobilization. The purunderstanding of, and participation in, the changes takpose of this program is to increase knowledge of the ing place at PostNord. During 2013, collaboration in Sweongoing conversion of the group. The focus of this den focused on establishing the new collective agreeyear’s dialogue was group values. Read more on ment, while the focus in Denmark and other parts of page 48. PostNord was on conversion and reducing personnel. The employee dialogue seems to have had a positive effect in Strålfors, for example. The employee Employee survey takes the temperature index (MIX) at Strålfors in 2013 was 74 (72)%, which is As a complement to the daily dialogue, we annually 10 percentage points higher than the group average. conduct an employee survey, FOCUS, in which The leadership index was 73 (70)%. Strålfors also had employees express their views on their own employthe lowest level of sick leave in the group; 3.1%, in comment and on the leadership. The response frequency parison with the group average of 5.0%. “During the year Strålfors supervisors Women in leadership roles and leaders have focused on conduct% ing dialogue with 50 employees. We have strived to go out into 40 the operations and discuss visions and 30 targets, customer focus, and working 20 processes, along with satisfaction and health and safety, 10 which has yielded results. I have myself 0 also been out and 10 11 12 13 met all the employWomen in leadership roles ees and discussed the PostNord’s target 2015 future, the vision, and where we are headed”. / Per Samuelson, head of Strålfors 58 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Environment Environmental work is strategically important Being the environmentally sound choice for our customers is part of our vision. Our operations require various types of transportation. Reducing our consumption of fossil fuels is one of the group’s highest priority initiatives in order to achieve our long-term environmental goals. Environmental demands by customers account for the lion’s share of the group’s environare growing mental impact. 91% of the group’s total carbon dioxBeing the environmentally sound choice for our cuside emissions are related to transport. Reduced contomers is commercially important to PostNord. Sursumption of fossil fuels is therefore one of PostNord’s veys by the group show that delivery quality, price and highest priority initiatives in order to achieve our longcompetence are the most important considerations term emissions target. The group’s Environment for Nordic customers when choosing a logistics supFund3), which is intended to accelerate our environplier. But customers are also increasingly valuing envimental efforts, is expected to contribute to this target. ronmental aspects. In the past two years, Nordic comRead more about the Environment Fund below. panies have increasingly demanded documentation PostNord uses several kinds of transport in order on climate impact and emissions from their logistics to carry out its business. We use both our own vehisuppliers1). Three in ten companies today require this cles and purchased transport services. In order to be documentation. Customer demands for environmenthe environmentally sound choice for our customers, tal certification are also increasing, and five in ten NorPostNord is working in a targeted manner to dic companies require ISO environmental certification. decrease its own impact on the environment, and Many corporate customers also have their own ambirequires that suppliers of transport services do the tious environmental targets, and PostNord has an same. For example, PostNord requires certain EURO important role to play as a large logistics provider. classes for its suppliers’ vehicle fleet. Requirements are also set with regard to tires and fuel use. Environmentally sound services In addition to general requirements for active environThe long-term environmental goal mental efforts, some customers are requesting specific PostNord strives to conduct all business with the minservices, such as customeror service-specific environimum possible impact on the environment. The longmental data or environmentally-friendly services. term environmental target for the group is to PostNord Logistics in Norway has a prize-winning decrease carbon dioxide emissions by 40% during environmental calculator that works out environmenthe period 2009 to 2020. The overall target has been tally-damaging emissions from transportation2). The broken down into relevant sub-targets and key percalculator uses the weight and volume of the customformance indicators, such as grams of CO2/letter, er’s goods in relation to other goods in the same load, grams of CO2/parcel and liters of fuel/10 kilometers. the type of transport, the distance and the topography. PostNord monitors the results each quarter. PostNord offers services in Sweden and Denmark with During 2013, PostNord’s emissions of carbon dioxclimate offset. In Sweden, for example, we offer direct ide decreased by 6% to 396,377 (423,262)4) tons. The mail for which PostNord ensures that the distribution is decrease is mainly due to efficiencies in the logistics not by air and that the climate impact is offset. Our cuschain and investments in vehicles that are more fuel tomers can in turn guarantee that their business is efficient. Increasing the mixture of bio-fuels in diesel in environmentally certified and that the mail is recyclaSweden has also decreased fossil emissions. In relable and fulfills the criteria of the Nordic Ecolabel. tion to the base year 2009, emissions by the group have decreased by 16%. Transport is the greatest challenge Most of PostNord’s business involves the transportaMore rapid pace with the Environment Fund tion of letters, wares and goods from one point to PostNord has had an Environment Fund since 2009, another. Carbon dioxide emissions from transport the purpose of which is to increase the pace of environ1) According to the Nordic logistics barometer for 2012, prepared by PostNord. 2) In 2011 PostNord Logistics (then Tollpost Globe) was awarded the Norwegian Logistics and Freight Association’s Environmental Prize for its calculation tool. The tool and the method were developed in a research project, where several large transport firms participated. 3) Called the Climate Fund in the period 2009–2013. 4) The emissions data includes completed acquisitions. Previously reported values have been adjusted. PostNord Annual Report 2013 59 Environment mental efforts. The group earmarks funds for measures Noise to improve the environment – and thus creates change PostNord cares about its surroundings and reduces in its own operations. The size of the Environment Fund noise from operations. Despite this, people may be disis equivalent to what it would cost to offset the entire turbed. Complaints to municipalities can, for example, group’s emissions. Everyone at PostNord can make lead to injunctions to carry out noise measurements suggestions as to how the fund should be used for and possibly undertake other measures. During the measures to improve the environment and climate. For year the group has finished work on decreasing noise 2013, SEK 100m was earmarked for the Environment nuisance for neighbors of the operations in Halmstad, Fund, and since 2009 about 90 projects to improve the Sweden, and continues work in Huddinge, Sweden. environment and climate have been initiated. Environmentally licensed operations Web-based environmental training PostNord conducts operations in Sweden, Denmark, New group-wide web-based environmental training France, and Poland that require registration under was introduced in 2012 to increase awareness of envinational law. Such operations constitute a limited ronmental issues. All managers, leaders, specialists, part of the group’s net sales. The Strålfors facilities and administrators at PostNord will undergo the trainin Ljungby, Sweden, require registration under the ing, and between its introduction and the end of 2013 Swedish environmental code. Similar registration is around 5,000 employees completed it. made with the relevant authorities for Strålfors facilities in France and Poland. These operations are Waste disposal graphic production and affect the external environThe operations of PostNord generate mostly paper ment in the form of emissions to air. waste, for example in the form of cardboard pallet colA number of vehicle wash facilities in PostNord’s lars. Waste is sorted at source, and during 2013 73 Swedish operations are also required to register (76)% of waste was recycled and 27 (24)% was used under the environmental code. No significant envifor energy recovery. See also page 63. ronmental incidents have occurred and there have been no major environmental disputes during the year. No licensed operations were required to renew their registration during 2013. Total CO2 emissions, 2009–20131) CO2 emissions by category kton 500 Road transport, 87% Air and ferry transport, 4% 400 Business travel, 2% 300 Electricity, 3% Heating, 4% 200 100 0 09 10 11 12 13 Total CO2 emissions 1) Emissions data includes completed acquisitions. Previously reported values have been adjusted. Electric vehicles, 2009–2013 Percentage of electric vehicles in fleet 6,000 Electric vehicles, 27% 4,000 2,000 0 09 10 11 12 13 Electric vehicles 60 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Environment How we reduce our environmental impact 1. We transport approximately 65% of mail volumes in Sweden 2. We are enhancing energy efficiency and we buy green electricity. by rail between sorting terminals. In Norway, the majority of Energy consumption in PostNord facilities and buildings accounts for parcel and pallet volumes are transported by rail. 7 (10)% of the group’s total carbon dioxide emissions. A decision was The letter terminal in Hallsberg was put into service this year. made in 2013 to increase the efforts in Grøn Adfærd (Green Behavior), The terminal is located near the main line, with two tracks that go a comprehensive campaign in PostNord’s Danish operations, straight into the building, which simplifies the flows transported intended to save energy. The campaign was introduced in 2012 with by rail. More movements of freight trains are required to enable 14,000 employees involved, of whom 280 functioned as so-called rail transport of logistics products such as pallets and parcels climate ambassadors. Energy consumption decreased in a total of in Sweden. 270 buildings by approximately 20%, and –10% has been maintained. 3. We are reducing fuel consumption 4. We are developing smarter communication and logisin air transport. tics solutions together with customers and suppliers. Transport by air causes 4 (5)% of the The group has, for example, developed customer-specific group’s total carbon dioxide emissions. In arrangements that make fewer transport kilometers possi2012, PostNord and the group’s air service ble as a result of efficient coordination between PostNord’s partner in Sweden, Amapola, began a various logistics operations. cooperation. This cooperation has continued during the year. New radio equipment and training for pilots in eco-flying have helped to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from Swedish domestic transports by 10% between July 2012 and July 2013. 9. We are upgrading our vehicles to more environmentally efficient alternatives. We continued during the year to invest in vehicles that consume less fuel. The Danish operations bought 50 electric vehicles from Mercedes-Benz. During 2014 the 7. We fill our vehicles logistics operations will test two large and optimize the routes. electric vehicles for distribution of parcels. Constantly striving to maintain a high fill 5. We have a large fleet level and driving the most intelligent of electric vehicles. routes possible decrease the costs and PostNord’s fleet of electric vehicles is environmental impact per consignment. steadily growing. Electric vehicles are less PostNord tracks the grams of CO2/letter expensive to operate and maintain, and and grams of CO2/parcel. the noise level is lower compared with conventional vehicles. Improved battery performance and competitive prices are 8. We use new fuels and new technology. factors that may further increase the Transport by road accounts for 87 (83)% of PostNord’s total carbon dioxide investment. emissions. Our logistics operations have continued to test electric hybrid trucks during the year. The tests show that the smaller electric hybrids that exist now are most suitable for distribution in urban areas. Tests of trucks run 6. Our drivers use as little fuel as possible and drive safely. on the bio-fuel bio-DME1) also continued. Trucks were also tested during the PostNord monitors fuel consumption per vehicle and driver. During year that are run on liquid methane in combination with diesel fuel. This combithe year the group participated in the International Post Corporation’s nation is suitable mostly for heavy and long-distance transport, when the truck (IPC) IPC Drivers Challenge in Dublin. The purpose of the competition automatically uses the most gas. PostNord is following with interest the develis to honor letter carriers who drive in an environmentally sound and opment of electrified roads, which should be able to complement rail for safe way. PostNord’s heavy transports. 1) DME stands for dimethyl ether. When the fuel is produced from biomass it is called bio-DME. DME can also be produced from natural gas. The DME that PostNord is testing is produced from black liquor, an energy-rich, viscous byproduct of the pulp industry. PostNord Annual Report 2013 61 Suppliers Responsible procurement Every year PostNord purchases goods and services for approximately SEK 19 billion. Risk mapping of suppliers was begun during 2013 to improve our monitoring of compliance by suppliers with the requirements set by the group. Coordination of procurement Monitoring and compliance During 2013 the group focused on introducing a catePostNord conducts regular status meetings with transgory-based work procedure, where buyers responsiportation providers. Monitoring compliance with the ble for a category work toward synergies and savings requirements the group imposes for transport providtogether with the relevant parties. The group’s proers also takes place through annual audits. The introcurement function works together with representaduction and implementation of annual audits for all tives from each PostNord business area in order to PostNord’s major transport providers was initiated by ensure that procurement needs are coordinated. the group in 2012, and this work has continued in 2013. Annual audits include general contract compliance, Qualification of new suppliers compliance with PostNord’s specific requirements for As part of the contracts awarded under LUF/FSVD1), transport providers, monitoring of environmental data potential suppliers are asked to conduct a self-assessand monitoring of environmental standards. ment in which they rate themselves on factors such For the purchase of promotional clothing from as the environment and quality. Purchasing managAsia, our suppliers are required to show reports that ers then conduct a supplier evaluation, together with they have checked their subcontractors. Once a conthe client. tract is concluded, monitoring takes place through The qualification process of PostNord’s transporstatus meetings with the supplier. PostNord’s largest tation providers ensures that the supplier meets the supplier of clothing reports annually to the group on group’s specific requirements for transport. PostNord its sustainability work. places requirements on certain EURO classes for the supplier’s vehicle fleet, tires and fuel. For machinery, Risk classification of suppliers EU standards and special requirements are applied During 2013 the group began work to identify the risk for noise levels. Specific environmental requirements level of suppliers. Risk classification is based on enviare also placed for other purchases with a significant ronmental risks with regard to the sector and purimpact on the environment, such as promotional chasing category along with other types of sustainclothing. Most clothing purchases are from suppliers ability risks with respect to the country that the goods in Sweden that in turn buy from contracted producor services are produced in. The work includes develtion units, primarily in Asia and Eastern Europe. opment of a methodology for monitoring identified mediumand high-risk suppliers. PostNord plans to PostNord’s supplier code begin work during 2014 to monitor identified PostNord should only sign contracts with suppliers mediumand high-risk suppliers with regard to their who undertake to comply with PostNord’s supplier compliance with the supplier code. code. The supplier code was last updated in December 2012 and includes the requirements contained in the UN Global Compact. The supplier code also requires suppliers to take responsibility for their subcontractors’ compliance with PostNord’s requirements. 1) Utilities Procurement Act (LUF): Act on Procurement in the fields of Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services (Sweden). Utilities Directive (FSVD): (Denmark). 62 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Sustainability in numbers Sustainability in numbers Economic data Environmental data1) Generated value, SEKm 2013 2012 2011 Carbon dioxide emissions (tons) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net sales, external 39,533 38,920 39,466 of which, payments received Fossil CO2 emissions, from the government 25 25 24 entire group 396,377 423,262 444,099 469,277 469,712 Other income 233 253 274 Transport, EN16 Participations in the earnings Fossil fuels 361,051 377,240 388,603 392,504 397,701 f associated companies 10 7 –2 Renewable fuels 22,292 22,082 17,547 17,775 17,896 Financial income 50 238 367 Business travel, EN172) 6,336 6,821 8,483 7,944 6,997 Total 39,826 39,418 40,105 Energy use Distributed value per stakeholder, SEKm Heat and electricity, EN16 28,990 39,200 47,014 68,829 65,014 Suppliers Initiatives to reduce CO2 Transport expenses 8,953 8,084 7,540 emissions (procurement Cost of premises 2,204 2,158 2,134 of eco-labeled electricity), Other expenses 7,237 7,301 7,629 EN18 –34,829 –35,048 –30,977 –14,706 –13,862 Other personnel expenses 323 176 221 Other emissions to air for Net investments in tangible transports (tons), EN20 2013 20124) 2011 and intangible fixed assets 2,241 2,329 1,939 Total 20,958 20,048 19,463 Carbon monoxide 594 626 593 Nitric oxide 1,754 2,279 2,326 Employees Hydrocarbons (VOC) 215 243 172 Wages, salaries and other compensation 14,175 14,082 14,792 Particulates 57 43 37 Statutory social costs 2,715 2,628 2,532 Pension expenses 1,498 1,5511) 1,641 Energy use 2013 2012 2011 Other personnel expenses 23 23 38 Fuel transports (TJ), EN3 Other expenses, provisions 435 889 88 Fossil fuel 4,433 5,579 5,808 Interest expenses for pensions 98 2501) 195 Renewable fuel 416 286 249 Total 18,944 19,4231) 19,286 Business travel by carl (TJ), Creditors EN33) 83 55 282 Interest to lenders 122 87 57 Heating (district heat Total 122 87 57 and gas) (MWh), EN4 144,792 159,978 161,497 Society Electricity use (MWh ), EN4 206,398 219,865 226,889 Current tax, Sweden 12 13 6 Current tax, Denmark –55 31 76 Waste, tons EN223) 2013 2012 2011 Current tax, Norway 49 71 33 Paper 13,621 16,099 16,807 Current tax, Finland –1 –2 –1 Cardboard/paperboard 3,113 2,839 2,258 Current tax, rest of world 14 6 Plastic 501 518 683 Total tax 19 119 114 Glass 2 3 5 Dividend to Swedish State 78 63 223 Metal 555 629 777 Dividend to Danish State 51 40 145 Wood 2,049 1,812 2,120 Total distribution 1292) 103 368 Combustible 4,586 4,604 5,544 Electronics 139 98 66 Total 148 222 482 Hazardous waste 92 138 128 Total distributed value 40,172 39,7801) 39,288 Landfill 4 3 29 1) Figures for 2012 restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. Previous years have Other 38 77 12 not been restated. 1) All values, unless otherwise indicated, have been updated with respect to acquisitions 2) Proposed by the Board of Directors. in order to improve comparability. 2) Air travel for PostNord group and car travel in Sweden and Denmark other than third-party logistics operations. 3) PostNord’s operations in Sweden and Denmark other than third-party logistics operations. 4) 2012 figures adjusted from previously published information due to refind methods of calculation. PostNord Annual Report 2013 63 Sustainability in numbers Employee data Occupational injuries – Sick leave, LA71) 3) 4) 2013 2012 2011 Personnel turnover, LA2 1) 2013 2012 2011 Total Nordic Number of terminations occupational injuries 63 64 72 Total Nordic 4,159 11.1% 4,220 10.9% 4,111 10.6% of which, deaths 0 0 0 Mail Denmark 1,562 13.7% 1597 13.2% 1834 13.9% sick leave, % 5.0 4.9 5.0 –29 yrs 319 39.1% 241 25.8% 451 40.3% Mail Denmark 30–49 yrs 529 9.5% 614 10.2% 745 11.2% occupational injuries 98 110 128 50– yrs 714 14.2% 742 14.4% 638 11.8% of which, deaths 0 0 0 women 610 15.8% 643 15.2% 683 14.3% sick leave, % 4.9 5.0 5.2 men 952 12.6% 954 12.1% 1151 13.7% Sweden Mail Sweden 1,378 8.1% 1318 7.3% 1180 7.0% occupational injuries 49 43 45 –29 yrs 274 12.3% 288 11.9% 242 10.5% of which, deaths 0 0 0 30–49 yrs 353 5.2% 269 3.6% 161 2.3% sick leave, % 5.3 5.1 5.2 50– yrs 751 9.5% 761 9.3% 777 10.2% women 551 8.3% 543 7.7% 512 7.5% Logistics men 827 8.0% 775 7.0% 668 6.6% occupational injuries 50 50 55 of which, deaths 0 0 0 Logistics 951 13.4% 843 13.1% 751 12.1% sick leave, % 5.2 5.0 4.9 –29 yrs 400 24.3% 323 21.7% 389 26.1% 30–49 yrs 354 10.2% 312 9.8% 254 8.3% Strålfors 50– yrs 197 9.9% 208 11.8% 108 6.5% occupational injuries 16 17 3 women 176 13.9% 187 15.1% 126 10.9% of which, deaths 0 0 0 men 775 13.3% 656 12.6% 625 12.4% sick leave, % 3.1 3.1 3.8 Strålfors 106 9.3% 148 12.5% 127 10.3% Group functions –29 yrs 10 8.0% 18 11.5% 18 12.9% occupational injuries 2 2 1 30–49 yrs 57 9.1% 75 11.4% 60 8.5% of which, deaths 0 0 0 50– yrs 39 9.9% 55 14.9% 49 12.6% sick leave, % 2.2 2.4 2.1 women 37 9.2% 56 13.6% 31 7.2% men 69 9.3% 92 11.9% 96 11.9% Average number of employees 2013 2012 2011 Group functions 162 19.7% 314 32.3% 219 19.6% Group total 39,305 39,713 41,714 –29 yrs 7 29.2% 13 56.5% 16 64.0% Mail Denmark 12,311 12,7305) 13,766 30–49 yrs 93 23.6% 174 36.6% 74 13.3% Mail Sweden 17,167 17,686 18,311 50– yrs 62 15.3% 127 26.9% 129 24.1% Logistics 7,373 6,5095) 6,381 women 80 18.4% 115 21.8% 120 21.2% Strålfors 1,492 1,509 1,921 men2) 82 21.1% 199 44.6% 99 18.0% Group functions 962 1,279 1,335 Total Nordic 38,675 39,150 41,063 Wage differential women/men, LA141) 2013 2012 2011 Mail Denmark 12,311 12,7305) 13,766 Total Nordic Mail Sweden 16,992 17,540 18,180 of which, basic staff, % 3.2 3.3 3.9 Logistics 7,313 6,4685) 6,324 women 26,470 25,922 25,818 Strålfors 1,097 1,133 1,458 men 27,306 26,777 26,816 Group functions 962 1,279 1,335 of which, temporary staff, % 2.1 2.3 3.7 women 21,106 20,399 20,393 men 21,545 20,863 21,153 Mail Denmark of which basic staffing % 0.7 0.5 1.2 women 26,063 25,851 26,339 men 26,239 25,980 26,645 of which reinforcement labor % 1.2 1.0 1.0 women 21,695 21,811 22,661 men 21,795 22,030 22,882 Mail Sweden of which, basic staff, % 2.5 2.7 2.8 women 24,794 24,141 23,556 men 25,405 24,787 24,206 of which, temporary staff, % 0.5 0.9 0.3 women 20,342 19,968 19,497 men 20,451 20,142 19,546 Logistics of which, basic staff, % 0.4 1.2 0.4 women 29,319 28,260 28,688 men 29,190 28,613 28,584 of which, temporary staff, % 1.8 0.6 2.4 women 21,333 20,918 20,295 men 20,951 20,797 20,779 Strålfors of which, basic staff, % 6.2 9.8 10.3 women 31,335 31,418 30,699 1) Tidningstjänst AB, part of Mail Sweden, is not included in 2011 data. men 33,300 34,504 33,851 2) 2011 figure adjusted from data published in 2011. of which, temporary staff, % 6.4 15.1 11.1 3) Job-related injuries per 1 million hours worked. women 23,651 20,582 22,241 4) Number of job-related injuries adjusted for Mail Denmark for 2012; also affects men 25,153 23,692 24,712 Total Nordic. 5) Group functions An average of 209 employees at Post Danmark A/S and DPD Danmark A/S have been moved from Logistics to Mail Denmark. of which, basic staff, % 37.9 31.8 33.7 women 42,823 39,226 36,865 men 59,039 51,693 49,277 64 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Sustainability in numbers 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Number of employees/ Number of employees/ temporary staff, temporary staff, LA 1, LA 131) Number Share Number Share Number Share LA 1, LA 131) Number Share Number Share Number Share TOTAL NORDIC LOGISTICS 8,103 7,185 6,841 EMPLOYED STAFF 47,667 49,297 48,568 of which, basic staff 7,106 88% 6433 90% 6,202 91% age categories of which, basic staff 37,487 79% 38,824 79% 38,697 80% –29 yrs 1644 23% 1488 23% 1,489 24% age categories 30–49 yrs 3481 49% 3183 50% 3,046 49% –29 yrs 4,840 13% 5,015 13% 5081 13% 50– yrs 1981 28% 1762 27% 1,667 27% 30–49 yrs 16,914 45% 17,829 46% 17962 46% gender 50– yrs 15,733 42% 15,980 41% 15654 41% – women 1,270 18% 1,235 19% 1,157 19% gender – men 5,836 82% 5,198 81% 5,045 81% – women 12,599 34% 13,462 35% 13,719 35% managerial positions 441 437 421 – men 24,888 66% 25,362 65% 24,978 65% – of which, women in managerial positions 2,201 2,282 2,375 managerial positions 91 21% 93 21% 91 22% – of which, women in managerial positions 644 29% 670 29% 695 29% – of which, men in – of which, men in managerial positions 350 79% 344 79% 330 78% of which, temporary staff 997 12% 752 10% 639 9% managerial positions 1557 71% 1,612 71% 1680 71% gender of which, temporary staff 10,180 21% 10,473 21% 9,871 20% – women 178 18% 201 27% 140 22% gender – men 819 82% 551 73% 499 78% – women 3,706 36% 4,249 41% 4,077 41% Administrative personnel 1,575 19% 1,708 24% 1,827 27% – men 6,474 64% 6,224 59% 5,794 59% Production personnel 6,528 81% 5477 76% 5,014 73% Administrative personnel 7,340 15% 8,084 16% 9,530 20% Production personnel 40,327 85% 41,213 84% 39,038 80% Additional temporary staff 919 658 517 Total Nordic STRÅLFORS 1,243 1,288 1,341 temporary staff 1,322 1,107 724 of which, basic staff 1144 92% 1187 92% 1,237 92% age categories MAIL DENMARK 15,258 15,072 16,710 –29 yrs 125 11% 157 13% 140 11% of which, basic staff 11,393 75% 12,130 80% 13,181 79% 30–49 yrs 625 55% 660 56% 708 57% age categories 50– yrs 394 34% 370 31% 389 31% –29 yrs 815 7% 935 8% 1,119 9% gender 30–49 yrs 5,554 49% 6,049 50% 6,631 50% – women 404 35% 412 35% 431 35% 50– yrs 5,024 44% 5,146 42% 5,431 41% – men 740 65% 775 65% 806 65% gender managerial positions 141 144 152 – women 3,856 34% 4,238 35% 4,770 36% – of which, women in – men 7,537 66% 7,892 65% 8,411 64% managerial positions 53 38% 52 36% 47 31% managerial positions 620 645 710 – of which, men in man– of which, women in agerial positions 88 62% 92 64% 105 69% managerial positions 168 27% 178 28% 191 27% of which, temporary staff 99 8% 101 8% 104 8% – of which, men in gender managerial positions 452 73% 467 72% 519 73% – women 47 47% 46 46% 42 40% of which, temporary staff 3,865 25% 2,942 20% 3,529 21% – men 52 53% 55 54% 62 60% gender Administrative personnel 561 45% 522 41% 545 41% – women 1165 30% 871 30% 1,046 30% Production personnel 682 55% 766 59% 796 59% – men 2700 70% 2,071 70% 2,483 70% Additional temporary staff 13 72 39 Administrative personnel 1,603 11% 1,731 11% 2,673 16% Production personnel 13,655 89% 13,341 89% 14,037 84% GROUP FUNCTIONS 888 1,096 1,279 Additional temporary staff 24 34 37 of which, basic staff 823 93% 972 89% 1,116 87% age categories MAIL SWEDEN 22,175 24,656 22,397 –29 yrs 24 3% 23 2% 25 2% of which, basic staff 17,021 77% 18,102 73% 16,961 76% 30–49 yrs 394 48% 475 49% 556 50% age categories 50– yrs 405 49% 474 49% 535 48% –29 yrs 2,232 13% 2,412 13% 2,308 14% gender 30–49 yrs 6,860 40% 7,462 41% 7,021 41% – women 434 53% 526 54% 566 51% 50– yrs 7,929 47% 8,228 46% 7,632 45% – men 389 47% 446 46% 550 49% gender managerial positions 104 113 120 – women 6,635 39% 7,051 39% 6,795 40% – of which, women in – men 10,386 61% 11,051 61% 10,166 60% managerial positions 43 41% 46 41% 49 41% managerial positions 895 943 972 – of which, men in man– of which, women in agerial positions 61 59% 67 59% 71 59% managerial positions 289 32% 301 32% 317 33% of which, temporary staff 65 7% 124 11% 163 13% – of which, men in gender managerial positions 606 68% 642 68% 655 67% – women 31 48% 56 45% 113 69% of which, temporary staff 5,154 23% 6554 27% 5,436 24% – men 34 52% 68 55% 50 31% gender Administrative personnel 888 100% 1096 100% 1,279 100% – women 2,285 44% 3075 47% 2,736 50% Production personnel 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% – men 2,869 56% 3,479 53% 2,700 50% Additional temporary staff 11 0 0 Administrative personnel 2,713 12% 3,027 12% 3,215 14% Production personnel 19,462 88% 21,629 88% 19,182 86% Additional temporary staff 355 343 131 1) Tidningstjänst AB, part of Mail Sweden, is not included in 2011 data. PostNord Annual Report 2013 65 Accounting principles Accounting principles PostNord AB is the parent company of the PostNord group that was formed through the June 24, 2009 merger of Post Denmark A/S and Posten AB. This is the group’s fifth sustainability report. The sustainability report has been prepared in accorEnergy (EN3) dance with the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) SusThe amount of energy is calculated based on the tainability Report Guidelines, version 3.0, Application amount of fuel purchased or route driven and the Level C+. The cross-reference table for GRI indicators type of vehicle. Calculations based on subcontractor is available on PostNord’s homepage. costs are also used when required. Principles and limitations Heating values: Economic data and the average number of employHVO The Europe Parliament and ees are reported pursuant to the same principles as Council’s directive 2009/28/EG those used in PostNord’s Annual Report and thereOther fuels Swedish Environmental fore include the entire group. Protection Agency Data on employees covers the Nordic operations. The Nordic operations constituted 96.0% of consoliEmissions (EN16 and EN20) dated net sales and approximately 98.4% of the CO2 emissions are calculated based on the amount of group’s average number of employees in 2013. fuel purchased or route driven and type of vehicle. Environmental data includes Strålfors’ non-Nordic Calculations based on subcontractor costs are also operations. Foreign air transports are not included in used when required. the calculations. Because Svensk Adressändring AB and Tidningstorget AB do not have a significant enviEmissions factors: ronmental impact, they are not included in the enviDenmark ronmental data. ISS Document and Aditro Document CO2 The Energy Board Automation, acquired in 2013, are not included but Other gases Danish Ministry of Transport, will be included in the 2014 sustainability report. TEMA 2010 Tidningstjänst AB was part of the group in 2011 but was not included in 2011 data. This affects comparaOther Nordic tive 2011 employee data. CO2 SPBI In case of deviation, the scope is shown next to Other gases Network for Transport and the specific information. Environment Acquisitions Air Harlem Transport AS and Byrknes Auto AS, acquired in Emissions (EN16 and EN20) late 2012, were included in the 2013 sustainability report. PostNord purchases air transport externally for operLogistics companies Nordisk Kyl Logistik (NKL), ations in Sweden and Denmark. PostNord did not use Transbothnia and Byrknes Auto were acquired during air transport in Finland or Norway during the year. 2013 and are included in the 2013 sustainability The Swedish operation receives data from suppliers report. Acquisitions ISS Document and Aditro Docuon amount of fuel and distances. The Danish operament Automation are included in employee data but tion registers executed transport in a transport not in environmental data. administration system and emissions are calculated based on tons/km. Methods of measurement, environment PostNord adheres to international emissions meaEmissions factors:: surement guidelines. Denmark Danish Ministry of Transport, References: World Resources Institute (WRI), the TEMA 2010 World Business Council for Sustainable Development Sweden Swedish Environmental Protection (WBCDI) and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Agency Transportation Rail Road Emissions (EN16 and EN20) Transports in Sweden, Denmark, and Norway are carOnly the Swedish and Norwegian operations use rail ried out with PostNord vehicles and through contractransport to any great extent. All rail transport in tors. Contractors are used for all transports in Finland. Sweden is purchased from Green Cargo and is 66 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Accounting principles eco-labeled as a Good Environmental Choice. Rail travel agencies that PostNord has contracts with. For transport in Norway uses fossil-free electricity. car travel, emissions are calculated based on fuel consumption and emissions factors specified in the Road Ferry section, page 66. Emissions (EN3) Only the Danish operation uses ferry transport to any Waste (EN22) great extent. Information on executed transport is PostNord has also elected to report waste amounts. registered in the transport administration system and Reported waste amounts are received from emissions are calculated in tons/km. PostNord’s waste management contractors. Emissions factors: Methods of measurement, Denmark Danish Ministry of Transport, customers – Customer Value TEMA 2010 Since 2011, the KVI (Customer Value Index) has been PostNord’s monitoring tool for regularly following up Electricity and heating customer satisfaction and the customers’ percepEnergy use (EN4) tions of the business. It replaces the various customer Energy consumption data is obtained primarily from satisfaction surveys that were previously used in the the electricity supplier or by reading meters. When organization. Measurements are carried out twice a electricity is included in rent or is otherwise not year and include all PostNord business areas and received directly from the supplier of cannot be deterStrålfors, with a focus on the Nordic countries. mined through meter reading, consumption is estiThe key ratio consists of three overall satisfaction mated based on the surface area of the premises questions. The three questions were previously found (applies to certain parts of the Swedish operation). in both the KTA and NKI and are also used in many Offices and terminals are heated mainly with disexternal metrics such as the Swedish Quality Index trict heat or electricity. Natural gas is used in a few (SQI), Danish Quality Index (DQI) and the European premises. Heat consumption is monitored by meter Performance Satisfaction Index (EPSI), which also readings or invoices. In certain cases, heat consumpallows for external benchmarking. tion is estimated by the surface area of premises. Quality: 1st-class mail Emissions (EN 16) Swedish External Monitoring (SWEX) and Danish Electricity purchased in Sweden is eco-labeled Good External Monitoring (DEX) are two independent Environmental Choice and in Demark it is largely external quality metrics that continuously measure wind generated. This electricity is assumed to have the share of 1st-class letters that are delivered on time no carbon dioxide emissions, since only the usage from customer to customer. Measurements are conphase is included in the reporting. For other electricducted by means of a statistically assured test mail ity, carbon dioxide emissions are calculated based on activity that fulfills the requirements set forth in EN emissions factors from references given below. standard 13850. These measurements were conducted in 2013 by TNS SIFO and Quotas GmbH in Emissions factors: Sweden and Denmark respectively. The results of the Denmark two measurements are weighted together into a Electricity The Energy Board group-wide outcome based on mail volume in each country. District heat The Energy Board Other Nordic Quality: parcels Electricity Energy market inspection The production systems in Sweden (LUPP) and Denand Energy Sweden mark (GTT) are two independent systems that meaHeating SCB sure the proportion of parcels delivered on time from Gas Swedish Environmental first production scanning to the customer. Test prodProtection Agency ucts are weighted according to 19 (MyPack), 25 (Postpaket) and 15 (DPD Företagspaket 16:00) for Sweden Poland, France, GHG Protocol and Erhvervspakker, PrivatPakker and Postpakker for UK Denmark. Since the two measurements are not directly comBusiness travel (EN17) parable, this is done in two separate measurements. Reported emissions from business travel refer to air, PostNord is continuing work initiated in 2013 by gradrail and car travel. Records are received from the ually harmonizing measurements via a “CEM” system. PostNord Annual Report 2013 67 Accounting principles PostNord will then have a joint Nordic report on Occupational injuries (LA7) the delivery quality for parcels based on the MyPack, Registered occupational injuries in relation to hours PallEtt and DPD products. worked (does not include injuries sustained during work-related travel). Minor injuries (first aid level) are Methods of measurement, external partners included in the report. Calculations are based on the An annual survey is conducted in Sweden of our parttotal number of hours worked, irrespective of type of ners’ perception of their collaboration with PostNord. employment. The injury ratio is calculated as the total In 2013, 285 randomly selected Swedish partner outnumber of injuries per 1,000,000 hours worked. lets were interviewed. The interviews were conducted Occupational injuries are reported to the nearest by phone. The survey results are compiled in a Partsupervisor in Sweden and Denmark. Registration is ner Satisfaction Index (NPI), a weighted average value done in the C2 system in Sweden, the Injury Reportof four separate questions on the overall perception ing System (SKA) in Denmark and in a Management of collaboration with PostNord. and Information System (LIS) in Norway. There is no special registration system in Finland, so reporting is Methods of measurement, employees done on special forms and compiled in a health and Average number of employees safety commission. Statistics on reported occupaCalculated by dividing the total number of paid hours tional injuries can be retrieved from the system and by the standard number of hours for a full-time sorted into various categories such as falls, crushing employee. and traffic injuries. The duty to record occupational injuries is made very clear. Total number of employees (LA1 and LA13) Total number of employees at the end of the period. Employee index (MIX) Divided into administrative staff and production staff. The results of the group’s employee surveys are comProduction staff divided into basic staff and tempopiled in an employee index (MIX). Surveys are conrary staff. ducted in cooperation an external party, are anonymous and are analyzed by a partner independent Basic staff from the group. All fulland part-time monthly salaried monthly employees. The definition of basic staffing is that it Leadership index (LIX) should cover the basic requirements of a “normal” The results of the group’s employee surveys are comproduction flow. Temporary staff covers “peaks” in piled in a leadership index (LIX). LIX measures levels production; for example during Christmas or vacation of employee satisfaction with their closest supervisor, periods. the degree to which employees believe their supervisors live up to PostNord’s leadership criteria: deliver, Personnel turnover (LA2) involve, take responsibility, clarity. The number of people ending their employment during the year in relation to basic staff at the end Methods of measurement, society of the year. Corporate image Corporate image is a survey conducted by external Sick leave (LA7) company TNS SIFO. The survey is based on a metric Sick leave in relation to regular, contracted working whereby approximately 400 private individuals per time, reported as a percentage. week (200 in Sweden and 200 in Denmark) answer Sick leave comprises absence due to illness when questions on how they perceive Posten or Post Denthe employee himself/herself is sick. mark. The survey is comprised of five key questions Regular, contracted working hours the time of that, together, form an index. The result for PostNord both hourly paid employees and temporary staff. In is a weighted result for Posten in Sweden and Post addition to regular work hours, this includes sick Denmark (63% Posten in Sweden, 37% Post Denleave, vacations, parental leave and care for sick chilmark). dren and other paid leave. 68 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Auditor’s Review Report Auditor’s Review Report on PostNord AB’s Sustainability Report Translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish To the readers of the PostNord AB’s Sustainability Report Introduction and other review procedures. A review is substantially We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance the PostNord AB to review PostNord AB’s Sustainabilwith IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Conity Report for the year 2013. PostNord has defined the trol and other generally accepted auditing standards scope of the Sustainability Report on page 42. in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would Board of Director and Group Management become aware of all significant matters that might be responsibility for the Sustainability Report identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express The Board of Directors and Group Management are an audit opinion. responsible for ongoing activities regarding the enviThe criteria on which our review are based are the ronment, health & safety, quality, social responsibility parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, and sustainable development, and for the preparation published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accorwhich are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as dance with the applicable criteria , which are set forth well as the accounting and calculation principles that on page 42 of the Sustainability Report and are comthe Company has developed and disclosed. These prised of the portions of The Global Reporting Initiaare presented on pages 66–68. We consider these tive (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3 that criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainabilare applicable to sustainability reporting as well as the ity Report. company’s own accounting and calculation principles. We consider that the evidence we obtained during our review is sufficient and appropriate as a basis Auditor responsibility for our conclusion below. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. Conclusion We have performed our review in accordance Based on our review, nothing has come to our attenwith RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports tion that causes us to believe that the information in issued by FAR. A review consists of making inquiries, the PostNord AB’s Sustainability Report has not, in all primarily of persons responsible for the preparation material respects, been prepared in accordance with of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical the above stated criteria. Stockholm, February 28, 2014 KPMG AB Helene Willberg Torbjörn Westman Authorized Public Accountant Specialist Member of FAR PostNord Annual Report 2013 69 Corporate Governance 71 Governance of PostNord 75 Annual General Meeting 76 Board of Directors 80 Group Executive Team 83 Internal governance 85 Universal service obligations Governance of PostNord Governance of PostNord PostNord aspires to generate long-term value for its owners and other stakeholders and to ensure the fulfillment of its universal service obligations on commercial grounds. One prerequisite for this is well-functioning corporate governance. Characteristics of good corporate governance External postal regulations include a clear ownership structure and an effective, • UPU Convention. well-appointed Board of Directors, as well as efficient • EU Postal Directive. processes and carefully prepared risk management. • Postal Services Act (Sweden). This Corporate Governance Report describes • Postal Ordinance (Sweden). PostNord’s corporate governance from this perspec• Licensing terms for Posten AB (Sweden). tive, and has been prepared in accordance with the • Laws and ordinances on electronic communicaCompanies Act, the Annual Reports Act and the tion (Sweden). Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. • Post Danmark A/S Act (Denmark). • Postal Operations and Postal Services Act (DK). Ownership structure • Postal Services and Postal Operations Ordinance PostNord AB (publ), corporate identity number (Denmark). 556771-2640, is a Swedish corporation owned 40% • Ordinance on fees under the Postal Act (DK). by the Danish State and 60% by the Swedish State. • Ordinance on compensation scheme for USO PostNord AB is the parent company of PostNord financing (DK). Group. Votes are allocated 50/50 between the Danish • Individual license for Post Danmark A/S (Denmark). and Swedish States. • Accounting Regulations for Post Danmark A/S (Denmark). Key principles and regulations affecting the governance of PostNord Internal rules and regulations External rules and regulations • By-laws. • Swedish Companies Act. • Rules of procedure for the Board of Directors. • Swedish State’s ownership policy and guidelines for • Rules of procedure for Audit Committee and state-owned companies and Danish State’s ownerCompensation Committee. ship principles (The State as Shareholder)1). • Board’s instructions to the CEO. • Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. • Decision-making procedure for PostNord AB. • NASDAQ OMX Stockholm’s regulations for issuers. • Operational governance of PostNord Group, • Swedish Annual Accounts Act. including group policies (see below). • International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS. • Accounting manual. • Other relevant legislation. • Framework for internal governance and control of • UN Global Compact. financial reporting. • Compliance program in areas including competition law. • Guidelines for determining terms of employment 1) Available at www.regeringen.se and www.fm.dk. for executives. Ownership structure Danish State Swedish State 40% capital 60% capital 50% votes 50% votes Post Danmark A/S Posten AB PostNord Annual Report 2013 71 Governance of PostNord Group policies • Media policy. PostNord’s group-wide policies include: • Credit policy. • Code of Conduct (includes below-listed policies). • Financial policy. Governance structure • Environmental policy. The principal decision-making bodies within • Quality policy. PostNord are: • Work Environment policy. • The Annual General Meeting. • Security policy • The Board of Directors. (including IT and information security). • The President & Group CEO assisted by • Information and insider policy. the Group Executive Team. • Acquisition policy. Governance structure Danish State Swedish State Annual General Meeting Nomination process Board of Directors Audit Committee External auditors Compensation Comm. Internal audit President & CEO Finance & Treasury President’s office Executive VP & Deputy HR CEO Legal Group Strategy IT BIS Production Communication Development Shared Services & Group Support Business area Business area Business area Strålfors Mail Denmark Mail Sweden Logistics Mail New organizational structure in 2014 Finland) to allow for greater uniformity for customers PostNord will implement a new organization as of and the establishment of integrated production modMarch 31, 2014. Purposes for the change include creels. At the same time, a Nordic Mail business area and ating greater clarity for customers, increasing focus a corporate strategic unit for e-commerce (responsion e-commerce and expanding potential synergies ble for market and service development in each Norfor the business. dic area) are being formed. Strålfors will continue to The change involves, among other things, the operate as a subsidiary and will be strongly aligned introduction of a matrix organization. Country units with business area Mail. will be formed (Sweden, Denmark and Norway/ 72 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Governance of PostNord The owners jointly nominate the chairman of the Governance model board and other board members, propose directors’ PostNord’s governance model is comprised of seven fees and nominate the AGM chairman and external main elements. Core group governance includes Forauditors. The AGM is PostNord’s highest decisionmal Governance, Functional Governance and Situamaking body. tion-specific Governance. Together with PostNord’s The Board of Directors holds overall responsibility strategy and plans, these determine the scope, condifor organization and administration of the company tions and direction for group operations. through continuous monitoring and control of operaThe other elements are (1) management by objections. The chairman of the board leads the Board’s tives for the group’s top managers, (2) management work. The Audit and Compensation Committees and operation of group projects and (3) operational assist the board in these efforts. management system with associated quality, environPostNord’s President & CEO is responsible for and mental and work environment certification, as well as leads the day-to-day management of the group based monitoring and assessment of operations with the on the board’s guidelines and instructions. The PresiEFQM Excellence Model. Sustainability aspects are dent & CEO is assisted by the Group Executive Team. integrated into the governance model. The company’s external auditor is selected by the AGM and examines the Annual Report and ConsoliExcellence Model (EFQM) dated Financial Statements, the board’s and CEO’s Since 2012, PostNord has used the EFQM (European administration and the annual reports of subsidiaries, Foundation of Quality Management) model to moniand produces an auditor’s report. PostNord’s internal tor and evaluate the operational management sysaudit function evaluates the company’s internal govtem. This model is based and focused on value creernance and control. ation for all significant stakeholders – owners, customThe group’s operational structure differs from its ers, society and employees. The model has a holistic legal structure. As a main principle, organization and perspective in terms of the management and develgovernance are based on the operational structure. opment of the business and is comprised of five Postal concessions, however, are tied to the legal action criteria and four result criteria. structure/legal entities (Post Danmark A/S, Posten AB); accordingly, formal responsibility for concessions follows the legal structure. Governance model pursuant to PostNord’s operational governance Key documents, plans and processes for governance and development STRAGETY & PLANS of the group’s operations: strategy, business plans, operational plans, investment plans, financial plans/budgets. FORMAL GOVERNANCE FUNCTIONAL GOVERNANCE SITUATION-SPECIFIC GOVERNANCE 1SPDFFETGSPN(SPVQ#PBSEPG 1SJPSJUJ[FEGVODUJPOBMBSFBTJO 1SJPSJUJ[FE ŢJYFEUFSNJOJUJBUJWFTXIFSF %JSFDUPST 1SFTJEFOU$&0BOE XIJDIUIFHSPVQIBTDIPTFOUP UIFHSPVQIBTFMFDUFEUPhEJSFDUMZ BTTJNJMBUFEUISPVHIPVUFOUJSF HPWFSOUIFCVTJOFTTGVODUJPOBMMZ HPWFSOvUIFCVTJOFTTUISPVHIB PSHBOJ[BUJPO TQFDJŢJDQSPHSBN QSPKFDU FUD Includes: Includes: Examples: s3FTQPOTJCJMJUZTUSVDUVSF s(SPVQGVODUJPOT s$PTUSFEVDUJPOQSPHSBN s'PSNBMEFDJTJPONBLJOHQSPDFEVSF s(SPVQQPMJDJFT s4JHOJŢJDBOUTUSVDUVSBMNFBTVSFT s'JOBODJBMHPWFSOBODFBOESFQPSUJOH s(SPVQDPNNJUUFFT s(PWFSOBODFPGMFHBMFOUJUJFT s(SPVQTVQQPSU s*OUFSOBMHPWFSOBODFBOEDPOUSPM s4IBSFETFSWJDFT s3FHVMBUPSZDPNQMJBODF (1) MANAGEMENT BY OBJECTIVES s(PBMDPOUSBDUBOENBOBHFNFOUCZPCKFDUJWFTGPSUPQNBOBHFST s(PWFSOBODFPGHSPVQMFWFMTUSBUFHJDCVTJOFTTDSJUJDBMJOJUJBUJWFQSPKFDUT (2) GROUP PROJECTS s(SPVQXJEFQSPKFDUNFUIPEPMPHZBOENPEFM (3) OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT SYST. s0QFSBUJPOBMJ[BUJPOUISPVHIUIF&YDFMMFODF.PEFM &'2.  PostNord Annual Report 2013 73 Governance of PostNord The Excellence Model aims to: Deviations from the Swedish Code • Ensure a holistic perspective of the business. of Corporate Governance • Strengthen competitiveness. PostNord applies the Swedish Code of Corporate • Create understanding and cohesiveness between Governance, with the exception of the following Code action and result. provisions: • Create direction and progress by linking everyday • Chapter 2 requirement for nominating committee. actions and priorities to vision and desired position. PostNord does not have a nominating committee, • Create clear customer value. as the nomination and appointment of board members is performed in accordance with the principles To help with Excellence Model implementation, a agreed upon by the owners. Nominations are training program was conducted in 2012 and 2013 for made in cooperation between the owners. PostNord Group’s top 250 managers along with sev• Chapter 4.5 requirement for board members’ indeeral specialists. pendence from owners. The objective of the rule is PostNord business areas and group functions to protect minority owners. Protection for minority conducted a self-evaluation pursuant to the model’s owners is not relevant to the governance of provisions. Internal teams, comprised of people from PostNord, which has only two owners. The reportthe business areas and group functions, evaluated ing of board members’ independence is therefore the group’s units and provided feedback focused on not relevant. each unit’s strengths and improvement potential. The • Chapter 9.7 requirement for AGM resolution on Group Executive Team is responsible for translating shareand share price-related incentive programs. improvement potential into action. The rules concerning share-related incentive programs are not applicable, as the Danish and Swedish States together own 100% of the company’s shares. Excellence Model ACTION RESULT Employees Result for employees Leadership Strategies Processes Results for Result customers Partnerships Results for and resources society LEARNING, CREATIVITY AND INNOVATION 74 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting Under the terms of the Companies Act, the AGM is the company’s highest decision-making body. The Swedish Ministry of Finance and the Danish Ministry of Transport vote on behalf of the Swedish and Danish States at PostNord’s Annual General Meeting. Each State nominates four board members. AGM resolutions are normally made by simple majority. In certain Notice of Annual General Meeting is sent in letter format to the issues, however, the Companies Act and PostNord’s by-laws stipshareholders and is published in Post och Inrikes Tidningar (the ulate that motions must be seconded by a higher proportion of Swedish Official Gazette) and on the group’s website. Information the shares represented and votes cast. The Board of Directors is on issuance of the notice is published in Dagens Nyheter. Notifiresponsible for providing notification of time and place of the cation of the time and place of the AGM is also sent to the central AGM. A Notice of Annual General Meeting is sent by mail to the offices of the Danish and Swedish Parliaments in conjunction shareholders and is advertised and published in PostNord’s with the issuance of the notice. Annual Report and on the group website. Members of the SwedAGM minutes are published as soon as they have been veriish and Danish Parliaments and the general public are invited to fied. The public and members of the Swedish and Danish Parliaattend and ask questions at the AGM. ments can register via e-mail to attend the AGM at ir@posten.se. 2013 Annual General Meeting Proposed guidelines for executive compensation PostNord’s 2013 Annual General Meeting was held on April 18, The Board of Directors proposes the following guidelines for 2013. The AGM resolved as follows: executive compensation (summary of proposed compensation • To adopt the income statement, balance sheets and consolipolicies): dated financial statements. Total compensation for executives shall be well balanced, • To distribute a dividend to the owners, in accordance with the competitive, reasonable, appropriate, subject to a salary ceiling Board’s proposal, of SEK 0.0515 per share, totaling SEK 103m. and shall promote good ethics and a good corporate culture. • To discharge the Board of Directors and CEO from liability for Compensation shall not market leading in relation to comparable financial year 2012. companies, but shall be characterized by moderation. • To approve the proposed guidelines for compensation for Individual money purchase pension plans are taken out for executives. the President & CEO and other executives employed pursuant to • That the Board of Directors shall be comprised of eight AGMSwedish labor law with contributions not to exceed 30 percent of elected board members and no deputies. fixed monthly salary. Required insurance is taken out within the • To newly elect Jens Moberg as chairman of the board; to scope of this contribution. The retirement age is currently 62 or reelect board members Mats Abrahamsson, Gunnel Duveblad, 65, and shall be 65 in future recruitments. For executives Jonas Iversen and Torben Janholt; and to newly elect Christian employed pursuant to Danish labor law, full premium-based penEllegaard, Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen and Anitra Steen as board sions are applied and the retirement age is determined under members. Danish labor law. • To approve the proposals concerning board member and In new employment contracts, the notice period should not committee member remuneration covering the period exceed six months in cases where the employer terminates the through the 2014 AGM. Board and committee remuneration contract. Previous employment contracts with a notice period of shall not be paid to members employed by the Swedish Gov12 months in cases where the employer terminates the contract ernment Offices. Auditor fees shall be paid upon invoice will remain in force. In cases where the employment contract is approval. terminated by the employee, the notice period should be six • To newly elect accounting firm KPMG AB, with authorized pubmonths. If the employer terminates the contract, the employee lic accountant Helene Willberg as auditor in charge, as auditor may receive severance pay equal to a maximum of twelve through the close of the 2014 AGM. months’ salary. Income earned from subsequent employment or comparable business activities during the period of notice The complete minutes of the 2013 Annual General Meeting are should be deducted from the aforementioned severance published on the group’s website: www.postnord.com. package. Executives should not receive variable salaries. According to 2014 Annual General Meeting other principles included in the government’s guidelines for PostNord’s 2014 Annual General Meeting is scheduled for April employment terms for executives in state-owned companies, 23, 2014. Information on the meeting time is published on the variable salaries may be paid to other employees. group’s website: www.postnord.com. PostNord Annual Report 2013 75 Board of Directors Board of Directors The Board of Directors holds overall responsibility for the organization and management of the company through regularly monitoring the business and ensuring appropriate organization, management, guidelines and internal controls. The board decides on strategies and targets and makes decisions on major investments, acquisitions and divestment of operations. The Board of Directors is appointed by the AGM, roles and responsibilities of the CEO and board memwhich has determined that the board shall be combers. There is no other division of board tasks among posed of eight AGM-elected board members and no board members other than the committees predeputies. The board also includes three employee sented in this report. representatives and their three deputies. The Swedish The chairman of the board is elected by the AGM, State’s ownership policy prescribes that each gender supervises the board’s work and is responsible for shall have at least 40% board representation. The ensuring that this work is well-organized and carried female/male distribution of PostNord’s Board of Direcout effectively. This includes the regular monitoring of tors was 38%/62% in 2013 (ordinary members). the company’s operations in dialogue with the CEO and making certain that other board members Board’s actions receive the information and documentation necesWorking methods sary to ensure high quality discussions and board The Board of Directors annually establishes rules of decisions. The chairman leads evaluation of the procedure regulating matters such as the chairman’s board’s and CEO’s work. The chairman also repreduties, information to the Board of Directors and the sents the company in issues of ownership. Board meetings 2013 Date of meeting Main topic Ytterligare väsentliga frågor 02-21-2013 2012 annual financial statements Audit procurement Terminal investment in Oslo 04-18-2013 Statutory board meeting 04-24-2013 Acquisition of logistics business 05-14-2013 Interim report PostNord AB financial strategy 06-03-2013 Personnel issues Investment, sorting equipment 07-08-2013 Personnel issues 08-26-2013 Interim report 09-20-2013 Company signatories PostNord’s group strategy 11-06-2013 Interim report 12-10-2013 2014–16 business plan Principles for CEO and executive compensation Board meeting attendance 2013 Number of Number of Audit Number of Compensation Board member board meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Jens Moberg1) 9/9 – 1/1 Mats Abrahamsson 10/10 – 2/2 Gunnel Duveblad 10/10 6/6 – Christian Ellegaard1) 7/9 4/5 – Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen1) 7/9 4/5 – Jonas Iversen 10/10 6/6 – Torben Janholt 10/10 – 2/2 Anitra Steen1) 8/9 – 1/1 Fritz H. Schur2) 1/1 – 1/1 Ingrid Bonde2) 1/1 – 1/1 Bjarne Hansen2) 1/1 1/1 – Anne Birgitte Lundholt2) 1/1 1/1 – Ann-Christin Fällén 10/10 – – Alf Mellström 8/10 – – Lars Chemnitz 10/10 – – 1) Elected to the board by April 18, 2013 AGM. 2) Resigned from the board as of April 18, 2013 AGM. 76 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Board of Directors Board meetings and issues in 2013 other benefits for corporate management and remuneration The board held ten meetings in 2013, including one statutory principles for external directors serving on the boards of group meeting. The board’s duties include the production of interim, subsidiaries. The Compensation Committee has no decisionyear-end and annual reports. The board dealt with these issues in making authority. 2013. The CEO presented the financial and market situation at all The Compensation Committee is comprised of at least three board meetings. An important part of the board’s work in 2013 members. The chairman of the Board of Directors chairs the was to recruit a new CEO. A recruitment committee was Committee. The Committee shall meet when warranted. The appointed for this purpose, under the leadership of the chairman Committee chair is responsible for regularly apprising the board of the board, Jens Moberg, and with board members Mats Abraof the Committee’s activities. hamsson, Torben Janholt and Jonas Iversen. The board also Up to and including the time of the April 18th AGM, Compendealt with group strategy, acquisitions, employment issues and sation Committee members were Fritz H. Schur (chair), Mats business plans during 2013. During the year the board regularly Abrahamsson, Ingrid Bonde and Torben Janholt. As of the April dealt with Audit and Compensation Committee reports and 18th AGM the Committee was comprised of Jens Moberg (chair), reports on internal control and financial affairs. Mats Abrahamsson, Anitra Steen and Torben Janholt. The board also dealt with issues regarding PostNord’s sustainThe Compensation Committee met two times in 2013 and ability work and its goals in this area, based on owner sustainabildealt with topics including: ity initiatives. Board members participated in seminars and dis• Compensation and other provisions for executives. cussions on sustainability with the Swedish owner. • Pension provisions for executives. • Specific issues regarding compensation for members Audit Committee of the Group Executive Team. The Audit Committee is tasked with preparing the board to perform its duties of supervising and assuring the quality of the Compensation at PostNord group’s financial reporting. The Committee supervises the effecDecisions on compensation for the President & CEO are made by tiveness of the company’s internal governance and control as well the Board of Directors. The board deals with compensation as risk management systems and processes with regard to finanissues through the Compensation Committee. cial reporting. The Committee’s formal work plan is established by Salaries and wages for PostNord employees shall conform to the board. The Audit Committee has no decision-making authority. market conditions. For details on executive compensation, see The Committee also assists the owners in selecting auditors. Note 5, Employees, Personnel Expenses and Executive CompenThe Audit Committee, in addition to reporting to the board on its sation in the consolidated financial statements. efforts, regularly reviews the auditors’ reports and determines Guidelines on executive compensation adopted by the 2012 whether the auditors are performing their task independently, AGM are outlined in PostNord’s 2012 Annual Report and can be objectively and cost-efficiently. The Audit Committee is the princiread in their entirety on the group’s website. pal of the internal audit and its’ monitoring of internal governance and control, and remains apprised of internal audit reports. Evaluation of Board of Directors and CEO actions The Committee is comprised of at least three board members The board conducts an annual evaluation of its own actions. The and meets at least four times per year. The company’s external evaluation is carried out via a questionnaire and through discusauditors participate in meetings(s) at which the year-end report, sions between the chairman of the board and board members. annual report and auditor’s report are presented, as well as when Areas evaluated include the manner in which important decithey are needed for assessment of the group’s financial position. sions are prepared, discussed and managed; whether the right The Committee chair is responsible for continually apprising the issues are addressed by the board; the integrity of supporting board of the Committee’s activities. documentation; and how well decisions and discussions are Up to and including the time of the April 18th AGM, Audit Comrecorded in the minutes. Verbal and written feedback is provided mittee members were Gunnel Duveblad (chair), Bjarne Hansen, to board members. Anne Birgitte Lundholt and Jonas Iversen. As of the April 18th The board regularly evaluates the CEO’s work by monitoring AGM the Committee was comprised of Gunnel Duveblad (chair), the business’s progress toward set targets. A formal evaluation is Christian Ellegaard, Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen and Jonas Iversen. performed once per year and is discussed with the CEO. Jonas Iversen resigned as a board member and member of the Due to the fact that a new chairman was appointed by the Audit Committee on February 14, 2014. AGM held on April 18, 2013 and a new President & CEO took office The Audit Committee met six times in 2013 and dealt with topon October 1, 2013, the annual evaluation of Board of Directors ics including: and CEO actions will first be conducted in early 2014. • Implementation of reviews of internal audit of full-year report, semi-annual report and quarterly reports. Board member remuneration • Group auditor’s reporting on year-end audit. Remuneration for board members was determined by the 2013 • Supervision of financial reporting and effectiveness of AGM. Remuneration for each elected board member for the PostNord’s internal governance and control. period through the next AGM is SEK 250,000, while the chair• Supervision of risk management systems and processes. man’s remuneration is SEK 600,000. Members of the Audit • Procurement of external audit. Committee are paid SEK 50,000, while the chair receives SEK 62,500. Members of the Compensation Committee are paid SEK Compensation Committee 25,000, while the chair receives SEK 37,500. Board and CommitThe Compensation Committee is tasked with preparing and pretee member remuneration is not paid to members employed by senting proposals to the board regarding compensation and the Swedish Government Offices. PostNord Annual Report 2013 77 Board of Directors 1 3 5 2 4 6 PostNord Board of Directors 1. Jens Moberg 3. Mats Abrahamsson 5. Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen Born 1962. Born 1960. Born 1967. Graduate Diploma in Business Administration. PhD (Tech). BA in Business Administration, MSc in Business Chairman of the board since April 2013. Board member since August 2009. Economics and Auditing. Chairman of the Compensation Committee Member of Compensation Committee Board member since April 2013. since April 2013. since 2009. Member of Auditing Committee since Previous experience includes positions at IBM Professor at Linköping University. April 2013. Denmark and subsequently at Microsoft Director of Dixma Consultant AB. CFO/group executive of Scandinavian Tobacco Corporation, most recently as Corporate Group. Previously Nordic Financial Controller Vice President. 4. Christian Ellegaard for Grey Global Group. Background as auditor Chairman of the boards of Grundfos Holding Born 1969. at Deloitte and Arthur Andersen. and Herlufsholm Skole og Gods. Director of MBA. Axcel and Poul Due Jensens Fond. Board member since April 2013. 6. Torben Janholt Member of Auditing Committee since Born 1946. 2. Gunnel Duveblad April 2013. Bachelor of Commerce. Born 1955. Member of corporate management at BerendBoard member since August 2009. Systems Engineer. sen Plc and CEO of Facility. Previously held variMember of Compensation Committee Board member since August 2009. ous positions with the Berendsen group, since 2009. Chair of Audit Committee since 2009. including CEO in Denmark. Previous positions include CEO of Previous positions include CEO of EDS NorthJ Lauritzen A/S. ern Europe and managerial posts at IBM. Chairman of the board of Otto Suenson A/S. Chairman of the board of Team Olivia AB, Director of A/S United Shipping & Trading Global Scanning A/S and Stiftelsen Ruter Dam. Company, Danmarks Rederiforening and Directorships include HIQ International Lloyd Concept Store. AB and Sweco AB. 78 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Board of Directors 7 8 9 10 PostNord Board of Directors, cont’d. 7. Anitra Steen Born 1949. Bachelor of Arts. Board member since April 2013. Member of Compensation Committee since April 2013. Previous positions include CEO of Systembolaget, Director-General of the National Tax Board, State Secretary at the Swedish Ministries of Education and Finance. Chairman of the boards of AB Svenska Spel, Telge Inköp AB, AFA Försäkring and Iris Invest AB. Director of Det Naturliga Steget. Employee representatives 8. Lars Chemnitz 9. Alf Mellström 10. Ann-Christin Fällén Born 1957. Born 1956. Born 1955. Union representative appointed by the Union representative appointed by SEKO. Union representative appointed by the Union of Service and Communication Board member since August 2009. Union of Civil Servants (ST). Employees (SEKO). Employed by Posten since 1978. Board member since May 2012. Member of the board since January 2010. Employed by Posten since 1977. Deputy employee representatives Peter Madsen Isa Merethe Rogild Johan Lindholm Born 1953. Born 1949. Born 1979. Union representative appointed by SEKO. Union representative appointed by ST. Union representative appointed by SEKO. Deputy employee representative since JanuDeputy employee representative since August Deputy employee representative since ary 2010. 2009. Board member of Post Danmark A/S April 2012. Employed by Post Danmark since 1990. since 1995. Employed by Post Danmark since Employed by Posten since 1998. 1966. Fritz H. Schur resigned as chairman of the board and Bjarne Hansen, Ingrid Bonde and AnneBirgitte Lundholt resigned as board members at the AGM held on April 18, 2013. Jonas Iversen resigned as a board member on February 14, 2014. Patrik Jönsson, Deputy Director at the Ministry of Finance, has been co-opted to the board for the period until PostNord’s AGM of April 23. PostNord Annual Report 2013 79 Group Executive Team Group Executive Team The Board of Directors is responsible for appointing and dismissing the CEO. The Group Executive Team is appointed by and assists the CEO, who leads the work performed by the team. The CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management of the company and the group in accordance with the board’s guidelines and instructions. The relationship between the Board of Directors and The Group Executive Team is comprised of: the CEO is regulated by the rules of procedure and • President & Group CEO. the board’s instructions to the CEO. The President/ • Executive Vice President and Deputy CEO. CEO is personally accountable to the board for the • Head of Business Area PostNord day-to-day operation of the business and responsible Mail & Communication. for carrying out the strategic direction determined for • Head of Business Area PostNord Logistics. the business. • President of Strålfors. Håkan Ericsson has been PostNord’s President & • Head of E-commerce & Corporate Clients; CEO since October 1, 2013. He succeeds Lars IderChief Strategy Officer. mark, who served as President & CEO from March 1, • Head of PostNord Sweden. 2011 through May 15, 2013. Executive VP and Deputy • Head of PostNord Danmark. CEO Knut B. Pedersen served as President & CEO dur• Head of PostNord Norway and Finland. ing the interim period. • Chief Financial Officer. • Chief Information Officer. Group Executive Team • Chief HR Officer. The Group Executive Team is jointly responsible for • Chief Communications Officer. ensuring that the group’s business is developed to • Chief Technical Officer. the maximum possible extent and is in line with the direction established by the Board of Directors. The forthcoming change to the group’s organizational structure in 2014 involves, among other things, the implementation of a matrix organization with country units and business area/group-wide strategic units/subsidiaries. The PostNord Group Executive Team was introduced on February 1, 2014, with a composition that reflects the new organizational structure. 80 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Group Executive Team 1 4 6 2 5 7 3 PostNord’s Group Executive Team 1. Håkan Ericsson 3. Henrik Rättzén 6. Joss Delissen Born 1962. Born 1965. Born 1963. BSc (Economics). BSc (Economics). BSc (Economics). President & Group CEO since October 1, 2013. Chief Financial Officer since 2012. Chief Information Officer since 2009. Member of group management/Group Member of group management/ Member of group management/Group Executive Team since 2013. Group Executive Team since 2012. Executive Team since 2009. Previous positions: President of Carlson Previous positions: Nordic CFO at Previously held a variety of positions at UnileWagonlit Travel’s North and Latin American Codan Trygg-Hansa; partner at KPMG. ver, most recently Director of Solutions Archioperations (after serving as President of their Director of Movestic Livförsäkrings AB. tecture. EMEA and Latin American operations); CEO of Loomis Cash Handling; Executive Vice Presi4. Johanna Allert 7. Andreas Falkenmark dent of SAS; Managing Director of DHL EuroBorn 1975. Born 1955. pean freight operations; and senior positions Master of Engineering. Master of Laws. in the Dansaz, ASG and Fraktarna logistics Chief Technical Officer since 2014. Head of Business Area PostNord Mail & groups. Member of group management/ Communication since 2014. Group Executive Team since 2011. Member of group management/ 2. K. B. Pedersen Formerly Head of Group Operations DevelopGroup Executive Team since 2009. Born 1948. ment function, including Group Support & Previous positions: Head of Business Area Trained at the Danish Post and Telegraph Shared Services. Mail Sweden; CEO of NK Förvaltnings AB; Service. CEO of Duka AB; CEO of Coop Sverige AB; Executive Vice President and Deputy CEO 5. Henning Christensen and CEO of Observer Northern Europe. since 2011. Born 1962. Member of group management/Group Engineer. Executive Team since 2009. Head of PostNord Denmark since 2014. Previous positions: Executive VP and Head Member of group management/ of Group Operations Development function; Group Executive Team since 2012. Deputy CEO of Post Danmark A/S and P&T. Previous positions: Head of Business Area Mail Director of bpost and chairman of e-Boks A/S. Denmark; Head of Production & Transport (PRT) at Breve Danmark A/S; Deputy Director of Mail Production & Transport at Post Danmark; and Mail Center Director at the Copenhagen Post Office. PostNord Annual Report 2013 81 Group Executive Team 8 10 12 9 11 13 8. Annemarie Gardshol 10. Anders Holm 12. Robin Olsen Born 1967. Born1958. Born 1970. Master of Engineering. Market economist. Master of Engineering; Master of Management. Head of E-commerce & Corporate Clients Head of PostNord Sweden since 2014. Head of PostNord Norway and PostNord and Chief Strategy Officer since 2014. Member of group management/ Finland since 2014. Member of group management/ Group Executive Team since 2014. Member of group management/Group Group Executive Team since 2012. Previous positions: Head of Posten Logistik Executive Team since 2014. Previous positions: Head of Group Strategy; AB in Sweden; sales and marketing director Formerly Head of PostNord Logistics in executive positions at Gambro within strategy, at Posten Logistik AB in Sweden; various posiNorway and CEO of Tollpost Globe AS. global marketing and most recently as Senior tions at UPS, most recently as Manager of VP for R&D; management consultant at European Strategy & Group Integration. 13. Per Samuelson McKinsey & Company. Director of Etac AB. Born 1957. 11. Per Mossberg BSc (Economics). 9. Finn Hansen Born 1953. President of Strålfors since 2009. Born 1956. BSc (Economics). Member of group management/ Master of Science. Chief Communications Officer since 2009. Group Executive Team since 2009. Chief HR Officer since 2013. Member of group management/Group Previous positions: lecturer at Stockholm Member of group management/Group Executive Team since 2009. School of Economics and IFL; various positions Executive Team since 2009. Previous positions: Head of Corporate Commuwithin the Perstorp and PLM groups, most Previous positions: Head of Business Area Mail nications at Posten AB; partner at JKL AB; Execrecently as divisional manager and member of Denmark; Deputy Director of Distribution; utive VP at Telia AB; Senior VP at Trygg-Hansa PLM’s group management. Chairman of BTJ Deputy Director of Mail Production & TransSPP AB, Nobel Industrier and AB Bofors; and Group AB. Director of Chamber of Industry and port; various management positions at Post CEO of Näringslivets EU-fakta and NäringslivCommerce of Southern Sweden, Priveq AdviDanmark A/S. ets Ekonomifakta. Chairman of the boards of sory AB and Aniagra. CSR Sweden and Sveriges Kommunikatörer. Henrik Höjsgaard resigned as Head of Business Area Logistics on December 31, 2013. Mats Johansson is now Acting Head of Business Area PostNord Logistics. Auditors PostNord’s 2013 AGM appointed KPMG AB as the company’s auditor, with authorized public accountant Helene Willberg as auditor in charge. The auditors meet with the board at least once per year and also participate in a number of Audit Committee meetings. In 2013, the board met with the auditors during one (1) board meeting, during which board members were able to present questions to the auditors. See also Note 7, Other Expenses, Audit Fees and Reimbursement of Expenses. 82 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Internal governance Internal governance and control of financial reporting Framework and the examination of accounting principles applied PostNord’s framework for internal governance and and accounting issues that are brought to the Comcontrol is based on the framework developed by the mittee’s attention. The duties and powers of the PresiCommittee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treaddent & CEO are governed by instructions established way Commission (COSO). Internal governance and by the Board of Directors. Decision-making authority control constitute an integrated part of the business. within the group is governed by delegated authoriThe group utilizes a “three lines of defense” model to ties, which is based on the delegation of responsibiliillustrate the way in which responsibility for internal ties established by the board in its rules of procedure. governance and control has been organized. The first The delegated authorities set forth the decision-makline of defense is the management of PostNord’s busiing authority delegated by the CEO to the managers ness operations, which are responsible for identifying who report to him. These managers may then further and managing operational risks within their own delegate their decision-making authority within their areas of responsibility. PostNord’s group functions – a respective areas of responsibility. Documents of number of governance and control functions – constiimportance are jointly signed by authorized signatotute the second line of defense and are authorized to ries designated by the board. The internal audit funcissue group-wide rules and guidelines within their tion is tasked with examining the effectiveness of own functional areas of responsibility and are responinternal governance and control. The group also has sible for monitoring compliance thereto. These rules Codes of Conduct and various policy documents that and guidelines are meant to ensure that applicable are part of the control environment. laws and regulations are observed and that the business is managed in such a way as to achieve estabIdentification and management of risks lished goals. The second line of defense may also In 2013 PostNord’s operations were guided by the conduct its own inspections and take steps to identify governance model presented on page 73. The and manage any risks and errors that may have gotboard’s rules of procedure define internal governance ten by the first line of defense. The third line of and control of financial reporting as a process defense is the independent review and control functhrough which the board, the CEO and employees tion comprised of the group’s internal audit, tasked ensure the reliability of financial reporting. Risks assowith examining the effectiveness and reliability of the ciated with financial reporting are identified and evalgroup’s internal governance and control. This work is uated along with other types of risks within the framedone on an ongoing basis pursuant to an annual work of the group’s business-wide risk management auditing plan adopted by the Auditing Committee. process and through analyses of the group’s various The functions reports to the Board of Directors and companies and units. Financial reporting risks are the CEO. dealt with on a regular basis by the Audit Committee and the board, which evaluate and monitor the manControl environment agement of these risks. See also Risks and Risk ManTo ensure a good control environment, factors such agement, page 95. as organizational details, decision-making paths and intra-group allocation of authority have been clearly Control activities defined and communicated within the group. The Control activities have been designed and impleboard’s work and responsibilities are governed by the mented within PostNord to eliminate or limit the board’s rules of procedure. The Audit Committee is occurrence or effects of identified risks. These activiresponsible for preparing the board to monitor and ties include rules covering decision-making and assure the quality of the group’s financial statements. authorization, verification, compliance, manual and The Committee oversees the effectiveness of the programmed controls, and the effective division of company’s internal governance and control as well as duties and responsibilities in processes and routines. risk management systems and processes concerning Governing documents and processes concerning financial reporting. The Committee’s work helps accounting and financial reporting provide additional ensure that reporting is accurate and reliable assurance of accurate and reliable reporting. These through measures including regular discussions documents and processes are updated by the with PostNord’s management and external auditors group’s Finance & Treasury function when PostNord Annual Report 2013 83 Internal governance amendments are made to legislation, accounting published. Information to the group’s external stakerules, reporting requirements, et cetera. The Shared holders is communicated through press releases and Services unit delivers accounting, finance administraPostNord’s website. Financial reporting is also made tion, customer invoicing, supplier payments and paydirectly to the Danish and Swedish owners. roll services to the group’s central operations. In Sweden, these services are delivered via partners. Governance and monitoring Shared Services ensures that outsourced services PostNord’s business activities are reported and are delivered with high quality to the consuming evaluated monthly based on business objectives. units. Delivery quality is ensured through the monitorPostNord’s financial situation is discussed at each ing of partners’ internal control activities and reportboard meeting. Board committees play important ing on the achievement of agreed service levels and roles in terms of compensation, financial reporting quality criteria to the cooperation forum. The group’s and internal governance and control. The Audit ComFinance & Treasury function is responsible for group mittee receives regular reports from the group’s exteraccounts and consolidated financial statements and nal and internal auditors. The Audit Committee monifor the group’s common business system, SAP. This tors that action is taken to improve internal goverresponsibility includes regular analyses of the finannance and control in view of the auditors’ observacial results of the business operations and group tions and recommendations. All companies and group functions. The financial statement and reporting profunctions conduct an annual self-assessment of the cesses include controls for reporting, valuation, disinternal governance and control of financial reporting. closure requirements and application of accounting Results are compiled by PostNord’s unit for financial principles. reporting and tax, and self-assessment results are presented to the Audit Committee, the board, PostNord Communication business areas and other group functions. The Swedish State’s ownership policy specifies guideIn 2013, portions of the self-assessment responses lines, which PostNord follows, for external reporting from the group’s companies and units were subject applicable to state-owned companies. The group’s to a limited review to verify the reliability of the selfFinancial Accounting manual and supplementary assessment results. The review was conducted by the internal guidelines for accounting and closing procegroup’s Finance & Treasury function and included six dures are regularly updated and are communicated PostNord units. The review results showed no signifito relevant employees, for example via the group’s cant deviations from the self-assessment responses. intranet. The board and the Audit Committee receive Based on the self-assessment responses received for financial reports on the group’s position and earnings 2013, the internal governance and control of financial trends on a regular basis, and examine all quarterly reporting is deemed to function satisfactorily within accounts and group annual reports before they are the group. Internal governance and control at PostNord Tools and governing instruments s &YUFSOBMSFHVMBUJPOT s 1SPDFTTBOESPVUJOF s %FMFHBUFEBVUIPSJUJFT s 4ZTUFNPGBVUIPSJUZ s #VTJOFTTQMBO EFTDSJQUJPOT s 'SBNFXPSLGPSJOUFSOBMHPWFSOBODF s $POUJOVJUZQMBO s $PEFTPG$POEVDUBOEQPMJDJFT s 5BSHFUTBOENFBTVSFT BOEDPOUSPM s $PNQMJBODFQSPHSBN s 3VMFTPGQSPDFEVSFGPSUIF#PBSE s #VTJOFTTTZTUFNT s VEJUQMBO s VUIPSJ[BUJPOQMBOT PG%JSFDUPSTBOEGPSNBMXPSL s 3JTLBOBMZTJT s DDPVOUJOHIBOECPPL QMBOGPSUIF VEJU$PNNJUUFF Control environment Governance Identification and and follow-up management of risks 3rd line of defense 2nd line of defense 1st line of defense Internal audit Group functions Business operations Goals for financial reporting Information and Control activities communication Monitoring of operations s 'JOBODJBMSFQPSUJOH s 'PMMPXVQPGCVTJOFTTQMBO s 0CTFSWBUJPOTBOESFDPNNFOEBUJPOT s 4FMGFWBMVBUJPO s &WBMVBUJPOPGCPBSETXPSL s *ODJEFOUSFQPSUJOH s 'PMMPXVQPGBVUIPSJ[BUJPO s 1SPDFTTGPMMPXVQ s 'PMMPXVQPGSJTLBOBMZTJT s *40DFSUJŢJDBUJPOT s 'PMMPXVQPGPVUTPVSDJOHTVQQMJFST 84 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Universal service obligations Universal service obligations PostNord subsidiaries Post Danmark A/S and Posten AB are commissioned to provide universal postal services in Denmark and Sweden, respectively. National legislation is based on the EU directive regulating postal services within the EU and on the Universal Postal Union treaty that regulates international mail. Provisions in Denmark delivered within 4 business days. Post Danmark sets the service Postal services in Denmark are regulated by the Danish Postal requirement for C-mail (currently four business days). The quality Act (postloven) and associated ordinances as well as Post Danrequirement for letters and parcels is set at 93%. mark A/S’ individual license. The Postal Act includes provisions Post Danmark shall maintain a ”nationwide” service network stipulating the assurance of good quality, “nationwide” postal of postal service points. Prices for services provided under the delivery of addressed mail items. Under the Postal Act, the Minisdelivery obligation shall be cost-based, transparent and non-distry of Transport has the authority to designate Post Danmark to criminatory. Only single mail items are required to be offered at fulfill the delivery obligation. uniform prices throughout the country. Single mail items include Commercial postal operations must be licensed and all postal stamped letters and parcels not covered by agreement with Post operators that distribute mail or parcels (those not covered conDanmark. The Transport Ministry approves the price for domestract) may be required to contribute to funding to the postal tic non-priority mail weighing up to 50 grams sent as single mail operation that holds the distribution obligation. In order to be eliitems. Post Danmark sets the price of other mail items. According gible to receive such payment, Post Danmark is required to demto the new legislation, the delivery of priority mail to private indionstrate that the net costs borne by the company for universal viduals on Mondays may be priced individually by Post Danmark. postal services represent an unreasonable financial burden. No claims for compensation have yet been made. Provisions in Sweden On June 26, 2013 the Danish Ministry of Transport announced Universal postal services in Sweden are regulated by the Swedish that a broad parliamentary majority supports amendments to Postal Services Act, postal statutes and concession terms issued the Danish Postal Act. In view of the substantial drop in mail volby the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS). umes in Denmark and in order to maintain good postal service The Postal Services Act mandates the provision of nationwide adapted to market conditions, an agreement has been made to postal services that enable all residents of Sweden to receive letamend the delivery obligation terms and conditions as of 2014. ters and other addressed mail items weighing up to 20 kilos (uniThe Danish Parliament approved the proposed changes on Febversal postal service). Postal services must be of good quality, ruary 18, 2014. The new Act will provide relief for Post Danmark as and it must be possible for everyone to receive such mailings holder of the postal delivery obligation – allowing, for example, delivered at reasonable prices. Pricing for universal postal serthe delivery of non-priority mail in four days rather than three. vices shall be transparent, non-discriminatory, cost-oriented and The requirement for 6-day-a-week delivery will remain in place, promote the efficient provision of postal service. Single mail items but delivery of private priority mail on Mondays may be priced shall be delivered at uniform prices. individually. The changes also render possible structural changes Under Swedish postal legislation, mail weighing up to 20 kilos to the service outlet network, meaning fewer full-service service must be collected and delivered on every weekday and at least points (privately managed post offices and “post storefronts”) five days a week nationwide. The postal statutes specify that at and more “post shops” run by partner outlets offering basic serleast 85% of the mail posted before a specified time and stamped vices (sending and receiving mail and parcels, including regisfor overnight delivery must be delivered on the following busitered and insured mail items, and buying stamps). ness day, nationwide. At least 97% of that mail shall be delivered Nationwide postal services and associated rights and obligawithin three business days. For overnight mail, a price limit tions are set forth in the “Individual License for Post Danmark applies to single mail items weighing up to 500 grams, so that A/S”. The individual license includes provisions for service level, their price may be raised no faster than the consumer price quality and prices and specifies that Post Danmark shall distribindex. The price limit is a national regulation that not in line with ute products covered by the delivery obligation on every Danish the EU’s postal directive. weekday (Monday – Saturday, although parcels are not distribThe Postal Services Act imposes more stringent requireuted on Saturdays). Products covered by the distribution obligaments on the operator appointed to provide universal postal tion are addressed letters; addressed daily, weekly and monthly services (Posten AB) than on other operators, including periodicals; addressed mail items with standardized printed conrequirements for reasonable and transparent pricing and the tent (e.g., catalogs) weighing up to 2 kilos; addressed parcels reporting of prices and calculations to PTS. weighing up to 20 kilos (with the exception of B2B parcels govPursuant to postal legislation, PTS may appoint a provider of erned by contractual terms); and Braille material weighing up to universal postal services. Postal Service Act legislative history 7 kilos. Addressed priority mail is delivered overnight and, under indicates that no specific postal operator need be appointed if the new postal legislation from 2014, non-priority mail will be the market fulfills the requirement for universal postal services. PostNord Annual Report 2013 85 Universal service obligations Unlike Posten, PTS has determined that the market According to the PTS report “Service and Competicannot fulfill this requirement, and has appointed tion 2013”, PostNord Group fulfills government Posten AB to provide the service. Accordingly, requirements in terms of service quality. In terms of Posten’s prices and terms are subject to the postal the percentage of mail distributed on the following legislation’s sector-specific regulations and thus to day, the group continues to exceed by a wide margin requirements that are not imposed on Posten’s comthe minimum requirements stipulated by the terms petitors. of its license. PTS licensing terms include provisions stipulating that Posten must publish price lists on its website Special provisions – including provisions along with all volume discounts for each service for sparsely populated areas included in the universal postal service, disclosing the In Denmark, postal operator and service ordinances discount rate and volume ranges for the various disset forth regulations for the installation of mailboxes count levels as well as peak performance discounts and apartment mailboxes. Mailboxes for all houseand the basic principles for other discounts. The PTS holds must be located on the property line (in rural requirements for price and discount disclosure are areas, no farther than 50 meters from the house). All more far-reaching than those specified in the Postal multi-story buildings must install apartment mailServices Act legislative history (disclosure required boxes in the entrance area or outside the main only for basic principles of prices and discounts). entrance. People who are unable to collect their mail Regulation in Sweden and various interpretations are entitled to have mail delivered to their door. Speas to what it entails have given rise to a number of cial rules apply for mail distribution to small islands. lawsuits. An extra day is added to the delivery time for parcels In its 2013 decision on Posten AB’s calculation from Bornholm addressed nationwide. model (SAC), the Stockholm Administrative Court of In Sweden, PTS has issued general suggestions Appeal held that Posten’s distribution of “coordination concerning the delivery of mail in the provision of the gains” among the mail services at issue did not conuniversal postal service. Among other things, the gentravene the PTS licensing terms or the Postal Services eral guidelines state that, outside urban areas, mail Act and, accordingly, the PTS had no grounds to should be delivered to mailbox clusters along the mail demand that Posten amend its accounting methods. carrier’s route. Mail items addressed to mail recipients Posten AB appealed the PTS decision on 2012 living less than 200 meters down a side road should licensing requirements – specifically, the requirement be delivered to the mailbox cluster on the main route. to publish discounts – to the Administrative Court in If there are at least two mail recipients who reside or Stockholm. In its decision rendered on September 27, work permanently for every kilometer of the side 2013 the court rejected Posten’s appeal in its entirely. road, mail should be delivered along that road. Elderly Posten appealed this decision to the Stockholm and physically handicapped people are entitled to Administrative Court of Appeal. have their mail delivered to their property line, as opposed to the mailbox cluster, upon request. The Supervision in Denmark and Sweden PTS licensing requirements state that “mailing and In Denmark, the Traffic Board (Trafikstyrelsen) is the drop-off points” shall be located close enough to each national supervisory authority for postal services. The other as to take users’ needs into account. This proviTraffic Board supervises Post Danmark and the other sion particularly affects Posten AB’s partner outlet postal companies operating in the Danish market. In network in Sweden. addition to Post Danmark A/S there are ten registered With respect to PTS requirements, during 2013 operators licensed to provide commercial postal serPosten AB undertook to maintain first-rate postal services. Under Danish postal legislation, “postal operavice in sparsely populated areas – specifically, to tor” is defined as a business that provides commercial ensure the continued provision of postal service in postal services for addressed mail items weighing up these areas in a manner that meets the actual needs to 20 kilos. Commercial parcel delivery services covof society, including taking adequate account of enviered by contractual provisions do not required a ronmental concerns. In return Posten is allowed, license. Upon request, postal operators must provide under special conditions and in specific cases, to the Traffic Board with a number of details and must make changes to postal service provision that are submit an audited statement of delivered postal volrequired to reflect changed conditions, even though ume quantity on an annual basis. these changes may deviate from universal service In Sweden, PTS supervision of postal operations to obligation terms. ensure compliance with postal legislation includes Posten’s fulfillment of government requirements for universal postal services. PTS has granted licenses to conduct postal operations in Sweden to 32 companies. 86 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Financial development and risks 88 Financial development 94 The share and corporate bonds 95 Risks and risk management Financial development Financial development Net sales and profit impairments following write-downs of SEK 207m durPostNord’s 2013 net sales were up 2%. Growth ing the comparative period. Transport expenses occurred primarily within business area Logistics, increased, mainly due to acquisitions but also to volwhich saw a 14% increase in net sales as a result of ume increases within business area Logistics. acquisitions and organic growth. Market expansion Group operating profit improved to SEK 676m within e-commerce continues to generate increased (511) and the operating margin to 1.7 (1.3)%. demand for goods distribution via mail and parcel Net financial items totaled SEK –208m (–144). The post. The group’s parcel volumes increased 6% and change was mainly attributable to lower average levB2C parcel volumes rose 12%. Mail volumes fell 5%. els of cash and cash equivalents during the year. Expenses increased 1%. Excluding acquisitions Of the year’s SEK 146m (120) in tax expenses, curand exchange rate effects, expenses fell 2% due to rent tax totaled SEK 18m (119) and deferred tax totaled personnel cutbacks and lower restructuring costs. SEK 128m (1). Deferred tax expenses were affected priThe average number of employees totaled 39,305 marily by the fact that deficits can no longer be uti(39,713). Excluding acquisitions, the average number lized due to the merger of group companies. of employees was reduced by approximately 1,500 Net profit totaled SEK 322m (247). Return on during the year. Restructuring costs totaled SEK 717m equity, rolling 12-month, was 3.9%. (1,171). There was a reduction in depreciation and Financial development of PostNord Group and business operations Of which Excl acquisitions/ Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Acquisitions/ divestments SEKm 2013 2012 Change Divestments Currency & currency PostNord Group Net sales 39,533 38,920 613 2% 4% –1% –2% Operating profit (EBIT) 676 5113) 165 32% 4% –5% 34% Operating margin, %2) 1.7 1.33) Mail Net sales1) 24,103 25,0224) –919 –4% 1% –1% –4% of which Mail Denmark 9,364 10,1654) –801 –8% 0% –2% –7% of which Mail Sweden 15,050 15,137 –87 –1% 1% 0% –1% Operating profit (EBIT) 494 6164) –122 –20% 4% –1% –23% of which Mail Denmark –89 –1774) 88 50% 10% –2% 42% of which Mail Sweden 583 793 –210 –26% 1% 0% –27% Operating margin, %2) 2.0 2.44) Logistics Net sales 13,432 11,7624) 1,670 14% 13% –2% 3% Operating profit (EBIT) 197 2724) –75 –28% –2% –3% –22% Operating margin, %2) 1.3 2.14) Strålfors Net sales 2,612 2,665 –53 –2% 0% –2% –1% Operating profit (EBIT) 16 –25 41 >100% 0% 1% >100% Operating margin, %2) 0.6 neg Other and Eliminations Net sales1) –614 –529 –85 –16% Operating profit (EBIT) –31 –3523) 321 91% 1) Within Mail internal transactions between business areas were eliminated. 2) Calculation of margins includes other income; see Multi-year review. 3) Restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 4) Restated due to reorganization of the group’s parcel business in Denmark. 88 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Financial development The businesses related services, with greater light parcel volumes and Mail an increased number of mail items distributed at partNet sales for Mail were down 4% in 2013, due mainly ner outlets. International e-commerce volumes also to revenue declines within Mail Denmark. Mail volincreased. Direct mail revenues developed negatively umes fell a total of 5%. due to the continued weakness of the advertising Expenses fell 3%, primarily due to personnel cutmarket. Newspaper revenues increased in 2013 due backs. to the volume growth of free papers and the takeover Operating profit totaled SEK 494m (616) and the of Svensk Morgondistribution operations in June operating margin was 2.0 (2.4)%. 2012. Expenses increased 1%. Restructuring costs rose Mail Denmark to SEK 434m (419) and were attributable to personnel Net sales for business area Mail Denmark fell 8%, cutbacks. Year-on-year expenses were positively chiefly due to the continued decline in mail volumes. impacted by pension effects. Adjusted for these items Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, net and for the takeover of Svensk Morgondistribution sales fell 7%. Net sales were impacted by continued operations, personnel expenses were down 2% due wide-spread digitization in the Danish market and a to rationalizations and adjustments made to reduced continued weak economic trend in the country durmail volumes. The average number of employees ing the year. Mail volumes fell a total of 10% in 2013. was reduced to 17,167 (17,686). Increased international The effect on net sales was partially mitigated by e-commerce volumes led to increased expenses. price changes for letters. Revenues from advertising Operating profit fell to SEK 583m (793) and the and newspapers fell due to the continued weak direct operating margin to 3.7 (5.0)%. mail market and to increased competition. Parcel volumes increased during the year, although revenues Logistics fell somewhat due to price pressure in the market. Net sales for the Logistics business area were up 14%, Expenses fell 8%. Excluding acquisitions and due primarily to the acquisitions concluded during exchange rate effects, expenses fell 7%. The change the year (Byrknes Auto AS, Nordisk Kyl Logistik AB was attributable to streamlining efforts within producand Transbothnia AB). Excluding acquisitions and tion and administration, mainly through personnel exchange rate effects, the business area’s net sales cutbacks. The average number of employees was were up 3%. The expansion of e-commerce generreduced to 12,311 (12,730). Restructuring costs totaled ated a considerable increase in B2C parcel services. SEK 42m (296). Revenue growth eased somewhat during the second Operating profit totaled SEK –89m (–177). half of the year. This was due mainly to developments in Norway, with a market characterized by heavy Mail Sweden price pressure from competitors and sharp declines Net sales for business area Mail Sweden fell 1%, both in demand. The business in Sweden reported continbefore and after acquisitions and exchange rate ued growth but was also subject to heavy price preseffects. Mail volumes fell 3% in 2013 due to continued sure. The business in Germany reported strong digitization. Volume development was positively growth due to growth in e-commerce volumes. The affected by the strong increase in e-commercebusinesses in Denmark and Finland also reported Net sales, PostNord Group Operating profit and operating margin, PostNord Group SEKm SEKm % 50,000 1,800 6 40,000 1,200 4 30,000 20,000 600 2 10,000 0 0 0 09* 10 11 12 13 09* 10 11 12 13 1) 1) Net sales, PostNord Group Operating profit Operating margin * pro forma * pro forma 1) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. PostNord Annual Report 2013 89 Financial development growth. Demand for third-party logistics services Financial position developed positively during the year, with organic PostNord reported an improved financial position, growth of 12% attributable to new and existing cuswith a reduction in net debt as of December 31, 2013. tomers. The maintenance of a strong and sustainable finanExpenses were up 13% due chiefly to acquisitions. cial position is a priority for the group. PostNord’s Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, financial policy also stipulates that the group shall expenses rose 3% due to volume increases. Restrucmaintain strong financial preparedness. This is aimed turing costs totaled SEK 20m (137). at enabling the group to finance its strategy and creOperating profit totaled SEK 197m (272) and the ate financial flexibility in the long term, so that it can operating margin fell to 1.3 (2.1)%. Activities were initiseize business opportunities and manage the refiated in Norway and Sweden to ensure a long-term nancing of maturing debt. sustainable cost level. Net debt was reduced year-on-year by SEK During the year the company refinanced Bulk 1,308m. Net debt was impacted by a rise in mortgage Langhus 1, which owns a property in Norway where a bond rates, which constitute the reference rate for calnew logistics terminal is being constructed. The comculating the present value of pension commitments. pany will take possession during the year. The interest rate was changed by 0.5 percentage points, resulting in a SEK 1,224m reduction in pension Strålfors liabilities. Excess return on pension assets contributed Net sales for Strålfors fell 2% year-on-year. Excluding an additional SEK 597m to net debt reduction. acquisitions and exchange rate effects, net sales fell The net debt/EBITDA ratio, rolling 12-month, was 1%. An asset acquisition of Itella’s printing and insert1.3. The net debt reduction and equity replenishment ing business in Poland was concluded during the improved the net debt ratio to 33%. The equity-assets year. Net sales for growth divisions Data Manageratio improved to 35% during the year. ment, Market Communication and Service Fulfillment Financial preparedness totaled SEK 3,973m increased. The Business Communication division (5,046), consisting of cash and cash equivalents of developed weakly and had reduced revenues. BusiSEK 1,973m (3,046) and unutilized committed credit ness Communication is the division with the most of SEK 2,000m. A liquidity position was built in 2012 exposure to competition from digital alternatives. through the issuance of interest-bearing securities. Expenses fell 3%. Excluding acquisitions and Cash and cash equivalents decreased due to the conexchange rate effects, expenses fell 2% due primarily tinued high level of investment activity. As of Decemto lower restructuring costs which totaled SEK 36m ber 31, 2013, PostNord had SEK 200m in outstanding (102). Operating profit improved to SEK 16m (–25) and commercial paper maturing within 12 months. the operating margin to 0.6 (neg)%. Equity improved by SEK 1,530m to SEK 9,063m During the year, a loan was converted to shares in (7,533) as of December 31, 2013. The change is chiefly EsonPac AB for the purpose of securing an adequate attributable to the above-mentioned revaluation of asset base for the company’s business development. pension liabilities. Equity was negatively affected by Strålfors thereby increased its ownership interest in translation effects of SEK 107m following exchange the company from 19.2% to 48%. rate changes. During 2013 PostNord identified additional potenOther and Eliminations tial for capital efficiency. The capital efficiency proThe improvement in Other and Elimination results is gram includes working capital as well as invested capattributable to pension effects. Also, last year’s result ital and is aimed at further strengthening the financwas affected by higher restructuring costs for personing of group strategy. nel cutbacks and by write-downs. Net sales development Expense development1) SEKm SEKm +1,685 –144 +24 –295 40,000 40,000 +1,670 –53 –116 39,533 –452 39,090 38,920 –801 38,662 –390 38,750 38,750 –87 37,500 37,500 2012 Mail Mail Logistics Strålfors Other & 2013 2012 Currency Structural Personnel Other DepreciaRestruc2013 Denmark Sweden Eliminations changes changes expenses expenses tion and turing impaircosts ments 1) Includes participations in the earnings of associated companies. 90 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Financial development Cash flows gram. Loan amortization totaled SEK 219m (2,137) Cash flows from operating activities totaled SEK during the period. Pension commitments of SEK 111m 1,662m (1,825). Change in working capital totaled SEK (482) were transferred to Posten’s Pension Fund dur112m (49). Working capital was impacted by an ing the period and compensation totaling SEK 0m increase in accounts payable, settlements vis-à-vis (360) was received from the Fund. foreign postal companies and a decrease in accounts receivable owing to calendar effects. Pension payInvestments ments totaled SEK 1,070m (1,081). Pension liabilities The group’s investments in tangible and intangible were impacted mainly by lower provisions for early fixed assets totaled SEK 2,241m (2,331) in 2013. retirement pensions. The liquidity effect with regard Business area Mail Denmark made investments in to utilized provisions totaled SEK 428m (405). Other fixed assets totaling SEK 359m (463) during the period. changes to provisions during the period were primarThe investments were primarily attributable to investily attributable to adjustments to production; see also ments in production vehicles, replacement investNote 6, Other Expenses. ments for sorting equipment, and the purchase of Cash flows from investing activities totaled SEK postal vending/service machines and electric bicycles. 2,653m (3,533). Investments in tangible fixed assets Investments made by Mail Sweden totaled SEK totaled SEK 1,896m (1,994). Investments intangible fixed 986m (1,066) and were primarily attributable to the assets totaled SEK 345m (337). The intangible investconstruction of and equipment for the new terminals ments were primarily attributable to the development in Hallsberg and Rosersberg and to regular replaceof joint IT solutions. The net liquidity effect of the acquiment investments in production vehicles. sition of subsidiaries totaled SEK 336m (1,420). Green Logistics invested SEK 536m (401) in fixed assets Cargo Logistics was acquired during the comparative during period. The largest investments during the period. See also Note 31, Acquisitions and Divestments. year were replacement investments for vehicles, Cash flows from financing activities totaled SEK infrastructure investments in the new terminals in –82m (2,654). The group raised loans of SEK 400m Sweden and Norway, and inventory and sorting (5,419) during the period under the group’s MTN proequipment. Financial position Net debt/EBITDA and equity-assets ratio Dec 31, Dec 31, SEKm 2013 2012 times % 2.0 100 Cash and cash equivalents 1,973 3,046 Interest-bearing debt 4,589 4,312 1.5 75 Pension provisions1) 375 3,0332) 1.0 50 Net debt 2,991 4,299 0.5 25 1) Includes assets under management. 2) Restated due to changes in IAS 19, Employee Benefits. 0.0 0 –0.5 –1.0 09* 10 11 12 13 Net debt/EBITDA1) Equity-Assets ratio1) * pro forma 1) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. PostNord Group cash flows1) SEKm 3,000 1,550 1,776 1,976 +112 +49 2,000 –342 +3,024 946 1,000 –1,073 –1,532 0 –1,813 +23 –1,000 –2,653 –105 –1,004 –349 –2,000 –3,533 –370 –3,000 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Operating Change in Investing Dividend(s) Other Net cash flows activities before working activities paid financing change in working capital activities capital 1) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. PostNord Annual Report 2013 91 Financial development Investments made by Strålfors during the year – which Launch of new logistics brand totaled SEK 94m (89) – were primarily attributable to On September 2, 2013 PostNord launched a new new color printers, computer software and miscellaumbrella brand – PostNord Logistics – for the group’s neous replacement investments. Nordic logistics offer. The brand will be established in The segment Other invested a total of 266m (312) stages during 2013–2014. during the year, primarily in systems support for joint PostNord IT solutions and the integration of IT infraLetter postage raised in Denmark structure. On September 30, 2013 Post Danmark announced a See also Note 4, Segment Reporting. change in letter postage as of January 1, 2014. The postage rate for priority mail weighing up to 50 grams was Parent company and distribution of profits raised by 1.00 DKK to 9.00 DKK and postage for nonThe parent company, PostNord AB, ran a very limited priority letters was raised by 0.50 DKK to 6.50 DKK. inter-company service operation and had only three employees as of December 31, 2013: the President/CEO, Dispute regarding Posten’s licensing requirements the group CFO and the Head of Group Strategy. No net On September 27, 2013 the Administrative Court in sales were reported during the year. Operating Stockholm issued a ruling on the 2012 Licensing expenses totaled SEK 36m (54). Financial items totaled Requirements, upholding the extremely stringent PTS SEK –110m (2,460), of which SEK 773m (2,473) was pricing transparency requirements which would harm attributable to dividends from subsidiaries and SEK Posten’s competitiveness. Posten appealed the ruling 800m (0) to write-down in subsidiaries. Profit before tax to the Administrative Court of Appeals. On September totaled SEK –30m (2,475). 11, PTS issued new licensing requirements effective October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2015. The transProposed distribution of profits parency requirements in the new version are less strinThe Board of Directors proposes that unappropriated gent than the 2011 requirements, but PTS reserves the profits be distributed as follows: right to amend the requirements following final judicial review of the 2012 version. SEK Dividend, 2,000,000,001 shares * 0.0644 per share 128,800,000 Enhanced cooperation between Ellos Group Carried forward 3,438,323,525 and PostNord Total 3,567,123,525 On November 19, 2013 PostNord announced the signing of a new three-year contract with Ellos Group, one Highlights of the group’s largest customers. Under the contract, Danish parcel distribution agreement PostNord will ensure the most efficient solutions as On April 18, 2013 Post Danmark and Coop signed an Ellos Group’s Nordic logistics partner. agreement on a new parcel concept. Around 300 automatic parcel machines will be set up in Coop stores in Sweden sued over VAT on postal services Denmark, making it even easier to receive and send On November 20, 2013 the European Commission parcels. brought an action against Sweden in the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning VAT on certain 2013 Annual General Meeting postal services. The Commission’s position is that, PostNord’s 2013 Annual General Meeting was held on under EU law, Sweden as a country should not charge April 18, 2013. The AGM resolved that the board shall be VAT on these services. PostNord has imposed VAT in comprised of eight AGM-elected members and no depSweden on the postal services at issue in accordance uties. Jens Moberg was newly elected as chairman of with Swedish law. the board. The AGM reelected board members Mats Abrahamsson, Gunnel Duveblad, Jonas Iversen and Changes to group management Torben Janholt. The AGM elected Christian Ellegaard, • On July 23, 2013 Håkan Ericsson was appointed Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen and Anitra Steen as new PostNord’s new President & CEO. Ericsson took up board members. The AGM also resolved to distribute a the post on October 1st. dividend of SEK 103m (368) to the shareholders; this • On Januari 21, 2013 Finn Hansen was appointed new distribution was made on April 22, 2013. Accounting head of Group HR. firm KPMG AB was newly elected as auditor through • On October 7, 2013 Henrik Höjsgaard announced his the close of next year’s AGM, with authorized public resignation as head of business area Logistics to take accountant Helene Willberg as auditor in charge. over as president and CEO of Proffice AB. Mats Johansson was appointed acting head of the busiPostNord issues bonds of SEK 400m ness area. Recruitment of a successor is underway. On June 5, 2013 PostNord issued bonds totaling SEK 400m. The bond loan has a 6-year duration and falls due on June 12, 2019. The loan carries a variable interest rate of 3-months STIBOR + 125 basis points. 92 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Financial development Completed acquisitions (responsible for market and service development in PostNord made the following material acquisitions in each Nordic area) are being formed. Strålfors will con2013: tinue to operate as a subsidiary and will be strongly • On January 2, 2013 the acquisition of Distribution Seraligned with business area Mail & Communication. vices A/S was completed and the company became The new organization will be introduced as of March a wholly-owned part of business area Mail Denmark. 31, 2014. Financial reporting will mainly be done on the Distribution Services A/S specializes in the packaging basis of the business areas and Strålfors. and management of unaddressed mail. The organizational change also involves changes • Acquisition of Norwegian Byrknes Auto AS operato group management. A Group Executive Team was tions. The acquisition strengthens PostNord’s posiintroduced on February 1, 2014: tion in the Nordic logistics market, particularly within • Håkan Ericsson, President & Group CEO. thermal transports. • K. B. Pedersen, Executive Vice President and • Acquisition of all operations of ISS Document A/S and Deputy CEO. the digitization service and document management • Andreas Falkenmark, Head of Business Area assets of Aditro. The two acquisitions strengthen the PostNord Mail & Communication. group’s integrated offer and position in the growing • Mats Johansson, Acting Head of Business Area Nordic scanning market and create synergy opportuPostNord Logistics. nities with existing communication businesses. • Per Samuelson, President of Strålfors. • Acquisition of Itella’s printing and inserting business • Annemarie Gardshol, Head of E-commerce & in Poland. The acquisition strengthens Strålfors’ posiCorporate Clients and Chief Strategy Officer. tion in the Polish market. • Anders Holm, Head of PostNord Sweden. • On June 12, 2013 the acquisition of Bilfrakt Bothnia AB • Henning Christensen, Head of PostNord Denmark. subsidiaries – Nordisk Kyl Logistik AB and Transboth• Robin Olsen, Head of PostNord Norway and nia AB, with operations in northern Sweden – was PostNord Finland. finalized, broadening the group’s logistics business in • Henrik Rättzén, Chief Financial Officer. Sweden within mixed cargo, consignment cargo and • Per Mossberg, Chief Communications Officer. thermal transports. • Joss Delissen, Chief Information Officer. • Finn Hansen, Chief HR Officer. Events after the reported period • Johanna Allert, Chief Technical Officer. Strategy development PostNord’s strategy is based on the strategy estabChanges to PostNord Group brand structure lished in 2011. It was developed at year-end 2013/2014 PostNord announced on February 3, 2014 that the with respect to the group’s prioritized areas and is now group’s commercial brand symbols will be integrated comprised of six strategic components: with PostNord’s logo as of 2014 in order to capitalize on 1. Secure profitability for Mail & Communication. the strengths of the existing commercial brands and 2. Take the position as the Nordic region’s leading improve clarity and uniformity by giving the PostNord logistics operator. brand greater scope in the group’s marketing commu3. Secure the position as the leading e-commerce nication. Implementation of the new commercial service partner in the Nordic region. brands will be done on an ongoing basis over a three4. Develop attractive and profitable service logistics year period. solutions. 5. Increase competitiveness – reduced costs, stable IT Changes to the Board of Directors operation and integrated production model. On February 14, 2014 Jonas Iversen resigned as board 6. Winning culture – stronger delivery culture and member. Patrik Jönsson, deputy director at the Ministry sharper sustainability profile. of Finance, has been co-opted into the board for the period through the April 23rd AGM. Organizational changes On February 3, 2014 PostNord announced the impleDecision on new Danish postal legislation mentation of a new organization in 2014. The objectives On June 26, 2013 the Danish Ministry of Transport of the change include creating greater uniformity for announced that a broad parliamentary majority supcustomers, increasing focus on e-commerce and ports amendments to the Danish Postal Act aimed at expanding potential synergies for the business. maintaining good service in view of the substantial The change involves, among other things, the introdrop in mail volumes. The proposed law was approved duction of a matrix organization. Country units will be by the Danish Parliament on February 18, 2014. Under formed (Sweden, Denmark and Norway/Finland) to the new Danish Postal Act, new licensing terms for Post allow for greater uniformity for customers and the Danmark A/S will take effect as of March 1, 2014. Under establishment of integrated production models. At the the proposal, terms and conditions will be amended same time, a Nordic Mail & Communication business and entail market adjustments for Post Danmark A/S as area and a corporate strategic unit for e-commerce the national postal operator. PostNord Annual Report 2013 93 The share and corporate bonds The share and corporate bonds The share financed via external loans in addition to internally Ownership and capital stock generated funds. According to PostNord’s financing PostNord AB is owned 60% by the Swedish State and strategy, the group aims for diversified financing with 40% by the Danish State. Votes are allocated 50/50 borrowing in both the fixed income and the money between the Danish and Swedish States. The Danish markets, with sufficient reserves in the form of comMinistry of Transport represents the Danish State’s mitted loan facilities. shares and the Swedish Ministry of Finance reprePostNord raised additional loans in 2013 through sents the Swedish State’s share at PostNord AB’s the commercial paper program and corporate bond Annual General Meeting, where each owner nomiprogram established in 2012. The corporate bonds nates four members of PostNord’s Board of Directors. are listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. The owner relationship is regulated by a shareholders’ agreement between the two States. PostNord’s capital stock totals SEK 2,000m, allocated into 2,000,000,001 shares, 1,524,905,971 of which are A shares and 475,094,030 of which are B shares. Each share has a quota value of SEK 1 and carNet earnings per share ries a right to dividend. A shares carry the right of one SEK vote per share; B shares carry the right of one-tenth 1.5 vote per share. Dividends paid and proposed 1.0 Dividends totaling SEK 103m were distributed in 2013, representing SEK 0.0515 per share. The dividend represents 40% of 2012 net profit. 0.5 Earnings per share, before and after dilution, totaled SEK 0.16 (0.12) in 2013. The board proposes 0.0 a dividend of SEK 128.8m, which represents SEK 09* 10 11 12 13 0.0644 per share and 40% relative to net profit. Net earnings per share1) * pro forma Debt programs and corporate bonds 1) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated PostNord AB is a Swedish public company owned by due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. the Danish and Swedish States. Operations are Debt programs Program Arranger Dealers Amount Revolving credit facility (matures Nordea Bank AB Danske Bank, Handelsbankens Capital Markets, Nordea SEK 2,000m 2016) Commercial paper program Nordea Bank AB Danske Bank, Handelsbankens Capital Markets, Nordea, SEB SEK 3,000m MTN program SEB Danske Bank, Handelsbankens Capital Markets, Nordea, SEB, Swedbank SEK 6,000m Outstanding bonds Type Original amount Coupon Maturity date ISIN Medium Term Note SEK 1,000m 3-m STIBOR + 150 pts September 20, 2017 SE0004811099 Medium Term Note SEK 1,000m 3.125% September 20, 2017 SE0004811081 Medium Term Note SEK 150m 2.00% June 3, 2015 SE0004926830 Medium Term Note SEK 390m 3-m STIBOR + 70 pts June 3, 2015 SE0004926822 Medium Term Note SEK 400m 3-m STIBOR + 125 pts June 12, 2018 SE0005249422 94 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Risks and risk management Risks and risk management Risk management is essential to the governance and control of PostNord’s business. Proactive, structured risk management gives the group the capacity to achieve goals and create value. At PostNord, risk management is a continuous proThe businesses receive support from the group’s cess and part of our strategy work and operating Risk Management function, which is responsible for activities. Risk management is an integrated part of producing and establishing group-wide risk manageoperational governance and follow-up. PostNord ment instructions and guidelines as well as for risk operates in an international market characterized by consolidation and reporting on risk management ongoing changes in several areas. Structured prework and risk exposure to PostNord’s management, paredness is required to adapt and optimize the busiAudit Committee and Board of Directors. Support for ness in the best way and to take advantage of opporthe risk management work conducted by the busitunities while at the same time minimizing risks and ness areas and the group Risk Management function losses. The overarching objective is to ensure that the is also provided through the Security Organization risks affecting the group’s strategy and goals are idenand continuity planning efforts and by the Group tified and managed in an effective, systematic and Strategy unit and the insurance network. The Audit value-creating way. Committee is tasked with supervising the efficacy of the company’s internal governance and control, Risk management including processes for risk management. PostNord has an established process that includes risk management roles and responsibilities. Risk man2014 priorities agement development work was initiated in 2013 and As part of the efforts to develop the group’s internal will be further developed and implemented in 2014. governance and control, PostNord will be intensifying group-wide risk management work in 2014. PostNord Risk management process will establish a more proactive approach, with a clariThe group works continuously to identify, evaluate, fied and developed Enterprise Risk Management manage and follow up risks in the external environ(ERM) function. An ERM policy and ERM instructions ment and within the business areas and group funcwill be decided upon and implemented in the busitions. PostNord’s risk management process ensures nesses. Enterprise Risk Management efforts will be the uniformity and comparability of risks, which concentrated on the further development and impleenables the group to prioritize measures in line with mentation of processes and the functional ERM orgathe target picture, business-related decisions and nization. Roles and responsibilities for risk analysis external factors. Risks are managed based on these and risk consolidation will be further clarified with the priorities, and PostNord strives for an optimization introduction on an ERM network and an ERM Combetween prevention and risk-limiting measures and mittee with representatives from the Group Executive the transfer of risks through insurance and contracTeam, the business areas and group functions. Work tual procedures. will be done to develop consolidation processes in order to further improve transparency and enhance Risk management organization and responsibility decision and prioritization material based on the PostNord’s Board of Directors and Group Executive group’s overall risk exposure. Team have overall responsibility for the group’s Risk Management. Responsibility for risk management within the business areas, group functions and subsidiaries rests with the respective managers. PostNord Annual Report 2013 95 Risks and risk management Risks significant impact on the group. Two of the most The most important risk areas for PostNord are highly prioritized regulatory risks in 2013 are the EU described below, along with information on how the Commission’s lawsuit against Sweden for failure to group works with managing, controlling and limiting comply with the EU VAT directive with respect to these risks. postal services, and risks related to the formulation of licensing requirements. These risks may impact the 1. Strategic risks group’s competitive situation and its ability to fulfill Regulatory risks the universal service obligation with good profitabilChanges to legislation and regulatory requirements ity. PostNord manages these risks with market and impact PostNord’s situation and risk exposure, and scenario analyses, advocacy work and the adaptation consequently the group’s strategic position in terms of the businesses. of business models, competition, service offer, pricing and sustainability-related issues such as environmenRisks resulting from changed market conditions tal strategy and employee issues. PostNord is comPostNord operates in a competitive market, where missioned to provide universal postal services in Swemarket changes and position shifts may present chalden and Denmark, and changes to terms and/or lenges to PostNord’s competitive advantage and licenses on the European or national level can have a profitability. 2013 was characterized by increased Summary of risks and risk management RISK EXPOSURE BY EXAMPLES OF RISKS EXAMPLES OF MEASURES TAKEN RISK CATEGORY STRATEGIC RISKS Risks concerning licensing requirements. Market monitoring and dialogue with Risks concerning competition legislation. politicians, legislative bodies and Altered market conditions. authorities. STRATEGIC RISKS Competition-related risks. Conversion program and capital effiDigitization risks – customers, society ciency efforts. and business sector. Adjustment of production to demand. Sustainability risks. Strategy process and business planning. Investment risks. OPERATIONAL RISKS Risks concerning conversion program Adjustment and follow-up of conversion and cost savings. program and ongoing cost savings Risks concerning IT delivery and IT program. stability. Disruption analyses and incident Risks concerning facilities and reporting. OPERATIONAL infrastructure. Continuity planning, including ensuring RISKS Risks concerning personnel and skills supply. organization. Project risk management. Security-related risks. Review of insurance activities and Legal disputes. insurance coverage. Volume-related risks. Internal governance and control. FINANCIAL RISKS Credit risks. Financial risk exposure regulated by Refinancing risks. Financial Policy. Investment risks. Cost savings program. Restructuring risks of a financial nature. Capital efficiency program to ensure FINANCIAL Interest rate risks. good payment readiness and scope for RISKS Currency risks/translation exposure. investments. Pension-related risks. Liquidity reserves. Systematic credit evaluations. Analysis and review of pension commitments and pension programs. Diversification of pension assets, derivative solutions and scenario planning. 96 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Risks and risk management competition and price pressure in several business PostNord works consistently with risk analyses and areas and in several markets – e.g., logistics services continuity planning with regard to its businesses, and some mail services. services and deliveries within the business areas PostNord must respond to and adapt the business and group functions. Weaknesses in business-critical to changes in customer behavior, changes in market processes are managed within the business and the demand and technological developments, and continuity framework, supported by the group Risk increased levels of digitization. These are factors that Management function. Risk analyses and continuity can result in declining mail volumes and increased programs ensure PostNord’s capacity to manage the price pressure. Coordinated public initiatives to consequences of any undesired events, disturbances increase the level of digitization have already and quality problems and thereby safeguard critical impacted the Danish business, and a similar developprocesses and deliveries. ment is likely in the Swedish market. Several private sector industries are exploring options to increase the Environmental risks use of digital channels instead of physical mail. The PostNord’s operations require transports and an change and adaptation of PostNord’s business model extensive infrastructure of terminals, production faciligenerates several risks of a more strategic nature, ties and other buildings. The business itself is energy related to things such as cost adjustments, manageintensive and its carbon dioxide emissions have an ment and governance of the business, development impact on the environment. External environmental of various customer offers, and acquisition strategy. performance demands are simultaneously increasPostNord initiated and completed a number of acquiing. PostNord has a goal of reducing group CO2 emissitions in 2013, which places heavy demands on intesions by 40% during the period 2009–2020. gration and coordination to capture synergies and PostNord works purposefully and in cooperation ensure a good earnings trend in line with plan. with various stakeholders to adjust its operations to PostNord’s corporate strategy – based on the reduce environmental risks and impact. These efforts strategy established in 2011 – is aimed at creating also involve the management of certain market risks, long-term value for its owners and other stakeholders since lowering energy consumption levels serves to and ensuring the provision of universal postal service. reduce vulnerability to rising energy prices. Within The strategy, developed at year-end 2013/2014 with the ramework of the group’s production strategy, respect to the group’s prioritized areas, includes PostNord’s efforts include setting up a new terminal structural changes to and investments in Mail to structure in Sweden that will reduce the group’s secure profitability in light of declining demand for environmental impact, and switching to more physical mail. It also includes the development of the eco-efficient vehicles. Read more about PostNord’s logistics business by broadening the service offer and environmental operations on page 59. market presence, increasing focus on development of the group’s e-commerce offer and continuing 3. Financial risks streamlining efforts to reduce costs and increase Market changes and PostNord’s business developthe share of variable costs. ment involve significant investments and major nonrecurring restructuring costs that will burden the 2. Operational risks group’s cash flows and profit in 2014. Financing is Continuity, quality and security risks secured through improvements to operative cash PostNord is exposed to several operational risks, flows and the maintenance of an effective capital the most critical of which relate to the fulfillment of structure that includes the utilization of external conversion programs and cost saving objectives, financing. Improvements to cash flows from operating IT delivery quality and continuity, and structural activities will be achieved through the gradual changes and adaptation of personnel and organizaimprovement of the businesses’ operating profit and tion. PostNord also has risks related to fixed assets by releasing capital through improved capital effiand infrastructure. PostNord’s goal is that high quality, ciency. During 2013 PostNord identified additional efficiency, security and continuity characterize the potential for capital efficiency. Apart from risks associgroup’s services, deliveries and internal work. Ensurated with the management of financial preparedness, ing continued high levels of continuity and efficiency financial risks are, in short, limited. Risk management is is a key component of the conversion efforts being focused on good diversification of credit risks and limconducted within the businesses, which are aimed at iting the effects of interest rate and currency changes. preserving and improving customer satisfaction and Financial risks are managed centrally based on the protecting employees, customer property and our Financial Policy adopted by the Board of Directors. own assets against damage and loss. IT risks include Financial preparedness is continuously appraised internal and external delivery problems and disturand is comprised of binding loan commitments and bances that may affect the group’s production, cusliquidity reserves. Customer credit risks are managed tomer deliveries and PostNord’s financial reporting. through systematic credit evaluations and follow up. PostNord Annual Report 2013 97 Risks and risk management The group limits risks related to the investment of produce changes in the group’s pension liabilities and cash and cash equivalents and counterparty risk in equity. A low consolidation ratio in the Pension Fund financial instruments by working only with countermay negatively impact the group’s cash flows. parties that have high credit standing. PostNord has PostNord uses board representation to achieve limited exposure to market risks in the form of curprudent asset allocation and a balanced withdrawal rency risks and interest rate risks, although the of compensation for pension payments. PostNord group’s international presence and operations do Pension assets are allocated among multiple asset entail translation exposure. Pursuant to the Group’s classes for good diversification. The group works with Financial Policy, translation exposure is not hedged. a review of pension governance, derivative solutions Read more about the management of financial and scenario planning to assess pension commitrisks in Note 29, Financial Risk Management and ments. Financial Instruments. Read more about the management of pensions in Posten’s Pension Fund manages assets for penNote 23, Pensions. sion commitments for Posten AB, Posten Meddelande AB and Posten Logistik AB. Changes in the market rate of interest and actuarial assumptions Sensitivity analysis Area Variable Change Impact on profit, SEKm Personnel risks Change in personnel expenses +/– 1 percentage point 186 Change in sick leave levels +/– 1 percentage point 115 Volume risks Change in physical mail volumes +/– 1 percentage point 110 Change in logistics volumes +/– 1 percentage point 80 Interest rate risks Change in market rate of interest +/– 1 percentage point –3 Currency risks Translation exposure +/– 1 percentage point 61 Pensions Note 23 Change in interest margin on pension liabilities –0.1% percentage point –16 Note 23 Change in discount rate and expected rate of return on assets under management –0.5% percentage point –1 Note 23 Change in salaries and wages +0.5% percentage point –28 Note 23 Change in income base amount –0.5% percentage point –9 Note 23 Change in inflation +0.5% percentage point –55 98 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 119 Note 22 – Interest-bearing liabilities 100 Income statement 119 Note 23 – Pensions 100 Comprehensive income statement 124 Note 24 – Other provisions 101 Balance sheets 125 Note 25 – Accrued expenses and deferred 102 Statement of cash flows income 103 Statement of changes in equity 126 Note 26 – Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Consolidated notes 126 Note 27 – Investment commitments 104 Note 1 – Accounting principles 126 Note 28 – Statement of cash flows, interest 110 Note 2 – Estimates and assessments 126 Note 29 – Financial risk management and 111 Note 3 – Revenue distribution financial instruments 111 Note 4 – Segment reporting 130 Note 30 – Transactions with associated parties 113 Note 5 – Employees, personnel expenses and 130 Note 31 – Acquisitions and divestments executive compensation 132 Note 32 – Events after the reporting period 114 Note 6 – Other expenses 132 Note 33 – Definitions 114 Note 7 – Audit fees and reimbursement of expenses PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 115 Note 8 – Depreciation and impairments 133 Income statement 115 Note 9 – Net financial items 133 Comprehensive income statement 115 Note 10 – Taxes 133 Balance sheets 115 Note 11 – Participations in associated companies 134 Statement of cash flows and joint ventures 134 Statement of changes in equity 116 Note 12 – Intangible fixed assets 117 Note 13 – Tangible fixed assets Parent Company notes 117 Note 14 – Leased machinery and equipment, 135 Note 1 – Accounting principles property leases 135 Note 2 – Estimates and assessments 118 Note 15 – Financial investments 135 Note 3 – Employees and personnel expenses 118 Note 16 – Long-term receivables 135 Note 4 – Audit fees and reimbursement 118 Note 17 – Deferred tax of expenses 118 Note 18 – Inventory 136 Note 5 – Interest income, interest expense and 118 Note 19 – Accounts receivable similar items 119 Note 20 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income 136 Note 6 – Shareholdings and participations in 119 Note 21 – Cash and cash equivalents group companies, joint ventures and associated companies Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Income statement SEKm Note 2013 2012 Change 1, 2 Net sales 39,533 38,920 2% Other income 3 233 253 –8% Income 4 39,766 39,173 2% Personnel expenses 5 –18,623 –18,3381) –2% Transport expenses –8,953 –8,084 –11% Other expenses 6, 7, 24 –9,876 –10,348 5% Depreciation and impairments 8 –1,648 –1,899 13% Expenses –39,100 –38,6691) –1% Participations in the earnings of associated companies 10 7 43% OPERATING PROFIT 676 5111) 32% Financial income 9 50 2381) –79% Financial expenses 9 –258 –3821) 32% Net financial items –208 –1441) –44% Profit before tax 468 3671) 28% Tax 10 –146 –1201) –22% NET PROFIT 322 2471) 30% Attributable to Parent company shareholders 319 2451) 30% Minority interests 3 2 Earnings per share, SEK 0.16 0.121) 30% Comprehensive income statement SEKm 2013 2012 NET PROFIT 322 247 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD Items that cannot be transferred to net profit Revaluation of pension liabilities 1,821 –1,2321) Change in deferred tax –401 2711) Total revaluation, pension liabilities 1,420 –9611) Items that have been or may be transferred to net profit Translation differences2) –107 –258 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1,313 –1,219 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1,635 –9721) Attributable to Parent company shareholders 1,632 –9741) Minority interests 3 2 1) Restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 2) Translation differences refer to the translation of group equity in foreign currencies. 100 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Balance sheets SEKm Note Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 1, 2 ASSETS Goodwill 12 3,295 3,190 Other intangible assets 12 1,597 1,579 Tangible fixed assets 13, 14 9,401 8,762 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 11 65 79 Financial investments 15, 29 211 216 Long-term receivables 16 1,015 1,0141) Deferred tax assets 17 540 1,4131) Total fixed assets 16,124 16,253 Inventories 18 227 193 Tax assets 169 278 Accounts receivable 19 4,632 4,718 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 20 1,526 1,122 Other receivables 29 514 1,092 Short-term investments 15, 29 163 4 Cash and cash equivalents 21, 29 1,973 3,046 Assets held for sale 8 390 100 Total current assets 9,594 10,553 TOTAL ASSETS 25,718 26,806 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Capital stock 2,000 2,000 Other contributed equity 9,954 9,954 Reserves –1,917 –1,810 Retained earnings –978 –2,6141) Total equity attributable to parent company shareholders 9,059 7,530 Minority interests 4 3 TOTAL EQUITY 9,063 7,533 LIABILITIES Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 22, 29 4,315 3,845 Other long-term liabilities 79 37 Pension provisions 23 375 3,0331) Other provisions 24 1,386 1,5851) Deferred tax liabilities 17 1,017 1,3931) Total long-term liabilities 7,172 9,893 Current interest-bearing liabilities 22, 29 274 467 Accounts payable 2,879 2,514 Tax liabilities 88 78 Other current liabilities 1,775 1,897 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 25 3,912 4,065 Other provisions 24 555 359 Total current liabilities 9,483 9,380 TOTAL LIABILITIES 16,655 19,273 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 25,718 26,806 1) Restated due to changes in IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. For information on the Group's pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 26. PostNord Annual Report 2013 101 Consolidated financial statements Statement of cash flows SEKm Note 2013 2012 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax 468 3671) Adjustments for non-cash items Reversal of depreciation and impairments 1,648 1,899 Profit from sale of subsidiaries –1 –5 Capital gain/loss on sale of fixed assets 61 17 Change in pension liability 426 5971) Other provisions 402 579 Other items not affecting liquidity 0 –8 Pensions paid –1,070 –1,081 Other provisions, liquidity effect –428 –405 Tax paid 44 –184 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,550 1,776 Cash flows from changes in working capital Increase (–)/decrease(+) in inventories –34 27 Increase (–)/decrease(+) in accounts receivable 55 –558 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in accounts payable 56 536 Other changes in working capital 35 44 Changes in working capital 112 49 Cash flows from operating activities 28 1,662 1,825 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of tangible fixed assets –1,896 –1,994 Sale of tangible fixed assets 62 201 Capitalized development expenditures –234 –301 Purchase of other intangible assets –111 –36 Acquisition of subsidiaires, net liquidity effect 31 –336 –1,420 Sale of subsidiaires, net liquidity effect 31 46 Change in financial assets –138 –29 Cash flows from investing activities –2,653 –3,533 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Amortized loans –219 –2,137 New loans raised 400 5,419 Change in finance leasing liabilities –61 –25 Dividend paid to parent company owners –103 –368 Dividend paid to minority interests –2 –2 Change in value of pension benefits –194 –2001) Increase (+)/decrease (–) in other interest-bearing liabilities 97 –33 Cash flows from financing activities –82 2,654 CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD –1,073 946 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period 3,046 2,107 Translation difference in cash and cash equivalents 0 –7 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period 21 1,973 3,046 1) Restated due to changes in IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 102 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to parent company shareholders Translation Capital Contributed differences Retained Minority Total SEKm stock1) equity in equity earnings Total interests equity Beginning balance as of 01-01-2012 2,000 9,954 –1,552 1,525 11,927 3 11,930 Change to BB due to IA S 19 –3,0552) –3,0552) –3,0552) New beginning balance as of 01-01-2012 2,000 9,954 –1,552 –1,5302) 8,8722) 3 8,8752) Revaluation that cannot be transferred to net profit Revaluation of pension liabilities –1,2312) –1,2312) –1,2312) Deferred tax 2712) 2712) 2712) Items that have been or may be transferred to net profit Other translation differences3) –258 –258 –1 –259 Total other comprehensive income –258 –9602) –1,2182) –1 –1,2192) Net profit 2442) 2442) 3 2472) Dividend4) –368 –368 –2 –370 Ending balance as of 12-31-2012 2,000 9,954 –1,810 –2,6142) 7,530 3 7,5332) Revaluation that cannot be attributed to net profit Revaluation of pension liabilities 1,821 1,821 1,821 Deferred tax –401 –401 –401 Items that have been or may be transferred to net profit Other translation differences3) –107 –107 –107 Total other comprehensive income –107 1,420 1,313 1,313 Net profit 319 319 3 322 Dividend4) –103 –103 –2 –105 Ending balance as of 12-31-2013 2,000 9,954 –1,917 –978 9,059 4 9,063 1) Number of shares is 2,000,000,001: 1,524,905,971 ordinary shares and 475,094,030 series B shares. 2) Restated due to changes in IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 3) Refers to translation differences in group equity. 4) A dividend of SEK 103m (368), representing SEK 0.05 (0.18) per share, was distributed by the parent company to the owners. Svensk Adressändring AB and Adresspoint AB distributed a dividend of SEK 2m (2) to minority interests. PostNord Annual Report 2013 103 Consolidated financial statements 01 02 Consolidated notes 03 04 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 05 Compliance with legislation and regulations other sources. Actual future values may differ from these esti06 The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accormates and assessments. 07 dance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), The estimates and assumptions used are reviewed regularly. issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), Changes in estimates or valuations are reported in the period 08 together with interpretation statements from the International when the change is made, if the change only affects that 09 Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), to the period, or are reported in future periods as well, if the change extent that they have been approved by the European Comaffects the original as well as subsequent periods. 10 mission for application within the European Union. The SwedAssessments made by executive management in the appli11 ish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting cation of IFRS that have a material effect on the financial Board’s rule RFR 1, Supplemental Financial Statements for reports as well as estimates that can lead to significant adjust12 Groups, have also been applied. ments in subsequent fiscal year’s financial reports are 13 The parent company applies the same accounting princidescribed in further detail in Note 2, Estimates and Assessples as the group, with exceptions specified in Note 1, Accountments, and in relevant notes where estimates have been used. 14 ing Principles for the parent company. The differences The consolidated accounting principles have been applied 15 between the parent company’s and the group’s accounting consistently during all periods presented in the group’s finanprinciples result from the parent company’s limitations in cial statements and in the consolidation of subsidiaries, associ16 applying IFRS as a consequence of the Swedish Accounts Act ated companies and joint ventures. 17 and the Act of Safeguarding of Pension Commitments, and are to some extent based on tax considerations. Changes in accounting principles 18 Changes in accounting principles applicable as of January 1, 19 Basis of preparation for parent company 2013 due to changes to IFRS are described below. Other and consolidated financial statements changes to IFRS valid as of 2013 have not had any material 20 The parent company’s functional currency is SEK, which is also effect on the company’s or the group’s reporting. 21 the reporting currency for the consolidated and parent comIAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. The “corridor method” pany accounts. This means that all financial reports are prewill be removed under the amendment. Actuarial gains and 22 sented in SEK. Unless otherwise specified, all figures are losses that have not previously been reported to the extent rounded to the nearest million. Assets and liabilities are primarthat they were not amortized during the coming year have 23 ily carried at acquisition cost, with the exception of certain been reported as of 01-01-2013 in “other comprehensive 24 financial assets and liabilities that are reported at fair value. income”. The new regulations also stipulate that reporting of These financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value conreturn on assets under management for pension benefits shall 25 sist of derivatives as well as financial assets classified either as be based on the discount rate used to calculate pension com26 “financial assets reported at fair value in the income statement” mitments. The difference between actual return and estimated or as “available-for-sale financial assets”. (See the description of return has therefore been reported in “other comprehensive 27 categories in the “Financial Instruments” section). Available-forincome”. The change affected the group’s “operating profit” 28 sale fixed assets and disposable items held for trading are (EBIT), as amortization of actuarial gains and losses is no lonreported at the lower of their fair value less the cost of sale or ger reported as part of personnel expenses. In the current situ29 the value at which they were previously reported. ation, with unreported actuarial losses, the change had a posi30 The reporting under IFRS requires the executive managetive effect on “operating profit”. Net financial items were ment to make assessments, estimates and assumptions that adversely affected as compared to current reporting, as the 31 affect the application of the accounting principles and the presumed return is and has been 1 percentage point over the 32 reported values of assets, liabilities, income and costs. These discount rate. The impact on equity and other comprehensive estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience income may produce major fluctuations due primarily to vary33 and a number of other factors considered reasonable under ing discount rates between reporting periods. The change has prevailing circumstances. The results of these estimates and been applied as of January 1, 2013, with comparative figures for assumptions are used to assess the reported values of assets 2012. The effect of the transition to the new rule is shown in the and liabilities whose values cannot be clearly determined using tables. The group’s consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2013 has been adjusted as follows: AdjustNew AdjustNew Balance sheet, SEKm Dec 31, 2011 ment IAS 19 Dec 31, 2012 ment IAS 19 Financial receivables, pensions 3,967 –2,972 995 4,894 –3,931 963 Deferred tax assets 1,042 1,042 134 1,279 1,413 Other assets 21,443 21,443 24,430 24,430 Total assets 25,410 –1,930 23,480 29,458 –2,652 26,806 Equity 11,930 –3,055 8,875 11,559 –4,026 7,533 Pension liabilities 2,590 944 3,534 2,772 1,231 4,003 Deferred tax liabilities 181 181 1,250 143 1,393 Other liabilities 10,890 10,890 13,877 13,877 Total equity and liabilities 25,410 –1,930 23,480 29,458 –2,652 26,806 104 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements 01 02 03 04 Note 1, cont. 05 Comparative figures for 2012 have been adjusted as follows: the equity method is used for reporting joint ventures. It will no 06 Income statement, Jan–Dec longer be permissible to use the proportional method for joint SEKm 2012 Adjustment New IAS 19 ventures. The EU requires the application of the standard as of 07 January 1, 2014. Based on current conditions, it is considered Total income 39,173 39,173 08 that the standard will have an insignificant effect on the group. Total expenses –38,816 147 –38,669 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities is a new 09 of which, pension standard for information on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, associated companies and separate unconsolidated 10 expenses –555 147 –408 units. For the group, the standard chiefly involves increased 11 Participations in requirements for information concerning risks. The standard is associated companies 7 7 12 to be applied as of January 1, 2014. Operating profit 364 147 511 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace the current IAS 13 Net financial items 16 –160 –144 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, with application tentatively required as of 2017 at the earliest. IFRS 9 14 of which, pensions 72 –160 –87 deals with classification and valuation of financial assets and lia15 Tax –123 3 –120 bilities and hedge accounting. IFRS 9 will be supplemented with new regulations on the amortization of financial assets. IFRS 9 16 Net profit 257 –10 247 has not yet been approved for application by the EU, and such 17 Comprehensive approval is not anticipated until the EU has made a decision on income statement a complete IFRS 9 that also includes regulations on amortiza18 Revaluation of tion. The company has therefore decided to wait with doing an 19 net pension liability impact analysis and making a decision on early application. 20 Change in assets –383 –383 Changes to other future standards have not been applied to 21 Change in liabilities –849 –849 the parent company or group’s accounting. The company has Change in deferred tax 271 271 elected not to apply new and amended future accounting prin22 Total revaluation, ciples, interpretations or improvements (“Improvements to 23 pension liability –961 –961 IFRSs”) in advance. 24 Translation differences –258 –258 Segment reporting 25 Comprehensive income –1 –971 –972 A segment is a component of the group that can be distinguished for financial reporting purposes, comprising opera26 tional divisions or geographic areas. A segment is identified by Statement of Jan–Dec 27 the fact that its divisions offer similar products and services and cashflows, SEKm 2012 Adjustment New IAS 19 that it is exposed to different risks and opportunities from those 28 OPERATING of other segments. Segment accounting is based on manageACTIVITIES ment’s segment reporting. PostNord Group’s segment group29 Profit before tax 380 –13 367 ing is based on its universal service obligation for mail and par30 cel services in Sweden and Denmark, and on its mission to offer Adjustements for items information logistics and logistics services in the Nordic region. 31 not included in cash Information on segments is available only for the group. 32 flows Pension assets 506 13 519 Classification, etc. 33 Fixed assets and long-term liabilities essentially comprise IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement is a new standard to estabamounts expected to be recovered or paid more than 12 lish uniform principles for ways in which fair value measuremonths from the close of the accounting period. Current ments should be conducted. It clarifies and describes the valuassets and current liabilities for the parent company and group ation methods’ precedence and validity for fair value and has essentially comprise amounts expected to be recovered or been applied as of January 1, 2013. paid within 12 months from the close of the accounting period. IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. Amended so that “other comprehensive income” items are divided into two Basis of consolidation categories: items that will be reclassified into net profit and items The Swedish Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communicathat will not be reclassified. Items to be reclassified include transtions and the Danish Ministry of Transport announced on Feblation differences and gains and losses for cash flow hedges. ruary 2, 2009 that Posten AB and Posten Danmark A/S had The amendment has been applied as of January 1, 2013. signed an agreement to merge the companies through a joint venture between the Swedish and Danish states. The owners Future changes to accounting principles founded a new company, today named PostNord AB, which that take effect in 2014 or later became the parent company of the joint group as of June 24, Several new IFRS standards take effect during forthcoming 2009. The Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S groups were confinancial years. The amended standards that are expected to solidated as of July 1, 2009. impact the group are listed below. These IFRS standards have The merger has been reported in accordance with the not been applied in advance. “carry-over method”, meaning that consolidated net assets are IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements is a new stanreported at the reported values in the accounts of Posten AB dard with new principles for assessing when control exists over and Post Danmark A/S, respectively, at the time of the merger. an investee that must thereby be included in the consolidated For reported values as of December 31, 2009, this means that financial statements. Control requires that the parent company PostNord’s consolidated balance sheet comprises the book have exposure or rights to variable returns by virtue of its values that the two companies would have had if each were involvement with the investee and the ability to affect those reported individually. The group’s opening balances are the returns through power over an investee. The EU requires the book values of each company’s balance sheet at the time of application of IFRS 10 as of January 1, 2014. Based on current the merger. Therefore, pension liabilities were not recalculated conditions, it is not considered that IFRS 10 will have an effect actuarially as of the merger date and no revaluation of assets on the group’s consolidation of subsidiaries. was performed. In compiling the consolidated Notes, opening IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements is a new standard outlining the balances (as required and not reported at time of merger) were accounting by joint ventures and joint operations. The proporcalculated based on 12-31-09 balances and reported changes tional method or equivalent is use for joint operations, while and income items. PostNord Annual Report 2013 105 Consolidated financial statements Note 1, cont. 01 02 Subsidiaries Transactions eliminated on consolidation 03 Subsidiaries are companies in which PostNord AB exercises a Intra-group receivables and liabilities, income and costs, and controlling influence. This implies directly or indirectly holding gains or losses arising from intercompany transactions are 04 the right to set the companies’ financial and operational strateeliminated in their entirety upon consolidation. Intra-group 05 gies with the aim of attaining financial benefits. Voting rights losses that indicate impairment are included in the consolithat can be exercised or immediately converted are considdated accounts. 06 ered when determining the existence of a controlling influence. Gains and losses resulting from transactions with associated Subsidiaries are reported in accordance with acquisition companies or joint ventures are eliminated in proportion to the 07 method. Under this method, an acquisition is treated as a transgroup’s stake in those businesses. Losses are recognized to the 08 action in which the group indirectly acquires the assets and extent they indicate impairment. assumes the actual and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary. 09 The consolidated acquisition cost is calculated using an acquiForeign currency 10 sition analysis performed upon acquisition. The analysis deterForeign currency transactions mines the acquisition cost of the shares or operations as well A group’s functional currency is the currency of the primary 11 as the fair value of the assets acquired and the actual and coneconomies in which the companies in the group operate. The 12 tingent liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. The acquisigroup consists of the parent company, subsidiaries, associated tion cost of a subsidiary’s shares or its operations consists of companies and joint ventures. 13 the fair value on the acquisition date of assets, realized or Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the 14 assumed liabilities and equity instruments issued in exchange functional currency at the rate prevailing on the transaction for the net assets acquired. Acquisition costs attributable to the date. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 15 acquisition are only capitalized for legal entities in line with currencies are translated into the functional currency at the 16 local accounting and taxation regulations, and are expensed in exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange the consolidated financial statements. Conditional purchase differences arising from these translations are reported in the 17 consideration is fixed at fair value at acquisition date. Adjustincome statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denom18 ments made to the related liability for the conditional purchase inated in foreign currencies and reported at their acquisition consideration through the settlement date are reported in total costs are translated at the rate prevailing on the transaction 19 income. The difference between the acquisition cost for subsiddate. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in for20 iary shares and the fair value of acquired identifiable assets, eign currencies and reported at fair value are translated into assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities comprise consolithe functional currency using the exchange rate on the date of 21 dated goodwill. Ownership changes are reported as equity valuation. Changes in exchange rates are then reported in the 22 transactions as long as control is maintained. When controlling same way as other changes in the value of assets or liabilities. influence ceases, gains and losses are reported in net profit 23 and the remainder is revalued in income. Foreign entities’ financial statements 24 Subsidiaries’ accounts are included in the consolidated Assets and liabilities held by foreign entities, including goodwill statements from the date of acquisition until the date on which and other consolidated surplus and deficit values, are trans25 the controlling influence ceases to exist. lated into SEK at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and costs in foreign entities are translated 26 Associated companies into SEK using an average exchange rate, approximately equal 27 Associated companies are companies in which the group has a to the exchange rates prevailing on the transaction date. Transsignificant, but not controlling, influence on operational and lation differences arising from the translation of foreign entities 28 financial management, normally between 20 and 50% of the are recognized directly in other comprehensive income. 29 voting rights. Participations in associated companies are reported in the consolidated statements using the equity Income 30 method from the date on which the significant influence is Income from services is reported in the income statement 31 established. Under the equity method, the consolidated book based on the stage of completion at the balance sheet date. value of a participation in an associated company corresponds The Mail and Logistics business segments recognize income 32 to the group’s share of that company’s equity as well as consoliwhen a physical mail item has been collected for physical 33 dated goodwill and any residual value of consolidated surplus transport. Income related to services featuring an electronic and deficit values. The group’s share of associated companies’ component (hybrid service) is recognized once the object has net income is reported in the consolidated income statement been converted into a physical format and been received for after being adjusted for any depreciation, impairments or disphysical transport in the form of a mail item. Mail processing solution of acquired surplus or deficit values. Dividends facility fees relate to the handling period; that is, the period in received from an associated company reduce the reported which the mail item was received from abroad. Distribution value of that investment. The group’s acquisition cost, goodwill income is recognized in the period in which the service is perand any deficit values are determined in the same way as for formed. Income from post office boxes is accrued over the subsidiaries, using an acquisition analysis (see the “Subsidiarcontract duration. Services in Information Logistics are generies” section above), except that acquisition costs are capitalized ally performed over a short period of time, the income recogin the group. nized when the service has been delivered. The equity method is applied until the date on which the sigThe sale of goods is recognized upon delivery in accornificant influence ceases to exist. dance with the terms and conditions of sale, such that income is reported when the risks and rewards associated with the Joint ventures goods are transferred to the counterparty. For reporting purposes, a joint venture is a company in which Income is not recognized if the financial rewards are unlikely the group exercises a significant influence on operational and to befall the group. Net sales are reported excluding valuefinancial management decisions jointly with one or more partadded tax and in view of intended discounts and similar ners based on an agreement. Joint ventures are consolidated income reductions. in the accounts using the proportional method. Under the proportional method, the group’s stake in each joint venture’s Operating expenses and financial income and expenses income and costs as well as assets and liabilities are consoliOperating expenses dated in the group’s income statement and balance sheet. This Personnel expenses are attributed to the period in which is done by combining, item by item, the joint venture partner’s duties are performed. Changes in vacation and wage liabilities stake in assets and liabilities and income and costs with the are reported on an ongoing basis, as employee entitlements corresponding items in the partner’s consolidated accounts. accrue. Thus, periods during which large numbers of employOnly equity earned after the acquisition is reported in consoliees are on vacation usually feature below-average personnel dated equity. The proportional method is applied from the date expenses. Other expenses are reported in the period during on which the joint controlling influence is established, until the which the goods or services have been delivered or utilized date on which that influence ceases. (e.g. rental costs). 106 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Note 1, cont. 01 Payments for assets leased under operational leases fair value of unlisted financial assets, consisting of endowment 02 Payments for operational leases are reported in the income insurance policies and cash, is ascertained through various val03 statement on a straight-line basis over the leasing period. uation methods such as the use of recent transactions, the Rewards received upon signing a leasing contract are reported price of comparable instruments and discounted cash flows. 04 as part of the total leasing cost in the income statement on a The values of financial assets and groups of financial assets 05 straight-line basis over the leasing period. Variable costs are are assessed by the company in every reporting period to disexpensed in the period in which they arise. cern any objective impairment. The criteria for determining the 06 need for any impairment is primarily based on the counterpar07 Payments for assets leased under finance leases ty’s officially communicated inability to meet its obligations or Minimum lease payments are divided between interest and on its ability to pay demonstrated by experience in the finan08 amortization of the remaining liability. Interest expenses are cial markets. 09 distributed over the leasing period so that each reporting Financial instruments are classified into categories, dependperiod is charged with a payment corresponding to a fixed ing on the purpose for which each instrument was acquired. 10 interest rate for the liability reported in that period. Variable The classification is determined at the time of acquisition. The 11 costs are expensed in the period in which they arise. categories are as follows: 12 Financial income and expenses Financial assets reported at fair value Financial income and expenses consist of interest income from in the income statement 13 bank deposits, receivables and interest-bearing securities; This category contains two subgroups: financial assets held for 14 interest paid on loans; dividend income; exchange rate differtrading and other financial assets that the company has initially ences; unrealized and realized gains and losses on financial chosen to place in this category. A financial asset is classified as 15 investments; and derivatives used in financial operations. The “held for trading” if acquired for the purpose of resale in the 16 interest on pension liabilities and the return on assets under short term. Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless management for pensions calculated according to IAS 19 are they are used for hedge accounting. Assets in this category are 17 reported in net financial items. carried at their fair value, with changes in value recognized in 18 Interest income on receivables and interest expense on liathe income statement. bilities are calculated using the effective interest method. When 19 the effective interest rate is used, the present value of all Loans receivable and accounts receivable 20 receipts and disbursements during the fixed-interest term Loans receivable and accounts receivable are financial assets equals the reported value of the receivable or liability. The interthat are not derivatives but have fixed payments or determin21 est component of a finance lease payment is reported in the able payments and are not listed in an active market. They are 22 income statement using the effective interest method. Interest created by the company when providing money, goods or serincome and expense include accrued transaction costs and vices directly to the debtor, not for the purpose of trading in the 23 any discounts, premiums or other differences between the right to recover the debt. This category includes acquired 24 original reported value of the receivable or liability and the receivables. Assets in this category are valued at their amoramount settled at maturity. tized cost. The amortized cost is determined based on the 25 Issue expenses and similar direct transaction costs related effective interest rate calculated at the acquisition date. 26 to raising loans are included in the calculation of effective interest. Held-to-maturity investments 27 Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive Held-to-maturity investments are financial assets with fixed or 28 dividends has been confirmed. pre-determinable payments and fixed maturity, and which the company has the express intent and ability to hold to maturity. 29 Financial instruments Assets in this category are valued at their amortized cost. The Financial instruments reported on the assets side of the balamortized cost is determined based on the effective interest 30 ance sheet include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivrate calculated at the acquisition date. Thus, surplus and deficit 31 able, shares, loans receivable, bond premiums and derivatives. values as well as direct transaction costs are distributed over Reported on the equity and liabilities side are accounts paythe instrument’s duration. 32 able, debt and equity instruments issued, loans and derivatives. 33 Financial instruments are initially recognized at acquisition Available-for-sale financial assets cost, equivalent to the instrument’s fair value plus transaction Available-for-sale assets are those financial assets that are not costs, for all financial instruments except those classified as classified in any other category, or financial assets which the financial assets reported at fair value in the income statement. company has initially chosen to place in this category. Assets in Subsequent accounting differs, depending on how the finanthis category are carried at their fair value, with changes in cial instrument is classified, as detailed below. value recognized in equity, except those attributable to impairA financial asset or liability is entered on the balance sheet ments. When the assets are disposed of and removed from the when the company becomes a party to the instrument’s terms balance sheet, unrealized gains and losses in the equity are and conditions. Accounts receivable are recognized on the balreversed to the income statement. Interest measured with the ance sheet once the invoice has been sent. Liabilities are receffective interest rate method, as well as dividend income and ognized when a counterparty has rendered services and payexchange rate differences, are recognized in the income statement is due under the terms of the contract, even if an invoice ment. has yet to be received. Accounts payable are recognized when an invoice is received. Financial liabilities held for trading Financial assets are taken off the balance sheet when the and other financial assets rights of the contract have been realized, when they mature or Financial liabilities held for trading consist of interest-bearing when they are no longer controlled by the company. The same liabilities and derivatives not used for hedge accounting. Liabiliapplies to portions of financial assets. Financial liabilities are ties in this category are reported at fair value, with changes in taken off the balance sheet when contractual obligations are value recognized in the income statement. fulfilled or otherwise cease. The same applies to portions of financial liabilities. Other financial liabilities Acquisitions and disposals of financial assets are recorded Financial liabilities not held for trading are valued at amortized on the date of transaction, which is the day on which the comcost. The amortized cost is determined based on the effective pany becomes legally bound to acquire or dispose of the finaninterest rate calculated at the acquisition date. Thus surplus cial assets. This does not apply to the acquisition or disposal of and deficit values as well as direct issue expenses are distriblisted securities, which are recorded on the settlement date. uted over the liability’s duration. Borrowing costs attributable The fair value of a listed financial asset corresponds to the to the acquisition, construction or production of assets that asset’s bid rate in the market on the balance sheet date. The take a significant time to complete will be capitalized. PostNord Annual Report 2013 107 Consolidated financial statements Note 1, cont. 01 02 Cash and cash equivalents Foreign currency receivables and liabilities 03 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, money in demand Forward contracts are used to hedge assets and liabilities deposits at banks and similar institutions, and short-term liquid against foreign exchange risk. Hedge accounting is unneces04 investments with maturities shorter than three months from sary for matching, as the hedged item is translated at the 05 the date of acquisition that are exposed to minimal risk of flucexchange rate on the balance sheet date and the hedge instrutuation in value. Funds in transfer on the statement of cash ment is measured at fair value with changes in value recog06 flows are not treated as cash and cash equivalents. They are nized in the income statement under foreign exchange differaccounting items that PostNord transfers on behalf of customences. PostNord thereby achieves essentially the same match07 ers. These funds are therefore unavailable to PostNord and ing of income and expenses as through hedge accounting. 08 may not be used by its business operations. The Funds in Changes in value related to operating receivables and liabilities Transfer item fluctuates independently of operating earnings, are recognized under operating profit, while changes in value 09 investments and other payment streams in the business operrelated to financial receivables and liabilities are recognized 10 ations. under net financial items. 11 Financial investments Transaction exposure – cash-flow hedges 12 Financial investments are classified either as financial fixed Forward contracts are used to hedge exposure to fluctuations assets or short-term investments, depending on the purpose in exchange rates related to cash flows under contractual 13 of the investment. If the maturity or expected investment agreements. Value changes are recognized in the income 14 period is longer than one year, they are classified as financial statement. fixed assets; if shorter than one year but longer than three 15 months, they are short-term investments. Net investments 16 Interest-bearing securities acquired with the aim of being Investments in foreign subsidiaries (net assets including goodheld to maturity belong to the category “financial investments will) are not hedged. At year-end they are translated at the 17 held to maturity” and are valued at amortized cost. Interestexchange rate on the balance sheet date. Foreign exchange 18 bearing securities that the company does not intend to hold to differences recognized in the parent company’s income statematurity are classified as “financial assets recognized at fair ment are eliminated in the consolidated accounts through 19 value in the income statement” or “available-for-sale financial revaluation of the net assets in the subsidiary included in 20 assets”. equity. When assets are reported at fair value in the income state21 ment, changes in value are recognized under net financial Tangible fixed assets 22 items. Owned assets Tangible fixed assets are entered as assets on the balance 23 Long-term receivables and other short-term receivables sheet when it is likely that the future financial rewards of owner24 Long-term receivables and other short-term receivables are ship will befall the company, and if the acquisition cost of the receivables created by the company when providing money asset can be reliably determined. 25 not for the purpose of trading in the right to recover the debt. Tangible fixed assets are reported at acquisition cost less Those with an expected holding period longer than one year accumulated depreciation and impairments. The acquisition 26 are classified as long-term receivables, those less than one cost consists of the purchase price as well as costs directly 27 year as other short-term receivables. These receivables belong related to bringing the asset to the necessary place and condito the category Loans Receivable and Accounts Receivable. tion for its use in accordance with the purpose of the acquisi28 tion. Examples of directly related costs included in acquisition 29 Accounts receivable cost are delivery and handling, installation, registration of title, Accounts receivable are classified under Loans Receivable and consulting fees and legal fees. Loan expenses are not included 30 Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are reported at the in the acquisition cost of fixed assets produced by the com31 amount expected to be received less doubtful receivables, pany. Accounting principles for depreciations are described assessed on an individual basis. Accounts receivable are writbelow. 32 ten down when considered doubtful; that is, if more than 90 Tangible fixed assets consisting of parts with different useful 33 days past due or due from a customer with a history of paylives are treated as separate components of tangible fixed ment difficulties. Accounts receivable from customers recogassets. nized as solvent and with good payment histories are not conThe reported value of a tangible fixed asset is taken off the sidered doubtful even if more than 90 days past due as long as balance sheet when the asset is discarded or disposed of, or the customer can be expected to pay appropriate interest. The when no further financial rewards are expected to be gained expected maturity of accounts receivable is short, so they are from the use or disposal/ sale of the asset. Gains or losses arisreported at their non-discounted nominal value. Impairments ing from the discarding or disposal of an asset are calculated as on accounts receivable are reported under expenses. the difference between the sale price and the asset’s carrying value, less expenses directly related to the sale. Gains and Liabilities losses are reported under other income/expenses. Liabilities are classified as other financial liabilities and are thus initially reported at the amounts received less transaction Leased assets costs. After its acquisition date, a loan is valued at its amortized Leases are classified in the consolidated financial statements cost using the effective interest rate method. Those with an as either finance or operational leases. Under finance leases, expected maturity of more than one year are classified as longthe economic risks and rewards associated with ownership are term liabilities, and those of less than one year as short-term liaessentially transferred to the lessee. If such is not the case, the bilities. agreement is deemed an operational lease. Assets leased through finance lease agreements are Accounts payable reported as assets in the consolidated balance sheets. ObligaAccounts payable are classified under other financial liabilities. tions to pay leasing payments in the future are reported as curThe expected maturity of accounts payable is short, so they rent and long-term liabilities. Leased assets are depreciated are valued at their non-discounted nominal value. according to plan, while lease payments are reported as interest and amortization of the liability. Derivatives and hedge accounting For operational leases, leasing fees are expensed during the Derivatives held by the group are in the form of forward conterm based on usage and thus may differ from the leasing fees tracts used to minimize the group’s exposure to fluctuations in actually paid during the year. exchange rates and electricity rates. Changes in the values of derivatives are recognized in the income statement, based on the purpose of the holding. 108 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Note 1, cont. 01 Additional costs cash flows and that the necessary technical and financial con02 Additional costs related to tangible assets are added to the ditions exist for completing the development work once it has 03 acquisition cost only when it is likely that the future financial been commenced. rewards of the asset will befall the company and the acquisition Other development projects, such as projects related to 04 cost can be determined reliably. All other additional costs are essential ERP systems, are capitalized when they amount to or 05 reported as expenses in the period in which they were are estimated to amount to a material sum for the overall projincurred. ect. Otherwise, such charges are expensed. 06 Critical to the determination of whether additional costs 07 should be added to the acquisition cost is whether or not the Other intangible assets charge is related to exchanges of identifiable components or Other intangible assets comprise acquired brands and other 08 subcomponents; if so, such charges are capitalized. The cost of rights, which are reported at the acquisition cost less accumu09 creating a new component is also added to the acquisition lated amortization and impairments. Straight-line depreciation cost. Any reported value of an exchanged component or subis used for the term of such rights, usually 5–10 years. 10 component not already depreciated is discarded and recog11 nized as an expense at the date of exchange. Repairs are Additional costs expensed as they arise. Additional costs related to capitalized intangible assets are rec12 ognized as assets on the balance sheet only when they Depreciation principles enhance the future financial benefits that exceed the original 13 Tangible fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis assessments. All other payments are expensed as they arise. 14 over the estimated useful life of the asset. Land is not depreciated. The group applies component depreciation, such that the Amortization principles 15 estimated useful lives of material subcomponents are a basis Amortization is reported in the income statement on a straight16 for depreciation. line basis over each intangible asset’s estimated useful life, where this can be ascertained. Goodwill and intangible assets 17 with indeterminate useful lives are tested for impairment annu18 The depreciation periods are as follows: ally or as soon as there is an indication of impairment of the Buildings, land improvements and asset in question. Intangible assets are amortized from the 19 improvements to leased properties 20–50 years date on which they were made available for use. 20 Equipment and installations for leased premises 5–10 years 21 Sorting equipment 5–10 years The following amortization periods are applied: Vehicles 4–10 years 22 Capitalized, completed development efforts 5–10 years Computer equipment 3–7 years Brands, customer relations, 23 Other machinery and equipment 3–10 years licenses and other rights 5–10 years 24 The residual values and estimated useful lives of assets are 25 evaluated annually. Inventory Inventory is valued at the lower of acquisition value, deter26 Intangible assets mined using the first-in-first-out (FIFO) method, and net realiz27 Goodwill able value. Goodwill represents the difference between the acquisition 28 cost of a subsidiary and the fair value of the acquired identifiImpairments 29 able assets and assumed and contingent liabilities. The reported values of consolidated assets – with the excepThe group has not applied IFRS retroactively to goodwill tion of available-for-sale assets and disposal items reported in 30 arising from business combinations occurring prior to January accordance with IFRS 5, investment properties, inventories, 31 1, 2004; rather, the reported value at that date has been taken assets under management used to finance employee benefits, as the consolidated acquisition cost, after impairment testing. and deferred tax credit – are tested at each balance sheet date 32 Goodwill is measured at acquisition cost less any accumuto discern the need for any impairment. If such indications 33 lated impairments. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating exist, the asset’s recoverable value is calculated. The assets units and is not amortized but is tested for impairment annulisted as exceptions above are tested to applicable standards. ally. Goodwill arising from the acquisition of an associated comThe recoverable value of goodwill, other intangible assets pany is included in the reported value of the holding in that with indeterminate useful lives and intangible assets not yet associated company. ready for use is calculated annually. Goodwill relates mainly to the acquisition of the DPD busiFor impairment of financial assets, see the “Financial Instrunesses in 2001, of Strålfors businesses in 2006 and of Tollpost ments” section. AS. Goodwill from these acquisitions is denominated in SEK, An impairment loss is reported when the reported value of NOK, EUR, GBP and DKK. an asset of a cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable value. Impairment losses are reported in the income stateCapitalized development expenditures ment. Development-related expenditures are capitalized whenever it Impairments on assets related to cash-generating units are is deemed they will provide future financial benefits. The primarily allocated to goodwill. Proportional impairments are reported value includes direct expenses for acquired services subsequently charged to all other assets in the unit. and materials. Other development expenditures are expensed in the income statement as they arise. Capitalized developCalculation of recoverable amount ment expenditures are reported on the balance sheet at acquiThe reported values of the group’s assets are tested at each sition cost less accumulated amortization and impairments. balance sheet date to discern indications of impairment. If such PostNord defines development expenditures as costs related indications exist, the recoverable value of individual or natuto the development of commercially viable services and prodrally affiliated assets is measured as the higher of the fair value ucts that can be incorporated into PostNord’s offering. These less selling expenses and the useful value. The measurement costs include costs that are directly related to the newly develof useful values is based on PostNord’s assessment of future oped offering. Development expenditures are capitalized when cash flows. In the measurement of useful values, future cash they satisfy IAS 38 criteria and are estimated to amount to a flows are discounted using a discount rate that takes into material sum for the overall development project. Other develaccount risk-free interest and the risk linked to each specific opment expenditures are expensed as normal operating asset. The assessments are based on the corporate business expenses. plans and are augmented by other relevant information, used The main criteria for capitalization are that the development to enhance accuracy. efforts will lead to proven future rewards or cost savings and PostNord Annual Report 2013 109 Consolidated financial statements Note 1, cont. 01 02 Reversal of impairments Provisions 03 Impairment losses on goodwill are never reversed. Impairment Provisions are made for commitments resulting from an event of other assets is reversed if there is both an indication that the and for binding loss contracts, in which it is probable that an 04 impairment no longer exists and a change in the assumptions outflow of resources will be needed to settle the commitment. 05 used as a basis for measuring such assets’ recoverable values. Provisions are reported in the balance sheet when there is a An impairment is reversed only to the extent that the legal or informal obligation to do so and when the amount can 06 reported value of an asset, after reversal, does not exceed the be determined reliably. Provisions for restructuring are made reported value that the asset would have had if no impairment when an adequately detailed plan is in place and has been 07 had been recognized, taking into account the amortization that communicated in a fashion that creates firm expectations 08 would have been charged. among stakeholders, or their representatives, who will be affected by the measures. 09 Dividends paid 10 Dividends are reported as liabilities after they have been Taxes approved for payment by the AGM. Tax on net earnings is comprised of current tax and deferred 11 tax. Taxes are recognized in the income statement except 12 Employee benefits when the underlying transaction is recognized directly in Pension commitments equity, provided that the subsequent tax effect is also reported 13 PostNord pension commitments are met in part through in equity. Current tax is the tax calculated on the year’s taxable 14 defined benefit plans featuring a contractually binding promise income. Adjustments of current tax attributable to earlier periregarding a given future pension level for employees, and in ods are also included. 15 part through defined contribution plans for which premiums Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balance 16 have been set aside and for which the employee assumes the sheet method, based on the temporary differences between risk as regards the future pension level. The group’s obligations the reported and taxable values of assets and liabilities. The 17 with respect to defined contribution plans are reported as peramounts are calculated based on how temporary differences 18 sonnel expenses in the income statement as they accrue are expected to be equalized, and by applying the tax rates and through the employees’ performance of their work duties. tax regulations that have been decided or announced as of fis19 Most of the defined benefit plans consist of a pension plan set cal year-end. Temporary differences are not treated in consoli20 up for PostNord AB (publ) in Sweden and some smaller plans in dated goodwill. Legal entities report untaxed reserves includNorway and France. Actuarial calculations are prepared for all ing the deferred tax liability. In the consolidated financial state21 defined benefit plans in accordance with the “projected unit ments, untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liability 22 credit method” in an effort to establish the present value of and equity. Deferred tax assets in deductible temporary differcommitments concerning benefits for current and former ences and loss carry-forwards are reported only to the extent 23 employees. Actuarial calculations are prepared annually and that it is probable that they will lead to lower tax disbursements 24 are based on actuarial assumptions, which are made at the end in the future. Assessment of this probability is based on data of the fiscal year. These assumptions cover inflation, changes in contained in PostNord’s business plans. 25 the income base amount, personnel turnover, discount rates, rates of return and life expectancy. Pledge assets and contingent liabilities 26 The group’s net commitments consist of the estimated presContingent liabilities are reported when there is a possible 27 ent value of pension commitments less the fair value of assets commitment arising from an event, the fulfillment of which can under management. Changes in the present value of commitonly be confirmed by one or more uncertain future events. 28 ments owing to changed actuarial assumptions are treated as Contingent liabilities are also reported when there is a commit29 actuarial gains or losses. Actuarial gains and losses are ment that is not reported as a liability or provision because an reported in other comprehensive income. Pension provisions outflow of resources is not likely to be required. Pledged assets 30 and similar commitments appearing on the Group’s balance are reported for given guarantees and assets pledged as secu31 sheet equal the commitments’ present value at fiscal year-end, rities. less the fair value of assets under management including 32 special payroll tax. A liability is reported if the value of the comTransactions with associated parties 33 mitment exceeds the value of assets under management. If The company’s disclosure of transactions with the Swedish assets under management exceed commitments, an asset is and Danish states has been limited to reports of a non-comreported in the consolidated balance sheet. If the pension cost mercial nature; consequently, specific commissions from the and pension provision set for Swedish plans deviate from the state and licenses from authorities have been reported as corresponding amount in accordance with RedR 4, the differrelated party transactions. ence is also reported for special payroll tax in accordance with UFR 4 (originally published as URA 43). For pensions and similar benefits financed through defined contribution plans, amounts corresponding to PostNord’s annual fees for the plans are reported. NOTE 2 ESTIMATES AND ASSESSMENTS Severance pay In making these financial reports, Group Management has Provisions for severance pay are made only if PostNord can be made assessments, estimates and assumptions that affect the proven to have committed to terminate an employment congroup’s reported accounts. These estimates and assumptions tract before its expiration, without a reasonable possibility of are based on what is known at the time the financial reports are withdrawal. If compensation is paid for voluntary termination, a presented, as well as historical experience and assumptions provision is reported when the offer has at least been accepted that the Group Management considers reasonable under the by the concerned parties’ representative and when the numcurrent circumstances. The conclusions drawn by Group Manber of employees that will accept the offer can be reliably calagement form the basis for the reported values in the culated. When PostNord terminates employee contracts, a accounts. Actual future values, estimates and assessments in detailed plan is prepared covering workplaces, positions and future financial reports during the coming financial year may the estimated number of employees affected, as well as comdiffer from those in this report, due to changing environmental pensation paid to each personnel group or position and the factors and new knowledge and experience. The most signifiperiod of implementation of the plan. cant estimates and assessments for PostNord have been made in the areas described below. 110 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Note 2, cont. 01 Postal obligation, SEK 403m (398) NOTE 3 REVENUE DISTRIBUTION 02 PostNord’s postal obligation is calculated for stamps which 03 have been sold but not used. Assumptions used in calculating Net sales the postal obligation affect the size of the obligation. AssumpNet sales arise primarily from the sale of services. 04 tions are based on the number of stamps sold but not used in 05 Sweden and Denmark. Investigations are conducted in SweOther income den and Denmark to ensure that the assumptions are reasonSEKm 2013 2012 06 able. The size of the obligation may be affected in cases where Rental income 27 31 07 investigations show changes in the behavior of the population or where a sample group is not representative of the populaInsurance compensation 1 9 08 tion. Fee and commission income 15 0 09 Capital gain, buildings 40 31 Intangible assets, SEK 4,892m (4,769) 10 Assumptions are made about future conditions in order to calCapital gain, machinery and equipment 6 18 Capital gain, stocks 0 0 11 culate future cash flows that determine the recoverable value of goodwill, brand and customer relations. The recoverable Capital gain, operating 12 value is compared with the reported value for these assets and receivables/liabilities 1 0 forms the basis for possible impairment or reversals. The 13 Exchange gains 23 31 assumptions that affect the recoverable value most are future 14 volume development, profit margin development, the discount Other 120 133 rate and estimated useful life of the asset. If future environmenTotal 233 253 15 tal factors and circumstances change, these assumptions may 16 be affected so that the reported values of intangible assets are changed. 17 NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING 18 Pension commitments, assets of SEK 609m (liabilities of SEK 2,070m) PostNord’s organization into business units is based on the 19 In order to arrive at a reasonable estimate for PostNord’s manner in which PostNord is governed and activities are 20 defined pension commitments, the actuarial valuation of such reported to management. Market pricing applies to internal commitments is based on a number of assumptions. The most dealings between PostNord business units. There is no latitude 21 significant assumptions are discount rate, expected rate of for making external purchases where the service in question is 22 return on assets under management, future annual pay available internally. In PostNord’s operational structure, though increases, and inflation. Changes in pension commitments due not in its legal structure, cost distribution of corporate shared 23 to altered external factors may affect PostNord’s operating service functions is at cost price with full allocation of costs. 24 profit, net financial items and other comprehensive income as An organizational change of the group’s parcel business in well as financial receivables and pension liabilities reported in Denmark was implemented as of January 1, 2013 in order to 25 the balance sheets. Changed commitments affect the forecast facilitate additional streamlining efforts and improve the com26 for the next year’s costs. petitiveness of parcel distribution in the Danish market. Due to the reorganization, results for the Danish parcel business are 27 Provisions for transition regulations, SEK 746m (781) reported in Mail and Mail Denmark. Comparative values for 28 As a consequence of Posten AB becoming a Swedish corpoMail Denmark and Logistics have been recalculated. rate entity in 1994, PostNord assumed a contingent liability 29 (transition regulations) such that certain categories of the Segments workforce may choose to retire early, at the age of 60 or 63. 30 Mail Denmark provides distribution solutions in the Danish The contingent liability is reported as a provision in the balance communication market, with a nationwide distribution net31 sheet and is calculated based on previous experience of the work. The business area offers physical and digital letter, direct proportion of persons who have chosen to exercise their right mail, newspaper, facility management and parcel services. 32 to early retirement in accordance with these provisions. If the Mail Sweden provides distribution solutions in the Swedish 33 number of those who choose this option should change, the communication market, with a nationwide distribution netliability will change accordingly. A change in the utilization rate work. The business area offers physical and digital letter, direct of 5 percentage points impacts operating profit by +/– SEK 4m. mail and newspaper services as well as drop-off and collection of parcels. Deferred tax assets, SEK 540m (1,413) Logistics operates in the Nordic logistics market in the The capitalization of tax loss carry-forwards has been assessed areas of parcels, mixed cargo, messaging and express, conbased on business plans and estimates of future taxable profits signment cargo, sea and air cargo, and third-party logistics. that can utilize tax loss carry-forwards. Estimates have been Logistics has a comprehensive offer and distribution network made of non-deductible costs and non-taxable income in for businesses and private consumers in the Nordic market. accordance with current tax regulations. Furthermore, considParcel services in Denmark are managed by Mail Denmark. eration has been taken of foreseeable future financial results in Strålfors is active in the area of information logistics. order to evaluate the reported tax claim at the currently appliThe company develops and offers communication solutions cable tax rates. Changes to tax legislation in Sweden and other that create stronger, more personal customer relationships for countries where PostNord operates and changes in interpretacompanies that have large customer bases. Strålfors is a Nortion and application of applicable legislation may influence the dic leader in its field and has operations in the Nordic region size of reported tax assets and liabilities. Changed circumand several other European countries. stances that impact the assumptions will also influence financial results for the year. Other and eliminations Other comprises shared services and corporate functions including the parent company, the Swedish Cashier Service, provisions for changes in group functions in Sweden and Denmark and group adjustments. The adjustments are primarily IFRS adjustments regarding pensions in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits, and finance leasing in accordance with IAS 17, Leases. From Other, service costs for shared services and corporate functions are allocated to the business areas. Cost allocations are recognized as revenue in Other under Other Income, Internal. Within the business areas, cost allocations are expensed under Other Expenses. Eliminations comprises the elimination of internal translations. PostNord Annual Report 2013 111 Consolidated financial statements Note 4, cont. 01 02 Mail 03 Mail Mail PostNord 04 Denmark Sweden Logistics Strålfors Other Eliminations Group Jan–Dec, SEKm 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 05 Net sales, external 8,959 9,7692) 14,910 15,020 13,160 11,5522) 2,504 2,576 0 3 39,533 38,920 06 Net sales, internal 405 3962) 140 117 272 2102) 108 89 4 6 –929 –8182) 0 0 07 Net sales 9,364 10,1652) 15,050 15,137 13,432 11,7622) 2,612 2,665 4 9 –929 –818 39,533 38,920 08 Other income, external 28 72 75 42 50 15 17 76 111 233 253 09 Other income, internal 71 552) 769 712 1,241 1,2802) 0 0 3,067 4,094 –5,148 –6,1412) 0 0 10 Income 9,463 10,2202) 15,891 15,924 14,715 13,0922) 2,627 2,682 3,147 4,214 –6,077 –6,9592) 39,766 39,173 11 Personnel expenses –5,702 –5,7302) –7,724 –7,532 –3,779 –3,3032) –817 –821 –624 –1,0091) 23 572) –18,623 –18,3381) 12 Transport expenses –794 –8222) –2,577 –2,608 –6,911 –5,9342) –113 –67 –8 –16 1,450 1,3632) –8,953 –8,084 13 Other expenses –2,663 –3,4432) –4,621 –4,628 –3,422 –3,2232) –1,479 –1,593 –2,295 –3,000 4,604 5,5392) –9,876 –10,348 14 Depreciation and impairments –403 –4092) –386 –363 –406 –3602) –202 –226 –251 –541 –1,648 –1,899 15 Expenses –9,562 –10,4042) –15,308 –15,131 –14,518 –12,8202) –2,611 –2,707 –3,178 –4,5661) 6,077 6,9592) –39,100 –38,6691) 16 Participations in the 17 earnings of associated 18 companies and joint ventures 10 7 10 7 19 OPERATING PROFIT –89 –1772) 583 793 197 2722) 16 –25 –31 –3521) 0 0 676 5111) 20 Net financial items –208 –1441) 21 Profit before tax 468 3671) 22 Tax –146 –1201) 23 Net profit 322 2471) 24 25 Operating capital 2,923 2,815 1,815 1,208 5,146 5,635 1,507 1,563 726 191 46 114 12,163 11,526 Investments in tangible 26 and intangible fixed assets 359 463 986 1,066 536 401 94 89 266 312 2,241 2,331 27 1) Restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 2) Restated due to reorganization of parcel business in Denmark. 28 29 30 31 Division by geographic area 2013 2012 32 based on company domicile, SEKm Income Assets Investments Income Assets Investments 33 Sweden 23,290 12,756 1,593 22,490 13,5761) 1,663 Denmark 9,741 8,840 351 10,592 8,771 465 Norway 4,536 3,001 253 4,091 3,193 165 Finland 612 495 11 607 553 15 Rest of the world 1,587 626 33 1,393 713 23 Total 39,766 25,718 2,241 39,173 26,806 2,331 1) Restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 112 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements 01 NOTE 5 EMPLOYEES, PERSONNEL EXPENSES AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 02 2013 2012 03 Percentage Percentage 04 Average number of employees, per country Women Men Total men Women Men Total men 05 Sweden 8,166 15,555 23,721 66% 8,434 15,478 23,912 65% 06 Denmark 4,796 8,234 13,030 63% 5,213 8,453 13,666 62% Finland 100 175 275 64% 107 183 290 63% 07 Norway 261 1,378 1,639 84% 223 1,059 1,282 83% 08 Other countries 243 397 640 62% 218 345 563 61% 09 Total 13,566 25,739 39,305 65% 14,195 25,518 39,713 64% 10 11 Personnel expenses, SEKm 2013 2012 12 Wages, salaries and other remuneration 14,175 14,082 Statutory social costs 2,715 2,628 13 Pension expenses1) 1,498 1,5512) 14 Other personnel expenses 235 77 15 Total 18,623 18,338 16 1) SEK 4m (3) of the group’s pension expenses is attributable to current and former presidents and executive vice presidents, for whom outstanding liabilities total SEK 131m (126). 17 2) Restated due to IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 18 2013 2012 19 Specification of wages, salaries PresiOf which, Other PresiOf which, Other 20 and other remuneration, by country, SEKm dents1) bonuses employees Total dents1) bonuses employees Total 21 Sweden 29 7,636 7,665 28 7,457 7,485 Denmark 14 5,301 5,315 12 5,558 5,570 22 Finland 2 105 107 2 108 110 23 Norway 5 925 930 5 772 777 24 Other countries 2 157 159 3 137 140 25 Total 52 14,124 14,176 50 14,032 14,082 26 1) “Presidents” refers to current and former chief executive officers and executive vice presidents. 27 2013 2012 28 Specification of wages, salaries and Base Pension Other Base Pension Other other executive compensation, SEKm salary expenses benefits Total salary expenses benefits Total 29 Håkan Ericsson, President (as of 10-2013) 2.2 0.7 0.4 3.3 – – – – 30 Lars Idermark, President (through 05-15-13) 4.2 1.1 0.0 5.3 8.7 2.6 0.1 11.4 31 K.B. Pedersen, Executive VP (Acting President 05-16-13 – 32 through 09-2013) 4.7 4.7 4.5 4.5 Mats Lönnqvist, Executive VP (through 05-2012) 3.6 0.6 4.2 33 Total, CEOs and Executive VPs 11.1 1.8 0.4 13.3 16.8 3.2 0.1 20.1 Johanna Allert 2.0 0.6 0.0 2.6 1.9 0.6 0.1 2.6 Henning Christiansen (as of 05-2012) 3.0 0.2 3.2 2.0 0.1 2.1 Joss Delissen 3.1 0.9 0.0 4.0 2.9 0.8 0.0 3.7 Andreas Falkenmark 4.4 1.3 0.1 5.8 3.4 2.2 0.1 5.7 Annemarie Gardshol (as of 05-14-12) 3.3 1.0 0.1 4.4 2.0 0.6 0.0 2.6 Finn Hansen (through 04-2012 and as of 01-21-13) 3.3 3.3 1.1 1.1 Lo Hjorth (as of 10-2012 – through 01-20-13) 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.6 0.4 0.0 1.0 Henrik Höjsgaard 4.3 1.3 0.1 5.7 4.3 1.0 0.1 5.4 Palle Juliussen (through 09-2012) 2.4 2.4 Per Mossberg 3.0 0.9 0.1 4.0 2.9 0.9 0.1 3.9 Henrik Rättzén (as of 08-07-12) 4.6 1.4 0.1 6.1 1.8 0.6 0.0 2.4 Per Samuelsson 3.8 1.1 0.0 4.9 3.7 1.1 0.1 4.9 Total, other members of Group Management 34.9 8.5 0.7 44.1 29.0 8.2 0.6 37.8 Total, Group Management 46.0 10.3 1.1 57.4 45.8 11.4 0.7 57.9 Approved guidelines for executive compensation1) Pension provisions corresponding to a maximum of 30% of monthly salary severance pay equal to a maximum of 12 months’ pay and automobile beneapply to all executives in Sweden. Retirement plans and agreements stipufits. For members of group management, income earned from subsequent late a retirement age of either 65 or 62. Pension costs for the current CEO are employment or comparable business activities is deducted from the aforefixed at an amount corresponding to 30% of monthly salary. The notice mentioned severance package. period is 6 months. The contracts of other members of group management For executives employed in accordance with Danish labor law, full prestipulate a 6–12 month notice period when the employer terminates the conmium-based pensions are applied and the retirement age is determined purtract and a 6 month notice period when the member terminates the consuant to Danish labor law. tract. If the employer terminates the contract, the employee is entitled to 1) Board member compensation form a part of the Other item under Note 6, Other Expenses. PostNord Annual Report 2013 113 Consolidated financial statements 01 Note 5, cont. 02 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 03 Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage Gender division of executives, % women men women men 04 Group Board of Directors 38 62 38 62 05 Group management 18 82 15 85 06 Board members and subsidiary CEOs 36 64 21 79 07 Compensation to the Boards of Audit Compensation 08 PostNord and PostNord AB, SEK thousands Committee Committee 2013 2012 09 Jens Moberg, as of 04-2013 Chairman 4501) 10 Gunnel Duveblad Chairman 313 313 11 Fritz Schur (chairman) through 04-2013 Chairman 188 638 12 Anne Birgitte Lundholt through 04-2013 Member 112 300 Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen as of 04-2013 Member 188 13 Christian Ellegaard as of 04-2013 Member 188 14 Jonas Iversen as of 04-2012 Member 15 Anitra Steen as of 04-2013 Member 1882) 16 Mats Abrahamsson Member 275 275 17 Ingrid Bonde through 04-2013 Member 88 275 Bjarne Hansen through 04-2013 Member 112 300 18 Torben Janholt Member 275 275 19 Total 2,377 2,376 20 1) Jens Moberg submits an invoice via his own company; not yet submitted. 2) Anitra Steen submits an invoice via her own company; compensation of SEK 58 thousand was also paid in social security contributions. 21 22 Audit Compensation 23 Remuneration approved by annual general meeting, 04-18-13, SEK thousands Board Committee Committee 24 Chairman 600 63 38 Member 250 50 25 25 26 27 NOTE 6 OTHER EXPENSES NOTE 7 AUDIT FEES AND REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES 28 29 SEKm 2013 2012 SEKm 2013 2012 30 Cost of premises 2,204 2,158 Audit engagement 31 Provisions and reversals related KPMG 8 to restructuring measures 441 898 Ernst & Young 11 32 Terminal fees 1,024 1,031 PWC 2 33 Cost of goods and material 1,099 1,177 Total 8 13 Purchased IT resources 1,472 1,481 Other audit activities Capitalized development expenditures –194 –242 PWC 1 Other 3,830 3,845 Total 1 Total 9,876 10,348 Specification of provisions and reversals Tax consultancy attributable to restructing measures KPMG 1 Mail Denmark 56 187 PWC 2 Mail Sweden 153 101 Total 1 2 Logistics 12 74 Other services Strålfors 30 83 KPMG 1 Other and Eliminations 190 453 Ernst & Young 8 Total 441 898 PWC 1 Available volumes in the printing and inserting market are declinTotal 1 9 ing due to substitution of digital alternatives. Strålfors’ printing and inserting production capacity in Sweden will therefore be concen“Audit engagement” refers to legally required examination of trated in Ljungby and the operations currently run in Tomteboda the annual report, consolidated financial statements and bookwill be closed. Provisions have been made for this measure. keeping; administration of the board and the CEO; and other Provisions made by business area Mail Sweden include a proviexaminations conducted pursuant to agreement or contract. sion for the new post terminal in Hallsberg. The provision concerns It includes other duties resting with the company’s auditors, as redundancy at the existing terminals in Västerås and Karlstad. well as advisory services and other types of support that arise Provisions within the other business areas are mainly attribin the course of such examination or the performance of such utable to personnel expenses related in part to PostNord’s cost other duties. reduction program. WIthin the Other and Eliminations segments, provisions were primarily attributable to early retirement pensions and to admittance to agencies that handle redundant personnel. Personnel redundancies were primarily attributable to ongoing cost reduction programs within group functions. 114 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 8 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENTS NOTE 10 TAXES 01 02 SEKm 2013 2012 SEKm 2013 2012 Depreciation Current tax –19 –119 03 Licenses, brands, customer Deferred tax 04 relations and similar assets 225 174 Change in deferred tax 05 Capitalized development work 105 173 on untaxed reserves 15 40 06 Buildings and land 153 159 Temporary difference Machinery and equipment 1,162 1,174 in balance sheet items –200 –621) 07 Total 1,645 1,680 Change in deferred tax 08 on tax loss carry-forwards 58 21 Impairments 09 Total –127 –11) Other intangible assets 2 10 Total tax –146 –1201) Capitalized development work 152 11 Buildings and land 4 12 Machinery and equipment 1 7 2013 2012 Reconciliation of Inventory 1 13 effective tax rate % SEKm % SEKm Participation in Eson Pac Group AB 55 Profit before tax 22,0 468 26,3 380 14 Assets for sale 15 Tax according to parent company Total 3 219 rate –103 –100 16 Non-deductible expenses –66 –100 17 Tax-exempt income tax 82 144 Effect of losses not capitalized 18 NOTE 9 NET FINANCIAL ITEMS accruing during the year –11 –8 19 Tax attributable to previous years 8 –5 SEKm 2013 2012 20 Impairment of previously Financial income capitalized tax loss carry-forwards –5 –31 21 Interest income 35 37 Impairment of deferred tax asset 22 Interest income on pensions 0 155 re temporary year-on-year differences, not utilized –18 23 Other financial income 15 46 Total 50 238 Effect of changed tax rates 24 and imposition of new taxes 6 6 25 Financial expenses Effect of other tax rates Interest expense1) –982) –68 for foreign companies –8 –4 26 Interest expense on pensions –98 –2501) Other –31 –221) 27 Interest expense on finance leasing –24 –19 Total –146 –1201) 28 Leasing 1) Restated due to changes in IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 29 Other financial expenses –16 –14 Net exchange rate changes –22 –31 30 Uncapitalized loss carry-forwards are attributable to Swedish Total –258 –382 and foreign operations. 31 Net financial items –208 –144 32 1) Restated due to changes in IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 33 2) The increase in interest expense is due to higher indebtedness in 2013. NOTE 11 PARTICIPATIONS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES See Note 29, Financial Risk Management and Financial Instruments, page 126. For interest expenses regarding pensions, Participations in associated companies see also Note 23, Pensions, page 119. At the end of the fiscal year, Post Danmark A/S owned an equity interest in associated company e-Boks A/S valued at SEK 65m (79). e-Boks A/S is headquartered in Ballerup, Danmark and is 50%-owned by Post Danmark A/S. During the fall Strålfors Svenska AB acquired direct mail agency Friends & Tactics, a Stockholm-based agency specialized in direct and relationship marketing. Strålfors Svenska AB owns 30% of the company and reported sales were SEK 0.4m at year-end. Participations in joint ventures Strålfors Svenska AB owns 50% of the company Tand 2:103 Fastighets AB in Östersund, Sweden. The company’s book value at year-end was SEK 0.4m (0.4). PostNord Annual Report 2013 115 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 01 02 Goodwill Other intangible fixed asets 03 Licenses, brands, Total 04 customer relations Capitalized other intangible and similar assets development fixed assets 05 SEKm 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 06 Acquisition value, beginning balance 3,198 2,838 2,085 1,621 1,781 2,364 3,866 3,985 07 Acquisition of subsidiaries 167 436 30 260 29 30 290 08 Sale of subsidiaries –44 –8 –9 09 Other investments 2 111 34 234 301 345 335 Divestments/disposals –11 –6 –41 –661 –52 –667 10 Reclassifications –28 189 28 –189 0 11 Translation differences –62 –34 –45 –5 34 –63 –11 –68 12 Accumulated acquisition value, 13 end of year 3,303 3,198 2,142 2,085 2,036 1,781 4,178 3,866 14 Amortization, beginning balance –1,023 –859 –740 –1,269 –1,763 –2,128 Acquisition of subsidiaries –1 –2 –3 15 Amortization for the year –225 –174 –105 –173 –330 –347 16 Divestments/disposals 19 5 33 655 52 660 17 Reclassifications 18 –18 0 18 Translation differences 16 6 –25 49 –9 55 19 Accumulated amortization, end of year –1,195 –1,023 –855 –740 –2,050 –1,763 20 Impairments, beginning balance –8 –8 –8 –8 –516 –366 –524 –374 Impairments for the year –2 –152 –2 –152 21 Divestments/disposals 22 Translation differences –5 2 –5 2 23 Accumulated impairments, end of year –8 –8 –10 –8 –521 –516 –531 –524 24 Ending balance 3,295 3,190 937 1,054 660 525 1,597 1,579 25 26 27 Internally generated intangible assets are reported as capitalvalue does not deviate negatively from actual book value. Indi28 ized development expenditures, which were chiefly attributvidual assets may be tested more often if there are indications able to system support for shared IT solutions and integration of impairment. The recoverable value of each of these cash29 of IT infrastructure. Other intangible fixed assets were chiefly generating segments was based on their value in use. The cal30 attributable to brands and customer relations. Expensed develculations were based on three-year business plans and foreopment costs totaled to SEK 0 (0) during the year. casts adopted and formulated based on analyses of the exter31 For information on acquisition of intangible fixed assets nal business environment and planned marketing and produc32 through acquisition of subsidiaries, see Note 31, Acquisitions tion activities. The assessments made in the business plans are and Divestments of Operations, page 130. based on Group Management’s knowledge and experience. 33 Impairments on capitalized development work totaled The assumptions with the greatest impact on the impairSEK 0m (152). Last year’s impairment was attributable to the ment assessments are volume growth and profit margins. CalDanish SAP platform; see also Note 8, Depreciation and Impairculations were made with different assumptions for the operatments, page 115. Impairments on other intangible fixed assets ing profit and discount rate to evaluate the sensitivity of test totaled SEK 2m (0). outcome. Tollpost Globe AS is part of the international parcel and palImpairment test on intangible fixed assets let operation and is considered integrated with DPD in the Goodwill is not subject to depreciation but rather to an annual impairment test performed. For international parcel and pallet impairment test. No impairment of goodwill occurred during operations, average annual growth of 3% is forecast for the the period. Goodwill is the only intangible asset with an indeterbusiness plan period. The test did not show any impairment. minate period useful life. Goodwill in Post Danmark A/S is attributable to the 1995 A value assessment was conducted on all cash-generating conversion into a corporation. The cash-generating segment’s segments with a discount factor of 7.5 (8.3)% after tax. recoverable amount is based on value in use. Average annual As of December 31, 2013, the SEK 3,295m (3,190) carrying growth of 2% is forecast for Post Danmark for the business plan amount of goodwill arose in the following cash-generating segperiod. Value in use exceeds book value. The test did not show ments: SEK 1,433m (1,507) for international parcel and pallet any impairment. operations (DPD and Tollpost Globe AS), SEK 697m (691) for With respect to Strålfors, the entire operation (that existed as Stralfors, SEK 311m (300) for Post Danmark A/S, 331m (332) for of the 2006 acquisition) is viewed as a cash-generating segPostNord Logistik TPL AB, SEK 95m (105) for Harlem Transport ment at the time of testing. For Strålfors, average annual AS, SEK 66m (0) for Nordisk Kyl Logistik AB/Transbothnia AB growth of 5% is forecast for the business plan period. The cashand SEK 362m (255) for other businesses (refers mainly to Data generating segment’s recoverable amount is based on value in Scanning A/S, Transportgruppen A/S, Budstikken Transport use. Calculated value in use exceeds book value. The test did A/S, Eek Transport AS, Nils Hansson Logistics AB, HIT, Direct not show any impairment. Link and Addresspoint). All intangible assets with indefinite useGrowth after the business plan period totals 0–2%. ful lives are tested at least once per year to determine that the 116 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 13 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 01 02 Ongoing Buildings Machinery and construction 03 and land equipment and advances Total 04 SEKm 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 05 Acquisition value, beginning balance 6,022 5,761 14,117 14,228 1,286 519 21,425 20,508 06 Acquisition of subsidiaries 25 659 332 179 6 357 844 Other acquisitions 368 32 1,133 999 395 963 1,896 1,994 07 Divestments/Disposals –586 –99 –665 –1,274 –34 –17 –1,285 –1,390 08 Reclassifications –811) –1981) 147 175 –262 –179 –1961) –2021) 09 Translation differences 32 –133 108 –190 5 –6 145 –329 10 Accumulated acquisition value, ending balance 5,780 6,022 15,172 14,117 1,390 1,286 22,342 21,425 11 Depreciation, beginning balance –2,389 –2,306 –10,217 –10,233 –1 –12,607 –12,539 12 Depreciation for the year –152 –159 –1,162 –1,174 –1,314 –1,333 13 Acquisition of subsidiaries –2 –59 –162 –90 –164 –149 14 Divestments/Disposals 562 3 664 1,147 1,226 1,150 15 Reclassifications 621) 801) 30 –1 921) 791) Translation differences –24 52 –94 133 –118 185 16 Accumulated depreciation, 17 ending balance –1,943 –2,389 –10,941 –10,217 –1 –1 –12,885 –12,607 18 Impairments, beginning balance –10 –6 –46 –39 –56 –45 19 Impairments for the year –4 –1 –7 –1 –11 20 Translation differences 1 1 Accumulated impairments, 21 ending balance –10 –10 –46 –46 –56 –56 22 Ending balance 3,827 3,623 4,185 3,854 1,389 1,285 9,401 8,762 23 1) Reclassified as Asset held for Sale; totals SEK 104m (123). 24 25 26 NOTE 14 LEASED MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT, PROPERTY LEASES 27 28 Operating lease agreements Finance leasing assets The group’s leasing fees for the year totaled SEK 1,535m (1,364). Finance leasing assets reported as tangible fixed assets are as 29 At the balance sheet date, the group had outstanding leasing follows: 30 fees of SEK 5,204m (6,105). The minimum payments for operating leases falls due as follows: 31 SEKm 2013 2012 Acquisition value 32 Machinery and Machinery and equipment 146 52 33 equipment Properties Properties 533 533 SEKm 2013 2012 2013 2012 Ending balance 679 585 Within one year 109 207 1,304 1,253 Accumulated depreciation Between one and five years 164 275 2,401 2,723 Machinery and equipment –81 –30 Five or more years 9 1,217 1,647 Properties –533 –504 Total 282 482 4,922 5,623 Ending balance –614 –534 The majority of the machinery and equipment at the group’s Book value 65 51 disposal is held by Mail Sweden and consists of machines for the production of PostNord’s electronic mail services. In 2013, finance leasing fees totaled SEK 85m (87). The maturities of the long-term liabilities attributable Finance lease agreements to finance leasing are presented in Note 29, Financial Risk Fees due under finance lease agreements mature as follows: Management and Financial Instruments. Finance leases comprise one processing facility in Sweden, Minimum discarded 31 December 2013, and vehicles in Norway and leasing Sweden. The change in acquisition value is attributable to expenses Interest Present value existing leases in an acquired company. See also Note 26, Pledged Assets and Contingent Liabilities, SEKm 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 page 126. Within one year 31 64 3 13 28 51 Between one and five years 54 9 6 1 48 8 Total 85 73 9 14 76 59 PostNord Annual Report 2013 117 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 15 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS NOTE 16 LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES 01 02 Dec 31, Dec 31, 03 SEKm 2013 2012 SEKm 2013 2012 04 Financial investments Carrying amount related to funded that are fixed assets defined-benefit disability pension plans 05 appraised in accordance with IAS 19 984 9701) Endowment insurance policy 145 143 06 Other long-term investments 66 73 Payroll tax health insurance 4 –7 07 Ending balance 211 216 Deposits, property leases 24 51 Other 3 08 Short-term investments Total 1 015 1 014 09 that are current assets 1) Restated due to changes in IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 10 Other short-term investments 163 4 Ending balance 163 4 11 12 13 NOTE 17 DEFERRED TAX 14 15 2013 2012 16 Acquisition/ Acquisition/ Divestment of Divestment of 17 operations, operations, 18 Reported changes in IAS Reported changes in IAS Beginning in income 19, translation Ending Beginning in income 19, translation Ending 19 SEKm balance statement differences balance balance statement differences balance 20 Deferred tax assets 21 Other provisions 338 –10 328 529 –191 338 Loss carry-forwards 287 58 32 377 266 21 287 22 Pension provisions 1,279 –1,279 1,0421) 2371) 1,2791) 23 Finance leases 4 –1 3 18 –14 4 24 Offset against liabilities –495 327 –168 –668 173 –495 25 Total 1,413 47 –920 540 1,187 –184 4101) 1,4131) 26 of which, outside Sweden 109 168 128 109 27 Deferred tax liabilities 28 Intangible fixed assets –281 132 –7 –156 –320 125 –86 –281 29 Tangible fixed assets –454 15 6 –433 –481 40 –13 –454 30 Current assets –39 –31 –70 –9 –30 –39 31 Pension provisions –1,114 –290 878 –526 –1,1971) 481) 351) –1,1141) 32 Offset against receivables 495 –327 168 668 –173 495 33 Total –1,393 –174 550 –1,017 –1,339 1831) –2371) –1,3931) of which, outside Sweden –149 –213 –223 –149 1) Restated due to changes in IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. In Sweden receivables and liabilities have been reported net, at Non-reported receivables for deferred tax relating to loss SEK 245m (569), while other receivables and liabilities have carry-forwards from previous years totaled SEK 103m (104). been reported gross. Foreign receivables totaled SEK 168m SEK 100m (93) pertained to France, SEK 0m (4) to Denmark, (109) and foreign payables SEK 213m (149). SEK 1m (2) to Sweden. None of these receivables has a due date. NOTE 18 INVENTORY NOTE 19 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Accounts receivable, taking into account accumulated bad Dec 31, Dec 31, debt from the period January–December, totaled SEK 25m (33). SEKm 2013 2012 Estimated losses on accounts receivable totaled SEK –58m Goods for resale, etc. 106 102 (–20). With respect to accounting treatment, refer to Note 1, Raw materials 121 91 Accounting Principles, page 104. For risk management and ageing of overdue but non-written-off receivables, see Note 29, Total 227 193 Financial Risk Management and Financial Instruments, page 126. The majority of raw materials and goods for resale in inventory are with Strålfors. Inventory depreciation for 2013 totaled SEK 1 (1). 118 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 20 PREPAID EXPENSES AND NOTE 22 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES 01 ACCRUED INCOME 02 Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, 03 SEKm 2013 2012 SEKm 2013 2012 04 Accrued interest income 30 2 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 05 Accrued postage charges 102 107 Accrued commission income 2 1 Debt to credit institutions 4 126 3 677 06 Prepaid rent 247 242 Finance leases 41 22 07 Prepaid insurance premiums 16 24 Other long-term liabilities 148 146 08 Prepaid wages and salaries 150 148 Ending balance 4 315 3 845 09 Terminal fees 334 282 Current interest-bearing liabilities 10 Forward currency contracts 5 Commercial paper 200 397 Other items 645 311 11 Utilized credit line 61 18 Ending balance 1,526 1,122 Finance leases 13 52 12 Ending balance 274 467 13 NOTE 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS See Note 29, Financial Risk Management and Financial Instru14 ments, page 126. 15 Dec 31, Dec 31, SEKm 2013 2012 16 Cash and bank balances 1,521 1,885 17 Short-term investments comparable 18 to cash and cash equivalents 452 1,161 19 Ending balance 1,973 3,046 20 Short-term investments are classified as cash and cash equivalents if they are easily convertible into cash and have a maxi21 mum maturity of three months from the acquisition date, with 22 minimal risk for value fluctuations. 23 NOTE 23 PENSIONS 24 25 PostNord’s pension plans are described in Note 1, Accounting Principles the Law on Safeguarding of Pension Commitments (1967:531). The Fund (page 104). There are both defined benefit and defined contribution is supervised by Stockholm County Council and the Financial Supervi26 plans. Some personnel categories are eligible for pensions at an earlier sory Authority. Posten’s Insurance Association is subject to the Law on 27 age based on specific provisions in connection with incorporation. Friendly Societies (1972:262) and is supervised by the Financial SuperviPosten’s Pension Fund safeguards the pension commitments of Posten sory Authority. Accordingly, requirements for Posten’s Insurance Associ28 AB, Posten Meddelande AB and PostNord Logistics AB. See the Assets ation require maintaining an asset base exceeding the necessary sol29 under Management section and Note 30, Transactions with Associated vency margin. Norway’s pension plans are regulated by the Law on ComParties (page 130) for information concerning dealings between the pany Pension plans in France are regulated through graphic industry col30 group and Posten’s Pension Fund. Posten’s Pension Fund is regulated by lective agreements. 31 Balance sheet items for defined benefit pension plans 32 Pension commitments and plan assets 33 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Unfunded pension Unfunded pension Unfunded pension Unfunded pension Pension commitments Funded plans, future plans, future Funded plans, future plans, future and plan assets, pension unconditional conditional pension unconditional conditional net amount, SEKm plans pension benefits pension benefits Total plans pension benefits pension benefits Total Present value of defined benefit commitments 15,573 1,764 747 18,084 16,455 1,866 781 19,102 Fair value of plan assets –17,571 –17,571 –16,408 –16,408 Net commitment –1,998 1,764 747 513 47 1,866 781 2,694 Unreported actuarial gains (+) and losses (–) –373 –6 181 –198 147 10 172 329 Net indebtedness on balance sheet –2,371 1,758 928 315 194 1,876 953 3,023 Reference: Note 24, Other Provisions 928 928 953 953 Balance sheet, Pension provisions –1383 1,758 375 1,157 1,876 3,033 Note 16, Long-term Receivables –988 –988 –963 –963 Net amount attributable to plans in the following countries, SEKm Sweden 309 3,016 France 5 6 Norway 1 1 Total 315 3,023 PostNord Annual Report 2013 119 Consolidated financial statements Note 23, cont. 01 02 When the value of assets under management exceeds the group deems that the value of the asset exceeds the present present value of the pension calculation, this results in an asset value of future refunds from the plan and reduced future pay03 for the group (see section on Long-term Receivables). The ments to the plan. 04 05 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 06 Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded pension pension pension pension 07 plans, future plans, future plans, future plans, future Specification of present Funded unconditional conditional Funded unconditional conditional 08 value of defined benefit pension pension pension pension pension pension 09 commitments, SEKm plans benefits benefits Total plans benefits benefits Total 10 Beginning balance 16,455 1,866 781 19,102 15,843 1,589 808 18,240 11 Costs, employment service during current year 313 7 23 343 377 7 24 408 12 Costs, employment service 13 during previous year 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 14 Interest expense 549 64 27 640 589 60 32 681 Early retirement pensions 0 121 0 121 0 242 0 242 15 Payment of benefits –810 –328 0 –1,138 –895 –259 0 –1,154 16 Curtailments and 17 settlements 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Transfers 0 104 –104 0 –95 184 –90 –1 18 Actuarial gains (–) and losses 19 (+) – change in financial 20 assumptions –1,134 –85 –18 –1,237 895 69 16 980 Actuarial gains (–) and losses 21 (+) – change in demographic 22 assumptions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 23 Actuarial gains (–) and losses (+) – based on experience 200 15 37 252 –259 –26 –9 –294 24 Translation differencies 25 foreign pension plans 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 26 Ending balance 15,573 1,764 746 18,083 16,455 1,866 781 19,102 Plan’s weighted duration, 27 years 13,4 10,8 6,1 12,8 13,8 11,1 6,3 13,2 28 The group anticipates making payments amounting to SEK 1,042m during 2014 related to defined benefits plans. 29 30 Specification of fair value Provisions, estimated future conditional pensions of plan assets, SEKm 2013 2012 PostNord is responsible for future conditional pension benefits 31 under the transition regulations for Swedish subsidiaries. The 32 Beginning balance 16,408 15,967 transition regulations apply to certain employees who are entiInterest income 551 594 tled to retire at the age of 60 or 63. To qualify, employees must 33 have reached 28 years of age by January 1, 1992 and have held Funds paid by employer 194 573 the same position since then. The total commitment, calcuCompensation –111 –360 lated according to the Act on Safeguarding of Pension CommitPayment of benefits –68 –59 ments, totaled SEK 2,720m (2,698) as of December 31, 2013. Curtailments and settlements 0 0 Experience demonstrates that an average of 25% utilizes the Actual return above (+) and below (–) transition regulations, and the provision is determined at that interest income 597 –307 percentage of this commitment. Special payroll tax is taken into consideration, and the liability totals SEK 928m (1,024) includExchange rate differences in foreign plans 0 0 ing special payroll tax. For accounting in accordance with IAS Ending balance 17,571 16,408 19 see unfunded pension plans, future conditional pension benefits in the tables in this Note, and future conditional pension benefits in Note 24, Other Provisions (page 124). Return on plan assets, SEKm 2013 2012 Actual return on plan assets 1,148 287 Final responsibility provision PostNord assumed “final responsibility” for an obligation Interest income 551 594 assumed in connection with its conversion into a corporation. Actual return above (+) and below (–) Previously, this commitment was reported as a contingent liainterest income on assets under bility. Provisions were made for the commitment in conjuncmanagement during the period 597 –307 tion with the adoption of IAS 19. Based on available information, the commitment was estimated at SEK 118m (112) as of December 31, 2013, and includes a provision for special payroll tax. The commitment is included in the balance for unfunded pension plans, future conditional pension benefits in the table in this Note, and future conditional pension benefits in Note 24, Other Provisions (page 124). Index-linked responsibility In 2000, pension commitments previously safeguarded by Posten’s Pension Fund were redeemed through the acquisition of insurance policies. As of December 31, 2013 the net present value of these was SEK 37m (51). PostNord bears index-linking and gross coordination responsibility for these pension commitments. 120 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Note 23, cont. 01 02 2013 2012 Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded Unfunded 03 pension pension pension pension 04 Expenses and income plans, future plans, future plans, future plans, future for defined benefit and Funded unconditional conditional Funded unconditional conditional 05 defined contribution pension pension pension pension pension pension 06 pension plans, SEKm plans benefits benefits Total plans benefits benefits Total 07 Costs, employment service during current year 313 7 23 343 377 7 24 408 08 Costs, employment service 09 during previous year 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 Interest expense (+) and interest income (–) –2 64 27 89 –5 60 32 87 11 Early retirement pensions 0 121 0 121 0 242 0 242 12 Curtailments and settlements 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 13 Total defined benefit 14 pensions 311 192 50 553 372 309 56 737 15 Defined contribution plans 1,053 1,001 16 Deducted as financial items –90 –87 17 Utilization of restructuring provisions, costs of early 18 retirement pensions –33 –123 19 Other defined benefit 20 pension expenses 15 22 Total pension expenses 1,498 1,550 21 22 23 Actuarial assumptions The costs for 2013 are based on actuarial assumptions adopted 24 The actuarial valuations of PostNord’s defined benefit pension at the beginning of 2013. At the end of 2013, PostNord adopted commitments and pension expenses are based on the followassumptions applicable to calculation of the results as of 25 ing assumptions. These assumptions are provided as a total December 31, 2013. These actuarial assumptions are also used 26 average value for each pension plan. A change in any of these in the forecast for 2014 costs. In setting the assumptions the key assumptions may have a significant impact on projected long-term, mutual compatibility of all assumptions used in the 27 pension commitments, funding requirements and annual appraisal was taken into account. 28 pension costs. The discount rate is determined in accordance with IAS 19 with reference to prime corporate bonds traded in a function29 ing corporate bond market as per IFRS’s view by referring to Actuarial Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, 30 the Swedish mortgage bond market. Group Management thus assumptions, % 2013 2012 2011 takes the view that the discount rate applied reflects the time 31 Discount rate 4,00 3,50 3,90 value of the money and provides a reasonable present value of Posten’s pension commitments. Future annual pay increases 32 Future annual wage increases 2,60 2,60 2,60 reflect expected future salary increases as a compound of 33 inflation, seniority and promotion. The income base amount is Change in income set annually by the Swedish government and is used, among base amount 3,00 3,00 3,00 other things, to set a cap on pensionable income in the social Inflation 2,00 2,00 2,00 security system. With respect to inflation, the group has choPersonnel turn over 4,50 4,50 4,50 sen to use the Swedish Central Bank’s inflation targets. PersonLife expectancy FFFS 2007:31 FFFS 2007:31 FFFS 2007:31 nel turnover is an aggregate of expected future business development, increases in real wages and productivity growth for a 65-yr-old male needed to maintain profitability, as well as consideration of per(born 1950) 20,9 20,9 20,9 sonnel turnover in recent years. The average remaining for a 65-yr-old male employment service factor is estimated based on employees’ (born 1970) 22,7 22,7 22,7 current age breakdown. Life expectancy assumptions are based on the Swedish Supervisory Authority’s guidelines FFFS 2007:31 (FFFS 2007:31). PostNord Annual Report 2013 121 Consolidated financial statements Note 23, cont. 01 02 Alecta ment related to Norwegian pension plans. Total assets under Retirement and family pension plans for salaried employees in management total SEK 17,571m (16,408). 03 Sweden can be insured by a policy underwritten by Alecta. The Pension Fund’s activities are regulated by an invest04 Only a few companies within the group utilize insurance as a ment policy established by the Fund’s board of directors. The safeguarding solution. According to a pronouncement by the capital transferred to the Fund by PostNord shall generate a 05 Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 3, defined benefit penreasonable return, the achievement of which requires a certain 06 sion commitments secured by Alecta insurance are considamount of risk-taking. To prevent this risk from becoming too ered to be a single pension plan that encompasses several great, the Fund diversifies investments among different asset 07 employers. For fiscal year 2013, the company has not had classes. 08 access to information enabling the reporting of this plan as a The Fund’s allocation strategy is based on an Asset Liability defined benefit pension plan. The ITP pension plan insured by Management study. The forecasted pension liability is set 09 Alecta is therefore reported as a defined contribution plan. Penagainst the assets’ expected return, risk and historical correla10 sion insurance fees related to Alecta totaled SEK 8.3m (7.2). tions to determine appropriate asset allocation and risk level. Anticipated fees for 2014 total SEK 8.3m. Alecta’s surplus can Asset allocation and Fund management shall effectuate the 11 be distributed to policyholders and/or the insured. As of achievement of the long-term performance target at a justifi12 December 2013, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective able and reasonable level of risk. The realized return from fund consolidation level was 148 (129)%. The collective consolidation management varies between years due to a range of external 13 level equals the market value of Alecta’s assets divided by total factors. The performance target shall therefore be considered 14 insurance commitments and calculated in accordance with a goal for realized return over a long period of time. Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, which do not comply with IAS19. The Fund aims to achieve good diversification between and 15 within asset classes based on historical risk-adjusted return and 16 Assets under management correlations, such as expected risk-adjusted return. Asset risks The greatest portion of assets under management is included are reduced through diversification. Allocation among different 17 in Posten’s Pension Fund. Other assets under management asset classes is determined at intervals for purposes of flexibility. consist of assets in Posten’s Insurance Association, pension 58% of the assets are traded on an active market. Fund 18 insurance underwritten by Skandia and assets under manageassets at year-end 2013 and 2012 were distributed as follows: 19 20 2013 2012 21 Posten’s Pension Fund assets per class, market value, SEKm Dec 31 % Dec 31 % 22 Interest-bearing securities1) 1,911 12 2,991 21 23 High Yield 1,197 7 1,244 8 24 Liquidity2) 1,091 7 769 5 Hedge funds 3,430 21 3,157 21 25 Infrastructure 807 5 871 6 26 Property 1,720 11 1,546 10 27 Swedish stocks 1,243 8 969 7 28 Foreign stocks 3,835 24 2,197 15 29 Commodities 368 2 Private equity 759 5 694 5 30 Total assets under management in Posten’s Pension Fund 15,993 14,806 31 1) Includes accrued interest. 32 2) Includes classes of assets that were classified as Other Assets in previous years. 33 Other fund assets, Dec 31, Dec 31, market value, SEKm 2013 2012 Posten’s insurance associaton 1,536 1,544 Skandia pension insurance 42 58 Total other assets under management 1,578 1,602 Eighteen percent of the assets in Posten’s Insurance Association are traded on an active market. The asset allocation of Posten’s Pension Fund as of December 31, 2013 is presented in the table above. The overriding objective of the Fund is to manage the assets so as to best serve group’s pension commitments, the funds for which have been entrusted to the Fund. The composition of and return on the assets should serve as reassurance that the group can meet the pension commitments safeguarded by the Fund. 122 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Note 23, cont. 01 Sensitivity analysis 02 At year-end 2013, PostNord had funded pension commitments A provision of 25% of total commitments is made pursuant to 03 of SEK 15,573m (16,455) and assets under management of SEK the transition regulations. This number is based on the histori17,571m (16,408). In addition to funded pension commitments, cal degree to which rights under the regulations are exercised. 04 pension liabilities are allocated as future unconditional pension The special payroll tax has also been taken into account. commitments of SEK 1,764m (1,866) and future conditional Change in the commitments pursuant to the transition regula05 pension commitments of SEK 746m (781). The group’s pension tions and due to different levels of exercise of rights is reported 06 commitments are valued based on the above-referenced actuas income or is expensed. See the table below for the effect of arial assumptions; assets under management are assessed at changed levels of exercise of rights under the transition regula07 fair value. tions. 08 09 10 Impact on balance sheet items Change Impact on profit and other comprehensive income 11 Net impact 12 Net Impact on Impact on on other 13 Personnel financial pension market value comprehensive Sensitivity analysis, SEKm expense (EBIT) items liabilities of assets income 14 Actuarial commitments 15 Change in discount rate 16 and expected return on +0,1% percentage fund assets point 4 9 –230 –180 17 –0,1% percentage 18 point –6 –10 231 180 19 Change in actual return +0,1% percentage on fund assets point 0 1 18 14 20 –0,1% percentage 21 point 0 –1 –18 –14 22 Change in salaries and +0,5% percentage wages point –16 –12 286 223 23 –0,5% percentage 24 point 17 11 –297 –232 25 Change in income base +0,5% percentage amount point 5 3 –90 –71 26 –0,5% percentage 27 point –5 –4 92 71 Change av inflation +0,5% percentage 28 point –15 –40 994 775 29 –0,5% percentage 30 point 16 37 –943 –736 Length of life +1 year –8 –24 590 460 31 –1 year 8 24 –600 –468 32 Level of exercise of 33 rights under transition regulations Change in level of exercise of rights under transition +5,0% percentage regulations point –4 –5 120 93 –5,0% percentage point 4 5 –132 –103 PostNord Annual Report 2013 123 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 24 OTHER PROVISIONS 01 02 Beginning Translation Ending 03 2013, Jan–Dec, SEKm balance Provisions Reversals Utilizations effect balance 04 Restructuring activities 05 Personnel reductions 713 510 –75 –400 12 760 Other closure costs 37 6 –16 1 28 06 07 Future condtional pension commitments1) Special payroll tax 189 –8 181 08 Future conditional pension commitments 09 under IAS 19 781 51 –104 19 747 10 Other 11 Job-related injuries 43 4 –5 42 12 Pension adjustments in relation to the Danish state 40 24 –22 1 43 13 Provision, commemorative awards 141 14 –24 9 140 14 Total 1,944 609 –187 –467 42 1,941 15 Of which, current provisions 359 555 16 Of which, non-current provisions 1,585 1,386 17 18 Expected payments, SEKm 1 year 2 years 3 years >3 years 19 Provisions, restructuring 533 170 46 39 Provisions, future conditional pensions2) 3) 238 74 69 419 20 Other provisions3) 29 25 21 165 21 Total 800 269 136 623 22 1) Restated due to changes in IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 23 2) Expected payments for future conditional pensions (excl. special payroll tax) are calculated pursuant to IAS 19. 3) Expected payments are somewhat higher than the respective provision due to the fact that the provision is calculated 24 as the present value of the expected payments. 25 26 Beginning Translation Ending 27 2012, Jan–Dec, SEKm balance Provisions Reversals Utilizations effect balance 28 Restructuring activities 29 Personnel reductions 435 947 –58 –602 –2 720 30 Other closure costs 35 10 –1 –25 19 31 Future conditional pension commitments 32 Special payroll tax 196 –10 3 189 Future conditional pension commitments 33 under IAS 19 807 50 –90 14 781 Other Job-related injuries 48 3 –8 43 Pension adjustments in relation to the Danish state 49 6 –14 –1 40 Provision, commemorative awards 171 –25 –5 141 Other provisions 13 –2 11 Total 1,754 1,016 –159 –674 7 1,944 Of which, current provisions 351 359 Of which, non-current provisions 1,403 1,585 124 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Note 24, cont. 01 Provisions for restructuring measures Provisions for commemorative awards refer to anticipated 02 Restructuring provisions include expenses that are estimated commemorative awards in the form of extra salary and vaca03 to arise in future years as a consequence of the group’s cost tion received after 25 or 40 years of employment within the reduction program for administration and decision to streamPost Danmark group. 04 line production. 05 Amounts are calculated based on corporate management’s Present value best estimates. Provisions are reviewed at each reporting Provisions with payment periods longer than one year are dis06 period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is counted to the present value. Discount effects included in 07 no longer probable that an outflow of resources will be changes for the year are shown separately where significant. required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed. Provisions for future conditional pension benefits have pay08 New provisions and reversals are reported in the business ment periods longer than one year. Present value calculations 09 operation that makes the decision about closure. are not shown separately for this provision item, as it is In 2013, provisions and reversals for restructuring measures included under IAS 19. See also Note 23, Pensions, page 119. 10 with an earnings impact on other costs totaled SEK 441m. Dur11 ing the quarter, provisions and reversals for restructuring meaExpected payments for provisions sures with an earnings impact on other costs totaled SEK Stated amounts correspond to the estimated result that forms 12 207m; see also Note 6, Other Costs. The effect of provisions the basis for calculating the size of the provision but cannot be 13 related to future conditional pension commitments, the reverdeemed to reflect real, total payment flows, as certain costs do sal of pension payments to the Danish state and commemoranot correspond to any payments. Such costs include some 14 tive awards is reported as personnel expense. costs related to personnel cutbacks. 15 The utilization of provisions totaled SEK 462m in 2013, of which SEK 451m were payments of personnel expenses. The 16 utilization of provisions during the quarter totaled SEK 118m, of NOTE 25 ACCRUED EXPENSES which SEK 117m were personal expenses. 17 AND DEFERRED INCOME The discount effect is reported in the income statement’s 18 financial items. Translation differences related to currency effects are reported in total comprehensive income. SEKm Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 19 Provision for stamps sold 20 Provisions, estimated future conditional pensions but unutilized 403 398 PostNord is responsible for future conditional pension benefits 21 Accrued payroll expenses 607 507 under the transition regulations. The transition regulations 22 apply to certain employees who are entitled to retire at the age Vacation pay liability 1,534 1,563 of 60 or 63. Consideration has also been taken of special paySpecial payroll tax on pension 23 roll tax. expenses 10 10 24 See Provisions for estimated future conditional pensions, Social security expenses 348 555 and the Final Responsibility Provision, Note 23, Pensions, page 25 Terminal fees 289 429 119 for further information. 26 Other items 721 603 Other provisions Ending balance 3,912 4,065 27 Provisions for job-related injuries refer to the payment of annui28 ties in accordance with the Industrial Injuries Insurance Act, and to occupational injury annuities. 29 The pension settlement in relation to the Danish state refers 30 to future commitments regarding a specific group of employees within the Post Danmark group. 31 32 33 PostNord Annual Report 2013 125 Consolidated financial statements 01 02 NOTE 26 PLEDGED ASSETS AND NOTE 29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 03 AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 04 PostNord’s Treasury Policy, adopted by the Board of Directors, 05 Dec 31, Dec 31, governs PostNord’s financial risk management activities. SEKm 2013 2012 06 The Treasury Policy includes guidelines for liquidity manageAssets pledged for own liabilities ment, financing and financial risk management. For details 07 on PostNord’s financial risks and risk management policy, Real estate mortgages1) 1,196 1,153 08 please see the Risks and Risk Management section. Assets pledged as security2) 31 20 PostNord’s financial risks are divided into the categories 09 Total 1,227 1,173 refinancing risk, credit risk and market risk. 10 Contingent liabilities Refinancing risk 11 Guarantee commitments, PRI 97 89 PostNord shall ensure sufficient payment readiness through a 12 Other guarantees 144 31 combination of cash and cash equivalents, committed unutilized credit lines and unconfirmed credit lines. PostNord uses Total 241 120 13 cash pools to optimize and centralize liquidity management. 1) Security for portion of Long-term interest-bearing liabilities.. 14 Treasury management shall maintain payment readiness of at 2) Security for portion of Long-term receivables. least SEK 1,500m for the coming 360 days and shall ensure 15 that the maturity structure of the financing portfolio is well Disputes diversified. At year-end, liquidity reserves were as follows: 16 PostNord operates extensive national and international busi17 nesses and is involved in disputes and lawsuits from time to Dec 31, Dec 31, time arising from its business operations. Except to the extent 18 Cash and cash equivalents, SEKm 2013 2012 stated below, it is not anticipated that these disputes and law19 suits, either individually or collectively, will have a materially Bank balances 1,521 1,885 adverse effect on PostNord’s earnings, profitability or financial Commercial paper 295 1,032 20 position. Other investments 10 13 21 Dispute regarding Posten’s licensing requirements Unutilized confirmed credit limits 2,000 2,000 22 On September 27, 2013 the Administrative Court in Sweden Total liquidity reserves 3,826 4,930 23 issued a ruling on the 2012 Licensing Requirements, upholding the Post and Telecom Agency’s (PTS) extremely stringent Unutilized amount, CERT program 2,800 2,600 24 transparency requirements which may harm Posten’s competiUnutilized amount, MTN program 3,060 3,460 25 tiveness. Posten appealed the ruling to the Administrative Unutilized amount, other credit Court of Appeals. On September 11, PTS issued new licensing limits 118 160 26 requirements effective October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2015. The transparency requirements in the new version are Total unutilized credit facilities 5,978 6,220 27 less stringent than the 2011 requirements, but PTS reserves the Total 9,804 11,150 28 right to amend the requirements following final judicial review 29 of the 2012 version. Maturity Structure 2013 30 SEKm 31 NOTE 27 INVESTMENT COMMITMENTS 2,000 32 As of December 31, 2013, PostNord Group had committed to 1,500 33 acquire tangible fixed assets. These commitments total SEK 713m (510) and related primarily to sorting equipment and vehicles. Investment commitments of SEK 478m (361) were made 1,000 in conjunction with the new terminal structure for Mail Sweden and SEK 150m was related to the replacement of equipment in the business area’s terminals. It is expected that most commit500 ments will be settled in late 2014-early 2015. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Beyond 2018 NOTE 28 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS, INTEREST Overdraft Medium-term note Property loan Cash flows from operating activities include interest received Commercial Revolving Credit Facility (unutilized) totaling SEK 50m (54) and interest paid totaling SEK 258m paper (104). Maturity Structure 2012 SEKm 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Beyond 2017 Overdraft Medium-term note Property loan Commercial Revolving Credit Facility (unutilized) paper 126 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Note 29, cont. 01 Credit risk Translation exposure 02 The group’s business activities give rise to credit risk exposure Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 03 in relation to counterparties. Credit risk and counterparty risk refer to the risk of loss if the counterparty fails to meet its conCurrency SEKm % +/–1% SEKm % +/–1% 04 tractual obligations. Credit risk arises partly through sales to AUD 2 0 4 0.1 customers, extending advances to suppliers or accepting guar05 DKK 3,693 60.8 37 5,077 67.2 51 antees, and partly through Treasury’s liquidity management or 06 utilization of derivative contracts. EUR 458 7.6 5 429 5.7 4 GBP 86 1.4 1 107 1.4 1 07 Credit risk from accounts receivable HKD 31 0.5 20 0.3 08 Credit risk in connection with credit sales to customers is manNOK 1,743 28.7 18 1,995 26.4 20 09 aged by the individual business areas. Before credit is granted, all customers undergo a credit check in which data on the cusPLN 17 0.3 18 0.2 10 tomer’s financial position is obtained from a credit-rating SGD 21 0.3 –118 –1.6 agency. Large lines of credit require head office approval. In 11 USD 26 0.4 20 0.3 2013, the group’s aggregate accounts receivable totaled SEK 12 Total 6,077 100 61 7,552 100 76 4,632m (4,718) and the group’s reported losses on accounts receivable totaled SEK 25m (33). 13 Interest rate risk 14 Credit risk in finance activities Fluctuations in interest-rate levels have a limited effect on Credit risk in financial transactions is managed by Treasury with PostNord’s profit. A change of +/– 1 percentage point in the 15 a credit limit based on ratings from Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s market rate as of December 31, 2013, all other things being 16 or a corresponding official rating agency. Trade is regulated equal, has a pre-tax effect on earnings of SEK –3m (10). At yearthrough decisions on maximum credit risk per debtor. All counend, 53% of the group’s debt portfolio had a variable rate of 17 terparties undergo a credit check before qualifying as a debtor. interest, as compared to 62% in 2012. To reduce profit sensitiv18 Dec 31, Dec 31, ity to interest rate changes, PostNord entered into variableto-fixed rate interest swaps totaling SEK 500m. 19 Ageing of accounts receivable 2013 2012 Accounts receivable, undue 4,063 3,784 20 Debt Portfolio, Interest Duration, 21 Accounts receivable, due, Dec 31, 2013 payable SEKm yrs not impaired 22 Property loan, variable rate 2014-06-30 788 0.5 1–5 days 280 534 23 Property loan, fixed rate 2015-03-31 408 1.2 6–20 days 163 139 MTN, variable rate 2014-03-20 1,000 0.2 24 21–30 days 52 79 MTN, fixed rate 2017-09-20 1,000 3.5 25 31–60 days 53 162 MTN, variable rate 2013-03-04 390 0.2 61–90 days 27 14 26 MTN, fixed rate 2015-06-03 150 1.4 >90 days 52 57 27 MTN, variable rate 2019-06-12 400 0.2 Total 4,690 4,769 Commercial paper 1–7 billion 200 0.3 28 Provision for bad debts –58 –51 Credit line 61 0.0 29 Total 4,632 4,718 Total 4,397 1.3 30 Interest swap, 31 Market risk MTN to fixed interest 2–5 years 500 3.3 Currency risk 32 Duration, debt portfolio PostNord uses forward currency contracts and currency swap 33 with interest swap 1.6 contracts to control its currency risk. Forward currency contracts are used to hedge risk associated with receivables and current Investment portfolio liabilities and with the purchase of capital goods. Other future Accounts 1,816 cash flows are not hedged. Currency swap contracts are used in Commercial paper 295 0.1 conjunction with the group’s management of excess liquidity. Total 2,111 0.1 Currency exposure Profit sensitivity, upcoming 12-month period, net –2.7 2013 2012 Net Net PosiSecuposiPosiSecuposiDebt Portfolio, Interest Duration, Currency tion red tion tion red tion Dec 31, 2012 payable SEKm yrs CHF 1 1 Property loan, variable rate 2013-06-30 759 0.5 DKK –166 157 –9 –1,786 1,785 –1 Property loan, fixed rate 2015-03-31 393 2.2 EUR –150 165 15 –95 116 21 MTN, variable rate 2013-03-20 1,000 0.2 GBP 45 –42 3 79 –68 12 MTN, fixed rate 2017-09-20 1,000 4.4 JPY –4 3 –1 –4 3 –1 MTN, variable rate 2013-03-04 390 0.2 NOK 372 –389 –17 389 –384 5 MTN, fixed rate 2015-06-03 150 2.4 PLN 44 –44 Commercial paper 1–7 billion 400 0.3 SGD 12 –12 Credit line 17 USD –12 19 7 –21 23 2 Total 4,109 1.5 Total 141 –143 –2 –1,436 1,476 40 Investment portfolio Accounts 1,885 PostNord’s greatest currency exposure arises through the translation of the net assets of foreign subsidiaries (translation Commercial paper 1,046 0.1 exposure). The greatest exposure arises in DKK, NOK and EUR. Total 2,931 0.1 Pursuant to PostNord’s Treasury Policy, translation exposure is Profit sensitivity, upcoming not hedged. Translation exposure is limited, however, by secur12-month period, net 9.5 ing commercial solvency levels in group companies. PostNord Annual Report 2013 127 Consolidated financial statements Note 29, cont. 01 02 Maturity structure of PostNord Group currency and interest/futures contracts, 2013, nominal amounts 03 3–6 6–12 04 Maturity structure, derivatives, Dec 31, 2013 <3 months months months 1–5 years Total 05 Interest derivatives SEK, variable to fixed interest 500 500 06 Currency derivatives 07 CHF 5 5 08 DKK 157 157 09 EUR 98 15 48 7 168 GBP –42 –42 10 HKD –11 –11 11 JPY 2 2 12 NOK –408 –163 –571 13 PLN –73 –73 14 USD 20 20 Total –252 15 –115 507 155 15 16 Maturity structure of PostNord Group currency and interest/futures contracts, 2012, nominal amounts 17 3–6 6–12 18 Maturity structure, derivatives, Dec 31, 2012 <3 months months months 1–5 years Total 19 Interest derivatives 20 SEK, variable to fixed interest Currency derivatives 21 CHF 9 8 7 4 28 22 DKK 1,786 1,786 23 EUR 132 35 78 30 275 24 GBP –68 –68 JPY –3 –3 25 NOK –366 –366 26 PLN –25 –25 27 Total 1,465 43 85 34 1,627 28 29 Market risk in asset management Financial instruments, accounting treatment 30 Asset management is carried out in the group’s affiliated agenand fair value valuation cies Posten’s Pension Fund and Posten’s insurance association. The fair value of loans is calculated as the discount value of 31 The agencies manage assets that safeguard payments of cerfuture cash flows as regards repayment of principal and inter32 tain of the group’s commitments such as future pensions, sickest. Value is discounted to actual lending rate. ness benefits and family pensions. Asset management For accounts receivable and accounts payable with a 33 includes the investment of capital in various markets and remaining credit period of less than one year, the book value is instruments. Through board representation, PostNord advoconsidered to constitute fair value. Accounts receivable and cates a prudently managed diversification between asset accounts payable with a remaining useful life of more than one classes in Posten’s Pension Fund and Posten’s insurance assoyear are discounted when the fair value is ascertained. ciation in relation to PostNord’s underlying commitment and Some of the group’s financial instruments are reported at expected returns. fair value and valuation is determined in accordance with the three levels set forth in IFRS 7, described below. 128 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Note 29, cont. 01 02 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2012 Reported and fair value Reported Reported Reported and fair value Reported Reported 03 of financial assets, SEKm value value of financial liabilities, SEKm value value 04 Financial investments Long-term interest-bearing 05 Endowment insurance policy liabilities reported at fair value in income Financial liabilities reported 06 statement 145 143 at accrued acquisition value 4,315 3,845 07 Other financial investments 66 73 Other long-term liabilities 08 Other financial assets Financial liabilities reported 09 Currency derivatives reported at accrued acquisition value 79 37 at fair value in income statement 12 5 10 Current interest-bearing liabilities Accounts receivable Financial liabilities reported 11 Accounts receivable 4,632 4,718 at accrued acquisition value 274 467 12 Other receivables Accounts payable 13 Terminal settlements reported Financial liabilities reported 14 at fair value in income statement 334 282 at accrued acquisition value 2,878 2,514 15 Short-term investments Other accounts payable Terminal fees reported at 16 Interest-bearing receivables 163 4 fair value in income statement 289 429 17 Cash and cash equivalents Currency derivatives reported Commercial paper reported at 18 at fair value in income statement 8 16 fair value in income statement 295 1,046 19 Financial liabilities reported at Cash and bank balances 1,678 2,000 accrued acquisition value 1,974 2,293 20 Total financial assets 7,325 8,271 Total financial liabilities 9,817 9,601 21 1) The fair value of financial liabilities at accrued acquisition value is SEK 4,196m (3,722). 22 23 24 Level 1 Level 3 The fair value of financial instruments is determined based on The fair value of financial instruments is determined based on 25 listed market prices on balance sheet date without deducting valuation models under which considerable input is derived 26 transaction costs. Level 1 essentially includes treasury bills and from non-observable market data. The Group currently has no standardized derivatives for which the listed price is used in valfinancial assets of liabilities based on this valuation level. 27 uation. The Group currently has no financial assets or liabilities 28 based on this valuation level. 29 Level 2 The fair value of financial instruments is determined based on 30 valuation models that are based on other observable market 31 data. Examples of level 2 observable data are market rates of interest and yield curves. In cases where listed price is unavail32 able, straight interpolation is applied. 33 31 dec 2013 31 dec 2012 Financial assets and liabilities per level, SEKm Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Endowment insurance policy 145 143 Currency derivatives 12 5 Terminal settlements 328 282 States and municipalities 298 Commercial paper 295 748 Total financial assets 786 1,476 Financial liabilities Currency derivatives 8 16 Terminal settlements 289 429 Total financial liabilities 297 445 PostNord Annual Report 2013 129 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 30 TRANSACTIONS WITH ASSOCIATED PARTIES 01 02 Aff iliated companies Other organizations in Sweden 03 Affiliated companies provide products and services to one Posten’s insurance association is a freestanding fund monitored 04 another in accordance with the full costing principle plus a marby the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The association gin, except for services included in PostNord’s service range, for insures PostNord’s commitments regarding employee disability 05 which market rates and terms apply. Intra-group sales totaled and family pensions in accordance with ITP-P. During the period, 06 SEK 24m (23). For a list of the parent company’s holdings in affiliPostNord’s Swedish companies received compensation totaling ated companies, associated companies and joint ventures, see SEK 7m (8). Due to its well-consolidated position, the association 07 Note 6 to the parent company’s financial statements, page 136. did not charge any premiums in 2013, 2012 or 2011. 08 Posten’s Pension Fund manages pension commitments for Swedish state Posten AB, Posten Meddelande AB and PostNord Logistics AB. 09 PostNord has been mandated by the Swedish state to provide The companies transfer new pension commitments to the 10 universal mail services in accordance with the Postal Services fund and receive compensation for pensions paid. SEK 111m Act. Like other postal operators in Sweden, PostNord requires a (482) was transferred to the fund during the period and com11 permit to provide postal services. During the period, the pensation totaling SEK 0m (360). 12 National Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) received SEK 15m (11) from PostNord as payment for this permit. PostNord paid SEK Executives 13 9m (9) to PTS for handling dead letters. For information on compensation and benefits paid to execu14 The PTS appropriated SEK 25m (25) to PostNord, as comtives and Board directors, see Note 5, Employees, Personnel pensation in agreements for procured postal services for disExpenses and Executive Compensation, page 113. 15 abled persons. All members of the PostNord’s Board of Directors and Group 16 Posten AB loaned SEK 50m (0) to the Swedish Transport Management were asked to provide written notification of any Administration for advancing the date of railway construction business relations they may have with PostNord and whether 17 to Roserberg’s mail terminal. Posten AB has undertaken to these occurred on a commercial basis. It was disclosed that Per advance a preliminary amount of SEK 130m. Samuelson, a member of Group Management, owns all of the 18 shares in BJT Holding Sverige AB, which in turn owns 77 percent 19 Danish state of the shares in BTJ Sverige AB. BTJ Sverige AB purchases logisDuring the period, Post Danmark A/S paid the Danish state tics services from PostNord Logistics AB on a commercial basis. 20 pension premiums of SEK 170m (188) 1) for the group of civil 21 servants employed prior to the corporatization date. A further SEK 12m (27) is reserved in the Statement of Financial Position 22 for any additional obligations to the same group. 23 1) Previously reported values have been adjusted. 24 25 26 NOTE 31 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS 27 Acquisitions and divestments had the following 2013 2012 28 effects on PostNord Group’s assets and liabilities, 29 SEKm Acquisition Divestment Total Acquisition Divestment Total Goodwill 167 167 436 –44 392 30 Other intangible fixed assets 30 30 287 –9 278 31 Other fixed assets 193 193 744 –46 698 32 Total fixed assets 390 390 1,467 –99 1,368 33 Current assets 86 86 313 –36 277 TOTAL ASSETS 476 476 1,780 –135 1,645 TOTAL LIABILITIES –175 –1 –176 –852 121 –731 NET ASSETS 301 –1 300 928 –14 914 Capital gain, divested operations/group companies –1 –1 –5 –5 Other items affecting cash flow –54 –54 –558 39 –519 Purchase price paid/received –301 –301 –928 19 –909 Cash and cash equivalents (acquired/divested) 19 19 66 –12 54 Net effect on cash and cash equivalents –336 –336 –1,420 46 –1,374 Acquisition of subsidiaries SEK 1 billion and 285 employees. The purchase price totaled On January 2, 2013 Post Danmark A/S acquired 100% of the SEK 115m, a portion of which (SEK 10m) is held as security for shares in Distribution Services A/S. The company has been the seller’s performance of the contract. The companies included in PostNord’s financial statements since January 1, became part of business area Logistics as of June 1, 2013. 2013. Distribution Services A/S, a Post Danmark subcontractor Net sales for Nordisk Kyl Logistik AB totaled SEK 387m in since 2003, specializes in the packaging and handling of unad2013. Net sales totaled SEK 313m during the June–December dressed mail. The company became part of business area Mail 2013 holding period. Operating profit in 2013 was SEK –16m. Denmark as of January 1, 2013. The purchase price totaled SEK Operating profit during the holding period was SEK –12m. The 174m. According to the acquisition analysis, the acquisition surplus value of fixed assets (excluding good will) acquired by gave rise to goodwill comprised of synergy effects, result the Group was written off according to plan at SEK 0m. The improvement potential and skills and knowledge to develop acquisition contributed SEK –12m to group operating profit. the business segment. Net sales for Transbothnia AB totaled SEK 344m in 2013 and On April 25, 2013 PostNord signed an agreement for the SEK 250m during the June–December 2013 holding period. cash acquisition of 100% of the shares in Bilfrakt Bothnia AB’s Operating profit was SEK 9m in 2013 and SEK 8m during the subsidiaries Nordisk Kyl AB and Transbothnia AB, with operaholding period. The surplus value of fixed assets (excluding tions in northern Sweden. Through the acquisition, PostNord is good will) acquired by PostNord Group was written off accordbroadening the scope of its logistics business in Sweden within ing to plan at SEK 1m. The acquisition contributed SEK 7m to mixed cargo, consignment goods and thermal transports. In group operating profit. 2012 the acquired businesses had combined sales of around 130 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Consolidated financial statements Note 31, cont. 01 According to the acquisition analysis, the acquisition gave rise On April 30, 2013, PostNord subsidiaries acquired all operations 02 to goodwill comprised of synergy effects, result improvement of ISS Document A/S. On June 1, 2013, PostNord subsidiaries 03 and market positioning potential. acquired the digitization service and document management Conditional purchase consideration of SEK 12m, related to assets of Aditro Financial Process AB. The acquisitions are part 04 the previous acquisition of Roserberg Brevterminal AB, was of business area Mail Denmark. paid during the period. The acquisition concerns land. On August 30, 2012, PostNord subsidiaries acquired Itella’s 05 printing and inserting business in Poland. The acquisition 06 Acquisition of assets and liabilities strengthens Strålfors’ position in the Polish market. On February 1, 2013, PostNord’s wholly-owned subsidiary TollAccording to acquisition analyses, assets were mainly 07 post Globe AS signed an agreement to take over the operacomprised of miscellaneous equipment and intangible assets. 08 tions of Byrknes Auto AS, one of Norway’s largest thermal carriThe aggregate purchase price for all asset acquisitions totaled ers. The company mainly offers services for fish and grocery SEK 73m. 09 transports. Tollpost Globe AS is part of business area Logistics. 10 11 Other 12 intangible Other Current 13 2013 Jan–Dec, SEKm Goodwill assets fixed assets assets Liabilities Net assets 14 Acquired 15 Distribution Services A/S 95 93 21 –35 174 Nordisk Kyl Logistik AB 46 9 86 25 –103 63 16 Transbothnia AB 26 21 2 40 –37 52 17 Additional purchase price, 18 Roserberg Brevterminal AB 12 12 Total acquired 167 30 193 86 –175 301 19 20 Divested 21 Tidningstorget AB –1 –1 Total divested –1 –1 22 23 Other intangible Other Current 24 2012 Jan–Dec, SEKm Goodwill fixed assets fixed assets assets Liabilities Total assets 25 Acquired 26 Green Cargo Logistics AB (including subsidiary 27 Green Cargo Logistics A/S) 331 227 69 213 –319 521 28 Kardinalmärket 1 AB 314 3 –205 112 29 Kommanditbolaget Sveterm 285 12 –231 66 Reduction of purchase price, 30 Nils Hansson Logistics AB –1 –1 31 Adjustment of fixed purchase price, 32 Eek Transport AS 1 1 Harlem Transport AS 105 60 27 85 –97 180 33 Additional purchase price, Roserberg Brevterminal AB 49 49 Total acquired 436 287 744 313 –852 928 Divested EBT Property B.V. 39 1 25 –55 10 HIT Starintex B.V. Holland 45 5 –45 5 Hit Belgium S.A. 5 9 5 –21 –2 SPOT A/S 1 1 Total divested 44 9 46 36 –121 14 PostNord Annual Report 2013 131 Consolidated financial statements NOTE 32 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD • Mats Johansson, Acting Head of Business Area PostNord Logistics. 01 • Per Samuelson, President of Strålfors. 02 Strategy development • Annemarie Gardshol, Head of E-commerce & Corporate Clients PostNord’s strategy is based on the strategy established in 2011. It was develand Chief Strategy Officer. 03 oped at year-end 2013/2014 with respect to the group’s prioritized areas and • Anders Holm, Head of PostNord Sweden. 04 is now comprised of six strategic components: • Henning Christensen, Head of PostNord Denmark. 1. Secure profitability for Mail & Communication. • Robin Olsen, Head of PostNord Norway and PostNord Finland. 05 2. Take the position as the Nordic region’s leading logistics operator. • Henrik Rättzén, Chief Financial Officer. 06 3. Secure the position as the leading e-commerce service partner in the • Per Mossberg, Chief Communications Officer. Nordic region. • Joss Delissen, Chief Information Officer. 07 4. Develop attractive and profitable service logistics solutions. • Finn Hansen, Chief HR Officer. 08 5. Increase competitiveness – reduced costs, stable IT operation and • Johanna Allert, Chief Technical Officer. integrated production model. 09 6. Winning culture – stronger delivery culture and sharper sustainability Changes to PostNord Group brand structure 10 profile. PostNord announced on February 3, 2014 that the group’s commercial brand symbols will be integrated with PostNord’s logo as of 2014 in order to capital11 Organizational changes ize on the strengths of the existing commercial brands and improve clarity 12 On February 3, 2014 PostNord announced the implementation of a new and uniformity by giving the PostNord brand greater scope in the group’s organization in 2014. The objectives of the change include creating greater marketing communication. Implementation of the new commercial brands 13 uniformity for customers, increasing focus on e-commerce and expanding will be done on an ongoing basis over a three-year period. 14 potential synergies for the business. The change involves, among other things, the introduction of a matrix Changes to the Board of Directors 15 organization. Country units will be formed (Sweden, Denmark and Norway/ On February 14, 2014 Jonas Iversen resigned as board member. 16 Finland) to allow for greater uniformity for customers and the establishment Patrik Jönsson, deputy director at the Ministry of Finance, has been of integrated production models. At the same time, a Nordic Mail & Commuco-opted into the board for the period through the April 23rd AGM. 17 nication business area and a corporate strategic unit for e-commerce (responsible for market and service development in each Nordic area) are Decision on new Danish postal legislation 18 being formed. Strålfors will continue to operate as a subsidiary and will be On June 26, 2013 the Danish Ministry of Transport announced that a broad 19 strongly aligned with business area Mail & Communication. parliamentary majority supports amendments to the Danish Postal Act The new organization will be introduced as of March 31, 2014. Financial aimed at maintaining good service in view of the substantial drop in mail 20 reporting will mainly be done on the basis of the business areas and Strålfors. volumes. The proposed law was approved by the Danish Parliament on 21 The organizational change also involves changes to group management. February 18, 2014. Under the new Danish Postal Act, new licensing terms A Group Executive Team was introduced on February 1, 2014: for Post Danmark A/S will take effect as of March 1, 2014. Under the proposal, 22 • Håkan Ericsson, President & Group CEO. terms and conditions will be amended and entail market adjustments for 23 • K. B. Pedersen, Executive Vice President and Deputy CEO. Post Danmark A/S as the national postal operator. • Andreas Falkenmark, Head of Business Area PostNord 24 Mail & Communication. 25 26 27 NOTE 33 DEFINITIONS 28 29 ADM (addressed direct mail) Financial preparedness Direct mail personally addressed to an individual. ADM is sent with a personal Cash and cash equivalents and unutilized committed credit line. 30 message when companies want to build relationships with existing customers and identify new customers. Leadership index (LIX) 31 Part of the group’s employee survey. Results show employees’ perceptions 32 Average number of employees of immediate supervisors’ leadership. The total number of paid employee hours divided by the standard number 33 of hours for a full-time employee. Net debt/EBITDA Interest-bearing liabilities, including pension provisions, less cash and cash C-mail equivalents in relation to EBITDA for the 12 months to the end of the period. In Denmark, mail with special posting conditions processed in a production flow for distribution within two to four days after mailing. Non-priority mail Mail processed in a production flow for distribution within three business Corporate Image days after mailing. Based on a survey in which individuals in Denmark and Sweden respond to questions on their perceptions of Post Danmark and Posten, respectively. Operating margin Results are reported in an index covering three key dimensions: overall Operating earnings as a percentage of income (net sales and other income). opinion, emotional appeal and rational appeal. The calculation of operating margin by business area includes sales to other business operations and to parent company functions. Customer value index Based on PostNord’s measuring tool used to continuously monitor Priority mail customer satisfaction and customers’ perceptions of the business. Mail processed in a production flow for delivery on the first business day after mailing. Earnings per share Share of net earnings attributable to the parent company’s shareholders Return on equity (ROE) divided by the average number of shares outstanding. Net profit for the 12 months to the end of the period divided by average equity for the 12 months to the end of the period. EBITDA Operating profit excluding depreciation and impairments. Return on operating capital Operating profit for the 12 months to the end of the period divided by averEmployee satisfaction index (MIX) age operating capital for the 12 months to the end of the period. Part of the group’s employee survey. Results show level of employee commitment. Sick leave Sick leave in relation to regular contracted working hours. Equity-Assets ratio Equity (including minority shares) at the end of the period in relation UDM (unaddressed direct mail) to total assets at the end of the period. Direct mail sent without personal address by companies that, for instance, do not have their own client register or wish to reach a new target group. Through UDM, the customer has the option of reaching out widely to all national households or businesses or targeting mailings to a specific audience. 132 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company financial statements Income statement Balance sheets Dec 31, Dec 31, SEKm Note 2013 2012 SEKm Note 2013 2012 1, 2 1, 2 Other income 24 23 ASSETS Income 24 23 Participations in group companies 6 11,676 12,476 Personnel expenses 3 –24 –28 Interest-bearing receivables 8 4 Other expenses 4 –12 –26 Total financial assets 11,684 12,480 Expenses –36 –54 Total fixed assets 11,684 12,480 OPERATING PROFIT –12 –31 Receivables from group companies, interest-bearing 8,043 6,257 Dividends from subsidiaries 773 2,473 Other receivables Write-down of shares in from group companies 95 48 subsidiaries 6 –800 Prepaid expenses Interest income and financial and accrued income 5 8 income items 5 40 44 Total current receivables 8,143 6,313 Interest expense and financial Total current assets 8,143 6,313 expense items 5 –123 –57 TOTAL ASSETS 19,827 18,793 Financial items –110 2,460 Profit after financial items –122 2,429 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Restricted equity Group contribution received 92 46 Capital stock 2,000 2,000 Appropriations 92 46 Share premium reserve 10,141 10,141 Profit before tax –30 2,475 Non-restricted equity Tax 0 Retained earnings 3,597 1,225 NET PROFIT –30 2,475 Net profit –30 2,475 TOTAL EQUITY 15,708 15,841 Comprehensive income statement LIABILITIES SEKm 2013 2012 Interest-bearing liabilities 3,905 2,536 Total non-current liabilities 3,905 2,536 Net profit –30 2,475 Liabilities to group companies Other comprehensive income 0 0 Other operating liabilities 201 402 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME –30 2,475 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 13 14 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities 214 416 Total current liabilities 214 416 TOTAL LIABILITIES 4,119 2,952 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 19,827 18,793 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Warranty, PRI 140 103 Guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries 381 2561) Total 521 359 1) As of December 31, 2012, PostNord AB’s subsidiary Posten AB had pledged a total of SEK 98m (141) on behalf of subsidiaries. PostNord Annual Report 2013 133 Parent Company financial statements Statement of cash flows SEKm 2013 2012 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax –30 2,475 Appropriations –92 –46 Adjustments for non-cash items 825 01) Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital 703 2,429 Cash flows from changes in working capital Increase (–)/decrease (+) in trade accounts receivable 1 9991) Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities –3 101) Changes in working capital –2 1,009 Cash flows from operating activities 701 3,438 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Change in inter-group claims –1,789 –5,995 Cash flows from investment activities –1,789 –5,995 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Loans raised 1,345 4,031 Amortization of loans –200 –1,100 Dividends paid to parent company’s owner –103 –368 Group contribution paid –6 Group contribution received 46 Cash flows from financing activities 1,088 2,557 CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period 0 0 1) Previously reported values have been adjusted. Statement of changes in equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Retained earnings incl. net profit SEKm Capital stock1) Surplus fund for the year Total Balance as of 01-01-2012 2,000 10,141 1,593 13,734 Net profit 2,475 2,475 Dividends –368 –368 Balance as of 12-31-2012 2,000 10,141 3,700 15,841 Balance as of 01-01-2013 2,000 10,141 3,700 15,841 Net profit –30 –30 Dividends –103 –103 Balance as of 12-31-2013 2,000 10,141 3,567 15,708 1) Number of shares is 2,000,000,001; quota value is SEK 1 per share. 134 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Parent Company financial statements 01 02 Parent Company notes 03 04 05 06 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES NOTE 2 ESTIMATES AND ASSESSMENTS The parent company essentially applies the same accounting In making these financial reports, group management has principles as the group does, and thus applies RFR 2, Reporting made assessments, estimates and assumptions that affect the of Legal Entities. The differences between the parent compagroup’s reported accounts. These estimates and assumptions ny’s and the group’s accounting principles result from the parare based on what is known at the time the financial reports are ent company’s limitations in applying International Financial presented, as well as on historical experience and assumptions Reporting Standards (IFRS) as a consequence of the Swedish that group management considers reasonable under the curAnnual Accounts Act and the Law on Safeguarding of Pension rent circumstances. The conclusions drawn by group manageCommitments, and are to some extent also based on tax conment form the basis for the values reported in these accounts. siderations. Actual future values, estimates and assessments in future financial reports during the coming year may differ from those Participations in subsidiaries, in this report, due to changing environmental factors and new associated companies and joint ventures knowledge and experience. Participations in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures are reported in the parent company using the acquisiShares in subsidiaries tion cost method. Assumptions are made about future circumstances in order to estimate future cash flows that determine the recoverable Dividends amount. The recoverable amount is compared to the carrying Dividends from subsidiaries, associated companies and joint amount of these assets and forms the basis for any impairment ventures are reported as income when the right to receive losses or reversals. The assumptions that affect the recoversuch dividend is established. able amount are mostly future financial performance, discount Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are reported in rates and useful life. If future external factors and circumcases where the parent company has the exclusive right to stances change, assumptions may be affected so that the cardetermine the size of the dividend and has made a decision on rying amounts of the parent company’s assets change. the size of the dividend prior to publication of the parent company’s financial statements. If the carrying amount of the parent company’s holding in the subsidiary, associated company or joint venture exceeds NOTE 3 EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL EXPENSES the carrying amount reported in the financial statements, this is considered an indication of an impairment and an impairPersonnel expenses, SEKm 2013 2012 ment test shall be performed. Group contributions are reported as balance sheet approWages, salaries priations. and other remuneration 15 17 Statutory social costs 5 6 Employee benefits Pension expenses 4 5 Pension commitments for civil servants covered by pension Total 24 28 insurance plans are reported in the parent company as defined contribution plans. Other pension costs are included under The parent company has three employees: the President & operating profit. CEO, the Group CFO and the Head of Group Strategy. President & CEO Håkan Ericsson receives a monthly salary of SEK Financial guarantees 745,000. The parent company also pays SEK 37,000 per The parent company’s financial guarantees consist mainly of month for occupational pension insurance and SEK 185,667 guarantees for the benefit of subsidiaries and joint ventures. for endowment insurance to safeguard the pension liabilities. Financial guarantees entail the company pledging to compensate the owner of a debt instrument for losses incurred in the event a debtor does not complete payment on the due date specified in the contract. To report financial guarantee agreeNOTE 4 AUDIT FEES AND REIMBURSEMENT ments, the parent company applies RFR 2, which is somewhat OF EXPENSES more lenient than the rules in IAS 39 regarding financial guarantee contracts for the benefit of subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures. The parent company reports finanSEKm 2013 2012 cial guarantee agreements as provisions on the balance sheet Audit engagement when PostNord has a commitment for which payment is likely KPMG 1 to be required to settle the commitment. Ernst & Young 1 Taxes Total 1 1 The parent company reports untaxed reserves, including its deferred tax liability. “Audit engagement” refers to examination of the annual report, bookkeeping and administration of the Board and the CEO; Segment reporting other duties resting with the company’s auditors; and advisory The parent company’s business activities consist of a sole services and other types of support that arise in the course of operation, group functions. such examination or the performance of such other duties. The expenses are reported in Other Expenses. PostNord Annual Report 2013 135 Parent Company financial statements 01 02 03 04 05 NOTE 5 INTEREST INCOME, INTEREST EXPENSE 06 AND SIMILAR ITEMS SEKm 2013 2012 Interest income from group companies 40 43 Exchange gain 1 Total 40 44 Interest expense to group companies –2 –26 Interest expense –82 –19 Exchange gain –28 Other financial expenses –11 –12 Total –123 –57 See also Consolidated Note 29, Financial Risk Management and Financial Instruments, page 126. NOTE 6 SHAREHOLDINGS AND PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES SEKm 2013 2012 Opening accumulated acquisition value 12,476 12,476 Write-down of shares in subsidiaries –800 Ending balance 11,676 12,476 Equity stake, % Book value, Shares owned directly or Corporate parent indirectly by parent company Identity Number company Dor(PostNord AB), SEKm Number Legal domicile Country Direct Indirect of shares Dec 31, 2013 mant Posten AB 556128-6559 Solna Sweden 100 600,000 7,089 Posten Meddelande AB 556711-5695 Solna Sweden 100 1,000 Strålfors AB 556062-0618 Malmö Sweden 100 21,381,288 Strålforsbolagen AB 556158-7006 Ljungby Sweden 100 1,000 v Strålfors Svenska AB 556102-9843 Ljungby Sweden 100 5,000 Tand 2:103 Fastighets AB 556594-3650 Östersund Sweden 50 2,000 EsonPac Group AB 556838-0868 Varberg Sweden 48 4,800 Strålfors A/S 10068657 Bröndby Denmark 100 200,000 Strålfors Oy 0115061-7 Helsinki Finland 100 2,100 Stralfors SAS 77572776100063 Paris France 100 620,776 Strålfors AS 944997431 Oslo Norway 100 200 Stralfors Sp.zO.o 000296330 Laskowice Poland 100 2,000 Friends & Tactics AB 556888-3820 Stockholm Sweden 30 600 Stralfors (UK) Ltd. 00928859 Redruth Great Britain 100 100 Chacewater Properties Ltd. 03905657 Redruth Great Britain 100 1,000 v DPS Holding Ltd. 03239427 Orpington Great Britain 100 45,000 v DPS Direct Mail Ltd. 02683284 Orpington Great Britain 100 45,000 v Stralfors plc 01626027 Redruth Great Britain 100 600,000 Th Stralfors (Data Products) Ltd. 02683284 Redruth Great Britain 100 10,000 v Direct Link Worldwide GmbH 217864281 Mörfelden-Walldorf Germany 100 150 PostNord logistics GmbH HRB8888HL Lübeck Germany 100 1 Tollpost Globe AS 984054564 Oslo Norway 100 117,570 PostNord Logistics AB 556711-5380 Solna Sweden 100 1,000 Nils Hansson Logistics AB 556147-4254 Ljungbyhed Sweden 100 2,500 Posten Logistik SCM Oy 1056251-7 Vanda Finland 100 5,817 PostNord Logistics A/S Copenhagen Denmark 100 500,001 Svensk Adressändring AB 556476-3562 Stockholm Sweden 85 850 Tidningstjänst AB 556039-7480 Stockholm Sweden 100 7,500 Direct Link Worldwide Ltd. 2911080 Middlesex Great Britain 100 110,000 Addresspoint AB 556587-5597 Stockholm Sweden 85 1,700 Posten Leasing AB 556341-0009 Stockholm Sweden 100 5,000 Postbolagen AB 556234-1353 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 v 136 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Parent Company financial statements 01 02 03 04 Note 6, cont. 05 06 Equity stake, % Book value, Shares owned directly or Corporate parent indirectly by parent company Identity Number company Dor(PostNord AB), SEKm Number Legal domicile Country Direct Indirect of shares Dec 31, 2013 mant Direct Link Worldwide Inc 112-797-736/000 New Jersey USA 100 100 Direct Link Worldwide AS 994072889 Oslo Norway 100 1,000 Direct Link Worldwide Oy 2260087-5 Vanda Finland 100 100 Fastighets AB Penelope 556517-0544 Stockholm Sweden 100 100 Nässjöterminalen Kommanditbolag 916629-7458 Solna Sweden 100 Posten Scanning AB 556824-2852 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 Data Scanning Finland Ab 2552507-3 Helsinki Finland 100 1,000 Rosersberg Brevterminal AB 556819-9862 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 Hallsberg Brevterminal AB 556848-8133 Stockholm Sweden 100 500 Fastighets AB Jönköping Barnarps-Kråkebo 1:69 556782-6903 Solna Sweden 100 1,000 Direct Link Worldwide Distribution Pte. Ltd. 199700772 Singapore Singapore 100 700,000 Direct Link Worldwide Pty. Ltd. 095493459 Sydney Australia 100 1 Direct Link Worldwide Company Ltd. 199700772 Hong Kong China 100 1 PostNord Logistics TPL AB 556161-7191 Haninge Sweden 100 50000 PostNord Logistics TPL A/S 22115396 Brøndby Denmark 100 100 KB Sveterm 916631-9492 Stockholm Sweden 100 Kardinalmärket 1 AB 556875-8899 Stockholm Sweden 100 50000 Harlem Transport AS 928378926 Oslo Norway 100 50 Nordisk Kyl Logistik AB 556454-1737 Östersund Sweden 100 8000 Transbothnia AB 556278-8876 Umeå Sweden 100 3000 Post Danmark A/S 26663903 Copenhagen Denmark 100 25,000,000 4,587 Post Danmark Logistik A/S 33077556 Copenhagen Denmark 100 10,000 Data Scanning A/S 19803376 Copenhagen Denmark 100 10 Data scanning PST filial Solna Sweden 100 Post Fleet Management A/S 79203114 Hvidovre Denmark 100 400 e-Boks A/S 25674154 Ballerup Denmark 50 6,000,000 Distribution Services A/S 56448810 Copenhagen Denmark 100 30 Total holdings in group companies 11,676 PostNord Annual Report 2013 137 The Board of Directors’ and CEO’s certification The Board of Directors’ and CEO’s certification The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer certify that the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Sweden and the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with international accounting standards as prescribed by the European Parliament and the Council in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 dated July 19, 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. The annual accounts and the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view of the parent company’s and the group’s financial position and results of operations. Nothing of a significant nature that could affect the representation of the company as described has been omitted. The consolidated financial review for the parent company and the group provides a true and fair overview of the development of the parent company’s and the group’s business activities, financial position and results of operations as well as the significant risks and uncertainties which the parent company and the companies included in the Group are exposed to. The annual accounts and the consolidated accounts were approved for issue by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer on February 20, 2014. Solna, February 20, 2014 Jens Moberg Chairman Gunnel Duveblad Mats Abrahamsson Christian Ellegaard Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen Torben Janholt Anitra Steen Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Lars Chemnitz Alf Mellström Ann-Christin Fällén Employee representative Employee representative Employee representative Håkan Ericsson President and CEO Our Audit Report was presented on February 28, 2014 KPMG AB Helene Willberg Authorized Public Accountant 138 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Auditor's report Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of PostNord AB, corp. id. 556771-2640 Report on the annual accounts administration report and the corporate governance stateand consolidated accounts ment are consistent with the other parts of the annual We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and consolidated accounts. accounts of PostNord AB for the year 2013. The company’s We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareannual report and consolidated accounts comprise all informaholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the tion before page 4, pages 8–41, the section on environmentally parent company and the income statement and statement of licensed operations on page 60, pages 70–138 and page 140 financial position for the group. of the printed version of this document. Other matters Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the The audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Chief Executive Off icer for the annual accounts and for year 2012 was performed by another auditor who submitconsolidated accounts ted an auditor´s report dated February 21, 2013, with unmodiThe Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are fied opinions in the Report on the annual accounts and consoliresponsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these dated accounts. annual accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated accounts in accordance with InternaReport on other legal and regulatory require-ments tional Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consoliand the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as dated accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriathe Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer detertions of the company’s profit or loss and the administration mine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from matePostNord AB for the year 2013. rial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Auditor's responsibility Executive Off icer Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of conducted our audit in accordance with International StanDirectors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for dards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards administration under the Companies Act. in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reaAuditor's responsibility sonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. assurance on the proposed appropriations of the company’s An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit eviprofit or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We dence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted accounts and consolidated accounts. The procedures selected auditing standards in Sweden. depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment As basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In the Board of Directors' reasoned statement and a selection of making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presenproposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. tation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in As basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the cirin addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolicum-stances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion dated accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit taken and circumstances of the company in order to deteralso includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting mine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates Chief Executive Officer is liable to the company. We also exammade by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, ined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual Chief Executive Officer has, in any other way, acted in contraaccounts and consolidated accounts. vention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiArticles of Association. cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Opinions accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that in all material respects, the financial position of the parent comthe profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in pany as of December 31, 2013 and of its financial performance the statutory administration report and that the members of and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer be disthe Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have charged from liability for the financial year. been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position Stockholm, February 28, 2014 of the group as of December 31, 2013 and of their financial perKPMG AB formance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate Helene Willberg governance statement has been prepared. The statutory Authorized Public Accountant PostNord Annual Report 2013 139 Multi-year review Multi-year review Pro forma SEKm, unless otherwise specified 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 PostNord Group1) Net sales 44,633 41,669 39,466 38,920 39,533 Other income 249 289 274 253 233 Expenses 44,605 40,589 38,167 38,669 39,100 Operating profit (EBITDA) 2,298 3,292 3,237 2,410 2,324 Operating profit (EBIT) 284 1,375 1,571 511 676 Profit before tax 2,4392) 1,348 1,671 367 468 Net profit 2,4142) 1,031 1,225 247 322 Operating margin (EBITDA), % 5.1 7.8 8.1 6.2 5.8 Operating margin (EBIT), % 0.6 3.3 4.0 1.3 1.7 Cash flows from operating activities 1,824 1,634 1,825 1,662 Net debt –728 578 4,299 2,991 Return on equity, rolling 12-month, % 19.62) 8.2 10.3 2.6 3.9 Equity-Assets ratio, close of period, % 45 46 47 27 35 Average number of employees 47,625 44,060 41,714 39,713 39,305 Mail Denmark3) Net sales 13,094 10,882 9,347 10,165 9,364 Letters 9,289 7,607 6,502 5,732 5,309 Advertisements and Newspapers 2,546 2,211 1,890 1,583 1,343 Parcels 2,099 2,021 Other 1,259 1,064 955 751 691 Other income 1,592 1,816 1,685 55 99 Operating profit (EBIT) 444 641 355 –177 –89 Operating margin, % 3.0 5.0 3.2 neg neg Average number of employees 16,320 15,187 13,766 12,730 12,311 Volumes, millions of units produced Priority mail 680 602 411 320 278 Non-priority and business mail 305 283 366 365 337 Parcels 39 39 Mail Sweden Net sales 15,794 15,554 15,220 15,137 15,050 Letters 8,817 8,571 8,142 7,811 7,608 Advertisements and Newspapers 4,639 4,670 4,699 4,786 4,813 Other 2,338 2,313 2,379 2,540 2,629 Other income 728 711 731 787 841 Operating profit (EBIT) 397 879 890 793 583 Operating margin, % 2.4 5.4 5.6 5.0 3.7 Average number of employees 20,197 19,010 18,311 17,686 17,167 Volumes, millions of units produced Priority mail 1,088 1,045 980 925 912 Non-priority mail 1,245 1,266 1,251 1,198 1,144 Logistics3) Net sales 12,673 12,423 12,450 11,762 13,432 Parcels 6,382 4,760 4,916 Solutions (heavy freight and integrated solutions) 2,830 3,665 5,199 Other logistics services (mixed cargo groupage, etc.) 3,238 3,337 3,317 Other income 1,360 1,299 1,317 1,330 1,283 Operating profit (EBIT) –158 139 269 272 197 Operating margin, % neg 1.0 2.0 2.1 1.3 Average number of employees 7,010 6,275 6,381 6,509 7,373 Volumes, millions of units produced Parcels 101 98 73 79 Strålfors Net sales 3,762 3,391 3,048 2,665 2,612 Information Logistics 2,987 2,819 2,728 2,665 2,612 Identification Solutions 582 572 320 Supplies 193 Other income 25 28 18 17 15 Operating profit (EBIT) –351 –170 –76 –25 16 Operating margin, % neg neg neg neg 0.6 Average number of employees 2,324 2,206 1,921 1,509 1,492 1) Values prior to 2012 have not been restated due to changes in IAS 19, Employee Benefits. 2) Includes capital gain of SEK 2,002m on the sale of Post Danmark A/S’ share in Belgian bpost (formerly De Post-La Poste) in July 2009. 3) Values prior to 2012 have not been restated due to reorganisation of the group’s parcel business in Denmark. 140 PostNord Annual Report 2013 Contact information Contact information PostNord AB 105 00 Stockholm Visitors: Terminalvägen 24, Solna Tel +46 10 436 00 00 Tietgensgade 37 1566 Copenhagen V, Denmark Tel +45 33 61 00 00 www.postnord.com People to contact Per Mossberg Henrik Rättzén Chief Communications Officer Chief Financial Officer Tel +46 10 436 39 15 Tel +46 10 436 43 94 Investor Relations and Media Relations sustainability communication Tel +46 10 436 10 10 Tel +46 10 436 00 00 press@postnord.com ir@posten.se Greenhouse gases emitted though the production of this printed matter, including paper, other materials and transport, were offset through investments in the equivalent amount of certified reduction units in the Kikonda Forest Reserve Forestation project in Uganda. Nordic eco-labeled printed matter. Photography: Magnus Fond, Peter Phillips, Mads Armgaard, Lars Schmidt, Søren Nielsen, Harry Lundholm et al. Production: PostNord in co-operation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. postnord.com
