2013 REPORT In compiling the report we have drawn from the ABOUT THIS REPORT principles and recommendations provided by Sanlam has been a prominent part of the King III, the International Integrated Reporting South African business landscape since 1918. We Council (IIRC) and the Global Reporting Initiative have always held a long-term view of how business (GRI). This report therefore contains Standard adapts to the demands of the environment in Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability which it operates. Today, in a dynamic world, we Reporting Guidelines. In 2012 we achieved a selfsee an evolving set of social, economic, political declared Level B+ compliance, however with the and environmental imperatives that require our release of GRI G4 early in 2013 we opted to start skilful response. For us at Sanlam, sustainable our journey towards GRI G4 reporting from 2014 business practice means recognising both our onwards. Accordingly we have initiated a review of broader responsibilities as an organisation in our Sustainability Management Framework (SMF) society, and the new opportunities that arise from which we expect to complete during 2014. this thinking. Visit www.sanlam.co.za for the GRI G4 indicators The Sanlam Group has four clusters that are covered in this report. responsible for the management of its various operations. These clusters are managed Assurance independently and have delegated authority levels We believe we have made significant progress and governance principles and standards set by during 2013 in further entrenching the principles the Sanlam Board and the respective markets in of King III in the Group’s internal controls, policies which they operate. The clusters all have their own and procedures governing corporate conduct. boards of directors governing the execution of The Board has reviewed the content of this report these principles and standards. and is confident that data presented here is a true reflection of Sanlam’s sustainability performance. For more details “About Sanlam” refer to page 3. Our financial performance, which includes Scope our economic value added statement, is In this report we review the sustainability externally audited against the International performance of our South African operation Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). AQRate represented by our Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) has externally assured our Broad-based Black and Sanlam Investment (SI) clusters for the 2013 Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) scorecard and calendar year. Ernst & Young Inc. provided limited assurance on The report forms part of our annual integrated the Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emission data reporting process and should be read in presented in this report. Please refer to the limited conjunction with the 2013 Sanlam Integrated assurance report from Ernst & Young Inc. on Report. Both the Sustainability Report and page 102. Integrated Annual Report are published on Once the review of our SMF is complete and the www.sanlam.co.za. development of our sustainability dashboard There have been no significant changes in finalised, we intend to engage external assurers reporting methodology or scope that would to assess key sustainability indicators and bolster affect our reporting since our 2012 Sustainability our internal auditing structures to ensure our Report. Where appropriate, we have endeavoured sustainability data remains accurate and auditable. to expand the scope and the number of material Feedback issues we report on. As before, this report focuses on our South African businesses only. Being a listed We need your feedback to ensure we report company on the JSE Limited Santam reports on on the Sanlam specifics that matter to you, its performance separately. In the future we intend our stakeholders. If you have any queries or to extend the scope of our reporting by including comments please contact us at our international operations as we expand our sustainabilitymanagement@sanlam.co.za footprint globally. or +27 21 947 2548. 2013 performance at a glance 2 About the Sanlam Group 3 Message from the Chairman of the Board 6 Message from the Group Chief Executive 8 Message from the Chairman of the SES Committee 12 Performance review 01 Sustainability governance 14 1.1 Management quality and commitment 17 1.2 Fostering ethical behaviour 19 1.3 Stakeholder engagement 24 1.4 Sanlam Sustainability Management Framework 26 02 Developing our people 28 2.1 Talent management 32 2.2 Transformation 35 2.3 Skills development 37 2.4 Organisational culture 40 03 Products and services 44 3.1 Being responsive to our clients 47 3.2 Treating our clients fairly 54 3.3 Product development 55 3.4 Distribution network 59 3.5 Responsible investing 63 04 Towards a prosperous society 68 4.1 Economic value added 71 4.2 Access to financial services 74 4.3 Corporate social investment 75 4.4 Responsible procurement and enterprise development 82 4.5 Promoting transformation and empowerment 84 05 Natural environment 86 5.1 Environmental management 89 5.2 Climate change and energy 92 5.3 Sustainable water use 97 5.4 Material and waste management 100 Assurance report 102 Glossary 104 Contact details Inside back cover sustainability report 2013 1 2013 PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE PEOPLE Top performer in the financial services category of  63% of all staff participated in the Sanlam Blueprint the South African Business Ethics Survey (SABES), for Success employee engagement initiative, a 45% with Effectiveness of Ethics scoring 90%, 10% above increase in participation since 2012 industry average Turnover of office staff decreased to 10,9% A special unit established to embed sustainability  (2012: 11,6%), while sales staff turnover increased across all boards within the Group to 42,0% (2012: 40,1%) 62% of all staff completed our online ethics and  Our proportion of black staff increased by 7,7%. compliance survey The overall black:white ratio is 65%:35% Busy developing an emerging markets governance  25% increase in total training and development spend framework policy to R144,4 million 100% King III compliant with Stakeholder Strategy  89% of all staff received training during the year implemented 23% black individuals in senior management positions Sanlam was included in the JSE’s Socially Responsible  (2012: 17,2%) Investment (SRI) Index for the eighth consecutive year Four additional graduate development programmes Sanlam was included in the Robecom SAM Dow Jones  initiated during 2013, benefiting 71 graduates Sustainability Emerging Market Index for the first time PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PROSPEROUS SOCIETY Aligned Sanlam Investments cluster’s structure with  Achieved a verified Level 2 B-BBEE status against the our client-centric market segmented strategy Financial Sector Code Achieved a 79% customer satisfaction rating against  Distributed R119,6 billion to our policyholders in the the South African Customer Satisfaction Index (SAcsi), form of insurance claims, dividends and reserves 2% above the overall satisfaction level for all South for future payouts to clients when their investments African organisations mature 17,4% growth in sales of products to clients in low-end  Our Ubuntu-Botho empowerment transaction created economic segment R15 billion in value in just 10 years Voted on 1 708 resolutions, declined 215, and engaged  Total corporate social investment spend increased by two companies in accordance with our responsible 88% to R64 million (1% of NPAT) investment policy 3  2,5% of total procurement spend spent on small and Our empowerment and infrastructure financing at  micro-enterprises (2012: 15,5%) year-end amounted to R13,8 billion 3 315 learners, 58 schools, 20 educators, 3 619 students and 14 universities were reached via the Sanlam Foundation during 2013 ENVIRONMENT Sanlam achieved a CDP disclosure score of 96%, missing the CDP leadership index by 1%, well above the average  disclosure rating of 85% for financial services 7% reduction in total carbon emissions since 2010 11% reduction in total annual electricity consumed since 2010, enough electricity to power 874 households 12% reduction in the total airline kilometres travelled since 2010 44% reduction in total annual water consumption at Sanlam Head Office* Recycled 50% of all waste at Sanlam Head Office* *Sanlam Head Office accounts for more than 50% of our total consumption in most variables 2 ABOUT THE 1 SANLAM GROUP 2 3 4 5 Sanlam is a leading financial services group, clients. These solutions include individual, group originally established as a life insurance company and short-term insurance, personal financial in 1918. We demutualised and listed on the JSE services such as estate planning, trusts, wills, Limited and Namibian Stock Exchange in 1998. personal loans, health management, saving and Our head office is in Bellville near Cape Town linked products, business fitness assessment in South Africa. We have offices throughout and insurance investment management, asset South Africa and business interests elsewhere in management, stockbroking, employee benefits, Africa, Europe, India, South East Asia, the United risk management and capital activities. States of America and Australia. We have 12 031 employees and financial advisers in South Africa The Corporate Office of the Sanlam Group (as at 31 December 2013). is responsible for centralised functions that include strategic direction, Group financial Our vision is to be the leader in wealth creation and risk management, Group marketing and and protection in South Africa, leading that communications, Group human resources and process in the emerging markets and playing a information technology, Group sustainability niche role in the developed markets. We provide management, corporate social investment and financial solutions to individuals and institutional general Group services. Our core values are Acting with integrity Serving with pride  rowing shareholders’ value through G  aring because there is respect for one C innovation and superior performance another Leading with courage The Sanlam Group operations are managed through four operating clusters (refer to Overview of operations in the Integrated Annual Report (IAR) 2013). The core businesses within each cluster are shown on page 4 (wholly owned unless otherwise indicated). sustainability report 2013 3 Contribution to net result from financial services 53% 18% SANLAM PERSONAL SANLAM EMERGING FINANCE MARKETS The Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF) cluster The Sanlam Emerging Markets (SEM) cluster is is responsible for Sanlam’s retail business in responsible for Sanlam’s financial services offering South Africa. It provides clients across all market in emerging markets outside South Africa with segments (entry level, middle income and affluent) the aim of ensuring sustainable delivery and with a comprehensive range of appropriate and growth across the various businesses that make up competitive financial solutions. Designed to this cluster. facilitate long-term wealth creation, protection and niche financing, these solutions are engineered around client needs. Cluster profile and shareholding structure Retail and Group life insurance and related business Sanlam Sky Solutions – financial services for individuals and B  otswana Life, Botswana – 56% via Botswana Insurance groups in the entry-level market Holdings Limited (BIHL) Sanlam Individual Life and Segment Solutions – financial Sanlam Life, Namibia services to the middle-income, professional and businessSanlam Namibia Holdings, Namibia – 59% (direct 54% and 5% owner markets indirect via Capricorn Investment Holdings) Glacier by Sanlam – financial services for the affluent market NICO  Life, Malawi – 62% (direct 49% and 13% indirect via NICO Strategic business development – consists of the following Holdings) diversified financial services: Pan Africa Life, Kenya – 56% via Pan Africa Insurance Holdings • Sanlam Trust – estate and trust services (PAIH) • Multi-Data – electronic money-transfer activities African Life, Tanzania – 64% • Sanlam Liquid – debit card and saving facilities African Life, Zambia – 70% • Sanlam Healthcare Management – medical scheme E  nterprise Life Assurance, Ghana – 49% administration services S  anlam Life, Uganda • Sanlam Personal Loans – 70% – personal loans joint venture F  BN Life, Nigeria – 35% • Reality – loyalty programme S  hriram Life Insurance, India – 20% via Shriram Capital • Anglo African Finance – 55% – trade and bridging finance Credit and banking Bank Windhoek, Namibia – 13% via Capricorn Investment Holdings Letshego, operating in a number of African countries – 13% via BIHL NBS Bank, Malawi – 13% via NICO Holdings Shriram Transport Finance Company, India – 12% (5% direct and 7% via Shriram Capital) Shriram City Union Finance – 10% via Shriram Capital Investment management Investment management SIM Kenya – 56% via PAIH SIM Namibia – 86% Botswana Insurance Fund Management – 56% via BIHL General insurance Jointly responsible in partnership with Santam for managing general insurance business through: NICO Malawi – 62% (direct 49% and 13% indirect via NICO Holdings) NIKO Tanzania – 41% (direct 33% and 8% indirect via NICO Holdings) NIKO Uganda – 61% (direct 48% and 13% indirect via NICO Holdings) NICO Zambia – 62% (direct 49% and 13% indirect via NICO Holdings) Shriram General Insurance, India – 20% via Shriram Capital Pacific & Orient, Malaysia – 49% Sure!, Botswana – 56% via BIHL 4 Contribution to net result from financial services 1 2 23% 6% 3 4 5 SANLAM Santam INVESTMENTS The Sanlam Investments (SI) cluster provides Santam specialises in short-term (general) insurance individual and institutional clients in South Africa, products for a diversified market in South Africa. the United States of America, Australia, the UK and These products are offered through broker elsewhere in Europe access to a comprehensive networks and direct sales channels and include range of specialised investment and risk personal, commercial, agricultural and specialised management expertise. insurance products. Santam’s international diversification strategy focuses on reinsurance business, specialised insurance products and the role as technical partner and co-investor in SEM’s expansion into Africa, India and South East Asia. Asset management Sanlam has an effective 60% interest in Santam, which in turn S anlam Investment Management – manages institutional operates through the following businesses: portfolios and retail collective investment (unit trust) funds S  antam Insurance – traditional and specialist lines S anlam Structured Solutions – structured products intermediated business M  iWay – short-term insurance solutions to clients through a Wealth management direct distribution channel S anlam Private Investments – private client wealth S  antam Re – reinsurance in emerging markets management and stockbroking C alibre Investments – 40% – Australian investment management S anlam Private Investments UK – 75% – UK private wealth management and stockbroking S ummit Trust – 65% – international independent trust services group in Switzerland I nvestment Advisory Service and Fiduciary and Tax Services Capital management – manages portions of Sanlam’s third-party and policyholders’ funds S anlam Capital Markets S  anlam Private Equity Sanlam employee benefits – provides risk and investment solutions and administration services to institutions and retirement funds S  anlam Group Risk S  anlam Structured Solutions S  anlam Umbrella Solutions S  anlam Retirement Fund Administration S  imeka Consultants and Actuaries International investments Sanlam International Investment Partners – manages established partnerships with specialist investment management firms abroad as outlined below: • Four Capital – 49,9% − London-based European and global equity manager • Eight Investment Partners – 62,5% − Asia Pacific asset management company based in Sydney and Hong Kong • Centre – 63,2% − American and global asset management company based on Wall Street • Artisan – 33,3% − European property management company based on Isle of Man • SEA – 100% − Bangalore-based equity research hub  SIM Global – manages long-only specialist international equity funds S  anlam Asset Management Ireland – Sanlam’s international investment management platform in Dublin managing funds domiciled in Ireland  Sanlam UK – wealth management player in retail financial services in the United Kingdom, comprising Sanlam Investments and Pensions, Sanlam Distribution, and Sanlam Private  P2 International – International Mutual Fund Administration Investment services Wealth and Investment Management Sanlam Multi Manager International – investment management advisory business Sanlam Collective Investments – retail, multi-managed, institutional and third-party collective investment (unit trust) funds Blue Ink – hedge fund manager focusing on both the local and global investment markets Fin-Q – provides independent advice to people leaving retirement funds Graviton Financial Partners – a broker network business sustainability report 2013 5 message from the Chairman of the Board “We believe that our values, which have formed the bedrock of our company since it was established some 95 years ago, are fundamental to what we now call sustainable business.” Desmond Smith Chairman 6 1 2 3 4 Values are universal; they transcend political, Customers Fairly regulation coming into effect, religious and cultural barriers. We believe that we will soon have an industry-level framework 5 our values, which have formed the bedrock of against which to measure our long-standing our company since it was established some customer-centric approach. Our Customer Interest 95 years ago, are fundamental to what we now call Committee is responsible for monitoring and sustainable business. managing this issue and has a record of rejecting opportunities that may look attractive in the short Sanlam has always strived to do good business term, but are not sustainable for the customer and that endures, avoiding shortcuts and acting with the business in the long term. Evidence that our absolute integrity. We operate in a highly regulated way of doing business is yielding results is found environment, yet I believe that our way of doing in the recent South Africa Customer Satisfaction business is, and has always been, inherently in Index (SAcsi) report and ombudsman statistics, line with the applicable regulation. As such we both of which show Sanlam to have significantly continue to play a leading role in engaging industry lower numbers of customer complaints than our bodies with a view to ensuring that regulation is fit life insurance competitors. for purpose. The values that we apply to our customers and Our governance strategy is robust. We are now staff are also extended to other stakeholders, fully compliant with King III after establishing the final building block of stakeholder engagement including our shareholders and business partners. this year. Our governance approach, combined We try to enhance the benefits both Sanlam and with our knowledge and experience, has made these stakeholders derive through our working Sanlam a sought-after partner as we diversify into relationship and our contribution to communities international markets. and society at large. With changing leadership, management styles have It is this broad-based value-driven philosophy that evolved over the years. Yet, as we have transitioned underpins Sanlam’s approach to sustainability. We to the more empowered staff environment of continue to be about people, planet and profit in today, our values have remained consistent. the most real sense of these sentiments. Appropriate accountability and incentive structures, combined with investment in people development, equip our staff to focus on and Desmond Smith improve the client experience. With the Treating Chairman sustainability report 2013 7 message from the Group Chief Executive “A sustainability mind-set guides our corporate culture and is implicit in our business model. Our strategy, which has been in place for the past ten years, is underpinned by policies that are designed to ensure sustained growth.” Dr Johan van Zyl Group Chief Executive 8 1 2 3 4 5 Sustainability drives our long-term view of value To exert this influence, we participate in a variety creation. A sustainability mind-set guides our of business and civil society organisations, and corporate culture and is implicit in our business in particular with the Association of Savings and model. Our strategy, which has been in place for Investments South Africa (ASISA). An important the past ten years, is underpinned by policies that focus is on increasing financial inclusivity, are designed to ensure sustained growth. accessibility and responsibility at the bottom of the pyramid of the market. We also take our We take a responsible approach in doing business, engagement role with government, particularly on partnering clients with products that meet their regulatory development, seriously, and regularly real needs and which they can afford. We believe engage with National Treasury in order to this is the right thing to do. Value has to be created spearhead negotiations on behalf of the financial for both the client and for Sanlam, versus pursuing services sector. business for the sake of short-term gains. Though the strategy has remained generally constant We are acutely aware that value creation requires a during this period, we have emphasised certain focus that goes beyond short-term profitability. We elements to meet the dynamic needs of our clients must recognise and manage broader economic, and operating environment. This strategy has social and environmental factors as well. For resulted in improved operating results, despite a instance, by investing in our relationships with difficult economic environment. intermediaries or employees, or reducing the direct and indirect impact our operations have on Our philosophy manifests in the way that we do the environment, we create a more sustainable business. The way that we entrench our philosophy operating environment. This is not only vital for throughout our operations embeds sustainability our business, but for the broader sector and thinking and practice and affects our products, and community in which we operate. how we lead, invest, expand and operate. As a leading provider of financial services, we have a responsibility that extends beyond our day-today business interests. The products and services we provide have a long lifespan and the value that policyholders extract when products mature depends on the stability of the financial system. “Sustainability is owned The way people access financial services, how micro-loans are extended, and the existence of a and driven by the savings culture are all issues that affect the health of this system. It is therefore incumbent on us to business, across all use our influence to promote a policy environment that fosters long-term stability and leads to regions and business responsible financial practices. functions.” sustainability report 2013 9 Our approach to addressing these issues is to  ransformation – Transformation is vital for our T prioritise those issues that matter most to our people, our future business prospects and the business, a few of which are worth highlighting. economic stability of the country in general. We These include: are currently a Level 2 B-BBEE company and making progress towards improving this score Investing in people – The way our people offer in the near future, not only because it offers appropriate products and deliver on promises business advantage, but because it is also the is essential to our success. Over the past two right thing to do. years, we have invested heavily in Sanlam’s Blueprint for Success employee engagement As a rapidly growing diversified financial services initiative to facilitate and enable the sustainable group, we have diversified geographically in positioning of our business culture. The recent times and, in doing so, have realised process is based on an independently that our approach to sustainability is central assessed, internationally recognised people to our international expansion strategy. The development standard. circumstances in every region we enter or operate Fair treatment of customers – We are actively in are different. To ensure sustainable business engaged in the emerging Treating Customers practice, we spend time understanding these Fairly (TCF) regulation, the philosophy of operating environments and determining how best which is neatly aligned with our existing clientto respond. In many cases we don’t have direct centric approach. control over international operations, so we work to influence our business partners’ behaviour, Responsible investment – As one of the leading rather than dictating their practices. In some, we providers of financial services, we have the have been chosen as a preferred partner because power and the responsibility to implement best of our ability to add value in this regard. practice when it comes to responsible investing. We subscribe to the United Nation’s Principles We mitigate some of the complexities of our for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) and the expansions by developing strong relationships with Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa our business partners. We conduct extensive due (CRISA). A benchmark evaluation in accordance diligence on our prospective partners to ensure with the UNPRI showed our practices to be in that we build relations with organisations that the top 5% of the leading 1 000 companies, share our ethical and social values, and that allow worldwide. us to accentuate these in our chosen countries of Access to financial services – Broadening access operation. Our sustainability approach is replicated to financial services is not only an important throughout our national and international national imperative, but critical to our prospects operations in this manner. over the long term. Our performance in the entry-level market over the past year has been In line with our business strategy, we retain a encouraging, with the focus being on providing strong focus on value creation, for Sanlam, our products that are both affordable and of value clients, intermediaries, regulators and other to this segment. stakeholders. As Group CE, one of my functions 10 1 2 3 4 5 is to directly identify and discontinue those Sanlam has only had ten Chief Executives in practices that do not create value and accentuate almost 100 years of operation, which illustrates the those practices that do. This might mean taking Group philosophy of being held accountable for a decision that has a minor negative short-term one’s actions. financial impact but is fundamentally fair for the I have been Group Chief Executive for 11 years policyholder in the long term. (March 2003 to March 2014) and, as a result, I have Our approach to value creation applies equally seen a significant change, including the changes to to the broader developmental landscape. For my role and function. I have to balance obligations instance, our empowerment transaction with to Sanlam’s shareholders with commitments to our Ubuntu-Botho (Pty) Limited (UB) has created a people and the community. In order to progress staggering R15 billion in value (after settlement of Sanlam on its sustainability journey, I first need all debt and interest on the debt) in just ten years, to ensure that our company is financially viable making it arguably the most successful transaction and secure in the long term. This is achieved by of its kind in South African history. Going ensuring that Sanlam consistently realises its forward, the Sanlam Foundation and the Sanlam obligations to its customers. Ultimately, Sanlam Ubuntu-Botho Community Development Trust sells our customers a promise: we promise to meet will work together to invest between R60 million our obligations in the agreement that we have with and R90 million per annum in corporate social our clientele and, in order to do this, we need to investment projects in South Africa. have people, values and a brand that can “make good” on that promise. At an operational level, Sanlam’s sustainability framework underpins the implementation of our I use our sustainability philosophy and framework sustainability strategy. The framework enables to drive our company towards an end goal us to prioritise issues of importance, allocate where we satisfy and retain our clients as well responsibilities, set goals and reward our people. It as other business stakeholders by creating longfacilitates centralised co-ordination with devolved term value. This is done through monitoring our decision-making throughout the organisation. In business scorecard and leveraging resources in this way sustainability can be owned and driven strategic places to ensure that we are living our by the business, across all regions and business sustainability philosophy and continually pushing functions. The framework also provides for a set Sanlam along its sustainability path. of metrics that allows us to continually measure progress on our sustainability journey. It is my privilege to express Sanlam’s continued Dr Johan van Zyl support for the United Nations Global Compact Group Chief Executive (UNGC) and to remind our stakeholders of our commitment to the UNGC’s principles which we have integrated into Sanlam’s sustainability framework. sustainability report 2013 11 message from the Chairman of SES Committee “Our approach to sustainability will create value for our shareholders, customers and broader society.” Valli Moosa Chairman of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee Sanlam’s sustainability philosophy underpins our business, both strategically and operationally, supporting long-term value creation for all our stakeholders. Driven by the Social, Ethics and Sustainability (SES) Committee, the sustainability agenda is a key component of the competitive advantage that Sanlam enjoys. As we continue on our sustainability journey, we invite our stakeholders to take note of the sustainability imperatives that guide Sanlam’s future. The purpose of this report is to present our sustainability philosophy, outlining our most significant challenges and disclosing how we are responding to them to the benefit of our customers, employees, business partners and wider society. As our stakeholders are well aware, all companies, and particularly financial services companies, are subject to a range of compliance requirements, including stronger governance and more stringent reporting requirements. Our approach is to make responsible decisions for the long-term benefit of society, while ensuring the financial health of our businesses. By serving the interests of our shareholders, customers and staff, we seek to do the right thing, rather than simply meeting minimum compliance requirements. In line with this overarching philosophy, Sanlam’s sustainability strategy rests on three key pillars: governance, society and environment, which are discussed in more detail here. 12 1 2 3 4 5 Governance Environment The SES Committee drives Sanlam’s sustainability As a responsible corporate citizen, Sanlam seeks agenda through the company’s executive to contribute to environmental sustainability and, structures by interrogating business units, in doing so, undertakes initiatives both internally processes and outcomes from a sustainability and externally. perspective. Though the committee is a statutory committee, mandated by the King III report, part of Internally we focus on decreasing our carbon its role is to guide Sanlam’s sustainability practices footprint within all of our buildings. Externally in the right direction. we work with reputable partners to effect positive changes in the natural and corporate Our SES Committee meetings involve business environments. For example, Sanlam has chosen units’ executives and directors with the intent of to partner with WWF South Africa in protecting embedding long-term thinking and sustainable South Africa’s scarce water resources and is one of practice throughout Sanlam’s operations. the top ten contributors to the World Wide Fund In addition, the committee presents regular for Nature – South Africa (WWF-SA) through its sustainability reports to Sanlam’s Board. This sets Transformational Partnership in support of marine the tone from the top of the organisation, which and freshwater conservation in South Africa. Our goes a long way towards ensuring that sustainability growing partnership with WWF-SA is aimed at is integrated throughout the business. protecting South Africa against water scarcity, poor water quality and the negative impacts it Society might have. The partnership is discussed in more As one of the premier financial services companies detail on page 98. on the continent, Sanlam has a large customer base and staff complement, which requires us to Through these three pillars, our sustainability reflect on the impact we have on our direct and philosophy is embedded into business practice. indirect stakeholders. As our reach continues Sanlam also assumes an industry leader role, to grow, we are increasingly interested in our leading by example and participating in industry impact on the consumer, in terms of consumer discussions, specifically with the Association for protection, fair lending practices and customer Savings and Investment in South Africa (ASISA), to service. We pay close attention to the manner in contribute to the sustainability of the sector. which our business operations, product offerings and services affect our customers. In our efforts to As we continue on this journey, we believe that make Sanlam more accessible to all South Africans, our approach to sustainability will create value for we are making steady progress in developing our shareholders, customers and broader society. more financial solutions across the spectrum of By providing our customers with a brand they can income groups. trust and a corporate ethos that they can associate with, we are enhancing value for customers and We are further aware of the impact we have customer loyalty. Investors, too, are attracted by on our staff in terms of attracting, training and Sanlam’s commitment to sustainability practices, retaining our employees. We support management which, over time, will enhance our sustainable to become Sanlam ambassadors, both internally growth and the sustainability of the sector as and in the broader marketplace, and we make a whole. a concerted effort, over and above the legally required minimum, to help our staff deal with specific challenges. We train our staff beyond Sanlam’s immediate needs, so that we actively Valli Moosa enhance the skills pool for the financial services Chairman of the Social, Ethics and Sustainability industry as a whole. Committee sustainability report 2013 13 14 sustainability report 2013 15 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE As one of the premier financial service providers in South Africa, Sanlam prides itself on continuously delivering on the promises we make to all our stakeholders. Our long-term performance depends on sound governance that forms part of our corporate culture and is continually embedded through our Blueprint for Success employee engagement initiative. We are also strictly regulated according to various codes and practices. Though there are many financial codes that we are subjected to, our sustainability journey is guided by frameworks such as King III, JSE, SRI, GRI, UNGC and the UNPRI. These frameworks inform Sanlam’s goalsetting, targets and practices moving forward. This section conveys our position on sustainability governance to our stakeholders, focusing on management quality and commitment, how we foster ethical behaviour and how we engage with our various pertinent stakeholders. Our approach to sustainability is owned by Sanlam’s executive leadership and endorsed by the Board of Directors. Their views are expressed on pages 6 to 13. 16 1.1 1 GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT QUALITY AND COMMITMENT 2 3  onitor whether Sanlam complies with relevant M Board social, ethical and legal requirements and best 4 accountability practice codes 5  anlam Limited’s Board is formally tasked with S Bring to the attention of Sanlam’s Board the responsibility of championing sustainability any relevant matters within the scope of its within Sanlam’s business practices and we allocate mandate extensive resources and planning to ensure that our business is governed in a sustainable manner.  eport to Sanlam’s shareholders on matters R that fall within the scope of this mandate. Our key governance principles, based on the King Code of Good Governance (King III), are integrated We believe that sustainability is not an isolated throughout our organisation, facilitated by our function, but is central to the way we do business. board and filtered throughout by our Social, Ethics As such, sustainability elements should form part and Sustainability (SES) Committee to ensure of regular business reporting. Parallel to the normal company-wide compliance. reporting channels, the SES Committee specifically reviews all sustainability-related material on T  he SES Committee is tasked with driving a quarterly basis including reports on legal, sustainability within the various business units regulatory and ethics compliance, transformation, as well as monitoring the progress of Sanlam’s environmental management, sustainability risks sustainability journey through the sustainability and stakeholder engagement. reporting process. We place a premium on accountability, therefore the effectiveness of our The SES’s performance is measured against the SES Committee is measured and commented on fiduciary requirement of the Companies Act of in our annual integrated report, according to three 2008 and King III. This forms the basis of the mandated criteria, as follows: SES Charter. Functional ownership of sustainability Sanlam Limited board Customer Human Risk and Social, Ethics Audit, Actuarial Interest Resources Compliance and Sustainability and Finance Committee Committee Committee Committee INFORMATION SHARING INFORMATION SHARING Group CE, Sanlam Limited Group Strategic Group Brand Executive Committee Projects Subsidiaries/ Group Group Corporate Business Units Environmental Affairs Sustainability Committee Group Sustainability Management Office sustainability report 2013 17  hile the SES Committee oversees Sanlam’s W sustainability report and all related signatory sustainability journey, the responsibility for submissions such as the UNPRI and the JSE SRI. implementing Sanlam’s economic, social and environmental commitments resides with the All sustainability risks are channelled into various functional departments and units within Sanlam’s group-wide Enterprise Risk Management process, and the SMO is tasked with addressing the Group. the compliance risks related to the governance In order to facilitate this of sustainability. For more detail on Sanlam’s collaborative approach, risk management, refer to the capital and senior representatives from risk management report in our integrated Sanlam’s Group Office annual report. and each organisational Currently the SMO is also working towards cluster serve on the positioning Sanlam as a leader in environmental Group Environmental sustainability within the local financial services Sustainability Committee sector. Our approach to environmental matters is (GESC). This committee discussed on page 89. acts as an advisory body, endorsing and communicating Looking environmental ahead sustainability agendas throughout the business. Sanlam’s environmental partner, WWF-SA, also The impact of the newly established GSP serves as an additional resource to this committee, is expected to improve the extent to which as and when required. Senior management is sustainability elements are integrated into the held accountable for the implementation of business activities of our subsidiaries. Since social, Sanlam’s sustainability agenda through annual ethics and sustainability is now an agenda item at performance appraisals. the various subsidiary board levels, we expect that subsidiaries will in due course start reporting on In 2013 we introduced a new entity called Group sustainability matters in their communications with Strategic Projects (GSP), to embed sustainability their key stakeholders. elements into the board agendas of all our business units and subsidiaries. It is now mandatory for our The SMO is working with all departments business units and subsidiaries to include social, within the Group to improve the organisation’s understanding of sustainability and to ensure that ethics and sustainability as a board agenda item. sustainability concerns are adequately managed. Furthermore, the Chief Executive of GSP attends The first step, currently under way, is a review all SES Committee meetings and from 2014 of the SMF against the principles of materiality onwards is expected to serve on the boards of all relevance, importance and prioritisation. The our business units and subsidiaries to cultivate a review is expected to reshape the magnitude unified approach to sustainability across Sanlam. to which the GESC extends its control past a primarily environmental scope to a more holistic Sustainability strategy sustainability approach. development The development of our sustainability dashboard, The Group Sustainability Management Office which is set to improve our reporting and (SMO) is responsible for the development and management capabilities, continues to evolve. co-ordination of our sustainability strategy as During 2013 we focused on incorporating captured in the Sanlam Sustainability Management environmental data into the dashboard. Framework (SMF) presented on page 27. The unit Subsequent to the SMF review, other factors will is further responsible for compiling Sanlam’s annual be integrated. 18 1.2 1 GOVERNANCE FOSTERING ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR 2 3 Fostering and maintaining an equitable and Underlying values and sustainable employer-employee relationship, 4 principles including the provision of a safe, healthy and productive working environment 5 One of the primary aspects of Sanlam’s sustainability journey is the integration of Protecting and maintaining the property and compliance and ethics into our company culture. information of Sanlam, its employees and The Sanlam Group regards high ethical standards its clients as non-negotiable and the Group has a rich and Managing and mitigating all conflicts or proud history of professional and ethical behaviour, perceived conflicts of interest which we entrench throughout our organisation, Protecting any person who reports violations of our subsidiaries and associate companies. Our the Code. ethics and governance received acclaim in the 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Insurance Survey, which In upholding our values and fostering an ethical focused on regulation and governance. It was society, Sanlam engages various external initiatives conducted among CEOs and senior executives in that endorse and promote ethical behaviour and the South African longand short-term insurance business practices. Specifically: industry and acted as a peer review of prominent Sanlam is an active founder member of the service providers. Association for Savings and Investments in To maintain these standards, Sanlam has adopted South Africa (ASISA) and our Group Chief Executive currently chairs the ASISA Board. a Code of Ethical Conduct (the Code), which all Sanlam businesses and employees must abide by Sanlam is a member of the United Nations in order to maintain the highest level of integrity Global Compact (UNGC) and subscribes to and ethical conduct. The Code is binding on all the ten UNGC Principles dealing with human directors, managers, employees, independent rights, labour, the environment and anticontractors, agents, service providers and business corruption. Sanlam is also represented on the partners, irrespective of their legal status. The UNGC’s Working Group on the 10th Principle to Code defines how we establish and manage the fight corruption. relationships between the entities listed above. Sanlam is actively involved in anti-corruption efforts in South Africa through the Business Sanlam’s key ethical issues and concerns are Anti-Corruption Working Group (BACWG) of encapsulated in the principles underlying the Business Unity South Africa (BUSA). Code, including: One of the ten BUSA-nominated Ensuring that our conduct shall at all times representatives of the business sector on the conform to Sanlam’s values National Anti-Corruption Forum (NACF) is a Complying with all applicable legislation Sanlam employee. and regulations Sanlam achieved the overall second place in the South African Business Ethics Survey 2013 (SABES 2013) conducted by EthicsSA among 15 large enterprises in South Africa. Our Code of Ethical Conduct is based on Sanlam’s core values and ensures that Sanlam’s business relationships reflect our personal integrity. These include honesty, respect for human dignity and the rights of others, and a commitment to do what is right, fair, reasonable, lawful and just. sustainability report 2013 19 Corporate governance, Reporting ethical ethical practice and breaches compliance Anyone working for, or external to, Sanlam can Sanlam has the following structures in place to report fraud and other ethical breaches. The promote good corporate governance, ethical channels set out in the table below are highlighted practices and compliance. in our Code of Ethical Conduct and can be used to report instances of ethical breaches and The Sanlam Limited Board has overall responsibility financial crimes. for ensuring good corporate governance, ethical business practices and adherence to all Reporting channel Focus area compliance requirements. The Board has formally Sanlam’s fraud Allows individuals to acknowledged this responsibility in adopting the and ethics hotline anonymously report Group Compliance Charter and Policy. potential ethical breaches The Sanlam Group Ethics Committee is and fraud. KPMG’s representative of all business groupings. It Ethicsline manages functions as a sub-committee of the Sanlam Group our hotline Executive Committee. The Chief Risk Officer Forensic Well positioned to receive of Sanlam, a member of the Group Executive departments reports on fraud-related Committee, chairs the Group Ethics Committee. matters from both internal A Group Compliance Office was established in and external reporters 2009 to co-ordinate the work of the compliance functions across the Group. In addition to this, a Sanlam’s internal Deal with customers’ Sanlam Group Financial Crime Combating Policy ombudsman service-related complaints was adopted. This policy outlines Sanlam’s zero and complaints and from time to time tolerance approach to unlawful conduct and departments receive reports on describes specified offences that are subject to potential ethical issues and default, predefined sanctions. allegations of fraud Apart from these formal structures, all levels of Compliance and Manage Sanlam’s management and employees have a responsibility legal departments compliance-related to ensure good corporate governance, ethical matters and occasionally business practices and compliance with all receive reports of mandated requirements. The responsibility for potential breaches ethics training lies with the operational business HR departments Primarily handle employergroupings. Support in this regard is provided in and line employee concerns. the form of electronic training programmes which management Management regularly are available to all employees through the SAP reviews internal reports HR system. concerning ethical and fraud-related concerns 20 supported by our efficacy Ethical ratings, where 90% of 1 performance respondents said that GOVERNANCE our ethics training and Sanlam has conducted ethical risk assessments Code of Ethical Conduct once every two years, since 2003. Past are effective in guiding assessments were based on KPMG’s Integrity decision-making and Thermometer survey tool. This year, however, business conduct. we decided to take part in a benchmarking 2 study, the South African Business Ethics Survey As the SABES assessment (SABES) 2013. methodology differs from 3 our past assessments, According to the results of SABES 2013 Sanlam the latest results are not 4 returned the best results of the four financial directly comparable to the services sector companies surveyed and 5 results of past assessments. second best across all sectors in participating South Africa. Overall we scored above average To improve our performance, the Group for both the awareness and effectiveness of our Compliance Office (GCO) now serves as the entry ethical practices. point for all reports received via the Sanlam fraud and ethics hotline and the Sanlam Investments Over 93% of respondents were well aware of cluster established a cluster-level Ethics Committee Sanlam’s Code of Ethical Conduct and formal HR to ensure that ethical issues are discussed at grievance procedures. More than 80% knew how top management level and communicated to to get advice on ethical matters and how to report employees. Since March 2013 Sanlam has tracked suspected misconduct via our hotline. Knowledge all actions taken as a result of potential breaches about our ethics training can be improved, as only reported at a group level, resulting in better 70% is aware of our ethics training programmes. feedback to Sanlam’s executive leadership and the reporters of misconduct. This result highlights our priority focus on preventing misconduct and shows that our Our Inside Sanlam magazine, the primary ethical value-based approach resonates with communication tool to keep employees informed, our leadership and employees. This is further regularly publishes ethics-related content. In an article from the Group CEO’s desk in 2013, we emphasised the importance of ethical business conduct, presented the SABES 2013 results and reminded employees to adhere to our Code of SABES scores 2013* Ethical Conduct. Through Sanlam’s employee engagement initiative, called Blueprint for Success, we emphasise the ethical ideals we want all employees to live up to. By embedding Blueprint for Success into our corporate culture, we are laying the foundation that will ensure we continue to do business ethically. Our forensic functions are increasingly proactive in implementing theft prevention measures and communicating our zero tolerance approach to financial crime through our Inside Sanlam magazine to internal stakeholders. 84,17% 81,3% 76,03% 74,4% Sanlam introduced mandatory group-wide ethics Awareness Effectiveness and compliance training. By year-end, 62% of Awareness of ethics Effectiveness of our throughout the ethics management employees had completed the training. company processes Sanlam Benchmark * Sanlam’s score is based on the responses from 370 Sanlam employees from across the business. For the benchmarking study, SABES surveyed 4 099 respondents across 15 large enterprises in South Africa. sustainability report 2013 21  rotection of privacy P Responsible Governance and party due diligence in our Emerging Market Sanlam initiated a group-wide compliance Cluster programme – The Group Sentinel Programme – Diversifying our business is one of the pillars to ensure that all business activities and systems of Sanlam’s strategy. In recent times we have adhere to local and international regulations and embarked on geographical diversification leading practice, which is in line with clients’ and throughout Africa, India and South East Asia, other stakeholders’ best interests. utilising our allocation of available capital to grow our footprint in these emerging markets. The programme is split into two projects, which focus on the protection of privacy and party Our strategy for entering emerging markets is due diligence. driven by the Sanlam Emerging Market business cluster (SEM). Our preference for entry to Protection of privacy these markets is to form partnerships, either The privacy protection project will embed a through joint ventures, or by expanding and framework for the responsible handling of personal leveraging existing ventures. This strategy allows information ensuring that Sanlam complies with us to gain access to markets through a trusted data protection regulations such as the newly implementation partner, using their distribution enacted Protection of Personal Information Act as footprint and a locally identifiable brand. This well as European Union regulations. method, in the long run, should reduce the inherent The GCO has commenced with the drafting of a risks of poor local adaptation as well as our cost of privacy policy and guidelines for client contracts. market entry. The GCO is also facilitating a group-wide process Entry into new markets requires extensive coto agree on a strategy for effectively managing ordination and, as such, carries a degree of risk. consent requirements and information officer Primarily, the risk of good governance is at the requirements across all business clusters. An forefront of Sanlam’s concerns. In countries where information technology (IT) gap analysis was we do not have a controlling stake, we are in a performed as part of the project and the results position to influence behaviour, but not dictate were presented to the Sanlam businesses procedures. As a result, we conduct extensive due for review. diligence on each of our partners before we enter into long-term agreements with them, to ensure Party due diligence that our core values and goals are aligned. The party due diligence (PDD) project’s aim is to improve Sanlam’s capability to combat money Furthermore, when implementing a market laundering, the financing of terrorism, corruption entry strategy, our focus is on business growth, and bribery, and tax evasion. The PDD project development and optimisation. This is underpinned will develop a screening solution enabling Sanlam by aligning the local partner with our governance businesses to perform a due diligence and risk and risk management frameworks. assessment on all potential parties prior to entering Our focus on governance and risk management into a relationship with them. forms the basis for sustained expansion into The PDD will align Sanlam with international emerging markets. legislative frameworks such as the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), the UK Bribery Act (UKBA) and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) as well as local corruption legislation and regulatory measures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The GCO conducted a PDD risk assessment survey among Sanlam businesses and compiled a risk profile for all businesses within the Group that have completed the survey. These profiles will be used to identify priority areas and allocate resources to implement counter measures in the business units commensurate with the identified risk of financial crime. 22 EMERGING MARKETS GOVERNANCE Chairpersons of entities undergo additional ethics 1 FRAMEWORK training to align with Sanlam’s Code of Ethical Conduct. In addition to this, appropriate channels GOVERNANCE Although SEM aims to ensure regulatory compliance, the level of influence in ethics to raise concerns are established and responses to programmes and training varies between our incidents reported are measured. SEM trains CEOs different emerging market investments. In order or Chairpersons on creating appropriate channels to align with the rest of the Group, where a culture for reporting instances of non-compliance. of compliance and ethics exists (in line with the MOVING FORWARD 2 direction given by King III and South Africa’s Companies Act) the objective is to implement We expect that as our business expands 3 the required level of ethics training as well as and increases its footprint and market an appropriate channel to raise concerns in share, our reporting, in particular 4 all markets. sustainability reporting, will broaden in scope and depth and increase in maturity. 5 The extent to which we monitor compliance, and We expect that same quality and growth require businesses to adopt Sanlam’s frameworks from our subsidiaries and associates. and policies, differs per business, and depends We are in the process of finalising our largely on what current structures they already SEM governance framework policy, to have in place. The quality of those structures is investigated to evaluate whether there are any include more detailed guidelines to our major gaps from our standards and principles. current operations. This will be completed Sanlam Group Office assists with the development during 2014. of relevant material, such as due diligence ethics As a result we are striving for a group level and compliance questionnaires, in order to develop of quality when adhering to sustainability relevant governance frameworks applicable to guidelines, with the same principles each entity. being applied in developed and emerging It is further expected that subsidiary boards economies. For more information, please adopt the policies on ethics and that the CEOs or refer to the IAR. Sanlam’s current governance framework is used to benchmark various standards and policies. The initial focus is on: Internal audit and compliance Risk and capital management Reporting Information Technology sustainability report 2013 23 1.3 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Sustained growth is dependent on the health of Sanlam’s alignment with stakeholder interests our relationships with all stakeholders, in addition is consistent with the integrated approach to to the financial interests of shareholders. For this corporate governance advocated by King III. reason, we engage a variety of key stakeholders as shown below. Strategy driven by Sanlam Executive Committee Stakeholders’ Stakeholders’ dependence influence on our activities on what we do (Group/cluster) (Group/cluster) Sanlam internal Community stakeholders stakeholders Shareholders Labour BEE partners NGOs Employees Universities Business partners Local communities Intermediaries Marketplace Society stakeholders stakeholders Investors Media Suppliers Government Clients Regulatory bodies Analysts Industry bodies Internal risk assessment process 24 We conduct quarterly road shows to present our  pproach to stakeholder A financial performance, benchmarked against peers, 1 management and competing shares to investors and analysts. GOVERNANCE The process to develop and implement a Sanlam Group Market Development, together with Sanlam Provincial Advisory Boards, annually systematic approach to stakeholder management host stakeholder engagement sessions in all started in 2011, with significant progress being nine provinces. Key stakeholders from the public made in 2013, and culminated in the Group and private sectors, clients and Ubuntu-Botho Stakeholder Relations Strategy and Stakeholder (Sanlam’s B-BBEE partner) shareholders attend 2 Communications Policy. these events. The sessions provide important information about the evolving expectations of 3 The Stakeholder Relations Strategy contains many of our stakeholders and help us understand group-wide procedures for identifying, prioritising their perceptions and expectations. They also 4 and engaging with Sanlam’s various stakeholders create a platform for open dialogue between through a co-ordinated stakeholder management Sanlam and our stakeholders. 5 approach and action plan. The Stakeholder Communications Policy outlines communications To ensure that we play a constructive role in the development of national policy and regulation, objectives, rules and levels of engagement, roles we engage actively with government, primarily and responsibilities, key spokespeople, core as a collective through industry associations such messages, and communication channels. Both as the Association for Savings and Investment Sanlam Executive Committee and Sanlam Board South Africa (ASISA), Business Unity South Africa have endorsed the Stakeholder Strategy, and it (BUSA), Business Leadership South Africa, National has subsequently been shared with all relevant Economic Development and Labour Council business unit heads. (Nedlac), the National Business Initiative (NBI), and various business chambers. During the year, we consulted our internal business divisions to identify stakeholder interests and We have been particularly active in the work of activities. After this process was completed, an ASISA. The Sanlam Group Chief Executive serves as analysis was conducted to identify the various chairperson of ASISA and represents the industry at the highest levels of policy-making and regulation, levels and forms of engagement. One of the and Sanlam members are active on all of the ASISA outcomes was a detailed stakeholder matrix. standing committees and working groups. The matrix is the first step towards the Our corporate memberships also serve to connect development of a stakeholder register (also us to the views of key groups of stakeholders known as the stakeholder hub) to monitor all our and provide a valuable two-way communication engagements with stakeholders. The hub will opportunity to share learnings and to influence provide a central point from where all business views, behaviours and actions. units can access our stakeholder database and issue log. The hub will pull together the multiple Some of the significant recent regulatory and stakeholder contact points within Sanlam, policy developments that we have contributed improving our co-ordination and integrating our to during the reporting period relate to: stakeholder information. P  romoting social transformation by protecting consumers’ rights through the Our stakeholder Consumer Protection Act and the National engagement activities Credit Amendment Bill, and promoting retirement savings through the proposed We engage and collect stakeholder information Retirement Reform discussion papers through various channels. P  rotecting consumers’ rights through the regulatory requirement on Treating Internal research projects, such as Sanlam Brand Customers Fairly and the Protection of Health Tracker, measures the perception of our Personal Information Act brand among existing and potential clients. Our Customer Satisfaction Surveys and Staff  romoting greater transparency in the life P Satisfaction Surveys enable us to understand insurance industry, for example through and improve the business interaction, while our Solvency II to be implemented in South Blueprint for Success employee engagement Africa in 2016 initiative helps us to foster a high-performance M  itigating poor socio-economic conditions in culture within the business. Our distribution teams South Africa, for example through legislative facilitate multiple forums throughout the year. requirements relating to the establishment These forums allow us to stay in touch with our of National Health Insurance and a National intermediaries and address pertinent regulatory Social Security System and other concerns. sustainability report 2013 25 1.4 SANLAM SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Sanlam’s Board formalised and adopted the Sanlam used as benchmarks and Sanlam reports its nonSustainability Management Framework at the end financial performance against this framework. of November 2011. External expertise was called upon to facilitate the process, which was aimed at During the process, it was recommended that defining key business sustainability (environment, Sanlam create a sustainability dashboard, a tool that social and governance) indicators that could could assist with evaluating progress against the concisely present a holistic view of Sanlam’s key performance indicators, as well as minimise the sustainability position. work that goes into annual reporting. At the end of 2012 the initial business analysis for the tool took The process consisted of workshops with all place, including indicator development. The analysis business units, as key internal stakeholders, and was finalised during the first quarter of 2013. The ultimately looked at the long-term vision and risks qualitative data areas of the dashboard were for the business, as well as the relevant fiduciary addressed first. These were the Environment and reporting requirements, namely GRI 3.1. The process People pillars and their integration was completed identified five key pillars relevant to Sanlam. An by the end of the second quarter of 2013. Since analysis of the five pillars, and the need to measure then, the focus has been on automating and performance against them, gave rise to appropriate enhancing the data interface, as well as building a performance indicators. These indicators are still database of historical content. We recognise that the refinement and effective integration of this framework will require substantially more time and resources. A process is under way to identify delivery gaps and determine how the framework will be effectively applied in future. The introduction of the GRI G4 reporting guidelines, and the increased focus on materiality, will influence this process. We intend to finalise this process during 2014. We are confident that the end result will be a more refined business sustainability framework that will reflect the appropriate weighting of each of our five key pillars, a weighting that is commensurate with the industry in which we operate. 26 1 GOVERNANCE 2 3 4 5 1. Sustainability governance PAGE Management quality and commitment 17 Fostering ethical behaviour 19 Stakeholder engagement 24 Sanlam Sustainability Management Framework 26 5. Natural environment PAGE 1 2. Developing our people PAGE 5 2 Environmental 89 Talent 32 management management Climate change 92 Transformation 35 and energy Skills development 37 Sustainable water 97 use Organisational 40 culture Material and waste 100 management 4 3 4. Towards a prosperous 3. Products society PAGE and services PAGE Economic value added 71 Being responsive to our clients 47 Access to financial services 74 Treating our clients fairly 54 Corporate social investment 75 Product development 55 Responsible procurement and 82 Distribution network 59 enterprise development Responsible investing 63 Promoting transformation and 84 empowerment sustainability report 2013 27 28 sustainability report 2013 29 DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE As a service-oriented business, we believe our people are our single most important resource. Finding the right people and keeping them engaged and motivated in a supportive working environment and a culture of excellence and opportunity is vital to achieving our key business priorities. Our Group Human Resources (HR) policies and practices underpin this philosophy in an employee-centric way. Sanlam has a total of 12 031 employees and advisers across South Africa (excluding Santam). Group Human Resources (Group HR) oversees our group-wide strategic projects and compliance with labour legislation and regulatory codes, while business units manage their key HR strategies and operations in a decentralised manner. We describe HR practices either as “loose” or “tight”. Loose refers to matters left to the discretion of the HR function of our various business units, while tight refers to matters that are compulsory and mandated by Group HR. 30 Across the Group, there are four areas of HR impact. 1 2 PEOPLE Talent Transformation management We attract the best people, We drive activities designed to create provide growth and development a diverse and inclusive workplace with 3 opportunities, engage and great representivity of black, female 4 retain them. and disabled staff members. 5 Skills Organisational development culture We offer extensive processes and We have an initiative aimed at driving programmes designed to assist staff behaviour that supports our shift development and career growth. towards the consolidation of a highperformance culture. In driving these four areas, Sanlam complies ensure full adherence to all Financial Advisory and with relevant legislative frameworks, notably the Intermediary Services (FAIS) regulations by staff Employment Equity, Labour Relations and Skills who provide financial advice to clients. Development Acts, along with other relevant Forums, which support HR activities, exist in many labour guidelines and codes of good practice. We forms across the various businesses and at Group subscribe fully to the Financial Sector Code (FSC), level. These are designed not only to drive key driving the achievement of specific targets within initiatives, but also to foster collaboration and each of the HR-related elements. Furthermore, we alignment across the broader Group. Number of employees 2010 2011 2012 2013 11 619 11 557 11 550 12 031 As a measure of workforce stability, we track staff turnover at both a cluster and Group level. Performance is reported to the Board’s Human Resources (HR) and Social, Ethics and Sustainability (SES) Committees. Sanlam’s staff turnover1 for 2013, was 10,93% (2012: 11,60%). Employee turnover 2013 2012* 2011 2010 Office staff 10,93% 11,60% 23,27% 28,65% Advisers (Field) 42,05% 40,10% * The causes of adviser turnover differ from the issues affecting permanent office-based employees. Going forward we will report on each separately. 1 We calculate the turnover rate by dividing the total number of exits by the average headcount. This excludes Advisers (Field). sustainability report 2013 31 2.1 TALENT MANAGEMENT Acquisition and retention of the right skills set is In 2014 we plan to expand the electronic essential to our business success. recruitment system with a new module able to automate the post-recruitment processes once The financial services industry is experiencing a a candidate has accepted a job offer at Sanlam. shortage of people with critical skills. To retain This will lead to significant efficiencies and reduce valued skills we ensure a highly competitive the amount of paper-based documentation employee value proposition (EVP), through currently required. which we aim to assist employees to achieve their career and personal development ambitions in accordance with business strategy. Employee value proposition Internally, employee motivation is supported through numerous awards and schemes that During 2013 there was strong focus on positioning recognise and reward good performance. These the EVP to the external market. A descriptive EVP are aimed at a range of employment levels from booklet was designed and made digitally available senior management to administration and call on the Sanlam website. All applicants now receive centre staff. a copy of the booklet during the recruitment process. We also redesigned the Sanlam Career Our Employment Brand health is vital to our website to align with our EVP. talent strategy. We focus on positioning Sanlam as an “employer of choice”, and specifically target Sanlam’s retention and recognition initiatives applicants from talent segments that are aligned to are varied and extensive. We retain staff through the markets into which we hope to expand. During our competitive reward and benefit offerings, 2013 we embarked on an extensive campaign the provision of development opportunities focused on growing our Employment Brand in and decent working conditions. As part of the graduate market segment. The objectives are our recognition strategy, we offer a variety of threefold: to ensure a pipeline of high-potential employee awards which gives us an opportunity future leaders that help Sanlam achieve its to show our appreciation by recognising excellent Transformation and Growth strategies; to position performance. Each business cluster has its own Sanlam as a preferred employer; and to create distinct set of employee awards, either monetary brand awareness in the young professional market. or non-monetary, aimed at promoting performance This is a relatively new campaign and we will track aspects linked to specific business activities. These its success over the next two years. range from sales targets, exhibiting Sanlam’s core values, generating innovative ideas, delivering In 2012 we implemented an internal electronic excellent client service and various other job recruitment system to track applications and performance criteria. manage our recruitment processes. As a worldclass recruitment system, it ensures that the Awards such as the Kudos programme in the Group recruitment practices across the Group are Office, The Living the Values Award in Sanlam standardised and consistent. In line with our Investments and the SPF Activator Awards involve “Growth” EVP element, the system also ensures employee participation through nominations. Since that all employees are able to view and apply for 2006 employees have made more than 2 500 any vacancy in any part of the business, giving nominations and submitted 2 003 ideas, via the SPF them the opportunity to better manage their Activator Awards programme, that could potentially career growth expectations. benefit the business. 32 1 Employee Value Proposition 2 We aspire to be an excellent employer, offering our employees more than just a great place to work at. PEOPLE To this end, we aim to excel in the following areas deemed key to attract and retain staff, and to enhance their performance and development. 3 Reputation Leadership 4 The preferred place Creating # 1 to work opportunities for 5 greatness T  alented people want to work for a market leader. T  hrough diverse initiatives, we invest in nurturing Our reputation has been built over 95 years, by leaders who engage and empower, are open continuously learning, adapting and staying true to new ideas, and are driven to create an to our ethical values and commitment to our environment for our staff and company to excel. stakeholders. Balance  eward R Respecting Competitive individual passion remuneration and and flexibility incentives E  mployee wellness and the ability to follow  eyond market-related remuneration packages, B passion is important if staff members are we recognise and reward excellence in the to perform at their best. We accommodate workplace, which is vital to secure continued high employees through flexible working hours, access performance and dedication from employees. to convenience services and our bWELL wellness programme. Growth Connectivity Helping employees Embracing grow and excel relationships  hrough challenging work and diverse training T  Our biggest assets are the relationships we and development opportunities, Sanlam fosters build. We prioritise employee interaction and fulfilment in the workplace. collaboration internally and externally. We also encourage employees to volunteer and participate in our corporate social investment initiatives. sustainability report 2013 33 During 2013 a total of 1 448 vacancies were companies to work for”. In the top 50 commerce recorded, the majority occurring at the semi-skilled companies’ category, Sanlam ranked 49th among level. Two-thirds of these were filled externally, students, and 32nd among MBA students and with each vacancy taking on average two months professionals. This indicates that the employment to fill. Positions are advertised both internally and brand is stronger among professionals than externally to ensure that existing staff members are students and recent graduates. given growth opportunities while also allowing for recruitment of external talent. During 2013 there With room for improvement in the perception of were 54 retrenchments (2012: 80). students and recent graduates, we focused on the graduate market segment this year, initiating Employment brand a number of graduate-focused programmes and hosting six career fairs at the biggest universities health across the country. The latter, known as the This year Sanlam was featured in Universum’s SanlamUp Graduate Recruitment Programme, South African “Companies of the Future” report resulted in a total of 4 000 job applications in that polled over 26 000 university students, 2013. Through our graduate programmes we are MBA students and professionals from all developing and growing talent for the financial 23 South African universities on the topic of “best services industry. Sanlam had the following major graduate programmes running in 2013: Number of Programme Description Duration participants The SanlamUp Graduate A work experience programme at various 18 months 14 Development Programme businesses across the Sanlam Group. Graduates were selected from the SanlamUp Graduate Recruitment Programme. The Actuarial Graduate A comprehensive programme that focuses on 12 months 6 Programme administrative support and valuable knowledge of Sanlam’s products and systems as well as industry knowledge. The Open your World 2013 A programme for final year students to develop 3 weeks 42 Vacation Development self-reliance and build future careers in the Programme investment industry. The Sanlam CA Training A SAICA-accredited chartered accountant 3 years 9 Programme training programme. Trainees also have the chance to develop leadership skills through the Graduate Development Programme. Sanlam Financial Advisers and Broker Distribution clusters embarked on a proactive initiative to source, select and develop black African talent, the success of which will ultimately be measured by the ability to retain this talent over time. As part of this once-off initiative, 30 trainee financial advisers and 19 trainee broker consultants are undergoing a rigorous training programme to develop them to the point where they can become fully accredited Sanlam advisers and broker consultants. Looking forward, we plan to carry out an internal employment brand campaign in 2014. The campaign will communicate Sanlam’s new brand positioning, to be launched in the first half of 2014, and highlight Sanlam’s EVP. 34 2.2 1 2 PEOPLE TRANSFORMATION 3 Sanlam aims to ensure diversity and avoid with representatives across all business levels exclusion so that our workforce becomes including employees. 4 representative of the demographics of our society, including people with disabilities. We aim to foster For more information refer to the section 5 diversity as a way of optimising productivity. Our Towards a prosperous society on page 84. approach to transformation is set out in our Human Capital Transformation strategy. This strategy sets As at year-end, Sanlam had a total of 12 031 out our objectives across five strategic pillars, employees and advisers across South Africa. namely staff composition, people development, Of this employee base, the proportion of black retention measures, culture and people staff accounted for 65,4% (2012: 63,3%), an management practices. increase of 7,7%. This continues our ten-year trend towards becoming a more transformed company. The responsibility for Sanlam’s transformation rests Improvements were attributed largely to the with the Group Chief Executive and the Cluster relatively high proportion of black staff being Chief Executive Officers. The HR departments recruited. Our verified employment equity B-BBEE of each business cluster are responsible for score for 2012 was 4,52. In 2013 this shifted to 7,07 effectively implementing the strategy and cluster (verified). Chief Executive Officers are held accountable for the achievement of their respective targets. The The revised employment equity (EE) plan was Sanlam Group Employment Equity Forum was implemented this year. A key focus of the revised established as a consultative body to improve plan is on ensuring staff are better informed transformation progress within the organisation about employment equity practices. Because Male Female Foreign Occupational level A C I W A C I W M F Grand total Top management 2 0 0 5 0 0 1 1 0 0 9 Senior management 16 19 14 201 11 10 6 52 2 0 331 Middle management 112 131 85 522 65 103 65 455 16 4 1 558 Junior management 557 516 150 1 055 634 812 183 1 587 11 5 5 530 Semi-skilled 1 211 139 13 37 2 515 395 47 192 9 6 4 564 Unskilled 5 0 0 1 22 11 0 0 0 0 39 Grand total 1 923 805 262 1 821 3 247 1 331 302 2 287 38 15 12 031 A = African; C = Coloured; I = Indian; W = White; M = Male; F = Female Black-White ratios 2004 – 2013 39,9% 39,1% 36,7% 34,6% 42,1% 53,7% 48,4% 54,8% 69,7% 66,4% 30,3% 33,6% 45,2% 46,3% 51,6% 57,9% 60,1% 60,9% 63,3% 65,4% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Black White sustainability report 2013 35 Employment equity target versus actuals (%) 25,0 33,3 25,0 24,9 23,0 26,6 36,1 36,0 37,6 50,2 51,9 50,9 95,0 94,7 95,4 95,2 97,4 95,2 Top Senior Middle Junior Semi-skilled Unskilled management management management management EE target 2013 EE Actual December 2013 EE target 2014 Appointments (%) of Sanlam’s structure, the operating model and the diverse nature of the businesses, businessspecific EE plans were formulated at each business cluster level, namely Sanlam Personal Finance (SPF), Sanlam Investments (SI), the Sanlam Group (Corporate) Office and the Sanlam IT Shared Services (SSS). Progress against EE targets is monitored quarterly 34,0 36,7 8,3 21,0 38,5 32,0 6,9 22,5 47,3 27,7 7,4 17,6 at a Group and cluster level. The heightened target-oriented focus has proven successful. 2011 2012 2013 However, transformation at senior management African Coloured Indian White level remains a challenge. This is being addressed through a centrally managed initiative with a focus on high-potential and specialist black staff being Promotions (%) groomed for senior management. This initiative will include a comprehensive development process. People with disabilities Sanlam is committed to providing equal opportunities for unemployed people with disabilities and offering learnerships specifically aimed 25,6 35,0 10,6 28,8 22,2 32,3 12,7 32,9 29,2 40,3 9,0 21,5 at individuals with disabilities. 2011 2012 2013 Initiated in 2012, the learnership programme African Coloured Indian White offers 30 learners with disabilities a year-long contract within our SPF and SSS retail business divisions. The intention is to appoint as many of Terminations (%) these learners as possible when they successfully complete the programme. In 2013, 23 learners successfully completed the learnership. Those who were not permanently employed were placed on an internship during 2013. In July 2013, 33 new learners were enrolled in the learnership programme. * These graphs exclude advisers due to the volatility of this job category across the industry. 25,0 31,7 5,4 37,9 33,8 26,0 7,4 32,8 31,5 34,6 7,4 26,5 2011 2012 2013 African Coloured Indian White 36 2.3 1 2 PEOPLE SKILLS DEVELOPMENT 3 Sanlam views the quality of its staff as a key policies and HR solutions that result in high differentiator and invests extensively in equipping performance. Individual businesses govern the 4 our employees with the skills we need to grow technical training they require. The Group remains our business. responsible for much of the management and 5 leadership development implemented. Succession planning is managed at both Group and cluster levels. It is the responsibility of the Sanlam spent R144,42 million, during 2013, on both business clusters, which are required to identify technical training and development initiatives. key leadership, high-potential and technical More was spent on technical training than in talent, to organise talent pools and actively work previous years, to ensure that the sales force is with group-wide initiatives to develop these compliant with the regulations and legislation individuals to achieve their career and life goals. governing the sector and competent in providing At a Group level, the Group CE, in consultation with appropriate solutions to customers. the Executive Committee and Group HR, drives succession planning for key executive roles across During 2013 89% of all staff received training and the business. more than 61,4% of money spent on training and skills development went to black employees. Our Our training and development forum is mandated dti B-BBEE skills development score for 2012 was with fostering alignment and collaboration 12,23 out of a maximum of 15 (2011: 9,91). In 2013 between HR specialists across the Group. The the equivalent FSC score for Skills Development is forum is also responsible for developing strategies, 9,13 out of a maximum of ten. Skills development spend (R’million) 2010 2011 2012 2013 R58,5 R58,2 R115,4 R144,4 % development spend % development spend 53,0% 50,0% 59,0% 61,4%3 on black employees on black employees Total skills development spend breakdown 2013 Black White Grand Cost type Male Female Male Female Foreign total Direct spend (R’million) 9,5 9,9 7,7 6,8 0,3 34,3 Indirect cost (R’million) 22,4 46,8 16,5 24,1 0,3 110,1 Total 31,3 56,7 24,2 30,9 0,6 144,4 Number of staff trained 2 642 4 224 1 395 2 149 51 10 461 Average cost per person R12 082 R13 434 R17 340 R14 407 R12 788 R13 810 Combination of direct costs associated with training and the infrastructure costs. 2 3 Although 65% of the staff in Sanlam is black, our training spend on black staff is less than this, due to the fact that the spend on more senior staff is more costly than junior staff. Our EE ratios are still skewed at junior level. sustainability report 2013 37 Beneficiaries of training 2013 Black White Grand Occupational level Male Female Male Female Foreign total Top management 2 1 4 1 0 8 Senior management 48 24 201 58 2 333 Middle management 324 229 504 456 17 1 530 Junior management 1 198 1 641 652 1 446 15 4 952 Semi-skilled 1 065 2 299 33 188 17 3 602 Unskilled 5 30 1 0 0 36 Grand total 2 642 4 224 1 395 2 149 51 10 461 Investment in management and leadership skills Leadership and serves our need to create a pipeline of talented technical skills individuals that can successfully lead the business into the future. While a diversity of managers During 2013 there was a very specific focus attends these programmes, we are increasing within SPF to improve the competence of the the numbers of black participants as part of our advisers. This focus is justified by the fact that overarching transformation imperative. our sales force (advisers) generates 85% of Sanlam’s business. Key Group-level initiatives Number of Number of participants graduates Programme Description Duration 2013 2013 The Senior A partnership with the University of 10 months 28 27 Management Stellenbosch Business School (USB) that aims Development to equip senior managers with the change Programme management skills to function effectively within a corporate environment. The Business A partnership with the USB supporting 10 months 25 24 Management managers in the implementation of Development strategic objectives, by providing a broader Programme understanding of the different fields of management and leadership. Executive A partnership with Gordon Institute of Business 10 months 35 To be Leadership Science (GIBS) developed to enable current completed Programme high-performing senior management, across in 2014 global business clusters, to further refine their leadership and management skills. 38 During October 2013 the flagship Executive Leadership Programme was launched. This was Learnerships 1 undertaken in partnership with the Gordon 2 Learnerships have a transformation focus and are Institute of Business Science (GIBS) to provide seen as a key vehicle to bring staff members into PEOPLE high-performing senior management with the business at entry level. By making learnerships additional leadership and management skills. available to black individuals and people with Sanlam Distribution Academy disabilities, a pipeline is created to assist with the achievement of our transformation objectives. Sanlam Distribution Academy plays a pivotal role in ensuring that our tied agents are able to service During 2013, 64 learners began a learnership, their clients effectively, and within the legislative 3 33 of whom were learners with disabilities and requirements. A range of training initiatives are 22 of whom are employed within Sanlam. Of 4 offered such as sales, skills development, legal and the 43 learners who completed the 2012/2013 technical training, management and leadership, learnership, 21 were employed as interns and 5 entrepreneurial and business management, 11 were permanently employed. technical products support and business processes. Please read more about the Academy’s work in Sanlam has partnered with the INSETA in an the Products and Services: Distribution section on initiative to develop critical but scarce ICT skills. page 61. Four of the graduates who enrolled in INSETA’s Business and Systems Analyst Programme were accommodated at Sanlam. They have successfully graduated and have been permanently employed. We conduct a further 14 leadership development programmes across the business, focused at a range of employment levels including junior and middle management, as well as more generic courses aimed at all staff. These programmes saw almost 300 staff trained during 2013. The Leading Edge Programme Building Relationships and Collaboration Skills The Living Passionate Ownership Investment Professional Development Programme Masters in the Making Mentorship Maintenance Programme Life and Corporate Coaching Programme Business Management Programme Assertiveness Leadership Programme A number of team leader programmes. Middle Management Development Assertive Leadership sustainability report 2013 39 2.4 ORGANISATIONAL CULTURE Organisational culture is a key driver of staff departments and clusters. Each department and behaviour which affects our ability to deliver a cluster will continue to communicate extensively superior client service. Our culture is based on the and refine action plans to further drive progress. values that guide us. We strive to provide staff with an employment experience that is world-class. In doing so we aim to develop a workforce that is content, healthy, To counteract the disablers, Sanlam aims supported and enjoy their working environment. to formulate action plans that reduce CULTURE these undermining behaviours. Sanlam’s culture is characterised by humility, tradition and success. We aspire to creating a culture that retains much of what exists already but with a shift, over time, to a higher level of A noticeable improvement in this year’s Blueprint performance. With this in mind, we launched for Success survey was the increased number our Blueprint for Success initiative in 2012, an of constructive comments, which focused on employee engagement tool designed to drive our suggestions for improvements. These inputs will be desired culture by defining and then measuring key discussed in more detail within each business unit constructs and behaviours which either support and added to action plans. or prevent high performance. This allows us to Investors in People develop those that enable, and reduce those that disable, performance. SPF was successfully assessed against the Investors in People (IiP) standard in the latter After undertaking our first assessment with staff part of 2012 as part of a three-year reassessment in 2012, we identified a number of key areas of cycle. (The previous assessments were undertaken focus. The process to drive improvements in in 2006 and 2009.) Five hundred top managers, these key areas includes ongoing communication, line managers and employees across 23 business feedback to staff, actively working with results, units were randomly selected to participate in and developing and implementing action plans. the assessment, which covers ten indicators and We followed up our first survey with a second 39 supporting evidence requirements that build a one in August 2013. Sixty-three percent of staff picture of how a business is managing its people. participated, an increase of 45% compared to All SPF business units received the standard the first survey. Our overall survey index score IiP accreditation, while Glacier by Sanlam and showed a slight but pleasing improvement. An SPF Customer Contact Centre met additional analysis of the detail shows that this can largely be requirements and received bronze ratings. Business attributed to fewer disabling behaviours among units translated the findings into action plans that staff. While this is very encouraging, scores are were included in their HR people-practice plans most meaningful when viewed in the context of for 2013. 40 1 High scores mean that more people are witnessing • Responsible citizenship behaviours that reflect the traits represented. The • Client-centricity 2 three top-scoring enablers were: • Clear goals and direction PEOPLE High priority enablers over the next year will be: • Investing in our people • Teamwork • Building and strengthening our brand 3 4 The three top-scoring disablers were: • Loss of key talent 5 • Bureaucracy and red tape • Favouritism and discrimination July 2013 a total of 13 work-life balance sessions Values, ethics, were conducted at 11 different sites. We continue governance and to offer psychosocial counselling and support, compliance and practical financial, legal and life management services through the Employee Assistance Sanlam’s work culture aims to ensure that our Programme (EAP), while Sanlam’s Corporate values, ethical standards and operating standards Games are proving successful in promoting a more are adhered to. A measure of this is the number active lifestyle through sport and exercise among and type of disciplinary measures, hearings, our employees. dismissals and CCMA cases. During 2013, 110 In 2012 we launched our incidents of disciplinary action were recorded. Of new bWell employee these 110 incidents, only four were incidents of wellness programme. The failure to comply with the Code of Ethical Conduct. programme consolidates Twelve employees were dismissed for reasons all our efforts into one ranging from poor performance to breach of the overarching approach that Code of Ethical Conduct. Five cases proceeded to will enable us to better the Labour Court and three cases are pending in the monitor and support our High Court. The cost of these cases was R1 322 186. employees in matters concerning their health and Sanlam is not a highly unionised environment and fitness. The programme 2013 saw a decline in the number of staff members includes employee wellness who were unionised. The number dropped from assessments, HIV/Aids 236 staff members belonging to a union in 2012 education and testing, to 196 during 2013. This is less than 2% of our staff health scheme support and complement. Staff members are free to join a union eCare, our online wellness of their choice. platform that provides enrolled employees with Employee wellness pertinent health-related information via email. One of the pillars of Sanlam’s Employee Value Proposition is balance. There is a clear relationship During 2013 we continued to roll out the bWell between employee wellness and productivity, and programme across the business. By December Sanlam recognises the importance of ensuring the 7 252 employees were enrolled in our eCare wellness of its staff members. programme and now receive weekly bWell wellness electronic newsletters. In total, 43% of the enrolled Our 2013 health campaigns were aimed at employees have access to tailored health and addressing health risks that were identified during wellness information after submitting their health the 2012 Onsite Wellness Days. During June and data online or attending an onsite wellness day. sustainability report 2013 41 We also conducted an organisational health risk assessment to assess the most prevalent healthOccupationAL health, related concerns across the business. A total of safety and workplace 2 797 employees took part in the assessment. design Back pain, hayfever and headaches were found to be the most prevalent medical conditions, Within South Africa Sanlam has 12 sites housing while a total of 56% of employees are at risk of 80% of Sanlam’s total workforce. The work coronary heart disease, 45% are at risk of diabetes environment varies from well-accommodated and 18% are highly stressed. The assessment also city offices to containers in rural areas where led to the identification of more than 300 cases Sanlam Sky Solutions provides cost-efficient of previously unknown risks and undiagnosed solutions to the local market. medical conditions. Managing and controlling workplace design and All of the above conditions have the propensity ergonomics within these parameters is challenging. to significantly impact quality of life and business Where we can control the environment, offices productivity. Going forward these findings will be are spacious, well ventilated and well equipped, investigated further and we are busy developing designed by professional staff according to global interventions to reduce these risk factors. Since the standards. While accepting that improvements assessments are proving useful, additional onsite in some environments are required, we strive to risk assessments are planned for the first half ensure an office environment that contributes to of 2014. wellbeing and productivity. Each of our buildings is Administrative compliance (including regulatory inspected quarterly and rated health and safety requirements) according to the following Safe working environment (including access to three aspects: safety equipment and fire escapes) Education and training The table below reflects our performance against these aspects Administrative compliance Safe working environment Education and training One incident of non-compliance Health and safety inspections Our health and safety training with local bylaws was identified revealed only six minor issues, all at all sites is up to date. and rectified at each of our of which have been addressed During 2013, 119 (2012: 59) Bloemfontein and Midrand and no violations occurred employees underwent health and offices. No other non-compliance safety training concerns were identified in 2013 42 Occupational Health and Safety (December 2013) 1 Legally required 2 BUILDINGS* Target level Sanlam Head Office 98% PEOPLE SEB RFA – Centurion 86% Bloemfontein 85% 3 Port Elizabeth 96% 4 Durban 100% 5 Sanlam Sky 98% Midrand Distribution Academy 85% Sanlynn 98% Hyde Park** 93% SIM Main Building 99% The Vineyards 88% Glacier by Sanlam 98% Data sourced from our external service provider Scott-safe * 12 largest Sanlam buildings that contain more than 100 people ** Our Hyde Park offices includes UB and UB Investments Our overall annual health and safety score Injuries on duty for our larger buildings (>100 individuals) has Over the past decade an average of 38 injuries on remained fairly constant over the past five years duty were recorded per annum of which 89% were at above 90%. All buildings achieved the minimum minor or initially unreported incidents. For 2013 compliance level of 85% set by the Department only 31, mostly minor, injuries were recorded. of Labour. Our target, however, is to maintain a minimum compliance level of 90% for all our buildings. Our smaller offices, with less than a 100 people, are also assessed and 90% have achieved Sanlam’s target compliance level of 90%. sustainability report 2013 43 44 sustainability report 2013 45 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our products and services, sold to clients through our distribution networks, exist to build, preserve and grow wealth in society. Saving over the medium to long term is an essential requirement for a prosperous society, and getting South Africans to do so will secure our future as a financial services provider. The integrity of our risk products is core to our product philosophy, and we have made it our business to develop products and deliver services that promote a savings culture and protect people in the face of adversity. Client-centricity has been one of our key strategic pillars for years: we have always placed the needs of our clients at the centre of our innovations that deliver products and services. We work to satisfy our clients’ expectations of affordable solutions that address their financial needs, while continually navigating an increasingly strict regulatory environment. These conflicting factors demand innovative products and services and improved operating efficiency to allow us to remain competitive without compromising value. 46 3.1 1 2 BEING 3 RESPONSIVE TO OUR CLIENTS PRODUCTS We are constantly working at understanding our we have used a needs-based segmentation model, clients and responding to their needs effectively. using demographics such as income, qualification 4 To this end client-centricity has been embedded and/or the employment level of individuals as into Sanlam’s organisational culture through our the key parameters. Where appropriate, we 5 Blueprint for Success initiative (see the People subcategorise the market further and continually section on page 40). We have also structured our adjust our segments to keep abreast of shifting business units according to the market segments market requirements. Over the past eight years that we target. we have aligned the business units within Sanlam Segmenting the market Personal Finance (SPF) to these market segments. In order to develop an understanding of customer This has allowed us to develop specialist expertise needs and create an appropriate value proposition, to serve the various markets we target. Retail market segmentation 0,8 3,4 5,6 million million individuals million individuals individuals R3 000 – R9 999 R10 000 – R39 999 R40 000+ Gross monthly income Sub-dividing these markets further allows us to target niche markets such as graduates, professionals or business owners. * Number of employed individuals – statistics gathered from the Bureau of Market Research (BMR) 2013. sustainability report 2013 47 Gaining client insight and structuring the many changes facing the investment industry our business globally, including a low-return investment We use a two-pronged approach to gaining environment and changing customer behaviour, insight into client needs, changing trends and Sanlam Investments implemented its own clientsuitable products. Each of our business clusters centricity programme in 2013. has a market insight team that identifies market This programme repositions our South African trends, conducts market research and analyses investment businesses in a bid to simplify benchmarking data, such as Brand Health Tracker, investment offerings and align them to our market Customer Tracking Study, the Benchmark Study segmentation strategy. Since November 2013 and Bureau of Market Research (BMR) information, SI consists of two client-facing businesses: against our own portfolio. We gain further insight Institutional and Retail, both of which are served into client needs by engaging our distribution by a single investment unit, the Investment Core, network of advisers and brokers. which houses all onshore investment capabilities. Our segmented market approach is evident within Our International (offshore), Employee Benefits, SPF as this business cluster has traditionally Wealth, and Capital Management businesses were contained all our retail business activities and is unaffected by the repositioning. The changes responsible for our whole distribution network. apply to our core onshore investment businesses. Businesses which service other geographies Our Sanlam Investments (SI) cluster focuses solely or client groupings are unaffected by the on the middle and affluent market where clients arrangement for now, although efforts to achieve have discretionary funds available for investment optimal alignment across the board in the interest purposes. As part of this cluster’s response to of our clients will continue. The restructuring the Treating Customers Fairly regulations and process will be finalised in 2014. Client-centric structure of SPF cluster Entry-level Growth Affluent market market market Function SPF Sanlam Sky Sanlam Glacier by Provides client financial solutions such as: business Solutions Individual Sanlam risk, investment, retirement, short-term, units Life health, fiduciary services and transactional Solutions products. Each business unit acts as a solutions provider to a specific market segment. This arrangement is, however, flexible and in some instances business units do provide solutions for other market segments. Sanlam Business Market and Sanlam Caters for the professionals and business Professional Market owners’ niche market. As entrepreneurs, these individuals typically sell their time and are likely to employ others. As such, their personal and business needs can change rapidly and require different engagement models. SPF Our segment solutions teams are responsible for internally monitoring the Segment performance of our products in each market. The SPF Client and Market Solution Insights Unit is responsible for monitoring the external macro-economic and Client environment to formulate client and market insights. Pulling these insights and Market together allows us to identify new market segments and develop products Insights that meet the needs of our clients. 48 Remaining relevant 1 Our value-mapping tool monitors how relevant Sanlam remains as the market 2 changes, people age and the youth lead the way. It allows us to track the amount of new business signed against our client profiles over time and assess our ability to 3 successfully target a specific market. PRODUCTS Age profile of existing clients Age profile of new clients 4 50% 50% 5 40% 40% 30% 30% 20% 20% 10% 10% 16 – 24 25 – 35 35 – 49 50 – 64 65+ 16 – 24 25 – 35 35 – 49 50 – 64 65+ Percentage of South Africans per age group* Percentage of South Africans per age group* Percentage of existing clients** per age group Percentage of new clients per age group * Source: BMR 2013 ** SILSS in-force statistics The age profile of our existing client base within future value and maintaining our relevance. the growth market leans towards the 35 – 49We have therefore placed renewed emphasis on year and 50 – 64-year age groups, representing developing products for, and promoting a culture 37% and 35% of the total client base respectively. of saving among, the graduate market. We are also Being in business for 95 years, we expect to focusing on empowering graduates to manage have a mature client base. Our strong focus on money through a number of financial literacy retirement savings has also attracted long-term campaigns. committed clients. More on financial literacy programmes can be In contrast, our new client found on page 76 and new graduate products profile over the past two years on page 58. differs substantially. Our efforts to attract younger clients to our Communicating effectively with graduates is business are proving successful critical, and we are experimenting with different with the 25 – 34-year age group channels and technologies to engage graduates providing an average of 37% of directly in a way that appeals to them. These our new business. The younger efforts aim to foster a thriving client base now and market is key to unlocking into the future. sustainability report 2013 49 Customer satisfaction and loyalty satisfaction, Sanlam scored 79, two points above We engage our customers through customer the financial services industry average of 77. satisfaction surveys to assess the quality of our Sanlam Life not only had the lowest number client services, claims experience and complaint of complaints, but also outperformed the four resolution mechanisms. other South African life insurance providers in handling complaints and achieving customer According to the 2013 South African Customer loyalty. Internationally Sanlam Life also compared Satisfaction Index (SAcsi), life insurance customers favourably, for example, with the United States’ rated Sanlam Life as the best life insurer in financial services industry average of 80. South Africa. In terms of overall customer SAcsi overall Sanlam Life 7% 10% Customer complaints* Closest Sanlam Life SAcsi overall Sanlam Life SAcsi overall Sanlam Life competitor 79% 77% 72 69 70 58 Customer satisfaction** Customer loyalty** Complaints handling** * % of respondents that complain ** Average score out of 100 South African Customer Satisfaction Index (SAcsi) The SAcsi is an independently determined economic indicator that measures customer satisfaction levels across South Africa. Within the life insurance category, SAcsi assesses the five largest industry players based on their total net premiums (according to the Financial Services Board). 50 Rewarding customer loyalty 1 In 2006 we launched Reality, a customer loyalty programme. With nearly 200 000 participating clients, the programme aims to improve the “financial fitness” of our clients. 2 3 Number of Reality clients PRODUCTS 4 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 5 2 473 6 375 36 836 76 570 150 620 185 054 180 462 188 512 The programme allows us to build stronger In 2014 we plan to launch a programme aimed relationships with our policyholders and develop a at emerging markets – an industry first. We deeper understanding of their needs. This helps us will continue working on implementing a provide better financial advice and planning. The communication system capable of distributing programme also provides tangible lifestyle benefits tailored content to our clients. We further plan to and incentives, while improving the financial extend the range of Reality membership benefits awareness and literacy of our clients. and investigate how to make financial literacy more interactive and engaging through a range of Our annual web poll suggests that over 80% of online tools. members enjoy the programme’s benefits and are happy with our service. Clients on our programme Client contact centres make use of 25% more Sanlam products and We have three major client contact centres (CCC) are approximately 40% less likely to break off to deal with end consumers and intermediary a relationship with Sanlam than those not on queries. Each CCC serves a different market the programme. segment within SPF and each is supported by a focused client service support structure. Client contact centres within SPF Entry-level market Growth market Affluent market Sanlam Sky CCC Sanlam Life CCC Glacier CCC Average calls per day 2 526 5 600 788 Total interactions per day 5 526 20 500 1 483 Focus area Predominantly handles Handles the majority Handles all client funeral policy queries of all after-sales client interaction in the service interactions on affluent market Sanlam Individual Life segment, from fiduciary and Segment Solutions services to investment Limited Service and risk products (SILSS) products that range from savings to investments sustainability report 2013 51 Our SPF Sanlam Life CCC participated in the In total, 1 071 new complaints were lodged against Contact Centre Management Group (CCMG) us at the ombudsman this year. With over six awards. The national competition recognises million clients within SPF, this represents 0,2% of outstanding achievement in the contact centre our clients. Sanlam Life’s complaints account for industry and the SPF CCC made it into the top 3,3% of the ombudsman’s life insurance complaints, three finalists overall, as well as being awarded while our market share in the life insurance Manager of the Year, Supervisor of the Year and industry in South Africa is estimated at 15% to 20% Quality Evaluator of the Year. according to ASISA. Resolving complaints This year 64% of the finalised cases were related According to SAcsi, we are the best South African to claims we declined on the basis of nonlife insurance provider in terms of handling disclosure or policy terms and conditions not customer complaints with a score of 70, 12% above being met. Complaints regarding poor service and the second best-performing life insurer. communications made up 25%. Nearly 75% of all finalised cases were settled in favour of Sanlam. Beyond our client contact centres, we subscribe to the ombudsman scheme. Any of our long-term insurance policyholders can lodge a complaint at the independent Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance to have their complaint resolved. At Group level, our Client Relations Unit (CRU) is responsible for resolving all complaints reported to the Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance and other channels, such as our CCCs. Sanlam-related complaints handled by the ombudsman during 2013 % Resolved % Resolved New Cases in favour of in favour of complaints finalised* complainant insurer Sanlam Life 329 105 14% 86% Sanlam Sky** 742 517 28% 72% Total 1 071 622 25% 75% * These are the cases finalised during 2013. Some of these cases were received in earlier years. ** Includes Safrican and Channel Life Licences. Percentage Percentage resolved resolved in favour in favour of of insurer complainant 25% 75% 52 1 BENCHMARK Symposium 2 Retirement savings is a national priority, since 6  2% of people don’t preserve their retirement the overwhelming majority of South Africans savings when changing jobs or being 3 will not retire with sufficient income. Our annual retrenched PRODUCTS BENCHMARK survey examines South Africa’s 9  0% of employees don’t revise their retirement retirement landscape to identify developing savings after initial sign-up trends in employee benefit structures and retirement fund management in South Africa. 38% of working people never get professional  advice about saving for retirement. Widely regarded as the definitive guide to Since 2008 we have broadened the scope of 4 retirement provision in South Africa, the research results are presented at our annual the research to include responsible investment 5 BENCHMARK Symposium to encourage debate, and environmental, social and governance (ESG) promote responsible best practices and provide a issues as the social and environmental impact benchmark to industry stakeholders. This assists of the underlying financial instruments has employers, trustees, principal officers and benefit far-reaching implications for the economy and consultants to design appropriate employee society on the whole. The aim of the research benefit structures. is to assist the retirement fund industry to understand clients’ retirement needs better and The 2013 survey found that employees frequently unlock innovative solutions within this space. make the following mistakes: The BENCHMARK survey reports, presentations  6% start saving at age 28 instead of the 5 and expert interpretations are made freely recommended age of 23 available online at www.sanlambenchmark.co.za. O  n average, employees invest 7% of their annual salary instead of the recommended 15% The professional and business owner market As part of the segmentation changes made – there is also a business support offering. The during 2012, we realised that the sub-cluster Sanlam SME Action Team, established during consisting of professionals and business 2011, enables us to serve the entrepreneur based owners operates across various market on their holistic needs: as an individual (risk and segments, depending on the maturity levels investment); as a business (insurance, acquisition of their business. This group comprises of the capital and operating requirements); and finally entrepreneurial market of South Africa, which as an employer (group risk and savings solutions the government has prioritised for development for employees). as part of the National Development Plan One of the key differentiators is that, apart (NDP). Entrepreneurs have needs and risks from providing financial solutions, we have also that employed individuals do not encounter. invested in making SME-related intellectual Our research into this helped us to identify a capital freely available for download. As a way of cross-cluster solution for this diverse market, ensuring ongoing communication to this market, the SME Value Proposition, which brings under we produce monthly articles on information one umbrella the myriad solutions Sanlam has relevant to a business – for example, labour available to this group. This approach endorses advice, IT tips and tricks, trust and fiduciary our Sanlam for Sanlam culture drive, and enables services, business tips as well as an economic us to build on efficiencies and drive better value overview – to 116 000 business owners in to clients. South Africa, 34 000 direct subscribers, and the balance via formal business networks. In addition to the “day-to-day” solution – from fiduciary services, to lifeand short-term cover, Visit www.sanlam.co.za for the full SME Value to collective investments and share portfolios Proposition. sustainability report 2013 53 3.2 TREATING OUR CLIENTS FAIRLY Sanlam supports the intention of the Financial Until this regulation comes into effect, we will Services Board’s (FSB) proposed regulation to focus our activities on preparation and awareness. look after customer interests. We have positioned This year the Group focused on implementing Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) as a critical the actions required to reach our target state business imperative that will augment our longin terms of how we interpret the proposed TCF standing client-centric strategy. regulation. We intend to conclude the first phase of implementation by the second quarter of 2014. The The proposed TCF regulation seeks to ensure that focus will then shift to compliance and regulatory regulated financial institutions treat customers fairly requirements as the FSB rolls these out as a and demonstrably deliver on six fairness outcomes. phased approach, starting in 2014. TCF will require regulated firms to consider their treatment of customers at all stages of their Evidence of Sanlam’s commitment to the fair relationships, from product design and marketing, treatment of our customers stretches beyond the through to the advice, point-of-sale and after-sale current TCF implementation. It is, for example, stages. Firms will be required to demonstrate – widely reflected in public and industry recognition. through management behaviours, measures and This recognition includes, among others, the monitoring – that they are consistently treating South African Consumer Satisfaction Index (SAcsi), customers fairly throughout these stages. the Ask Africa Orange Index, as well as Sanlam’s favourable complaints statistics noted by the Ultimately, successful delivery of these outcomes Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance. will ensure that customers’ financial services needs are appropriately met by a sustainable industry. TCF is a regulatory approach that seeks to ensure that regulated financial institutions deliver specific, clearly articulated fairness outcomes for financial services customers. OUTCOME 1 OUTCOME 2 Customers are confident that they Products and services marketed are dealing with firms where the fair and sold in the retail market are treatment of customers is central to designed to meet the needs of the firm culture. identified customer groups and are targeted accordingly. OUTCOME 3 OUTCOME 4 Customers are given clear information Where customers receive advice, the and are kept appropriately informed advice is suitable and takes account before, during and after the time of of their circumstances. contracting. OUTCOME 5 OUTCOME 6 Customers are provided with products Customers do not face unreasonable that perform as firms have led them post-sale barriers to change to expect, and the associated service product, switch provider, submit a is both of an acceptable standard and claim or make a complaint. what they have been led to expect. 54 3.3 1 2 3 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PRODUCTS Product philosophy Product development process Our product development philosophy centres on Robust frameworks are in place for product 4 meeting the needs of clients, while generating development and to review the continued an acceptable return to shareholders. We do this relevance of Sanlam’s existing product range. 5 by developing high-quality solutions that at the This occurs through a central Board Committee same time provide quality benefits and value for – the Sanlam Customer Interest Committee – money to our clients, support the marketing and that reviews and monitors all customer-related distribution channels used to distribute these decisions made by the Group. This product and products, and generate value in terms of profitable services governing body ensures that Sanlam’s new business volumes to shareholders. client-centricity standards are maintained across the business. Furthermore, new products Our goal is to develop solutions that promote a are subject to a preapproval and sign-off savings culture within the communities we serve. process, including a review from the Sanlam Simplicity is key. We aim to design products in Customer Interest Committee and an appointed such a way that clients can easily understand what statutory actuary. they are purchasing and what the benefits are and hence avoid unexpected surprises. In financial While our client-centric approach is aligned with services, trust is crucial and, with our strong the principles of the proposed TCF regulation, product legacy, we are able to give clients the we have embarked on a process to assess and assurance that they can depend on our solutions. incorporate the new TCF regulation requirement into the product development process. We have a diverse range of financial solutions offerings, including savings, investments, estate planning, trusts, health management, personal loans, credit and life insurance. We have introduced three new steps into our product development model this year: Sanlam’s generic product development process LAUNCH Customer Marketing outcomes plan and stress material testing PostProduct Exco Review of product initiation approval training launch memo monitoring Product Planning of pricing and launch and governance training System/process implementation sustainability report 2013 55 The three new steps in our product development process, as highlighted in the diagram on page 55, include: Customer Once we have developed the business case for a new product, we assess the outcomes potential risks that may arise according to our Treating Customers Fairly risk stress testing framework. Suitable mitigation actions are then defined for each risk identified. Once new systems are in place, and intermediaries and support staff have been Review of trained, we review the training process and outcomes and, where necessary, conduct our product further training interventions to ensure the business is thoroughly prepared to launch training and support the product. Post the product launch, we analyse sales trends, sales volumes, profitability and Post-product performance of the distribution channels involved. This testing is performed on an launch ongoing basis in order to identify instances where sales trends do not align with the monitoring analysis performed pre-launch. Product development activity Developing products with accurate insight into the future Product development activity is determined, Balancing the need to provide clients with inter alia, by opportunities identified from client competitively priced products without forfeiting research, research into international and local benefits, is challenging and requires accurate product trends, internal innovation, analysis modelling of the future trends. of competitor products, discussions with intermediaries or forced by legislative changes. During the year we expanded our actuarial team’s capability to provide more accurate forwardFurthermore, our market-segmented approach looking predictions. The team now has access guides our product and service development to the SPF clusters’ database of over six million activity. It enables us to understand our clients’ clients. This has improved the level of statistical needs and develop tailored solutions relevant to analysis we can conduct. the market segments and sub-segments we target. We also consult specialists to determine the The product development activity for 2013 is drivers of the key trends in order to uncover and shown alongside. understand the risks we expose ourselves to. This Regulatory changes year we developed tools for the early detection of The National Treasury plans to review, and dreaded disease claims and to analyse how clients possibly revamp, the retirement savings sector in use our dreaded disease benefits. This will allow us South Africa in a bid to promote household savings to proactively tailor our products and adjust their and reform the retirement industry. Ensuring pricing according to the needs of clients. that all our products adhere to the increasingly These changes will lead to more efficient and strict regulatory requirement is time-consuming competitive products that meet the needs of and costly. our clients. While the review is still under discussion, we recognise that we have an important role to play and are actively involved with government to find the most suitable way to bring down the cost and charges associated with retirement plans. 56 SPF Product development activity in 2013 1 2 3 Entry-level market Growth market Affluent market New business flow PRODUCTS (change from 2012) 17,4% 13,6% 40,3% Please refer to the IAR 2013 for more detail. 4 5 Where we excel We continue to build on The growth in this We are the largest the strong demand for segment can be provider of Living our funeral cover that attributed to the Annuities in accounts for 80% of strong demand for our South Africa. We offer all new business in this Cumulus and Nimbus a full suite of financial segment. The remaining products. solutions that include business is spread wills, trusts, fiduciary across savings and and life products. We then other smaller life, continue to provide personal accident and a diverse range of hospital products. investment solutions (from collective We also specialise in investments to offering low-premium share portfolios and products in bulk to structured solutions) to affinity groups such as meet the needs of highthe Zionist Christian net-worth individuals. Church. Our challenge The entry-level market The growth market is The affluent market is highly price sensitive highly susceptible to continues to grow, and building an appetite the economic pressure and is generally well for savings products of rising living costs, serviced by various within this segment the challenge to stay financial services remains an industrycompetitive and focus providers. One of our wide challenge. on client needs. key challenges is to continue to optimise It requires us to our operational and be innovative by sales processes to developing costmaintain and improve efficient products that the service and deliver real value, and solutions offerings finding distribution to our clients, while models that can retaining the low cost. effectively deliver these products to the market. sustainability report 2013 57 Entry-level market Growth market Affluent market New products released In 2013 we integrated Nimbus Investments, We continue to iCover, an “off-thelaunched at the start increase the range of shelf” way of buying of the year, offers a investment options we funeral cover from a high-quality fund range provide to clients with a variety of retail outlets at excellent value for particular focus on cost across the country, money. effectiveness. into the Sanlam Sky Solutions product suite. Sanlam for Graduates We are developing (three-year degree our range of managed We have identified or four-year diploma) investment options with that the entry-level is a unique range of an emphasis on better market uses funeral solutions for graduates investment advice cover as a means to to start saving for for clients, as well as save. In response, we retirement and access improved advice tools are currently revamping life cover. We are for intermediaries. our funeral products, specifically targeting to include a savings the black middle class. Furthermore, we are component. This is due improving electronic to be launched In 2014. Sanlam’s new Cumulus interfaces with clients Echo product is a and intermediaries. We also improved retirement annuity our life and personal product that accident offering by encourages long-term replacing our existing savings by paying out life and personal loyalty bonuses to those accident plans with individuals who invest two new products that in the product over a have a range of flexible longer period of time. features that can be The longer clients invest tailored to client needs. the bigger the benefit. Our Masterplan We have also enhanced solution for small micro our risk offering by business and group the addition of new product offerings are benefits as well as now, also continually being as a first in South Africa, improved. accepting HIV as an insurable disease that we cover in the same manner as all other chronic illnesses. 58 3.4 1 2 3 DISTRIBUTION NETWORK PRODUCTS Sanlam makes use of an extensive intermediated distribution model to generate approximately 90% of all of Sanlam’s new business. These intermediaries engage existing and potential clients in the entry-level, growth, 4 affluent and self-employed markets and provide them with solutions to meet their financial needs. Together with clients, intermediaries also regularly review the progress of these solutions against a client’s financial 5 objectives and adjust these solutions to ensure their relevance. SPF new business inflows 2013 Intermediated 89% Direct and corporate 11% As a result Sanlam’s prosperity is dependent on share. As such intermediaries are expected to a sustainable and growing flow of revenue from stay informed of the latest market trends, remain a high-quality sales force, with client-centricity flexible and adapt accordingly. While embracing and Treating Customers Fairly at the core of these changes, intermediaries continue to focus our business philosophy and practice. Sanlam’s on building lasting relationships with clients, distribution objective is to recruit, develop and ultimately based on trust. support the appropriate resources able to advise We provide various levels of support to the and implement financial solutions for clients in intermediaries to help them adapt to the changing order to grow our revenue. operating environment. From a legislative point of Due to increased regulatory requirements and view, we have full ownership over our tied agents, complexity, the costs incurred to support a as they operate under Sanlam’s Financial Services distribution network have increased exponentially Board (FSB) licence versus independent brokerages, over the past five years. Furthermore, competition which operate under their own FSB licences. We within the market, and a more informed client base, employ support staff that brokers can consult creates additional pressures in developing market regarding Sanlam solutions and service offerings. We are guided by four strategic pillars To grow the business Optimal capital usage Operational efficiency To be an employer of choice. sustainability report 2013 59 Sanlam’s distribution network We acknowledge that intermediaries’ needs differ dependent on the particular client market which they service. Those who service predominantly the affluent and growth market clients will have a different value proposition than those whose main business is the entry-level market. For this reason our distribution structure is also aligned to our client market segmentation. For the growth and affluent market, clients are serviced through the Sanlam Distribution and the Glacier Investment Channel business unit. The entry-level market has a separate business unit, Sanlam Sky Solutions, which provides all entry-level financial solutions to this market. Sanlam’s distribution channels can be broadly classified into three general categories Advisers/Tied agents Brokers/Independent intermediaries – Sanlam Financial Advisers (SFA) service the Independent brokers service individual clients growth and affluent market via advisers who across the market segments and are supported are only accredited to sell Sanlam products by dedicated broker support units in Sanlam and those that are accredited to sell a wider Sky, Glacier and SPF distribution. product range – The Sanlam Sky Agency channel services the Direct entry-level market as well as the lower part The Sanlam Direct unit markets Sanlam of the growth market via advisers who sell products directly to clients using an outbound Sanlam products exclusively call centre. – Sanlam Affiliated Intermediaries also service the entry level market and operate with a greater degree of autonomy but are also restricted to selling Sanlam products only Key objectives of our distribution channels Tied agents Brokers Direct Emphasising the importance Our key objective is to enable Sanlam Direct utilises direct of sustained business, clientbrokers to generate maximum marketing principles and is a centricity, Treating Customers value from their practice and distributor of both longand Fairly, sound financial advice and optimise their capacity, by short-term products. profitability. delivering a value proposition focused on: Sanlam Direct is positioned A strong focus point is also to as a complementary channel ensure professionalism, and much P artnering brokers with to the other distribution units emphasis is placed on ensuring professional broker consultants and provide direct marketing a competent and ethical adviser campaign support. This is done force that adheres to our Code of Positive engagement with by ensuring intermediaries Professional Conduct at all times. Sanlam’s financial solution participate and are promoted in offering focusing on clientdirect marketing campaigns. One of our goals is to make centricity, which positions BlueStar (see page 62) the advice as a method of creating Our direct marketing invitations primary and preferred distribution long-term client relationships subscribe to direct marketing vehicle for the growth market, and supporting continued best practice, legislative and through continual business and business development compliance standards, whether leadership development with opportunities those standards are regulated specialised technology platforms formally by means of legislation and dedicated support. Playing a positive role to or industry codes, or informally ensure new brokers are by way of Sanlam’s internal attracted to the industry. systems of control. 60 focus on mobile devices, for both advisers and Critical success sales management, as a means to better service 1 factors this market. 2 We realise that there are various drivers to In order to combat technological redundancy, 3 improving performance within our business. These we have replaced, and will continue to replace, include providing competitive products, supporting outdated technology that will not be supported into PRODUCTS intermediaries with efficient IT systems, securing the future. and training the right people, promptly adopting legislative requirements, growing our footprint, Secure and train the right people finding synergies and rewarding top performers. Training and development plays a pivotal role in This section describes how we achieve each ensuring that our tied agents are able to service of these. their clients effectively, and within the legislative 4 requirements. Due to conflicts of interest, training Provide competitive products for brokers is limited. We therefore focus on training 5 Sanlam understands that product innovation and our internal broker support staff. affordability remain the key factors affecting our A range of training initiatives are offered such distribution network’s ability to perform and achieve as sales, skills development, legal and technical growth targets. As a result we have spent a great training, management and leadership development, deal of resources restructuring older products and entrepreneurial and business management, launching new ones, based on our intermediaries’ technical products support and business processes inputs. Furthermore, we have initiated various training. This holistic offering supports the training programmes to support advisers in their strategic objectives of the distribution force. ability to service clients with the latest product range in the marketplace. Our Distribution Academy training is accredited by the Insurance Sector Training Authority (INSETA) For more information, please see Being for the NQF Level 4 and 5 Programme in Wealth responsive to our clients on page 47. Management. This curriculum supports our tied agents to become Certified Professional Planners, Support intermediaries with efficient IT where relevant. systems The change from the Department of Trade During 2013 we enhanced the online capabilities and Industry’s Broad-based Black Economic of intermediaries servicing the growth and Empowerment (B-BBEE) Codes of Good Practice affluent market, by launching a new, self-help to the Financial Sector Code (FSC) resulted in online transaction portal, financial planning more aggressive employment equity targets. system and online intermediary portal. These Our entry-level market achieves well in this area. online intermediary portals simplify the transfer Our entry-level adviser staff complement is 99% and integration of data across our business by black, with 66% being female. This is an added consolidating investment tools into one system. It advantage to our network and also assists with enables us to provide more effective client support our access to financial services endeavours. These in line with the requirements of TCF, Protection of targets are a challenge for the growth and affluent Personal Information, and Financial Advisory and market particularly in the face of diminishing Intermediary Services legislation. staff numbers, stringent regulatory requirements, For the entry-level market, we are also gradually such as Regulatory Examinations (RE), and the rolling out technology enhancement with a key potential implications posed by a possible review of intermediary remuneration. The number of training interventions We remain committed to our endeavour to attract the best talent and to incorporate this talent into for 2013 the Group. Promptly adopt legislative requirements 2013 Comments The regulatory environment is changing rapidly. This, coupled with the uncertain impact of new Advisers and Including legislation – such as the intermediary remuneration adviser support product review and retirement industry reform – increases staff 7 106 accreditations the survival threat for intermediaries. To proactively address their concerns, we regularly Brokers 1 191 engage our intermediaries and provide them sustainability report 2013 61 with up-to-date information. All of our advisers our entry-level market tied agency network has and brokers receive our monthly Inside Sanlam seen good growth over the past year, increasing Personal Finance (Inside SPF) magazine as well its market footprint by close to 20%. This supports as regular channel-specific communication. In its continued focus on improving its geographic addition, our distribution heads participate in footprint in the entry-level market in support of our local get-togethers, unit meetings and many other objective of adequately servicing this market. formal and informal sessions. The cost pressure of escalating regulatory We annually hold a number of road shows and requirements has led to a year-on-year decline in workshops around the country to discuss industry the number of independent brokers serving the and corporate matters of interest. At these events, entry-level market. Sanlam Sky Solutions engaged Sanlam general management, including the PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) in 2012 to conduct Sanlam Group CE, make themselves available to a survey with brokers and internal stakeholders address intermediaries. in this market. Following the survey a broker reengineering project was started to streamline and During the year Glacier hosted various seminars automate some of the current manual systems on regulatory matters for intermediaries, focusing and procedures to improve the service offering to on the proposed TCF regulation, while Sanlam brokers in this market. Sky Broker Division held three business update conferences nationally. These business updates Alternative distribution channels are continuously are open to all brokers and Sanlam-affiliated being explored. A special initiative was launched intermediaries (SAIs). There was also a BlueStar in 2013 to expand our footprint in key markets conference, an SFA conference, and a number of by recruiting vested intermediaries. We have also ongoing seminars and forums involving specific set aggressive targets to grow our business in the groups on business matters pertinent at the time. high-growth and affluent markets. At these forums, matters of strategic importance The current shortto medium-term plan is to were discussed and input gained from the grow the intermediated model through various members. These include the impact of regulatory initiatives, which will incorporate the changing changes, such as TCF, on adviser contracts and distribution structure. We aim to expand the client relationships. number of BlueStar businesses. We, as a provider of financial services, as well as To improve our profitability we are assessing our our advisers, agents and brokers who provide distribution channels using an internal value map financial or intermediary services, must comply tool. The tool aims to identify pockets of nonwith the Financial Advisory and Intermediary profitable operations and to develop specialised Services (FAIS) Act. This act is designed to protect support and workaround strategies for these. consumers of financial products and services. As such, FAIS requires all financial advisers to write and pass the Regulatory Examinations (RE). To date 98,5% of Sanlam’s advisers registered to give advice have written and passed the RE. This BLUESTAR excludes the entry-level market advisers who have been granted exemption by the FSB and is BlueStar aims to create an entrepreneurial based on those with a qualifying cut-off date of culture within our tied agency force by steering December 2013. away from traditional individual “one-man show” Grow our network structures to create professional practices. Over the past few years, the traditional broker This enables advisers to adopt new-generation and tied agent distribution model has evolved business principles, where the primary objective into more diverse structures with industry now is to deliver the Sanlam value proposition to incorporating dealership models, franchise clients in an independent business setting, while still having the security and protection of Sanlam models, as well as closer relationships with large as the licence provider. Services and solutions corporates. This has come about through the are offered by specialists across various market changing requirements of the intermediaries segments, from short-term insurance, to life as well as of the product providers and insurance to investments. The intention is to industry regulators. build and run profitable and compliant financial Growth of adviser numbers in the growth and advisory businesses with predefined rules and affluent markets has been modest and we focus processes. This is aligned with our strategic on recruiting vested advisers. Sanlam currently objective of client-centricity, quality financial uses various recruitment techniques and to attract advice and sustainable business practices. promising talent to the Group. On the other hand, 62 3.5 1 2 3 RESPONSIBLE INVESTING PRODUCTS In our role as an institutional investor we manage sizeable investments in various South African businesses on behalf of our clients. This positions us to be able to influence and encourage businesses to adopt 4 sound governance principles, which is important to our clients. As a member of ASISA we subscribe to the Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA) and the United Nations Principles of Responsible 5 Investing (UNPRI). Our Responsible Investing Policy is embedded in our investment process. During 2006 we formed the Corporate Governance Unit (CGU), which is one of the committees within our investment process, to drive and monitor the implementation of, and compliance with, our Responsible Investing Policy. The CGU is the custodian of our Responsible Investment Policy Framework. Responsible Investment Policy currently investigating how best to incorporate Framework the environmental data of companies into our As agents of our clients’ investments, we have equity valuations. a fiduciary duty to fulfil our client mandates in This year we incorporated ESG principles into our accordance with expectations, which includes Credit Risk Framework and drafted a responsible voting on corporate and business matters on lending policy for hedge funds. These policy their behalf. We consider the right to vote to be changes will ensure ESG principles are considered one of the most effective tools for promoting when we make lending decisions. sound corporate governance practices and driving responsible corporate citizenry. Proxy voting Our Responsible Investment Policy Framework is We vote on all proxies of companies in which our based on the responsible investment principles clients are invested without abstaining, unless set out in the UNPRI and CRISA, which seek to we are mandated to do so. In 2013 we voted encourage responsible and compliant practices on 1 708 proxy resolutions and declined 13% of in environmental practices, social citizenry and them for reasons varying from access to capital corporate governance (ESG). In our investment to remuneration. However, we found that 93% of analysis and investment activities we focus on the resolutions that we declined were, in the end, how companies address and manage ESG. We are approved at the companies’ shareholder meetings. SIM proxy voting and company engagements 2013 2012 2011 2010 Number of resolutions voted on 1 708 1 942 1 737 1 777 Number of resolutions declined 215 201 156 176 Percentage of resolutions declined 13% 10% 9% 10% Number of declined resolutions still approved at meeting 200 190 139 113 Percentage of declined resolutions still approved at meeting 93% 95% 89% 64% Number of engagements held 2* 15 8 0 * In terms of our escalation policy, engagements originate from the analyst who is responsible for researching a particular company. Due to this the number of engagement occurrences vary, year on year, according to the incidence of material ESG issues. sustainability report 2013 63 Similar to the past three years, around 90% of the Reasons for declining resolutions resolutions we declined this year related to access (% since January 2010) to capital and issues relating to remuneration such as remuneration policy, retention incentive schemes and executive pay. All our proxy voting is done according to predetermined proxy-voting mandates agreed upon with our clients. We have shared our Responsible Investment Policy Framework with our clients and the majority incorporated it into their proxy-voting mandate. Engaging company boards and other stakeholders Before declining any resolution, we contact a board representative of the company concerned to record and explain our logic, where possible. Access to capital 32% Remuneration 59% We aim to establish regular and constructive Corporate activity 1% dialogue with the companies in which we invest Director re-election/appointment 5% and welcome company-initiated dialogue. Financial assistance 1% Other 2% To encourage the development of industry-wide standards for responsible investment, we take part in responsible investment forums and collaborate with key stakeholders. In particular, we made a Looking forward submission to the Parliamentary Committee on We continue to refine our Responsible Investment Mineral Resources regarding the draft Mineral and Policy to ensure that our decision-making Petroleum Resources Development Amendment processes comply with international standards Bill and provided input to the JSE on some of their of transparency and independence. One of proposed Listings Requirements. our primary goals is to improve the detail and materiality of our reporting to allow shareholders Transparent reporting to make informed investment decisions. We disclose the extent to which we incorporate responsible investment principles in our annual While SIM has taken the lead in driving our responsible investment report. The report, and our responsible investment policies and practices, latest Responsible Investment Policy, is available as well as our CRISA disclosure requirements, as online. (See our SIM Corporate Governance section a Group we now need to build on the work SIM on www.sim.sanlam.com.) has done and establish clear guidelines on how responsible investment applies to all our asset We maintain full voting records and disclose the management and ownership activities. reasons for declining resolutions to clients as part of their written quarterly reporting. Reasons for engagements (% since January 2011) Access Access to to capital Remuneration Remuneration 50% capital 50% 50% 50% 64 Santam Resilience Fund performance RI FUNDS The inception date is February 2013. The objective 1 Sanlam’s responsible investment (RI) products give is to fund small to medium businesses in Santam’s 2 clients access to funds that focus on delivering supply chain that have a direct impact on the ESG positive social or environmental impacts. For risks that affect Santam’s operating environment. 3 example, our Sanlam Investment Management The fund value at the end of December 2013 was PRODUCTS (SIM) SRI Bond Fund focuses on listed bonds with R20 million. While performance is satisfactory, it is a developmental impact. still early days as the fund is just over one year old. After reassessing our RI investment product Santam Resilience Fund performance offering’s commercial viability and market relevance, we closed down two of our RI funds due To December 2013 % return 4 to lack of client demand. These were: Three months 1,51%  he SIM SRI Equity Fund, which focused on ESG T 5 issues in the listed equity space Six months 3,11% T  he Sanlam Empowerment Solution Fund of Funds, which was a multi-asset class fund Inception 6,26% offering retail investors an opportunity to invest directly in BEE deals and assets focused on Africa Sustainability Fund performance achieving social and economic upliftment. Administered by Sustainable Capital, the fund provides long-term investors with equity exposure Sanlam Investments continually assesses to African countries (excluding South Africa) opportunities within the responsible investment at relatively low cost. Its objective is to provide arena capable of delivering meaningful impact. In superior risk-adjusted returns in Africa-listed 2013 we therefore launched the new RI fund called equities over a long-term time horizon by the Santam Resilience Fund. SIM will work closely employing a strong rules-based investment with Santam to identify and assess enterprises management process. This includes bottomwithin Santam’s value chain that require funding up research, from a country-level sustainability to expand. The inclusion of these businesses will assessment, a detailed company-level sustainability depend on their ability to repay their contribution assessment and due diligence. The fund value at to the Santam value chain and the impact on the end of December 2013 was USD75,1 million. socially responsible factors, including, for example, BEE ownership. Africa Sustainability Fund performance SRI Bond Fund performance To December 2013 % return This actively managed bond fund strived to make a significant contribution to social and One month 2,7% economic upliftment through investments in fixed income instruments. The fund value at the end of One year 11,3% December 2013 was R49,7 million. Two years (annualised) 14,1% SRI Bond Fund performance Inception (annualised) 3,6% To December 2013 % return Three months 0,25% Six months 2,00% 12 months 2,16% Inception (annualised) 10,70% sustainability report 2013 65 Targeted investments Financing empowerment In the course of our normal business we target and infrastructure infrastructure investments either directly by financing specific projects in underdeveloped areas In line with government’s national priorities, such as transport, telecommunication, energy, empowerment financing is geared towards health and education-related facilities or indirectly mobilising resources that promote the productive by investing in government bonds. Through and sustainable participation of black companies government bonds we are able to finance specific and black people in South Africa’s economy. infrastructure projects earmarked in various Empowering the people of South Africa is municipalities within South Africa. The guarantee embedded in the history of Sanlam, where our that these investment instruments hold, as well very first black empowerment transaction saw as the social impact, creates a mutually beneficial the sale of the then Metropolitan Holding to a return for both parties. majority black consortium in 1994. Our UB BroadAll transactions must meet our investment based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) criteria and our credit analyst team reviews all transaction matured in December 2013, and investment decisions before seeking approval remains one of South Africa’s most successful from our Board’s Credit Committee. Beyond social empowerment transactions. It continues to add sustainability, we are currently funding three value to both its shareholders and Sanlam. environmental sustainability projects, which form Financing BEE transactions part of the Department of Energy’s Renewable We provide empowerment finance to both unlisted Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement and JSE-listed entities. All empowerment and Programme (REIPPPP), as well as the Department Infrastructure transactions are subject to a detailed of Energy’s Independent Power Peaking risk and credit assessment and transactions are Generation Project. These projects are all in the concluded only once the relevant risk committees construction phase and should start producing have approved the transaction. energy in 2014. Our investments in B-BBEE transactions either At the end of December 2013 we had a total of allow black people to gain direct ownership over R13,8 billion in empowerment finance and targeted existing or new entities or facilitate joint ventures investments assets. This includes government and equity investments in B-BBEE companies bonds and is arrived at after applying FSC which are at least 25% black owned. A number weightings. of new transactions were considered during the We have met all the requirements of the year. However, we were either unsuccessful in our FSC and are on track to meet the FSC’s bids to fund these transactions or the underlying December 2017 targets. transaction did not materialise. More information regarding our B-BBEE transformation scorecard can be found on page 84. The financial services industry identified the opportunity for a dual approach to empowerment financing, which goes beyond only shareholding status, by promoting empowerment through targeted investments. This is the unique advantage that the FSC offers, and a view that Sanlam wholly supports. 66 1 Our Ubuntu-Botho B-BBEE transaction matures 2 Sanlam’s Ubuntu-Botho transaction, matured in Trade unions, such as SADTU (representing December 2013, marking yet another milestone in approximately 250 000 teachers countrywide), 3 South African history. As one of the first significant and NEHAWU (with a membership of more than PRODUCTS B-BBEE transactions in the financial services 180 000) further demonstrate the immense reach sector, it has resulted in substantial value creation of this transaction. of some R15 billion over the past ten years. In 2007 UB declared a once-off dividend enabling Ubuntu-Botho, led by Patrice Motsepe, initially Sanlam and the Ubuntu-Botho Trust to jointly acquired 226 million Sanlam shares at the contribute R6 million towards financial assistance 4 beginning of 2004. The transaction was funded for schools across the country. Nationally, through R1,1 billion debt and a capital investment projects funded by the trust have thus far 5 by UB of R200 million. The Sanlam dividends benefited 77 schools, with support varying from received over the following ten years were cash donations to computer centres and waterenough to repay all of the debt, cover costs, harvesting solutions. enable UB to pay a R50 million once off dividend to its shareholders, and invest R110 million in Both Patrice Motsepe (Chairman of UB) and Ubuntu-Botho Investments Holdings (Pty) Rejoice Simelane (CEO of UB), who joined the Limited, a targeted investment company, jointly Sanlam Board as non-executive directors in 2004 owned by Sanlam and UB. as part of the UB transaction, have added immense value to the Sanlam Group at Board level. At the end of December 2013, UB held 293 million Sanlam shares worth R15,2 billion. After deducting We look forward to continuing and growing our their initial R200 million capital investment, the relationship with Ubuntu-Botho, and together total value created was about R15 billion. unlocking even greater value for the benefit of all our stakeholders. While the Sanlam Group created significant value for the UB shareholders, the partnership between Patrice Motsepe and his consortium has been mutually beneficial and has unlocked substantial value for Sanlam and local communities. The structure of the shareholding composition has been skilfully crafted to reach a truly broadbased group of BEE entities. This enables UB to reach a vast range of individuals, from youth groups to women who run small and micro enterprises through Abafazi Basadi Ubuntu-Botho Investments Limited, and the Ubuntu-Botho Women’s Upliftment Trust, that provides support to rural and urban women. sustainability report 2013 67 FINANCIAL SECTOR CODE: LEVEL 2 68 sustainability report 2013 69 TOWARDS A PROSPEROUS SOCIETY At Sanlam we recognise that our operating environment is increasingly subject to rapid change, economic instability, unemployment and social inequality. We are also aware that to remain sustainable as a business we need a stable, healthy and growing economy. Sanlam has taken a conscious decision to engage in social issues across our areas of operation, specifically in areas where we have an interest and are able to influence outcomes. Critical development drivers in South Africa, such as the National Development Plan (NDP), can succeed only if corporates like us take ownership and become active participants in creating a positive long-term future for all. In this chapter we review our contribution to promoting a prosperous society. Our value-added statement summarises the extent of our economic impact on a range of stakeholders. Our contribution to prosperity is far broader, however, and includes the provision of access to financial services for underserved communities, assisting existing and potential clients to make more informed financial decisions, and integrating societal issues within our procurement practices. Our corporate social investment (CSI) and sponsorship activities, aligned with core business strategy, provide focused contributions to areas of significant impact. By building and supporting communities, we contribute to building trust in our services, brand and industry. 70 4.1 1 2 3 ECONOMIC 4 VALUE ADDED SOCIETY Creating value for our shareholders and other stakeholders is fundamental to our sustainability. The Sanlam Group Value-added Statement summarises our primary economic impacts in relation to principal stakeholders, including policyholders, employees and directors, communities, suppliers, government and shareholders. 5 Sanlam Group Value-added Statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 2013 2012 % change R’million R’million Wealth accumulated by Sanlam Premium income 16 74 650 64 599 Other operating income 40 5 674 4 053 Investment return 31 70 893 54 161 Commission and other sales remuneration paid to agents and brokers 9 (5 750) (5 297) Wealth accumulated 24 145 467 117 516 Wealth distributed among stakeholders Policyholders Policyholder benefits, claims and increase in reserves 23 119 652 96 987 Employees and directors 15 7 027 6 123 Employee benefits 15 7 000 6 099 Directors’ remuneration 12 27 24 Communities CSI and cause-related investment 46 98 67 Suppliers Procurement of goods and services 31 4 735 3 606 Government (4) 3 856 4 003 South African normal income tax (10) 1 982 2 192 South African capital gains tax (1) 940 949 Foreign tax 1 452 448 Dividend tax – policyholders – 109 61 Indirect taxes and levies 6 373 353 Shareholders 51 5 284 3 491 Ordinary dividends paid to Sanlam’s shareholders 58 4 281 2 712 Income attributable to minority shareholders 29 1 003 779 Retained for future growth 49 4 815 3 239 Retained earnings 52 4 380 2 876 Depreciation and amortisation 20 435 363 Wealth distributed 24 145 467 117 516 sustainability report 2013 71 Wealth creation for all our stakeholders, especially R35,4 billion annually (2013 National Budget our clients, is at the core of our business. By Review) and, without the financial services operating profitably, we activate the savings and industry’s contribution, this amount would be investments of millions of people to create jobs, significantly higher. generate taxes and build businesses thereby The majority of the wealth we accumulate annually lightening the burden of the state when it consists of the premiums paid by our policyholders comes to providing for retirement and disability. and the money earned from the investments Social benefits in South Africa cost taxpayers we manage. Our business continues to grow and as a result Wealth accumulated (R’million) we have managed to increase our annual accumulated wealth by 24% in 2013. 200 000 Premium payments amounted to R74,6 billion, or 51% of the total wealth we accumulated in 2013. Since 2009 we have steadily grown our 150 000 business and increased our client base, resulting in an average increase of 11% per annum in our premium income. 100 000 Our investment returns fluctuate over time as these depend on the financial performance of the economy and the markets we invest in. Evident in the graph, our investment returns 50 000 have recovered along with the markets since the global recession of 2008. Investment returns amounted to R70,8 billion, or 49% of the total wealth we accumulated in 2013. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Premium income Investment return Other operating income Commission and other sales remuneration paid to agents and brokers Approximately 80% of the wealth we Wealth distributed (R’million) accumulate every year is distributed to policyholders. In 2013 we distributed R119,6 billion (82%) to our policyholders in 150 000 the form of insurance claims and reserves for future payouts to clients when their investments mature. 100 000 50 000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Policyholders Other 72 1 2 3 4 SOCIETY The rest of the wealth we accumulated was Wealth distributed (R’million) used to pay our employees, shareholders and 5 suppliers, contribute to society and government 30 000 through CSI spend and taxes, and for retaining funds with which we grow the business. 25 000 Further economic contributions occur through the employment of our investments and funds 20 000 under management in the economy. 15 000 10 000 5 000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Employees and directors Retained for future growth Shareholders Suppliers Government Communities Wealth distributed (excluding policyholders) Wealth distribution 2013 Employees and directors 27,2% Retained for future growth 18,7% Shareholders 20,5% Suppliers 18,3% Government 14,9% Communities 0,4% sustainability report 2013 73 4.2 ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES Making financial services accessible to the low-income market is essential for true Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) and, as such, we endeavour to play our part. We therefore subscribe to the Financial Sector Code (FSC) that measures the extent to which we provide access to financial services to the entry-level market. We view this market as a big opportunity for Sanlam to expand our business and deliver on our promise to improve people’s lives. The challenge, however, is massive and requires a multi-faceted approach. If this approach is implemented in conjunction with cost-efficient solutions, products can remain affordable. agreement. This reduces their compliance Sanlam Sky requirements as they can operate under Sanlam’s licence. They also benefit from access to Sanlam Sky Solutions was established after Sanlam Sanlam’s experience in ensuring that they meet acquired African Life, Channel Life and Safrican. all regulatory requirements, which is becoming Safrican remains a separate business entity under increasingly challenging for the smaller players. Sanlam Sky, while the other businesses are managed together and referred to as Sanlam Sky (although they remain separate legal entities with their own FSC requirements life licences). Sanlam Sky was consolidated into Sanlam Personal Finance in 2011, as part of the We scored 11,59 (verified) out of 14 on the FSC South African retail cluster to solely focus on the scorecard for the access to financial services low-income market and endeavour to develop element of the FSC. innovative individual and group solutions that efficiently meet the needs of low-income earners. More information regarding our B-BBEE transformation scorecard can be found on We continually look for opportunities to improve page 84. our access to the low-income market. Increasing our distribution footprint is one of the key We have been working closely with the initiatives to ensure that we have sufficient independent agency that audits Sanlam’s FSC reach into this market. This year we established compliance to improve our understanding of a funeral parlour business in KwaZulu-Natal as a the access to financial services element of the pilot project to improve our access to the entryFSC. This includes a review of all our entry-level level market. market products against FSC requirements. We are confident that two of our products fully meet Page 58 highlights some of the new and revamped the three of the FSC’s access to financial services products we have introduced during the year. product standards (funeral member only, member and family, parent and extended family), leading While dedicated intermediaries carry out to a total FSC score of 1.5 out of a possible 3 for individual policy sales, we want to keep products our products. By December 2013 we had close affordable and therefore also offer favourable to 650 000 in-force low-income market policies, rates to members of affinity groups. Two of our around 60% higher than our target of 401 834 over funeral products adhere to three of ASISA’s Zimele a wide geographical area enabling us to achieve all product standards. These funeral products have nine available points for transactional access and been instrumental in meeting our FSC targets for market penetration. access to financial services. Independent brokers find it difficult to serve LOOKING FORWARD the low-income market due to the prohibitive costs associated with regulatory compliance. We will continue working towards closing the In response Sanlam launched an Affiliated gap between our products and the FSC’s product Intermediary model in late 2012 that gives sole standards, while looking for new distribution channels proprietors, or smaller brokerages, the opportunity and opportunities to develop product solutions that to partner with Sanlam through a contractual address the needs of the entry-level market. 74 4.3 1 2 CORPORATE 3 SOCIAL 4 INVESTMENT SOCIETY 5 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Annual CSI spend R19 million R19,3 million R35 million R34 million R64 million CSI spend as % of Group NPAT 0,70% 0,52% 0,77% 0,76% 1,00% We contribute, through the Sanlam Foundation The Sanlam Foundation is our primary CSI channel, and business units directly, to the social and accounting for close to half (2013: R28 million) of environmental imperatives of our society with the our total CSI spend. This is up by over 15% this year aim of improving the economic situation of the due to the inclusion of enterprise development and communities we engage with. consumer financial education spend as per FSC During 2013 our CSI spend increased significantly requirements. The rest is attributed to projects (88% compared to 2012). The increased allocation conducted by our business clusters. to CSI can be attributed to our better-thanThe Sanlam Foundation expected financial results for 2013 and our aim to spend approximately 1% of NPAT on CSI. In Following an in-depth internal and external addition, through better internal reporting, more engagement process, the Sanlam Foundation was of our CSI projects are being recognised as official launched in 2011 to spearhead our corporate social CSI spend. and environmental investment activities. Sanlam Foundation’s focus areas  Operation HOPE’s Banking on our Future high schools project NMMU’s financial planning programme Executive Back-to-School Project The Sanlam Foundation Business Challenge Financial Financial literacy programme at universities Other literacy for high school educators and learners Avocado Vision Maths,  Protec and Sanlam’s Learner  ASISA Foundation (consumer Consumer Brilliance Programme financial education) science and education Thuthuka Bursary Fund English UWC Maths Programme Enterprise HIV/Aids development awareness for high school educators and learners Sanlam/ASISA ED Programme Environ Regency Foundation’s HIV&Me Shanduka Black Umbrellas mental campaign TSiBA Ignition Centre awareness on the subject of water management WWF-SA and Sanlam’s Transformative Partnership sustainability report 2013 75 Principle-based social investment on fewer projects capable of achieving a greater CSI at Sanlam is a genuine attempt to transform impact and social return on investment. the broader South African society in which we Investments that enhance our business, while operate. Shared-value initiatives that satisfy both contributing to positive change within the societal and business needs are more likely to communities we serve, are key to realising deliver sustained long-term positive impacts. long-term sustainable benefits to society. As a result, our CSI activities are aligned with our The Foundation was therefore founded on the core business objectives and, over the past few principles set out in the table below. years, our CSI strategy has shifted. We now focus Partnership and The Foundation partners with selected leading NPOs to implement all our collaboration corporate social and environmental initiatives, and encourages Sanlam employees to participate. Through regular consultation and collaboration with government departments, we ensure alignment with national priorities Core business We focus on education, in line with Sanlam’s core capabilities of financial alignment management and planning. This allows us to leverage our expertise, minimise our risk of failure, and deliver maximum benefit to both society and the organisation in the long term Values-and-brand All our programmes and partnerships are tested for their values-and-brand fit, fit ensuring that each project is a true reflection of our corporate identity and able to improve our brand support and loyalty Holistic systemic We apply an holistic approach and therefore invest in multiple components linked to approach our projects to improve their overall impact Long-term The impact of social and environmental investments is difficult to quantify by investment way of financial returns. Even so, all our programmes undergo rigorous selection, monitoring, evaluation and impact assessments, and are held to account through regular reporting on outcomes in terms of their current and estimated longterm impact postgraduate diploma in financial planning courses. Financial In 2013 Sanlam again awarded five bursaries to literacy students studying these courses. This brings the total number of students we currently support at The Foundation supports six financial literacy NMMU to ten. and skills development projects, two of which are new projects that are expected to start delivering results in 2014. Financial literacy Banking on our Future (BOOF) – In partnership Learners Bursary Students Students with Operation HOPE, Sanlam volunteers recipients taught financial literacy to 1 959 (2012: 1 687) learners from eight high schools in underserved communities within the Western Cape and Gauteng. Over the project’s three-year lifespan 4 982 learners benefited from financial education and 172 Sanlam employees have been trained 1 687 1 959 5 5 98 106 3 000 4 000 and presented various courses. All learners were Banking on BCom Sanlam Financial our Future Financial Foundation Literacy required to write preand post-tests to analyse the Planning Business University programme’s impact. Bursary Challenge Programme Partner: Partner: Nelson Partner: Nelson Partner: Cobalt Operation Hope Mandela Mandela BCom Financial Planning Bursary – Our Metropolitan Metropolitan involvement with the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University University University (NMMU) led to our instrumental role in 2012 2013 establishing their BCom in financial planning and 76 The Sanlam Foundation Business Challenge – University of the Western Cape (UWC) on a maths 1 This is an internet-based business simulation research programme. It builds on understanding competition at NMMU, now in its third year. It was the way that maths concepts are taught and learnt. 2 designed to encourage students to apply financial The pilot consists of 15 diverse schools. and business theory in practice and demonstrate 3 their entrepreneurial flair. This year 106 (2012: 98) Thuthuka Bursary Fund – The Sanlam Foundation students competed in 27 teams. The Sanlam is in the second year of a five-year agreement 4 Foundation sponsored 20 of the teams while the with the Thuthuka Fund to financially support SOCIETY Faculty of Business Economic Sciences sponsored eight students. These students are given an the other seven. opportunity to apply for the Sanlam Chartered Accountant Training Programme hosted by Financial Literacy University Programme – The Sanlam’s Group Finance department. In total Sanlam Cobalt Financial Literacy Campaign three Thuthuka bursary beneficiaries are currently reached 4 000 students through 21 lectures at completing their three-year internship at Sanlam. 5 13 different tertiary institutions this year. University Our trainees receive dedicated training in all the graduates are reached through lectures covering a South African Institute of Chartered Accountants’ range of financial literacy topics. The objective of specified competencies, which include financial this series of interactions is to provide graduates management, internal audit, risk management and with financial knowledge to guide their financial governance, taxation, and management decisiondecisions when they graduate and earn their first making and control. salaries. We have also extended this programme to include Thuthuka bursary students at the HIV/Aids universities in our operating areas. education Maths, science and HIV&Me – In partnership with the English Regency Foundation Networx (RFN) and the provincial Department of Sanlam Learner Brilliance Programme (LBP) – Education (DoE), we extended the In 2012 the Foundation partnered with the HIV&Me programme to eight schools Programme for Technological Careers (Protec) to in Limpopo province this year. launch the LBP. In its first year of operation the LBP These eight schools participate in a provided additional maths, science and English comprehensive two-year programme lessons to 80 previously disadvantaged grade 10 that aims to entrench HIV/Aids knowledge and to 12 learners at 14 schools in Mogwase (North awareness at beneficiary schools. This year, the West) and Tzaneen (Limpopo). The average marks programme reached 1 326 grade 9 learners through for maths, science and English across the schools 22 trained educators. improved remarkably. Furthermore, 60 teachers from the same schools attended workshops to The Foundation has invested close to R2 million support and strengthen their teaching skills. Within over three years into the programme and intends the Western Cape we have partnered with the to expand it into other provinces. Maths, science and English HIV/Aids education Learners Bursaries Learners 9 175 80 80 8 16 1 326 Sanlam Thuthuka Brilliance Bursary Programme Fund Partner: Partner: HIV&Me Protec Thuthuka Partner: The Regency Foundation Networx 2012 2013* * The focus for 2013 has been on more specific target groups rather than 2012 2013 general (2012). sustainability report 2013 77 Environmental Employee education volunteerism The WWF-Sanlam Partnership works towards The Sanlam Foundation is committed to conserving freshwater and marine protected giving Sanlam employees an opportunity to areas in South Africa. The freshwater programme participate in the Foundation’s activities and addresses water security in South Africa, with projects. The opportunity for employees to the aim of protecting the 8% of the South African participate in organised solutions ensures a better landscape that provides half of the country’s water employee-employer “fit”, enhances employee supply. Various marine programmes challenge engagement, and boosts morale and satisfaction in the fishing industry to reduce their catch of the workplace. endangered fish, keep seafood lovers informed about their food choices and help the entire fishing Employee involvement in CSI is structured in supply chain to reduce its impact. two ways: B  usiness unit-level involvement – A back-toIn a partnership spanning six years, Sanlam has school project was initiated in 2012. The project committed more than R35 million and has already encourages business unit CEOs to adopt the spent R20 million on addressing water scarcity in schools they attended and then to provide the country. More detail about the project can be support where needed. found on page 98. Individual involvement in Sanlam’s CSI projects – Sanlam employees volunteer their time to Enterprise support initiatives such as the financial literacy development programme, Banking on our Future. The three projects with an enterprise development focus are discussed in more detail in the section OTHER under “Responsible procurement and enterprise Executive Back-to-School development” on page 82. Through our project – This initiative sponsorships we also support the Entrepreneur allows Chief Executives of the Year Award in partnership with Business of our business units to Partners. Please see page 81. adopt a school of their choice, on behalf of their Consumer whole business unit, education for three years. Each of our business units are Avocado Vision – The Sanlam Foundation has then required to build partnered with Avocado Vision to conduct a relationship with the school and provide it with consumer education and life skills training in equipment and other necessities not provided various regions across South Africa. The project by the Department of Education. During 2013 is still in pilot phase until 2014. Targeting urban nine schools across the country benefited from and rural communities countrywide, the project this initiative. uses innovative bottom-of-the-pyramid delivery methods, such as embedding trainers into growing micro-enterprise training companies and delivering picture-based learning content in local languages. ASISA Foundation (consumer financial education) – The ASISA Foundation’s objective is to effectively inform, educate and empower consumers of financial products and services. Informed customers are able to manage their finances better and reduce their exposure to financial risks. We support and contribute to the ASISA Foundation. 78 SPONSORSHIPS Sponsorships (% spend) 1 We engage in sponsorships that speak to the Breakdown per market segment 2 passions of the people we service. True to Entry Mid-income Affluent level market market 3 Sanlam, we get to understand and embrace what 39% 26% 35% is important to these people and engage in a responsible way. 4 SOCIETY We measure the impact of our sponsorships against a predetermined set of requirements to determine the “return on objectives and Breakdown investment” of each. The most important factors per remain the awareness and association it creates category with the Sanlam brand. 5 The extent to which we serve the different market segments is shown below. Sport 37% Education 33% Culture 20% Media 3% Entrepreneurship 7% Our key sponsorships Programme Description Reach Developmental return 2013 Sports Sanlam Kay An annual national 2 500 schools from The winning sum of R3,4 million is Motsepe schools soccer nine provinces, invested into legacy projects at the Schools Cup tournament aimed at exposing 42 500 respective schools, not only benefiting reviving the culture children and their the school but their communities of school soccer, parents to the at large investing in our youth project and nation-building 22 top players in the tournament invited 3 000 high school to soccer camp of Mamelodi Sundowns pupils and the Soccer club for permanent club community of Umlazi employment attends the finals of this tournament Four boys selected and signed to play for the PSL Club’s U/19 team Readers of media covering the Media exposure for winning schools and tournament top players to the value of R14 million Winning schools became known for excellence and see an increase in enrolment every year Sanlam In partnership 37 000 amateur Raised R3,5 million for cancer Cancer with the Cancer golfers participate research, prevention programmes and Challenge Association of patient care South Africa (CANSA), this is an Heightened awareness on the annual countrywide prevention of cancer among the amateur golf 450 000-strong golfing fraternity tournament R6 million worth of media exposure for CANSA and 450 golf clubs and their contribution to CANSA sustainability report 2013 79 Programme Description Reach Developmental return 2013 Education Takalani An award-winning Over two million A documented improvement in early Sesame TV children’s educational South African childhood development, specifically and Radio television and children and their in literacy and life skills, in support of programmes radio programme, parents national development imperatives developed in partnership with the National Department of Basic Education’s curriculum Takalani Schools selected 100 schools A documented Improvement in early Sesame Club to participate participated childhood development, specifically in the club. in literacy, numeracy and life skills, all Through class and 8 691 children in support of national development birthday activities, participated with imperatives children in grade communication on 2 get exposed to cost of education to additional interactive their parents educational activities 5 573 children based on the high became club standard of Takalani members Sesame content Culture Sing’it Lyrics Online lyric writing 40 100 followers on Lyric writers not only get to work with Competition competition in Facebook local artists, but had extensive exposure collaboration with to 40 000 followers on Facebook four local bands to 64 Jay Jays Retail identify the best stores with 100 000 Four bands exposed to the same lyrics and music to visitors in one month followers and 100 000 heard their songs be broadcast on MTV in 64 retail stores 2 174 entrants, 8 500 online fans The bands’ songs were downloaded 3 554 times The winning band gets free exposure on MTV to the value of R1,3 million Winning songs get taken up in bands’ CDs and then bought by the public. The whole of the music value chain benefit from music produced and played Sanlam A three-day Food One-on-one Exposure for exhibitors resulted in an Investments Wine Design fair engagement with average increase in turnover of 40% Food Wine in Hyde Park, 12 000 visitors to following their participation at the fair Design Fair Johannesburg, the fair showcasing the best Cape Town exhibitors now have a of local artisanal Media exposure takes presence and following of keen buyers content the 94 exhibitors in Gauteng among the affluent target countrywide to market thousands of lifestyle followers Media exposure for exhibitors’ goods to the value of R4 million 80 Programme Description Reach Developmental return 2013 1 Woordfees A ten-day national 100 588 visitors Growth from 255 in 2011 to 375 music 2 cultural festival platforms in 2013, creating more 3 promoting the platforms to more local musicians to Afrikaans language showcase their work and generate 4 through different interest that will lead to a bigger music genres support of their music Due to Sanlam’s investment we saw a SOCIETY growth from R3,4 million to R5 million in exposure value, generating even more exposure for our musicians 5 The town of Stellenbosch benefits from the influx of attendees, especially the accommodation and food sectors Additional value was created for the musicians through coverage received through media partners Kyknet and Die Burger Media Financial Rewards excellence The competition has Acknowledgement in the various Journalism in financial been announced categories for excellence in financial Awards journalism, and to all journalists journalism honours the vital across the print and role of financial electronic media in Journalists benefit from a reputation, journalism in modern South Africa growth and future employment point business life and of view the high standards 110 entries received Responsible reporting has a positive required by this impact on the economy as readers profession are educated by top journalists on financial matters Entrepreneurship Entrepreneur In partnership with Close to 39 million Winners received exposure value for of the Year Business Partners, people were their businesses to the amount of the competition exposed to this R6,4 million awards smalland competition through medium-sized a very successful PR Prize money to a total value of enterprises in campaign R1,34 million was won and propelled South Africa the growth of the respective winners’ 177 entries received businesses Opportunity for winners to expand their business networks resulting in greater interest in their businesses with an increase in employment opportunities More detail regarding all our sponsorships is available at www.sanlam.co.za/sponsorships sustainability report 2013 81 4.4 RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT Increased scrutiny of business behaviour has led to Our procurement-related opportunities are linked rising expectations that companies are responsible to our B-BBEE scorecard’s enterprise development for the environmental, social and governance (ED) component. However, ED beneficiaries do (ESG) practices of their suppliers. At Sanlam we not automatically qualify for procurement-related believe that a sustainable supply chain is costcontracts. Those that do qualify are awarded efficient and representative of the demographic contracts based on how well they meet the profile of the communities in which we conduct selection criteria. our business activities. Furthermore, a sustainable supply chain contributes to societal objectives To improve the efficiency of our procurement such as employment creation, social transformation systems we introduced two new systems in 2013. and the protection of environmental assets. Our new spend management tool allows for a detailed analysis of our procurement spend across Our procurement function is centrally managed by the business from a central system. Our B-BBEE Group Sourcing and resides within Santam as the preferential procurement tool allows us to measure subsidiary with the greatest demand for, and the our B-BBEE performance on a business cluster most efficient system to manage, procurement. level. This allows us to identify and address areas Smaller suppliers that excel have the opportunity of weakness. In 2014 we will embed and finalise to expand their services to multiple business units the implementation of these systems across within Sanlam. This reduces our cost through the organisation. bulk procurement and allows small enterprises to grow incrementally. Enterprise development Procurement requirements Supplier development is an integral part of our procurement policy. Through our purchasing we Our Group Procurement Policy reflects our are able to develop, in particular, small blackcommitment to responsible procurement. Supplier owned enterprises. Ensuring the viability of these selection criteria promote sourcing from B-BBEEsuppliers remains a significant challenge. accredited suppliers, black-owned businesses and suppliers that incorporate ESG best practices We currently have three primary enterprise into their operational processes. We share our development programmes to which we allocate key selection criteria with potential suppliers and a total of R10,2 million per year. Further to score suppliers accordingly. All spend greater than this we contribute to supplier development by R500 000 is subject to our strategic selection assisting with cash flow through means such as criteria and agreements longer than three years are soft loans and early payment terms, as well as subject to reviews in the form of a formal tender through a business-oriented educational television process or contract negotiation. programme for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial competitions. We also partner with Cobalt Where relevant, we include elements of sustainable to provide free health checks and advice for business practice in the selection criteria and small businesses. suppliers are required to illustrate how they manage their business in line with these. In some cases we require monthly environmental reporting. 82  Sanlam/ASISA ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT Project 1 This project has three streams focused on developing business capacity within our 2 distribution network and in our supply chain with selected suppliers. 3 4 Stream 1: BlueStar businesses As an extension of Project Catalyst, this is focused SOCIETY on the way that 15 of the BlueStar businesses engage with their partner accountants. Phase two of this stream will recruit five new black-owned BlueStar businesses. 5 Stream 2: Financial planning practices This stream is focused on 60 financial planning practices in our distribution network, to deliver practice management support with a focus on productivity and transformation. The majority of these financial planners are black. Stream 3: The Sanlam Group supply chain Five high-potential businesses are benefiting from structured business development support with the aim of growing their capacity, creating additional jobs and providing greater supply levels to the Group. With all three project streams we have identified very specific measurement and evaluation metrics. We have also included a communications and media work stream. Sanlam/Shanduka Black Umbrellas Tertiary School of Business Shanduka Black Umbrellas is a non-profit company Administration (TSiBA) Ignition Centre which supports the development of 100% blackThe focus of our partnership with the TSiBA owned emerging businesses, primarily through Ignition Centre is to support small enterprises in an incubation process. The objective of this the incubation phase to grow their businesses to partnership is twofold. the point where they can be incorporated into the Sanlam Group supply chain or become service Firstly, it aims to identify and grow mid-level providers to larger businesses outside the financial enterprises with an annual turnover of around services industry. R5 million, with the hope of incorporating them into our supply chain. The pilot phase will start with five small businesses (R1 million turnover) with a proven track record. Secondly, it endeavours to identify black femaleThese entrepreneurs will participate in an eightowned enterprises that are ready to expand their month developmental programme with the businesses and serve multiple business units within TSiBA Ignition Centre. Specific deliverables will Sanlam and to integrate them into our Group focus on five tightly interrelated activities with supply chain. This will also benefit Sanlam in proven success as part of a supportive model with terms of the preferential procurement element of mentorship at its core. our scorecard. Sanlam recognises successful entrepreneurial We intend to support 20 enterprises through the businesses by sponsoring the Entrepreneur of the Shanduka Black Umbrellas incubator and identify Year Award in conjunction with Business Partners. and support at least five supply-chain ready See page 81 for more details. enterprises. The geographic focus will be across the Western Cape and Gauteng. sustainability report 2013 83 4.5 PROMOTING TRANSFORMATION AND EMPOWERMENT Sanlam acknowledges the critical importance segments and affords us access to new business of transforming the South African economy networks and opportunities. to ensure the inclusion of all our people and affording everyone the opportunity to Transformation is, therefore, one of the five key participate meaningfully in the mainstream pillars of Sanlam’s business strategy and will economy. For Sanlam, this is both a social and a remain one of the cornerstones of our approach to business imperative. sustainable development. With our large presence in the South African Over the past five years we have officially market we know that transformation is good for measured our progress on transformation against our business success in the long term. B-BBEE the Department of Trade and Industry’s B-BBEE contributes to the diversity of our organisation, Codes of Good Practice (the Generic Code) as broadens our range of skills and perspectives, required by the Broad-based Black Economic gives us a better understanding of more market Empowerment Act 53 of 2003. Sanlam’s B-BBEE scorecard For the period 1 January 2008 – 31 December 2012, verified*, June 2013. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 % Total Total Total Total Total Weighting dti scores dti scores dti scores dti scores dti scores Ownership 20 20,49 19,34 17,33 18,2 16,65 Management control 10 8,61 8,96 8,16 7,54 7,74 Employment equity 15 4,52 7,04 6,71 4,04 3,83 Skills development 15 12,23 9,91 9,49 9,46 1,36 Preferential procurement 20 16,59 17,02 17,16 15,46 17,56 Enterprise development 15 15,00 15,00 15,00 15,00 15,00 Socio-economic development 5 3,48 3,81 2,36 2,84 3,04 Total score 100 80,92 81,08 76,21 72,54 65,18 B-BBEE procurement recognition level 110% 110% 110% 100% 100% B-BBEE status level contributor 3 3 3 4 4 Black ownership 30,50% 29,92% 28,09% 25,45% 23,59% Black female ownership 7,28% 7,37% 1,67% 2,75% 1,66% * (verified by AQRate) The above table demonstrates the steady progress we have made against our transformation objectives over the past five years. Our ownership, which includes ownership through mandated investments, also saw a steady increase and we have shown good improvement in our black female ownership component. We also maintained our Level 3 rating in 2012 despite the introduction of more stringent employment equity and preferential procurement targets. 84 Converting to the Financial Sector Code In November 2012 the Minister of Trade and Industry gazetted Sanlam’s 1 the Financial Sector Code (FSC). In light of this we have started verified FSC 2 measuring our transformation performance against this industryscore 3 87,54 specific code from 2013 onwards. 4 Sanlam’s verified FSC scorecard For the period 1 January – 31 December 2013, verified March 2014 SOCIETY 2013 FSC Total FSC scores weighting (verified) 5 Ownership 14 15,90 Management Control 8 7,07 Employment Equity 15 7,07 Skills Development 10 9,13 Preferential Procurement 16 14,04 Enterprise Development 5 5,00 Empowerment Financing 15 15,00 Access To Financial Services* 14 11,59 Socio-economic Development 3 2,74 Total 100 87,54 *P  lease note: Consumer Education is included as part of Access to Financial Services (as a sub-element) in terms of the FSC . During 2013, we placed a significant focus on improving our performance against each of the elements of the FSC through the various areas discussed separately throughout LEVEL 2 this report. As a result, we have achieved a verified score of 87,54 and have thus attained a Level 2 contributor status for the first time. While improvement has been achieved across all the FSC scorecard and will continue to focus our measures of the scorecard, we have performed efforts on closing the gaps that still persist. exceptionally well in the areas of ownership, enterprise development and empowerment Products and Services – Empowerment Financing financing, scoring full points in these areas. Our and Infrastructure on page 66 in detail. total black ownership percentage, as per the FSC rules, was 33.59% as of 31 December 2013. This While continuing to report on the requirements of includes both the UB transaction as discussed in the scorecard, we remain committed to our longdetail on page 67 and the impact of mandated term vision of moving beyond compliance to a investments. The past year also marked the first more meaningful outcome-based measurement year that the Group applied the access to financial of transformational initiatives. We aim to foster services measure and our performance indicates a deeper appreciation across the business of the that we are well on our way to being able to service importance of transformation to our long-term the lower end of the market. We are committed to viability, ensuring that our efforts continue to continuously improving our performance against deliver worthwhile results. sustainability report 2013 85 86 sustainability report 2013 87 NATURAL ENVIRONMENT Sanlam acknowledges that sustainable business requires a sustainable environment and we have responsibly committed all areas of our business to a journey of proactive environmental stewardship. In 2011 Sanlam performed a market analysis that identified environmental issues as one of the key drivers affecting business going forward in South Africa. It is therefore imperative, from a business perspective, for us to have a strategic approach in addressing environmental and climate change issues. As a financial services provider, our direct environmental impact is small compared to other industries such as the mining or consumer goods manufacturing sectors. Nonetheless, we believe in leading by example and actively work towards reducing our direct environmental impact. We are cognisant of the influence our investment products and activities have. Considerable damage may result if we do not invest responsibly and consider the environmental impact of the companies and businesses that we invest in. 88 5.1 1 2 3 ENVIRONMENTAL 4 MANAGEMENT 5 ENVIRONMENT Our approach to incorporating responsible environmental principles across the business is captured in our Group Environmental Management Policy. Our approach comprises the following five key focus areas: Investment management Supply chain activities We plan to extend our influence across the supply We are one of South Africa’s biggest financial chain by encouraging our supplier network service providers and a major investor in to adopt leading environmental practices and South African companies. This allows us to reward those suppliers that do. To this end to influence the management practices of we have updated our Procurement Policy in the companies we invest in through our 2012 to ensure that Group Sourcing supports investment decisions, proxy voting, and highthe Group’s Environmental Policy and includes level engagement. environmental criteria in purchase decisionmaking, where appropriate. The environmental impact of the companies in which we invest forms part of Sanlam’s responsible investment strategy. As a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investing (UNPRI), we favour companies that Influencing behaviour demonstrate sound environmental practice. This is through research and discussed in more detail on page 63. awareness Our employees, clients and business partners play a crucial role in our ability to reduce our Product development impact on the environment. To reach our 2015 Similarly, Sanlam is committed to considering energy, water and waste management targets we environmental benefits during the development of continue to educate and raise awareness among new products. We discuss product development our employees and business partners through on page 55. our monthly Inside Sanlam magazines and other communication tools. Sanlam offices’ energy, water usage and waste generation The bulk of our direct environmental impact consists of energy and water usage and waste generation in Sanlam’s six office facilities across South Africa. We address this impact by continuously improving our monitoring systems in line with leading reporting standards. We are committed to predetermined reduction targets in energy usage, water consumption and waste generation, which we measure against a baseline set in 2010. For more information, refer to the sections on “climate change and energy” on page 92, “sustainable water use” on page 97 and “material and waste management” on page 100. sustainability report 2013 89 Sanlam’s Environmental Management Policy is endorsed by the Sanlam Board of Directors, the Measuring and Board Sustainability Sub-committee, Sanlam’s mitigating our Group Chief Executive and his executives. Sanlam environmental impact Group Environmental Sustainability Committee (GESC) ensures that the environmental principles Accurate measurement of energy and resource are integrated into relevant policies across the consumption is critical to understanding our business and oversees the implementation consumption patterns and anomalies within our of, and adherences to, our Environmental buildings. To this end we have set up improved Management Policy. Sanlam’s individual business environmental monitoring procedures across the units are changed with the implementation of business. The Environmental Dashboard is updated our policy directives. The Group Sustainability on a quarterly basis with the information supplied Management Office (SMO) engages with the by Corporate Facilities. Records are kept on a business through the GESC providing feedback on monthly basis. The intention is to be able to track environmental performance. results against progress, and assist with quarterly and annual reporting. To strengthen activities, and to ensure transparency in our actions, we engage NGOs, Sanlam Head Office is home to 50% of our fullsuch as WWF-SA, regulators, such as National time office-staff component in South Africa. Treasury, and industry associations, such as the Of the six buildings it therefore has the largest NBI, on environmental issues. These range from environmental footprint and warrants the focus of policy developments, such as the proposed our environmentally protective initiatives. Initiatives Carbon Tax paper, environmental stewardship that are successful at Head Office are rolled out to and enhancements to our own environmental smaller offices. management practices. Communicating to our staff on the importance of acting in an environmentally responsible way remains a top priority. We realise the value in creating environmental “ambassadors” out of our large staff base. Sanlam office space 2013 (m2) As an actively committed corporate citizen, we will continue to support conservation efforts such as the WWF-Sanlam Freshwater and Marine programmes and other projects aimed at preserving critical ecosystems and protected areas. Total office space (m2) Proportion of office staff 126 072 Sanlam Other offices Head Office 50% 50% Sanlam Sky Houghton 8 688 m2 Hyde Park 8 481 m2 Glacier Bellville 5 000 m2 Sanlynn Pretoria 8 619 m2 Sanlam Head Office 85 428 m2 SIM Bellville 9 856 m2 90 1 4-star green-rated building 2 The new Glacier by Sanlam headquarters in Tyger Valley is a 4-star green-rated building. The building uses resource-efficiency 3 techniques including: 4 Rainwater harvested from flat building surfaces to flush toilets reducing demand by 85% 5 Water-efficient fittings in bathrooms and tea kitchens that reduce demand by 39% ENVIRONMENT Endemic plants with low irrigation requirements in landscaped gardens Secure bicycle parking and showers for cycling staff Paint and adhesives with very low emission levels of volatile organic compounds used for interiors to ensure high indoor air quality Energy-efficient lighting (automatic controls that switch off perimeter zone lights when there is enough natural light and controls to dim lights to levels just enough to supplement natural light) Heating ventilation and air conditioning system with variable speed drives with heat recovery to reduce energy consumption High-performance glass to reduce glare and solar heat gains External shading and high-performance glazing on eastern and western façades to balance increased natural lighting and access to outside views. Corporate Facilities is currently implementing a space acquisition strategy for the larger buildings. The principle is to investigate the possibilities of consolidating office space from inefficient buildings into green buildings. Sanlam is in the process of consolidating offices in Gauteng into the 4-star green-rated building in Sandton. sustainability report 2013 91 5.2 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Carbon, electricity and travel reduction targets for 2015 Environmental indicator Reduction target* Unit Carbon 15% tCO2e/FTE Electricity 20% kWh/m2 of total office space (including common areas, but excluding consumption by external tenants) Business travel (air travel, car 15% Air travel – km/FTE rental and hotel accommodation Car rental – km/FTE Hotel accommodation – bed nights/FTE * Baseline 2010 with targets set for 2015 Although Sanlam is viewed as a low-impact Scope 1, 2 and 3, although our Scope 1 emissions business, our operations are not exempt from are minor. Our biggest resource use is that of environmental concerns. We emit carbon both purchased electricity, which represents 72% of directly and indirectly through the resources our total carbon footprint. In this area Sanlam’s we consume, the waste we produce and the Head Office is the biggest contributor4. Our other suppliers with whom we do business through impacts are derived from paper, business travel, our procurement activities. Furthermore, we courier transport and staff commuting. acknowledge the leadership position financial services firms play within the economy, and During 2013 we once again participated in the CDP therefore aim to live up to this responsibility. evaluations. We achieved a disclosure score of For example, our annual Benchmark Symposium 96%, missing the CDP leadership index by 1% (the was hosted for the first time during 2013 as a base for entry increased to 97% for the Top 100 carbon neutral event. JSE-listed companies). This result is still well above the average disclosure rating for financial services As a means of supporting efforts to minimise companies, which is 85%. climate change, Sanlam has been a signatory of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2007. Below are our 2013 CDP results across various In terms of our carbon footprint, we report on categories. Sanlam – Comparative breakdown of Carbon Disclosure Score 100% 90% 80% 70% Governance and Emissions Emissions Engagement and Risks Opportunities strategy reporting management verification CDLI JSE 100 Sanlam 4 This has not changed significantly over the past four years. 92 Our carbon footprint 1 Our carbon emissions for 2013 were 53 955 tonnes CO2e. In terms of intensity, this is equivalent to 2 9,77 tonnes CO2e per FTE. The results of our carbon footprint assessment for the past four years are set out 3 in the table below. 4 5 2013 Carbon footprint ENVIRONMENT 2011 2010 2013 2012 (note: 7) (Baseline) Organisational boundary Head Office Head Office Head Office; Head Office; (note 8); Hyde (note 2); Hyde Hyde Park; Hyde Park; Park; Sanlynn; Park; Sanlynn; Sanlynn; Sanlynn; SIM; Glacier; SIM; Glacier; SIM; Glacier; SIM; Glacier; Sanlam Sky Sanlam Sky Sanlam Sky Sanlam Sky Scope Tonnes of Tonnes of Tonnes of Tonnes of CO2e CO2e CO2e CO2e 1 – Direct emissions from sources 68* 42 103 41 that we own or control (notes 3, 4) (notes 3, 4) 2 – Indirect emissions from 38 988* 41 540 42 294 44 535 purchased electricity (note 5) (note 5) 3 – Indirect emissions from all 14 712 10 576 10 792 11 677 other indirect sources that result from our activity Other – Non-Kyoto GHG 187 519 510 1 926 emissions (note 6) Total carbon footprint 53 955 52 677 53 699 58 179 Emissions intensity Emissions/FTE 9,77 10,56 10,88 11,77 Emissions per m 2 0,42 0,43 0,5 0,48 Note 2: Sanlam Head Office usage is reported as 91,77%. Note 3: B  ellville reported petrol usage of an Opel Corsa but petrol was recorded under equipment owned as it was understood that Sanlam did not have any fleet vehicles and fleet vehicles have not been incorporated in past reports from Sanlam. Note 4: T  his represents one of the KPIs of our Sustainability Management Framework. The basis of measurement thereof is Scope 1 emissions based on the GHG Protocol for six buildings: Sanlam Head Office, Sanlam Investment Management, Glacier, Hyde Park, Sanlynn and Sanlam Sky. Note 5: T  his represents one of the KPIs of our Sustainability Management Framework. The basis of measurement thereof is Scope 2 emissions based on the GHG Protocol for six buildings: Sanlam Head Office, Sanlam Investment Management, Glacier, Hyde Park, Sanlynn and Sanlam Sky. Note 6: N  on-Kyoto Protocol GHG emissions are reported separately according to GHG Protocol. Note 7: 2011 figures restated to reflect Sanlam Head Office usage at 91,77%. Note 8: Sanlam Head Office usage is reported at 94%. Electricity-related CO2 emissions are down by 2 552 tonnes since 2012. This is equivalent to 2,69 million kWh, enough to power approximately 490 houses** for a year. The increase in our Scope 3 emissions for 2013 is largely due to a change in the emissions factor used in the calculation of our commercial airlines carbon results. Visit www.sanlam.co.za for our full 2013 carbon footprint report. * Limited assurance engagement ** This is based on an estimate that an average household consumes 5 500 kWh of electricity annually. sustainability report 2013 93 are taken into consideration. This includes a ELECTRICITY USAGE requirement to measure consumption. As the biggest contributor to our Please note that Head Office is responsible for carbon emissions, minimising 94% of the total electricity consumption. The our electricity consumption is a rest is liable by tenants. All other buildings are top priority. Sanlam Head Office responsible for 100% of their electricity usage. contributes the greatest proportion by a significant margin and therefore it is the focus of our energy-saving Proportion of total electricity consumption per initiatives. Here, we have installed office building 2013 (39,8 million kWh) specialised energy measurement equipment that makes pertinent information available in “real time”. The information is continually analysed by technicians and an electrical engineer. The system provides an alarm system highlighting consumption outside of predetermined Percentage parameters, logging all these events for action total and analysis. consumption Corporate Facilities established the Energy Management Forum with the sole purpose of analysing data, to discuss and explore opportunities to reduce energy consumption. The forum comprises both internal and external Sanlam Head Office 77% experts and meets on a monthly basis. Sanlynn Pretoria 7% Our IT systems also have a role to play in Sanlam Sky Houghton 6% SIM Bellville 6% reducing our electricity usage. Sanlam’s focus Hyde Park 2% on Green IT is guided by the objectives of the Glacier Bellville 2% Sanlam Sustainability Committee, the Group’s Environmental Policy, as well as principles that need to be enforced to comply with King III. The Information Technology Information System Services (ITISS) Green IT Policy was implemented By measuring and monitoring our consumption in 2012, with the aim of reducing Sanlam’s patterns, we have been able to implement environmental impact while also achieving initiatives that have resulted in significant savings commercial benefits. over the last few years. Sanlam Head Office reduced its consumption by 10% (compared to Facilities management 2010), with a total of 3,3 million kWh electricity At the facilities level, we focus on technical saved. This is also reflected in the overall Sanlam and behavioural interventions to improve our saving, compared to 2010, of 11% (4,8 million kWh), energy performance. Activities such as lighting in line with the general trend towards lower energy replacement and other housekeeping activities consumption as illustrated below. are helping us address the low-hanging fruit, and have resulted in significant energy reductions to date. We continue to investigate ways to make our Sanlam Head Office electricity heating ventilation and cooling (HVAC) systems usage intensity measure % change more efficient. Furthermore, we target behaviour (kWh/m2) from 2010 change and staff members are engaged regularly -10% through our electronic communication channels and staff magazine. A combination of these initiatives should result in us achieving well above our reduction target. Corporate Facilities is also planning to engage landlords at smaller regional sites to make their 390 446 378 352 buildings more energy-efficient. The overall cost2010 2011 2012 2013 to-company is considered with any new lease agreements to ensure environmental efficiencies 94 Sanlam Head Office electricity usage 2010 – 2013 (kW/h) 1 4 000 000 2 3 500 000 3 3 000 000 4 5 2 500 000 ENVIRONMENT 2 000 000 1 500 000 2010 2011 2012 2013 Sanlam Head Office 2010 (baseline) Sanlam Head Office (2010 – 2013) Green Information technology printer environment has so far Green information technology (Green IT) is defined resulted in an overall saving of two as computing technologies that are energymillion pages per annum or an efficient and have minimal adverse impact on the estimated 234 trees. The roll-out environment. Through the right choice of products, to the various business units will vendors and processes, Sanlam is employing Green continue in 2014. IT to reduce its environmental impact. At year-end, over 5 000 machines Sanlam’s Information Technology Information have been added to our centralised System Services (ITISS) unit provides IT services and automated power management system, to the majority of the Sanlam Group and some of realising a total estimated energy saving of our clients. The ITISS PSPG Committee formally 19 000 kWh. approved the ITISS Green IT policy in October 2011. All obsolete equipment is disposed of via eWaste During the year we embarked on various Association of SA (EWASA)-certified companies programmes to improve the energy efficiency and we require disposal certificates for all IT of our datacentres and standardise the types of IT equipment used, such as RoHS and REACH equipment that is scrapped. Wherever possible, we compliant printers. Over 200 new printers have opt to sell or donate equipment we no longer use. been phased in and a further 80 will be installed Approximately 2 500 devices, with an estimated in the first quarter of 2014. These allow us to set weight of five tonnes, were disposed of during the printing defaults and track and manage all printing year. More than 75% was either sold or auctioned activity on a per employee basis. This new desktop off to employees. Our approach to Green IT aims to: r educe our environmental impact by carefully  ngage our service providers and vendors e selecting our supply chain products, services around our Green IT objectives, including the and operations, and responsibly retiring or need to develop appropriate Green IT targets, recycling old equipment; disclose product information, such as energys upport and shape the behaviour of our efficiency ratings, level carbon emissions, business units and client businesses, focusing and reduce landfill waste that stems from the on power consumption, carbon emissions and manufacturing processes. responsible disposal of assets; and sustainability report 2013 95 Going forward, we continue to focus on additional CORPORATE TRAVEL efficiencies in our travel procedures. For instance, as alternative options to intercontinental or We have started to limit business air travel as inter-regional meetings or projects, we continue part of our efforts to bring about behavioural to support either teleconferencing or videochange among our employees and take their conferencing. Compared to the 2010 baseline, we impact on the environment seriously. The basic have seen a 12% reduction in total kilometres of rules of engagement have shifted towards strong business air travel. consideration of improved efficiency by, for example, avoiding unnecessary flights and ensuring multiple appointments are organised to maximise on travel miles. Corporate travel consumption Description Variable 2013 2012 2011 2010 Business travel – Total kilometres 1 323 478 1 318 168 1 424 530 1 406 627 rental cars travelled Business travel Total kilometres 36 076 074 35 929 397 34 279 405 40 254 294 – commercial travelled airlines Business Bed nights 13 986 18 751 14 347 13 467 travel – hotel accommodation Corporate travel intensity measure (km/FTE) Description 2013 2010 % change Business travel – rental cars 187 193 -3% Business travel – commercial airlines 5 104 5 519 -8% Business travel – hotel accommodation 1.98 1.85 7% PLANS AND TARGETS Our objective is to realise a 20% reduction in our electricity consumption and a 15% reduction in CO₂ emissions by 2015. Since Sanlam Head Office in Bellville represents close to 80% of the Group’s total electricity consumption, a 25% saving here would allow us to achieve this target. Projects proving successful can then be replicated at our other facilities. 96 5.3 1 2 3 SUSTAINABLE 4 WATER USE 5 ENVIRONMENT While Sanlam is not a water-intensive business, we Water reduction target 2015 understand the materiality of this resource to the Environmental Reduction Unit South African economy. We therefore aim to lead indicator target* by example to ensure the preservation of water for future generations. We have a strategic partnership Municipal 10% kl/m2 of total office with WWF-SA, which helps us to mitigate our daywater space (including to-day water impacts and risks, while also working common areas, on greater awareness and conservation efforts in but excluding South Africa. consumption by external tenants) In October 2013 we launched the Journey of Water campaign with WWF-SA, which aims to connect retrofitting programme at all our offices. We are urban water users to their water sources with happy to report that this has been successfully the objective of protecting South Africa’s watercompleted beyond the six buildings in scope, producing areas. extending to other Sanlam-owned regional offices as well. At present we largely rely on municipal water reports to track our water usage. We have installed Based on our current municipal data, the waterwater pulse meters at Sanlam Head Office as saving initiatives implemented at Sanlam Head well as at our Houghton and Hyde Park offices in Office have resulted in significant savings of 44% Johannesburg. These are currently being tested during 2013, compared to the 2010 baseline. and validated while we build up an accurate Plans for 2014 database of information. It is important for us to fully understand our own water footprint. We We plan to install three additional meters at estimate that Sanlam Head Office accounts for Sanlam Head Office in order to obtain more more than 50% of our total water usage. accurate readings on individual parameters including drinking water, toilet water and hydrant As most of our water usage can be attributed systems. Furthermore, we will be participating in to the air-conditioning system (HVAC), this is the Global Water Disclosure Project in 2014. where we are focusing our consumption reduction activities. We are currently investigating how the Water consumption electricity consumption reduction interventions we intensity measure have implemented in regard to our HVAC system kilolitre/sqm is impacting on our water consumption. There appears to be a positive relationship in this respect. 0,99 0,55 Sanlam Head Office 2010 2013 We work to reduce our water consumption on a number of levels. These efforts include retrofitting water systems with more water-efficient fittings, Water consumption per year (kl) such as push taps and dual flushing systems, Sanlam Head Office % change continued harvesting of rainwater for irrigation, from 2010 as well as recycling efforts on unused drinking water in our large training centre. We also have -44% grey water systems to reduce potable water usage. These are the low-hanging fruit that we have been able to address, largely at Head Office. Promoting awareness about preserving this natural capital 84 727 87 845 83 592 47 347 is important to us. In our endeavour to support 2010 2011 2012 2013 WWF-SA’s stance on discouraging the use of bottled water, we rolled out a water filter tap sustainability report 2013 97 Protecting South Africa’s water supply Sanlam’s relationship with the World Wide Fund (SAIA) to understand the impacts of water risk for Nature South Africa (WWF-SA) started in on short-term insurance and to promote better 2007, with the five-year partnership known as the catchment management. “Living Waters Partnership”. For the second phase Sanlam, through the WWF Sanlam Leaders of this relationship, Sanlam and WWF decided for Living Waters Programme, supported the to enter into a Transformational Partnership, development of environmental leaders by funding the ethos of which is to conserve and ensure the healthy functioning of South Africa’s water seven professional interns as part of the WWF ecosystems, focusing on its Freshwater and Graduate Development Programme between Marine programmes. The partnership relates to 2011 to 2013. This programme works towards conservation efforts and joint communications. supporting the development of creative, dynamic It also challenges Sanlam to reduce our direct and new leaders committed to securing the integrity indirect environmental footprint. This is Sanlam’s of our freshwater and marine environments. largest CSI project, with a budget of R16 million A key principle underpinning the programme planned for the three-year period from 2012 is transformation in the sector. This includes to 2015. addressing the demographic representation of all South Africans in aquatic ecosystem management, While Sanlam’s funding goes towards robust a movement away from traditional protectionist conservation and awareness efforts, the to more inclusive approaches to securing our transformative aspect of this partnership involves ecological assets and ecosystems. WWF-SA helping Sanlam to increase its level of sustainability maturity, enabling us to become As a further benefit Sanlam is able to leverage the a leader and an innovator in corporate water powerful WWF-SA brand to make a difference stewardship. From Sanlam’s perspective, waterto environmental sustainability in a number of related issues create both risks (increasing ways. These include sharing in research areas to insurance claims and exposure to investment generate business advantage, finding ways to risks) and opportunities (in the form of the save water and therefore costs, and receiving development and sale of products which help significant public recognition in the process. mitigate the risks). Furthermore, the partnership The South African Government declared the is generating insights that link water security Prince Edward Islands a Marine Protection Area back to financial services. These include an (MPA), ensuring that an area of 180 000 km2, understanding of water risks that drive better approximately the combined size of the Free State investment and insurance practices. The projects Province, Lesotho and Swaziland, is protected started in 2013 and continue into 2014. The one from pillage. Sanlam sponsored WWF to material project focuses on insurance, by working undertake the initial research necessary to support with the South African Insurance Association the declaration of this area as a MPA. The management of our finite water resources is recognised as one of the greatest risks to the global economy. Water risks play out even more significantly at a national scale within South Africa, since the country is listed as one of the 30 most water-stressed countries in the world. For instance, of the top 40 companies that responded to the CDP Water Disclosure survey, 75% felt that their business was exposed to physical water risk. 98 1 2 To date the partnership has seen the following 3 We assessed water risk within the South benefits: African finance sector and demonstrated the 4 It has created more than 330 job opportunities. WWF Water Risk Filter for investors with the Industrial Development Corporation. 5 It has trained about 2 300 people, We worked towards strengthening water ENVIRONMENT developing leaders and agents of change in water conservation. institutions and enabling sustainable water use with associations in Limpopo, Pongola and the It has contributed to government and Southern Cape. corporate policy on marine and freshwater conservation and rehabilitation. We also launched the Journey of Water It has fostered research into water-related risks campaign with WWF-SA, which aims to to society and business. connect urban water users to strategic water sources with the objective During 2013 the Sanlam-WWF partnership of protecting South Africa’s waterfocused on key areas that will improve water producing areas. A highlight of the campaign was security for the South African economy: the Journey of Water walk, which took place from We defined South Africa’s Water Source Areas 4 to 7 November 2013. WWF-SA and Sanlam took (in collaboration with the CSIR) and worked a group of celebrities, the media and eight Sanlam within the water sector to ensure that these staff on an 85 km Journey of Water from one areas were incorporated into the Department of our strategic water source areas, the Boland of Water Affairs’ second National Water Mountains – the headwaters of the Berg, Breede Resource Strategy. and Eerste rivers – into Cape Town. We collaborated with key players in the private We have combined this initiative with the launch sector to test and develop best practice of an easy-to-use interactive electronic tool which in corporate water stewardship, including enables consumers to locate the source of their De Beers, SAB Ltd, Woolworths and Mondi. water directly, identify what the catchment area We also collaborated with the key sectors that looks like and understand the threats it faces impact water resources and began new work as well as what can be done at home to reduce in agriculture with sugar and fruit to optimise consumers’ water footprint. water use, and contributed to the Mining and See www.journeyofwater.co.za. Biodiversity guidelines which raised the bar for South African best practice. Please see the Sanlam/WWF-SA website for more details. sustainability report 2013 99 5.4 MATERIAL AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Material and waste management reduction targets 2015 Environmental indicator Reduction target* Unit Office paper (See below) 15% kg/FTE Total waste (See below) 15% kg/FTE Recycled waste (See below) 50% of total waste output Percentage of total waste output Recycled waste – Head Office – challenge 90% of total waste output Percentage of total waste output * Baseline 2010 with targets set for 2015 Since 2011 Sanlam has been making a concerted Proportion of total waste per office building effort to divert waste from ending up in landfill 2013 sites. Towards the end of 2013 a waste evaluation audit was conducted at Sanlam Head Office, the major waste contributor, accounting for 53% of our total landfill and recyclable waste. This will form the basis of an integrated waste management plan. Percentage We also consulted key stakeholders in the business total for input into the first Draft Waste Policy for the consumption Group, which will be finalised during 2014. An Integrated Waste Management Plan will be drawn up to assist with the waste targets for all six measured buildings. We have established a need Sanlam Head Office 53% for building site managers and internal staff to Sanlynn Pretoria 17% undertake training on waste separation at source, Hyde Park 15% as well as a need to promote the separation of Sanlam Sky Houghton 8% organic waste for composting. At present it is only Glacier Bellville 5% our Head Office and Houghton buildings that have SIM Bellville 2% a fully integrated waste management programme on site. 100 Paper consumption Sanlam Head Office waste generation (kg) 1 Tonnes of Tonnes of paper 2010 paper 2013 2 Total 253 335 3 Tonnes of paper/ 4 137 809 FTE 0.03 0.05 131 593 156 324 42% 44% 46% 179 818 5 50% Our total paper consumption has increased by 33% since 2010. As part of our Green IT Policy ENVIRONMENT over 200 new printers have been phased in and a further 80 will be installed in the first quarter of 2014. These allow us to track and manage all printing activity on a per employee basis. We 188 835 166 850 185 362 182 294 58% 56% 54% 50% are also replacing paper-based communication with electronic communication to clients 2010 2011 2012 2013 and intermediaries. Landfill Recycled In the past year the recycling station at Sanlam Head Office undertook a campaign with the PLANS AND TARGETS aim of challenging those that don’t recycle to We aim to recycle 90% of participate for two weeks. At present four of the our waste by the end of 2015 six measured buildings are recycling a portion of for our Head Office building. their waste. Hyde Park and Sanlynn Pretoria are yet The focus is now on promoting to implement recycling programmes. recycling at source, as a Our biggest recyclable is paper. All paper is Forest further drive to change staff Stewardship Council (FSC) certified. During 2013 behaviour and encourage ITISS implemented a printer upgrade project. employees to recycle in their This aims to assist with the Think before you Print personal capacity as well. In campaign to promote more conscious printing November 2013, 16 recycling habits. All IT waste is disposed of in accordance stations were rolled out at key staff “hot spots” with the Green IT Policy. at Head Office. The focus for 2014 is to promote waste awareness and encourage behaviour change among employees. Waste-to-landfill intensity measure (kg/FTE) Furthermore, we are exploring the possibility % change of becoming more actively involved within the -18% Western Cape Industrial Symbiosis Programme (WISP), as part of Accelerate Cape Town. This resource-efficiency approach encourages waste trading among Cape Town businesses. 63,32 52,19 Sanlam Head Office 2010 2013 sustainability report 2013 101 ASSURANCE REPORT INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF SANLAM LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 We have undertaken a limited assurance In accordance with International Standard on engagement of the Scope 1 and 2 carbon Quality Control 1, Ernst & Young Inc. maintains emissions included in the carbon footprint table a comprehensive system of quality control in the 2013 Sustainability Report of Sanlam including documented policies and procedures Limited for the year ended 31 December 2013. regarding compliance with ethical requirements, These Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions have been professional standards, and applicable legal and highlighted for identification purposes in the regulatory requirements. sustainability report by a “*”. This engagement Our responsibility was conducted by a multidisciplinary team Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance including assurance practitioners, engineers and conclusion on the Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions environmental scientists. based on the procedures we have performed and Sanlam Limited’s responsibility for the the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements Sanlam Limited is responsible for the preparation 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse of the Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions in Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), issued by the accordance with the management-defined criteria International Auditing and Assurance Standards disclosed on page 93. This responsibility includes Board. That standard requires that we plan the design, implementation and maintenance of and perform this engagement to obtain limited internal control relevant to the preparation of assurance about whether the Scope 1 and 2 carbon the Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions that is free emissions are free from material misstatement. from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with ISAE 3410 involves assessing Greenhouse gas (GHG) quantification is subject the suitability in the circumstances of Sanlam to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete Limited’s use of the management-defined criteria scientific knowledge used to determine emissions as the basis for the preparation of the Scope 1 factors and the values needed to combine and 2 carbon emissions; assessing the risks of emissions of different gases. material misstatement of the Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions whether due to fraud or error; Our independence and quality control responding to the assessed risks as necessary We have complied with the Code of Ethics in the circumstances; and evaluating the overall for Professional Accountants issued by the presentation of the Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions. International Ethics Standards Board for A limited assurance engagement is substantially less Accountants, which includes independence and in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement other requirements founded on fundamental in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, principles of integrity, objectivity, professional including an understanding of internal control, competence and due care, confidentiality, and and the procedures performed in response to the professional behaviour. assessed risks. 102 The procedures we performed were based on our Limited assurance conclusion professional judgement and included enquiries, Based on the procedures we have performed and observation of processes performed, inspection of the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the to our attention that causes us to believe that appropriateness of quantification methods and Sanlam Limited’s Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with for the year ended 31 December 2013 are not underlying records. prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the management-defined criteria. Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures listed above we: Other matter T  hrough enquiries, obtained an understanding The maintenance and integrity of the Sanlam of Sanlam Limited’s control environment Limited’s website is the responsibility of Sanlam and information systems relevant to Limited’s management. Our procedures did emissions quantification and reporting, but not involve consideration of these matters and, did not evaluate the design of particular accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any control activities, obtain evidence changes to either the information in the Report about their implementation or test their or our assurance report that may have occurred operating effectiveness. since the initial date of presentation on the Sanlam Limited website.  valuated whether Sanlam Limited’s methods E for developing estimates are appropriate and had been consistently applied. However, our procedures did not include testing the data on which the estimates are based or separately developing our own estimates against which to evaluate Sanlam Limited’s estimates. Ernst & Young Inc. Director – Jeremy Grist The procedures performed in a limited assurance Registered Auditor engagement vary in nature from, and are less Chartered Accountant (SA) in extent than for, a reasonable assurance Ernst & Young House engagement. As a result the level of assurance 35 Lower Long Street obtained in a limited assurance engagement Cape Town is substantially lower than the assurance that 3 March 2014 would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether Sanlam Limited’s Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the management-defined criteria applied. sustainability report 2013 103 GLOSSARY AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome kWh Kilowatt hours AML Anti-money laundering LISPS Linked Investment Services Providers ASISA Association for Savings and Investment in LSM Living Standards Measure South Africa NBI National Business Initiative B-BBEE Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment NGO Non-governmental Organisation bWell Employee Wellness Programme NHI National Health Insurance BUSA Business Unity South Africa NSSS National Social Security System CCC Client Contact Centre PHI Policyholders’ Interest Committee CCMA Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration POPI Protection of Personal Information Bill (proposed) CDP Carbon Disclosure Project PPP Public Private Partnership COP Communication on Progress (Global Compact) SEM Sanlam Emerging Markets CRISA Code for Responsible Investing SILSS Sanlam Individual Life and Segment Solutions CSI Corporate Social Investment Limited Service dti Department of Trade and Industry SIM Sanlam Investment Management EAP Employee Assistance Programme SME Small to medium enterprises EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation SMF Sustainability Management Framework and Amortisation SPE Sanlam Private Equity EE Employment equity SPF Sanlam Personal Finance ESG Environmental, social, governance SPI Sanlam Private Investments Exco Executive Committee SPAB Sanlam Provincial Advisory Board FAIS Financial Advisory and Intermediary Association SRI Socially Responsible Investment FSB Financial Services Board TCF Treating Customers Fairly regulation FSC Financial Sector Code UB Ubuntu-Botho (Pty) Ltd (empowerment partner) FTE Full-time employee UNPRI United Nations Principles for Responsible GESC Group Environmental Sustainability Committee Investment GHG Greenhouse gas UNGC United Nations Global Compact GLP Graduate Leadership Programme USA United States of America GRI Global Reporting Initiative USB University of Stellenbosch Business School HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus VoC Voice of the Customer HR Human Resources WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development JSE SRI JSE Limited Socially Responsible Investment Index WRI World Resources Institute Kl Kilolitre WWF World Wide Fund for Nature KPI Key Performance Indicator 104 CONTACT DETAILS If you have any queries or comments about this report or Sanlam’s sustainability performance, please contact: Head of Group Corporate Affairs Francois Adriaan francois.adriaan@sanlam.co.za +27 21 947 2548 Group Sustainability Management Office Kulthoom Razak kulthoom.razak@sanlam.co.za +27 21 947 1445 General enquiries sustainabilitymanagement@sanlam.co.za
