FREANN FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED THE DIRECTOR UN GLOBAL COMPACT USA Dear Sir LETTER OF COMMITMENT FROM FREANN FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED GHANA’S EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR PARTICIPANT ID 29061 This year marks the first year anniversary of Freann Financial Services’ commitment to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. While much has changed in the world more especially in the jurisdiction we find ourselves, we have embraced the Compact’s ten principles and can confidently say we remain firm and our committed to this worthy course. Freann Financial Services’ mission is to provide an array of financial services to help individuals and business entities realize their full potential in their sphere of business operations. Our commitment to the Global Compact, as well as our commitment to working responsibly is a fundamental part of how we fulfill that mission. The Global Compact’s principles are embedded within our company’s business practices, policies, and operations and help us function as a stronger company day in day out. Attached document gives a brief summary of some of our progress against the Global Compact principles during fiscal year 2014 (FY2014) FOR AND ON BEHALF OF FREANN FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED GHANA KWABENA ANNING FREDERICK EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FREANN FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED FIRST FLOOR QUASS BUILDING, 018/A LOWER MCCARTHY HILL, P.O.BOX GP 21361, ACCRA -GHANA TEL: (+233) 0302-335179 FAX: (+233)0302520206 SKYPE: freannghana TWITTER: freannghana Email: ffslgh@gmail.com Website: www.ffslgh.com UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS COP 2014 PARTICIPANT ID 29061 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 26, stresses the importance of education in the development of the human personality and the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. At Freann Financial Services Limited, Ghana, we are convinced that financial education and sound advice are crucial for personal prosperity and healthy economic growth in society. Financial education has therefore taken priority in our work since we launched the Financial Literacy Programme in 2014. In the programme, we develop new products, advisory services, educational materials and events to stimulate financial skills and knowledge. We also develop surveys and research on an ongoing basis to gain a better understanding of the challenges and opportunities related to financial literacy. We continue our approach to increasing financial literacy through partnerships. In collaboration with three Non Governmental Organizations in consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), we held a series of presentations on managing personal finances at upper secondary schools across Ghana. Freann Financial’s Organizational Code of Conduct is intended to make certain that external stakeholders know what to expect from the Company and employees know what the Company expects from them. The code applies to all the employees, and each manager must set an example through his or her behavior and make sure that employees are familiar with the code. Our Code of Conduct for all employees was updated in 2011 when our ethical guidelines and the preceding version of the Code of Conduct were merged into one document, which reflects the revised international Bribery Act. Most importantly we offer our staff good employment conditions and actively try to promote their job satisfaction. The objective of our Human Capital policies is to promote a good work-life balance and to support employees who suffer from illness or stress or have an alcoholor substance-related problem. Copy of code of conduct attached FOR AND ON BEHALF OF FREANN FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED GHANA KWABENA ANNING FREDERICK EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR UN Global Compact Principle Freann Finance’s Position FY2011 Progress Highlights HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support Our commitment to respect the Maintained Human Rights Safeguards and respect the protection of fundamental human rights of our within Freann Financial Services internationally proclaimed human rights; employees, and our customers reflects We continue to practice strong corporate and the company’s mission to help people and governance and enforce our Standards of businesses throughout the country realize Business Conduct and other human Principle 2: make sure that they are not their full potential. capital development policies that ensure complicit in human rights abuses. non-discrimination and fair employment practices within our workforce. Supported Privacy and Freedom of Expression On and Offline Technology has the capacity to increase freedom of expression and access to information. To support technology as a tool for the advancement of human rights, in FY2014  we made provision for our staff to attend various seminars and courses in the field of ICT not limited to the Euro-Africa ICT, Einfrastructures forum just to mention but few  Adopted a company-wide Freedom of Expression policy, based on international human rights standards, including the GNI principles, to guide how we handle decisions on restricting or not restricting content.  Worked with governments, law enforcement, nonprofits, and companies to conduct programs and institute policies to help better protect individuals’ right to privacy and safety online. ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL FFSL LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Our employees drive our business, and Continued Diversity Efforts within freedom of association and the effective we have a responsibility to create a Freann Financial Services recognition of the right to collective respectful and rewarding work Within Freann Finance, we continue to bargaining environment for them. The health, wellprioritize diversity and work toward creating being, satisfaction, and diversity of our a more diverse culture. This year, we: Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of employees differentiate Freann Finance  Sent members of staff for new forced and compulsory labor; and help us succeed. training courses on diversity and Our commitment to our people includes inclusion for all employees. About Principle 5: the effective abolition of child working with our contractors, suppliers, 72% of our employees have labor; and and vendors to uphold the same high already completed the training. Citizenship standards to which we hold  Continued to provide professional Principle 6: the elimination of ourselves. development support and training discrimination in respect of employment to employees of all backgrounds and occupation. to help them grow their careers. In collaboration with the Fair Labor commission and the Trades Union Congress, we initiated a new grievance process. Workers in our branches now have 24-hour access to a hotline that allows anonymous reporting of grievances and issues of concern. ORG. CODE OF CONDUCT & STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a Freann Finance is signed on to the Green Improved Freann Financial Service’s precautionary approach to environmental Financing Option of funding, in this regard Operations challenges; FFSL initiated several green finance We continue to increase the sustainability modules that has aided in supporting of our internal operations. This was Principle 8: undertake initiatives to environmentally friendly projects and achieved by providing tailor made facilities promote greater environmental programs. The facilities are tailored to to suit individual specifications of our responsibility; and  Minimize the environmental clients and or customers impact of business operations and products; Promoted Greater Industry Principle 9: encourage the development  Create technology solutions that Environmental Responsibility and diffusion of environmentally friendly We work closely with industry, government, help individuals and businesses technologies. and NGOs to identify and promote ways to around the world address their environmental impact. increase environmental responsibility.  Aid in Agribusiness development whilst improving upon the health Created and Promoted Environmentally and environmental safety Friendly Technologies procedures. One of the most important ways we can help solve environmental challenges is by creating and sharing environmentally friendly technologies. We worked in partnership with other NGO’s to provide solar studs and panels to various rural sects, and also apply information technology to environmental challenges. This included providing citizens and policymakers with access to real-time environmental information through various associations in building energy efficient facilities and houses. COMPANY REGULATIONS FFSL ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work Our commitment to strong anti-corruption Trained our Employees on Antiagainst corruption in all its forms, policies and practices is resolute. Freann Corruption Guidelines including extortion and bribery. Finance does not tolerate bribery or All employees received training on our corruption of any kind within our own Standards of Business Conduct, which companies. addresses corruption and bribery. We provide better service packages which aid employees frown on corrupt practices. Increased Attention to Anti-Corruption Efforts in our Supply Chain As a major financial service provider we employ international anti-corruption modules which have strengthened our approach to anti-corruption. Worked with Partners to Promote AntiCorruption Best Practices We work with industry peers and global organizations to identify and promote anticorruption best practices. ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL FFSL
