To all it may concern, HKV Consultants continues to fully support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on Environment, Labour, Anti-Corruption and Human Rights. We have made a visual representation of our Code of Conduct, based on the principles, in order to make it unmistakably clear and accessible for our employees, our clients and other stakeholders. Employees are encouraged to act according to the Code of Conduct and clients and stakeholders are invited to confront us if we may act in conflict with it. In drawing up the Code of Conduct, we took the liberty of expanding the principle “AntiCorruption” to “Integrity”. Being an independent research and consultancy company, integrity is of the utmost importance for the quality of our work. In the coming period, our Code of Conduct will be communicated intensively both inand outside our company. Lelystad, The Netherlands, September 2014, Kees Vermeer managing director Human Rights S OCIAL O AL E NTERPRISING CO 2 red en u ctio n n pa in n o v atio n ag io rt ne g ct ed w aste redu rs hip y e q u alit Environment Labour The knowledge entrepeneur for flood risk and water management soc T RANSPARANT A PA A T Q UALITY A L TY TY ial ee ch r resea m itt di an rt h um 1 nual repo e m 00 a an om 9 w orks c Integrity ca pit l a IS O Code of conduct HKV consultants HKV consultants operates on an three-part mission that aims to create a safe and sustainable environment for everyone related to our business; employees, clients, partners, suppliers and society. Mission Our three-part mission guides our decision making. Product mission: Becoming the sustainable knowledge entrepreneur in flood risk and water management To offer high quality, sustainable and innovative solutions in flood risk and water management through advise, research and product development. Economical mission: To direct our company for sustainable financial growth To operate on a sustainable financial basis of profitable growth our company ensures increasing value for stakeholders and professional development opportunities for employees. Social mission: To take care of our society and environment when operating our business and implementing our projects To create a safe and healthy environment within our projects where growth and development take place in a sustainable way. Operating with progressive values across our business Social We recognize that our work and projects Enterprising To support a creative have an impact on the environment. We strive enterprising community a safe and healthy to respect society and environment by work environment is priority. We strive to minimizing our waste and carbon footprint. In achieve this by recognizing the unique our projects we are actively engaged to knowledge and experience of each incorporate environmental improvements. individual in our company and projects. Cooperation and partnerships play a central role. Quality Transparency To ensure high quality solutions we structurally We support transparency by open and invest in innovation, research and human structural communication about our capital. Sustainable solutions in flood risk and business operation and performance water management ask for a holistic view through annual reports, our works council, where connections are made with international social media and employee participation. themes like urbanization, food security and Information of clients is handled with care climate. The quality of our work is guaranteed and privacy. We strive to prevent conflicts by continuous fact checking and working with of interest and if they occur we will openly quality system ISO 9001. discuss them with the involved stakeholders. Corruption is not tolerated within HKV, by our partners or clients.
